
10-K
0001.txt
FORM 10-K



                                  United States
                       Securities and Exchange Commission
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K

              ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                    For the fiscal year ended April 30, 2000
                          Commission file number 1-123

                            BROWN-FORMAN CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                    Delaware                                   61-0143150
       (State or other jurisdiction of                        (IRS Employer
        incorporation or organization)                      Identification No.)

             850 Dixie Highway                                    40210
            Louisville, Kentucky                                (Zip Code)
   (Address of principal executive offices)

        Registrant's telephone number, including area code (502) 585-1100

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                         Name of Each Exchange
              Title of Each Class                         on Which Registered
              -------------------                        ----------------------
Class A Common Stock (voting) $0.15 par value            New York Stock Exchange

Class B Common Stock (nonvoting) $0.15 par value         New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to
  Section 12(g) of the Act:                              None


Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.

                                   Yes |X| No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]

The aggregate market value, at April 30, 2000, of the voting and nonvoting
equity held by nonaffiliates of the registrant was approximately $1,900,000,000.

The number of shares outstanding for each of the registrant's classes of
Common Stock on June 30, 2000 was:
     Class A Common Stock (voting)            28,988,091
     Class B Common Stock (nonvoting)         39,530,582

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Portions of the Registrant's 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders are incorporated
by reference into Parts I, II, and IV of this report.  Portions of the Proxy
Statement of Registrant for use in connection with the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held July 27, 2000 are incorporated by reference into Part
III of this report.





                                     PART I
Item 1.  Business

(a)  General development of business:

Brown-Forman Corporation ("we," "us," or "our" below) was incorporated under the
laws of the State of Delaware in 1933,  successor to a business  founded in 1870
as  a  partnership  and  subsequently   incorporated   under  the  laws  of  the
Commonwealth of Kentucky in 1901. Our principal executive offices are located at
850 Dixie Highway, Louisville, Kentucky 40210
(mailing address: P.O. Box 1080, Louisville, Kentucky 40201-1080).

(b)  Financial information about industry segments:

Information  regarding net sales,  operating income, and total assets of each of
our  business  segments  is  in  Note  11 of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements on pages 34 and 35 of our 2000 Annual Report to  Stockholders,  which
information is incorporated into this report by reference in response to Item 8.

(c) Narrative description of business:

The following is a description of our operations.

Wine and Spirits Segment
- ------------------------
Wine  and  Spirits  operations  include  manufacturing,   bottling,   importing,
exporting,  and  marketing a wide variety of  alcoholic  beverage  brands.  This
Segment also manufactures and markets new and used oak barrels.

The Segment's brands consist of the following:

     Jack Daniel's Tennessee Whiskey
     Southern Comfort
     Canadian Mist Canadian Whisky
     Early Times Kentucky Whisky
     Finlandia Vodkas*
     Old Forester Kentucky Straight Bourbon Whisky
     Glenmorangie Single Highland Malt Scotch Whiskies*
     Jack Daniel's Country Cocktails
     Gentleman Jack Rare Tennessee Whiskey
     Jack Daniel's Single Barrel Tennessee Whiskey
     Woodford Reserve Kentucky Straight Bourbon Whiskey
     Fetzer Vineyards California Wines
     Korbel California Champagnes and Wines*
     Bolla Italian Wines
     Sonoma-Cutrer Chardonnay Wines
     Bushmills Irish Whiskey*
     Black Bush Special Irish Whiskey*
     Bushmills Malt Single Malt Irish Whiskey*
     Ardberg Single Islay Malt Scotch Whisky*
     Glen Moray Single Speyside Malt Scotch Whisky*
     Pepe Lopez Tequilas
     Korbel California Brandy*



     BlueGrass Kentucky Whiskey
     Usher's Scotch Whisky*
     Jack Daniel's & Cola
     Southern Comfort & Cola
     Don Eduardo Tequilas*
     Tuaca Liqueur*
     Jekel Vineyards California Wines
     Bonterra Vineyards California Wines
     Michel Picard French Wines*
     Bel Arbor California Wines
     Fontana Candida Italian Wines*
     McPherson Australian Wines*
     Owen's Estate Australian Wines*
     Armstrong Ridge California Champagne*
     Noilly Prat Vermouths*


    * Brands represented in the U.S and other select markets by Brown-Forman


Statistics  based  on  case  sales,   published  annually  by  a  leading  trade
publication,  rank Jack  Daniel's as the largest  selling  bourbon or  Tennessee
whiskey in the United  States,  Canadian  Mist as the largest  selling  Canadian
whiskey in the United  States,  and  Southern  Comfort  as the  largest  selling
domestic proprietary liqueur in the United States.

A leading industry trade publication  reported Korbel  California  Champagnes as
the  largest  selling  premium  champagne  in  the  United  States.  This  trade
publication  also reported that,  among numerous  imported wines,  Bolla Italian
Wine is the leading premium Italian table wine in the United States.  Fetzer was
ranked eighth among California varietal wines and seventeenth among all domestic
table wines.

We believe the statistics used to rank these products are reasonably accurate.

Our  strategy  with  respect to the Wine and  Spirits  Segment is to market high
quality  products  that satisfy  consumer  preferences  and to support them with
extensive  international,  national,  and  regional  marketing  programs.  These
programs are intended to extend consumer brand recognition and brand loyalty.

Sales  managers  and  representatives  or brokers  represent  the Segment in all
states. The Segment distributes its spirits products domestically either through
state agencies or through  wholesale  distributors.  The contracts which we have
with many of our  distributors  have formulas which determine  reimbursement  to
distributors  if we  terminate  them;  the  amount  of  reimbursement  is  based
primarily  on the  distributor's  length  of  service  and a  percentage  of its
purchases  over time.  Some  states  have  statutes  which  limit our ability to
terminate distributor contracts.

Jack Daniel's  Tennessee Whiskey and Southern Comfort are the principal products
exported by the Segment.  These brands are sold through  contracts  with brokers
and distributors in most countries.

The principal  raw  materials  used in  manufacturing  and  packaging  distilled
spirits are corn, rye, malted barley, glass, cartons, and wood for new white oak
barrels,  which are used for storage of bourbon and Tennessee  whiskey.  None of
these raw  materials are in short  supply,  and there are adequate  sources from
which they may be obtained.



The  principal  raw  materials  used in the  production  of wines are grapes and
packaging  materials.  Grapes are primarily  purchased from independent  growers
and, from time to time, are adversely affected by weather and other forces which
may limit  production.  We believe that our  relationships  with our growers are
good.

Due to aging  requirements,  production  of whiskeys is scheduled to meet demand
three to five  years in the  future.  Accordingly,  inventories  are  larger  in
relation  to sales  and  total  assets  than  would  be  normal  for most  other
businesses.

The  industry  is  highly  competitive  and there  are many  brands  sold in the
consumer market. Trade information indicates that we are one of the largest wine
and spirit suppliers in the United States in terms of revenues.

The wine and spirits  industry is regulated  by the Bureau of Alcohol,  Tobacco,
and  Firearms  of  the  United  States  Treasury   Department  with  respect  to
production,  blending,  bottling, sales, advertising,  and transportation of its
products.  Also, each state regulates  advertising,  promotion,  transportation,
sale, and distribution of such products.

Under  federal  regulations,  whiskey  must be aged for at least two years to be
designated  "straight  whiskey."  The Segment ages its  straight  whiskeys for a
minimum of three to five years. Federal regulations also require that "Canadian"
whiskey must be manufactured in Canada in compliance with Canadian laws and must
be aged in Canada for at least three years.

Consumer Durables Segment
- -------------------------
The Consumer Durables Segment includes the manufacturing and/or marketing of the
following:

     Fine China Dinnerware
     Casual Dinnerware and Glassware
     Crystal Stemware
     Crystal Barware
     China and Crystal Giftware
     Collectibles and Jewelry
     Sterling Silver, Pewter and Silver-Plated Giftware
     Sterling Silver and Stainless Steel Flatware
     Contemporary Tabletop, Houseware and Giftware
     Luggage
     Business Cases and Folios
     Personal Leather Accessories

All  of  the  products  of  the  Segment  are  sold  by  segment-employed  sales
representatives under various compensation  arrangements,  and where appropriate
to  the  class  of  trade,  by  specialized   independent   commissioned   sales
representatives and independent distributors.



The  Segment's  products are marketed  domestically  through  authorized  retail
stores  consisting  of  department  stores and  specialty  and jewelry shops and
through  retail stores  operated by the Segment.  Products are also  distributed
domestically through the institutional,  incentive,  premium,  business gift and
military  exchange  classes of trade,  and  internationally  through  authorized
retailers,  duty free stores and/or  distributors in selected  foreign  markets.
Specially created collectible  products are distributed both domestically and in
selected  foreign  markets  through  the  direct  response  channel,   including
mail-order, catalogs and the internet, as well as through authorized collectible
retailers.

Fine china and casual dinnerware,  as well as fine china giftware,  are marketed
under the Lenox trademark.  Crystal stemware,  barware and giftware are marketed
under both the Lenox and Gorham trademarks. Contemporary tabletop, houseware and
giftware  products are marketed under the Dansk  trademark.  Sterling silver and
stainless  flatware  and sterling  giftware  are  marketed  under the Gorham and
"Lenox. Kirk Stieff" trademarks.  Pewter and silver-plated giftware products are
also marketed under the "Lenox. Kirk Stieff" trademark. Luggage, business cases,
and personal  leather  accessories are marketed under the Hartmann,  Wings,  and
hStudio trademarks.  The direct response sales in the United States of specially
designed collectibles are marketed under the Lenox and Gorham trademarks,  while
such sales abroad are marketed primarily under the Brooks & Bentley trademark.

The Lenox, Gorham, and Hartmann brand names hold significant  positions in their
industries.  The Segment has granted licenses for the use of the Lenox trademark
on  selected  fine table  linens,  wall  coverings,  lamps and other  electrical
lighting products, and candles, subject to the terms of licensing agreements.

We believe the Segment is the largest domestic manufacturer and marketer of fine
china dinnerware and the only significant domestic  manufacturer of fine quality
china giftware.  The Segment is also a leading  manufacturer  and distributor of
fine quality  luggage,  business cases, and personal  leather  accessories.  The
Segment  competes  with a number of other  companies  and is  subject to intense
foreign competition in the marketing of its fine china,  contemporary and casual
dinnerware,  crystal  stemware and  giftware,  stainless  flatware,  and luggage
products.

In the Segment's china and stainless businesses,  competition is based primarily
on quality,  design, brand, style, product appeal,  consumer  satisfaction,  and
price. In its luggage,  business case and personal leather accessories business,
competition is based primarily on brand awareness,  quality,  design, style, and
price.  In  its  direct   response/mail-order   business,   the  most  important
competitive  factors  are the brand,  product  appeal,  design,  sales/marketing
program, service, and price. In its crystal, sterling silver, silver-plated, and
pewter  businesses,  competition  is based  primarily  on price,  with  quality,
design,  brand,  style,  product appeal,  and consumer  satisfaction  also being
factors.

Clay and feldspar are the  principal  raw materials  used to  manufacture  china
products and silica is the principal raw material  used to  manufacture  crystal
products. Gold and platinum are significant raw materials used to decorate china
and crystal  products.  Leather and nylon fabric are the principal raw materials
used to manufacture luggage and business cases. Fine silver is the principal raw
material used to manufacture sterling silver giftware and flatware products; tin
is the principal raw material used to manufacture pewter products; and stainless
steel  is the  principal  raw  material  used  to  manufacture  stainless  steel
flatware.  It is  anticipated  that raw materials used by the Segment will be in
adequate supply.  However, the acquisition price of gold, platinum, fine silver,
and tin is influenced  significantly by worldwide  economic events and commodity
trading.

Sales of certain Segment products are traditionally greater in the first half of
the fiscal year, primarily because of seasonal holiday buying.



Other Information
- -----------------
As of April 30, 2000, we employ  approximately  7,400 persons,  including  1,400
employed on a part-time or temporary basis.

We are an equal opportunity  employer and we recruit and place employees without
regard to race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, veteran status, age,
gender, sexual preference, or physical or mental disability.

We believe our employee relations are good.

For  information  on the effects of compliance  with federal,  state,  and local
environmental regulations,  refer to Note 13, "Environmental," on page 35 of our
2000 Annual Report to Stockholders,  which information is incorporated into this
report by reference in response to Item 8.

Item 2.  Properties

The corporate offices consist of office buildings,  including renovated historic
structures, all located in Louisville, Kentucky.

Significant properties by business segments are as follows:

Wine and Spirits Segment
- ------------------------
The  facilities  of the Wine and  Spirits  Segment  are shown  below.  The owned
facilities are held in fee simple.

Owned facilities:
- -  Production facilities:
              -   Distilled Spirits and Wines:
                           -   Lynchburg, Tennessee
                           -   Louisville, Kentucky
                           -   Collingwood, Ontario
                           -   Shively, Kentucky
                           -   Woodford County, Kentucky
                           -   Frederiksted, St. Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands
                           -   Mendocino County, California
                           -   Monterey County, California
                           -   Sonoma County, California
                           -   Pedemonte, Italy
                           -   Soave, Italy

- -  Warehousing facilities:
              -   Lynchburg, Tennessee
              -   Louisville, Kentucky
              -   Collingwood, Ontario
              -   Shively, Kentucky
              -   Woodford County, Kentucky
              -   Mendocino County, California
              -   Monterey County, California
              -   Sonoma County, California
              -   Pedemonte, Italy
              -   Soave, Italy



Leased facilities:
- -  Production and bottling facility in Dublin, Ireland
- -  Wine production and warehousing facility in Mendocino County, California
- -  Vineyards in Monterey County, California

We believe that the productive capacities of the Wine and Spirits Segment are
adequate for the business, and that the facilities are maintained in a good
state of repair.

Consumer Durables Segment
- -------------------------
The  facilities  of the Consumer  Durables  Segment are shown  below.  The owned
facilities are held in fee simple.

Owned facilities:
- -   Office facilities:
             -    Lenox corporate - Lawrenceville, New Jersey
             -    Headquarters for Lenox Direct Response/Collectibles
                   Division (includes retail store and warehouse) - Langhorne,
                   Pennsylvania

- -   Production and office facilities:
             -    Lenox - Pomona, New Jersey (includes retail store); Oxford,
                          North Carolina (includes retail store);  Kinston,
                          North Carolina; and Mt. Pleasant, Pennsylvania
                          (includes retail store)
             -    Lenox/Gorham - Smithfield, Rhode Island
                                 (includes retail store)
             -    Hartmann - Lebanon, Tennessee (includes retail store)

- -   Warehousing facilities:
             -    Lenox/Dansk/Gorham  -  Williamsport, Maryland

Leased facilities:
- -   Office facilities:
             -    Dansk headquarters - White Plains, New York
             -    Norfolk headquarters - Wilmington, Delaware
             -    Brooks & Bentley headquarters - Kent, England
             -    Hartmann (includes showroom) - New York, New York

- -   Warehousing facilities:
             -    Lenox - South Brunswick, New Jersey (includes retail store);
                          Oxford, North Carolina;  Kinston, North Carolina; and
                          Mt. Pleasant, Pennsylvania
             -    Hartmann - Lebanon, Tennessee

- -   Retail stores:
             -    The Segment operates 42 Lenox outlet stores in 26 states and
                  a Lenox Gift Express store in Pennsylvania.  The Segment also
                  operates 51 Dansk stores in 28 states.  In addition, the
                  Segment operates 4 Hartmann luggage outlet stores in 4 states.

- -   Showrooms:
             -    Lenox/Dansk/Gorham - New York, New York;  Dallas, Texas;
                  Atlanta, Georgia;  Ontario, Canada



The lease terms expire at various dates and are generally renewable.

We believe that the Segment's  facilities are in good condition and are adequate
for the business.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

None.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

None.


Executive Officers of the Registrant


                                                Principal Occupation and
     Name                         Age             Business Experience
     ----                         ---       ---------------------------------

Owsley Brown II                    57       Chairman of the company since
                                            July 1995. Chief Executive Officer
                                            of the company since July 1993.
                                            President of the company
                                            from July 1987 to July 1995.

William M. Street                  61       Vice Chairman of the company
                                            since July 1987.

Steven B. Ratoff                   57       Executive Vice President and Chief
                                            Financial Officer of the company
                                            since December 1994.

John P. Bridendall                 50       Senior Vice President and
                                            Director of Corporate
                                            Development since July 1987.

Michael B. Crutcher                56       Senior Vice President, General
                                            Counsel, and Secretary since
                                            May 1989.

Lois A. Mateus                     53       Senior Vice President of Corporate
                                            Communications and Corporate
                                            Services since January 1988.

Stanley E. Krangel                 49       President of Lenox, Incorporated
                                            (a subsidiary of Brown-Forman) since
                                            June 1998.  President of Lenox
                                            Collections from November 1995 to
                                            June 1998.






                                     PART II

Item 5.  Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder
         Matters

Except as presented below, for the information required by this item refer to
the section entitled "Quarterly Financial Information" appearing on the
"Highlights" page of the 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders, which information
is incorporated into this report by reference.

Holders of record of Common Stock at April 30, 2000:
         Class A Common Stock (Voting)               3,728
         Class B Common Stock (Nonvoting)            4,749

The  principal market for Brown-Forman common shares is the New York Stock
Exchange.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

For the  information  required  by this  item,  refer  to the  section  entitled
"Selected  Financial  Data"  appearing  on page 17 of the 2000 Annual  Report to
Stockholders, which information is incorporated into this report by reference.

Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
         of Operations

For the  information  required  by this  item,  refer  to the  section  entitled
"Management's  Discussion and Analysis"  appearing on pages 18 through 24 of the
2000 Annual Report to Stockholders,  which information is incorporated into this
report by reference.

Risk Factors Affecting Forward-Looking Statements:
From  time to  time,  we may  make  forward-looking  statements  related  to our
anticipated financial performance, business prospects, new products, and similar
matters. We make several such statements in the discussion and analysis referred
to above,  but we do not guarantee  that the results  indicated will actually be
achieved.

The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for
forward-looking statements. To comply with the terms of the safe harbor, we note
that the following non-exclusive list of important risk factors could cause our
actual results and experience to differ materially from the anticipated results
or other expectations expressed in those forward-looking statements:

         Generally:  We operate in highly competitive markets.  Our business is
         subject to changes in general economic conditions, changes in consumer
         preferences, the degree of acceptance of new products, and the
         uncertainties of litigation.  As our business continues to expand
         outside the United States, our financial results are more exposed to
         foreign exchange rate fluctuations and the health of foreign economies.



         Beverage Risk Factors:  The U.S. beverage alcohol business is highly
         sensitive to tax increases; an increase in the federal excise tax
         (which we do not anticipate at this time) would depress our domestic
         beverage business.  Our current outlook for our domestic beverage
         business anticipates continued success of Jack Daniel's Tennessee
         whiskey, Southern Comfort, and our other core spirits brands.  Current
         expectations from our foreign beverage business could prove to be
         optimistic if the U.S. dollar strengthens against other currencies or
         if economic conditions deteriorate in the principal countries where we
         export our beverage products, including the United Kingdom, Germany,
         Japan, and Australia. The wine and spirits business, both in the United
         States and abroad, is also sensitive to political and social trends.
         Legal or regulatory measures against beverage alcohol (including its
         advertising and promotion) could adversely affect sales.  Product
         liability litigation against the alcohol industry, while not currently
         a major risk factor, could become significant if new lawsuits were
         filed against alcohol manufacturers.  Current expectations for our
         global beverage business may not be met if consumption trends do not
         continue to increase.  Profits could also be affected if grain or grape
         prices increase.

         Consumer Durables Risk Factors:  Earnings projections for our consumer
         durables segment anticipate a continued strengthening of our Lenox and
         Hartmann businesses.  These projections could be offset by factors such
         as poor consumer response to direct mail, a soft retail environment at
         outlet malls, further department store consolidation, or weakened
         demand for tableware, giftware and/or leather goods.

Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

For the information required by this item, refer to the section entitled "Market
Risks"  appearing on page 24 of the 2000 Annual  Report to  Stockholders,  which
information is incorporated into this report by reference.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

For the information  required by this item, refer to the Consolidated  Financial
Statements, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, and Report of Management
appearing  on pages 25 through  37 of the 2000  Annual  Report to  Stockholders,
which information is incorporated into this report by reference,  and the Report
of  Independent  Accountants  included on page S-1 of this report.  For selected
quarterly  financial  information,  refer  to the  section  entitled  "Quarterly
Financial  Information"  appearing on the  "Highlights"  page of the 2000 Annual
Report to Stockholders,  which  information is incorporated  into this report by
reference.

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
         Financial Disclosure

None.



                                    PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

For the information  required by this item,  refer to the following  sections of
our definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held
July 27, 2000, which  information is incorporated into this report by reference:
(a)  "Election of  Directors"  on page 4 through the fourth  paragraph on page 5
(for  information  on  directors);  and (b) the  last  paragraph  on page 7 (for
information on delinquent  Section 16 filings).  Also, see the information  with
respect to "Executive  Officers of the Registrant"  under Part I of this report,
which information is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation

For the information  required by this item,  refer to the following  sections of
our definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held
July 27, 2000, which  information is incorporated into this report by reference:
(a)  "Executive  Compensation"  on pages 8  through  11;  (b)  "Retirement  Plan
Descriptions" on page 12; and (c) "Director Compensation" on page 13.

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

For the information  required by this item, refer to the section entitled "Stock
Ownership"  appearing on pages 6 through 7 of our definitive proxy statement for
the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held July 27, 2000,  which  information
is incorporated into this report by reference.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

For the  information  required  by this  item,  refer  to the  section  entitled
"Transactions  with  Management"  appearing on page 15 of our  definitive  proxy
statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held July 27, 2000, which
information is incorporated into this report by reference.



                                     PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)  1 and 2 - Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules:



All other  schedules for which  provision is made in the  applicable  accounting
regulations of the Securities and Exchange  Commission  have been omitted either
because  they are not  required  under the  related  instructions,  because  the
information  required is included in the consolidated  financial  statements and
notes thereto, or because they are inapplicable.

*  Incorporated by reference to Item 8 in this report.

(a)    3 - Exhibits: Filed with this report:

Exhibit Index
- -------------
     13      Brown-Forman Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the
             year ended April 30, 2000, but only to the extent set forth in
             Items 1, 5, 6, 7, 7A and 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for
             the year ended April 30, 2000.

     21      Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

     23      Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP independent accountants.



     27      Financial Data Schedule (not considered to be filed).

Previously Filed:
 Exhibit Index
- -------------
    3(a)     Restated Certificate of Incorporation of registrant, which is
             incorporated into this report by reference to Brown-Forman
             Corporation's Form 10-K filed on July 19, 1994.

    3(b)     Certificate of Amendment to Restated Certificate of Incorporation
             of registrant, which is incorporated into this report by reference
             to Brown-Forman Corporation's Form 10-K filed on July 19, 1994.

    3(c)     Certificate of Ownership and Merger of Brown-Forman Corporation
             into Brown-Forman, Inc., which is incorporated into this report by
             reference to Brown-Forman Corporation's Form 10-K filed on July 19,
             1994.

    3(d)     Certificate of Amendment to Restated and Amended Certificate of
             Incorporation of Brown-Forman Corporation, which is incorporated
             into this report by reference to Brown-Forman Corporation's Form
             10-K filed on July 19, 1994.

    3(e)     The by-laws of registrant, as amended on May 25, 2000, which is
             incorporated into this report by reference to Brown-Forman
             Corporation's Form 8-K filed on May 31, 2000.

      4      The Form of Indenture dated as of March 1, 1994 between
             Brown-Forman Corporation and The First National Bank of Chicago, as
             Trustee, which is incorporated into this report by reference to
             Brown-Forman Corporation's Form S-3 (Registration  No. 33-52551)
             filed on March 8, 1994.

    10(a)    A description of the Brown-Forman Omnibus Compensation Plan, which
             is incorporated into this report by reference to the Appendix of
             the registrant's definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting
             of Stockholders held on July 27, 1995.

    10(b)    Brown-Forman Corporation Restricted Stock Plan, which is
             incorporated into this report by reference to Brown-Forman
             Corporation's Form 10-K filed on July 19, 1994.

    10(c)    Brown-Forman Corporation Supplemental Excess Retirement Plan, which
             is incorporated into this report by reference to Brown-Forman
             Corporation's Form 10-K filed on July 23, 1990.

    10(d)    Brown-Forman Corporation Stock Appreciation Rights Plan, which is
             incorporated into this report by reference to Brown-Forman
             Corporation's Form 10-K filed on July 23, 1990.

    10(e)    A description of the Brown-Forman Savings Plan, which is
             incorporated into this report by reference to page 10 of the
             registrant's definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of
             Stockholders held on July 25, 1996.

    10(f)    A description of the Brown-Forman Flexible Reimbursement Plan,
             which is incorporated into this report by reference to page 10 of
             the registrant's definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting
             of Stockholders held on July 25, 1996.



    10(g)    A description of the Brown-Forman Non-Employee Director
             Compensation Plan, which is incorporated into this report by
             reference to Brown-Forman Corporation's Form S-8 (Registration No.
             333-38649) filed on October 24, 1997.

    10(h)    Credit Agreement dated as of October 29, 1997, among Brown-Forman
             Corporation and a group of United States and international banks,
             which is incorporated into this report by reference to Amendment
             No. 1 to Brown-Forman Corporation's Form 10-Q filed on December 15,
             1997.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K:

    On May 31, 2000, the Registrant filed a report on Form 8-K regarding an
    amendment to the Registrant's by-laws that decreased the minimum number of
    directors sitting on the Executive Committee from three to two (including
    the Chief Executive Officer).

    On June 5, 2000, the Registrant filed a report on Form 8-K announcing that
    Steven B. Ratoff, Chief Financial Officer of the Registrant, would be
    transitioning from that post.



                                   SIGNATURES

       Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                                            BROWN-FORMAN CORPORATION
                                                 (Registrant)



                                            /s/ OWSLEY BROWN II
                                            ------------------------------------
Date:  May 25, 2000                         By:  Owsley Brown II
                                                  Chairman of the Board and
                                                  Chief Executive Officer


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities on May 25, 2000 as indicated:





REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS


Brown-Forman Corporation
Louisville, Kentucky

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the accompanying
index  present  fairly,  in all material  respects,  the  financial  position of
Brown-Forman Corporation and its subsidiaries at April 30, 1998, 1999, and 2000,
and the results of their  operations  and their cash flows for each of the three
years in the  period  ended  April  30,  2000,  in  conformity  with  accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States. In addition, in our opinion,
the financial  statement  schedule  listed in the  accompanying  index  presents
fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in
conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.  These financial
statements  and  financial  statement  schedule  are the  responsibility  of the
Company's  management;  our  responsibility  is to  express  an opinion on these
financial  statements and financial  statement  schedule based on our audits. We
conducted our audits of these  statements in accordance with auditing  standards
generally  accepted in the United  States which require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable  assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence  supporting the amounts and  disclosures  in the financial  statements,
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  and evaluating the overall  financial  statement  presentation.  We
believe  that our audits  provide a reasonable  basis for the opinion  expressed
above.



/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Louisville, Kentucky
May 25, 2000, except as to Note 15,
 for which the date is June 15, 2000

                                      S-1



                    BROWN-FORMAN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
               For the Years Ended April 30, 1998, 1999, and 2000
                            (Expressed in thousands)



 (1) Doubtful accounts written off, net of recoveries.

                                      S-2

