
10-K
form10k2005.txt


                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K

              ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                    For the fiscal year ended April 30, 2005
                        Commission file number 002-26821

                            BROWN-FORMAN CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                    Delaware                                   61-0143150
       (State or other jurisdiction of                        (IRS Employer
        incorporation or organization)                      Identification No.)

             850 Dixie Highway                                    40210
            Louisville, Kentucky                                (Zip Code)
   (Address of principal executive offices)

        Registrant's telephone number, including area code (502) 585-1100

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                         Name of Each Exchange
              Title of Each Class                         on Which Registered
              -------------------                        ----------------------
Class A Common Stock (voting) $0.15 par value            New York Stock Exchange

Class B Common Stock (nonvoting) $0.15 par value         New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to
  Section 12(g) of the Act:                              None


Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [X] No[ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes [X] No[ ]

The aggregate market value, as of the last business day of the most recently
completed second fiscal quarter, of the voting and nonvoting equity held by
nonaffiliates of the registrant was approximately $2,600,000,000.

The number of shares outstanding for each of the registrant's classes of
Common Stock on May 31, 2005 was:
     Class A Common Stock (voting)            56,782,037
     Class B Common Stock (nonvoting)         65,194,890

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Portions of the Registrant's 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders are incorporated
by reference into Parts I, II, and IV of this report.  Portions of the Proxy
Statement of Registrant for use in connection with the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held July 28, 2005 are incorporated by reference into Part
III of this report.





                                     PART I
Item 1.  Business

(a) General development of business:

Brown-Forman Corporation ("we," "us," or "our" below) was incorporated under the
laws of the State of Delaware in 1933,  successor to a business  founded in 1870
as  a  partnership  and  subsequently   incorporated   under  the  laws  of  the
Commonwealth of Kentucky in 1901.  Through the first 85 years, we were primarily
a bourbon  company,  marketing  brands  such as Early  Times  and Old  Forester.
Starting in the  mid-1950s,  we began a series of  acquisitions,  including  the
purchase  of Jack  Daniel's  Tennessee  Whiskey  in  1956,  and  the  subsequent
acquisitions  of  Canadian  Mist  Canadian  whisky,  Southern  Comfort  liqueur,
Finlandia  vodka,  and Tuaca liqueur.  Beginning in the 1990s,  we also acquired
premium wine  companies  including  Fetzer  Vineyards  California  wines,  Bolla
Italian wines, and California's Sonoma-Cutrer Vineyards.

Our principal  executive  offices are located at 850 Dixie Highway,  Louisville,
Kentucky  40210  (mailing   address:   P.O.  Box  1080,   Louisville,   Kentucky
40201-1080), and our telephone number is (502) 585-1100.

(b) Financial information about segments:

Information  regarding net sales,  operating income, and total assets of each of
our two  business  segments  is in Note 12 of  Notes to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements  on  page  51 of  our  2005  Annual  Report  to  Stockholders,  which
information is incorporated into this report by reference in response to Item 8.

(c) Narrative description of business:

The two segments comprising our operations are described below.

Beverages
- ---------
We manufacture,  bottle,  import, export, and market a wide variety of alcoholic
beverage brands.  We also  manufacture and market new and used oak barrels.  Our
principal beverage brands are:

     Spirits                                       Wines
     -------                                       -----
     Jack Daniel's                                 Fetzer
     Southern Comfort                              Bolla
     Finlandia                                     Five Rivers
     Gentleman Jack                                Fontana Candida
     Jack Daniel's Single Barrel                   Jekel
     Jack Daniel's Ready-to-Drinks                 Bel Arbor
     Canadian Mist                                 Sonoma-Cutrer
     Early Times                                   Bonterra
     Old Forester                                  Korbel*
     Pepe Lopez                                    Mariah*
     Tuaca                                         Michel Picard*
     Woodford Reserve
     Amarula*
     Appleton*
     Ardbeg*
     Don Eduardo*
     Glenmorangie*
     Glen Moray*


  * Brands represented in the U.S and other select markets by Brown-Forman




Our primary spirits brand is Jack Daniel's,  which is the fourth-largest premium
spirits  brand  and the  largest  selling  American  whiskey  brand in the world
according  to  volume   statistics   recently   published  by  a  leading  trade
publication.  Our other leading brands are Southern Comfort, the largest selling
liqueur in the United  States,  and Canadian  Mist,  the  third-largest  selling
Canadian whisky worldwide, according to the recently published volume statistics
referenced above. Our largest wine brands are Fetzer Vineyards and Bolla, two of
the leading  premium wine brands in the United States  generally  selling in the
$6-9 per bottle  price range  according  to  information  published by a leading
consumer  market  research  firm.  That same firm  cites  Korbel as the  largest
selling premium champagne in the retail channel in the United States. We believe
the statistics used to rank these products are reasonably accurate.

Our strategy is to market high quality  products that satisfy the preferences of
consumers of legal  drinking age and to support those  products  with  extensive
international,  national,  and regional marketing  programs.  These programs are
intended to extend consumer brand recognition and brand loyalty.

In the  United  States,  we sell  spirits  and wines  either  through  wholesale
distributors  or  directly to state  governments  in those  states that  control
alcohol  sales.  The contracts that we have with many of our  distributors  have
formulas which determine reimbursement to distributors if we terminate them; the
amount  of  reimbursement  is based  primarily  on the  distributor's  length of
service and a percentage of its purchases  over time.  Some states have statutes
which limit our ability to terminate distributor  contracts.  Outside the United
States,  we  typically  distribute  our  products  by  selecting  the best local
distributor for our brands in each specific market. Our principal export markets
are the United Kingdom, Germany, Spain, Italy, Australia,  France, South Africa,
Canada, Japan, and China.

The principal  raw  materials  used in  manufacturing  and  packaging  distilled
spirits are corn, rye, malted barley, glass, cartons, and wood for new white oak
barrels, which are used for storage of bourbon and Tennessee whiskey. Currently,
none of these raw materials is in short supply,  and there are adequate  sources
from which they may be obtained.

The  principal  raw  materials  used in the  production  of wines are grapes and
packaging  materials.  Grapes  are  primarily  purchased  under  contracts  with
independent  growers and, from time to time,  are adversely  affected by weather
and other forces which may limit  production.  We believe that our relationships
with our growers are good.

The  industry  is  highly  competitive  and there  are many  brands  sold in the
consumer market. Trade information indicates that we are one of the largest wine
and spirit suppliers in the United States in terms of revenues.



The  Alcohol  and Tobacco  Tax and Trade  Bureau of the United  States  Treasury
Department  regulates the wine and spirits  industry with respect to production,
blending,  bottling, sales, advertising and transportation of industry products.
Also, each state regulates  advertising,  promotion,  transportation,  sale, and
distribution of such products.

Under  federal  regulations,  whiskey  must be aged for at least two years to be
designated  "straight  whiskey." We age our  straight  whiskeys for a minimum of
three to six years. Federal regulations also require that "Canadian" whisky must
be  manufactured  in Canada in compliance with Canadian laws and must be aged in
Canada for at least  three  years.  We believe we are in  compliance  with these
regulations.

Due to aging  requirements,  production  of whiskeys is scheduled to meet demand
three  to six  years in the  future.  Accordingly,  inventories  are  larger  in
relation  to sales  and  total  assets  than  would  be  normal  for most  other
businesses.


Consumer Durables
- -----------------
Our Consumer  Durables  business consists of a portfolio of consumer brands that
have a rich  heritage in the  domestic  market.  We sell fine china  dinnerware,
crystal stemware and giftware,  stainless steel flatware,  and silver-plated and
metal  giftware  under the Lenox and Gorham  brands.  Dansk is our  contemporary
tabletop,  housewares and giftware brand. We sell premium casual  dinnerware and
fine china giftware and  collectibles  under the Lenox  trademark,  and sterling
silver  flatware and sterling  silver  giftware under the Gorham and Kirk Stieff
trademarks.  Hartmann  is our  luggage,  business  case,  and  personal  leather
accessories  brand.  In  addition,  in the  direct  response  channel,  we  sell
collectibles,  jewelry,  and home decor  products in the United States under the
Lenox brand and outside the United States  primarily  under the Brooks & Bentley
brand.

In February 2005, we announced that we were exploring strategic alternatives for
Lenox.,  Inc., including a possible sale. (Lenox, Inc. represents the major part
of our Consumer Durables segment). We expect to conclude this study this summer.

We market  our  products  domestically  through  authorized  department  stores,
home-specialty  stores,  price clubs,  and  independent  gift,  collectible  and
jewelry shops, and through our company-owned stores, catalogs,  mail-order,  and
the internet. The following table provides information about company-owned store
openings and closures for the two most recent fiscal years:


                                Lenox       Dansk      Hartmann     Total

   As of April 30, 2003           63          46           7         116
     Opened                       --          --           1           1
     Closed                       (5)         (5)         (1)        (11)
                                 ----        ----        ----       -----
   As of April 30, 2004           58          41           7         106
     Converted                    15         (15)         --          --
     Closed                      (10)        (26)         --         (36)
                                 ----        ----        ----       -----
   As of April 30, 2005           63          --           7          70
                                 ====        ====        ====       =====



We also sell our products domestically through strategic partnerships with third
party companies and the incentive, premium, business gift, and military exchange
distribution  channels, and internationally  through authorized retailers,  duty
free stores,  and distributors.  We sell collectibles,  jewelry,  and home decor
products both domestically and in the United Kingdom through the direct response
channel,  including  mail-order,  catalogs and the  internet.  In the  wholesale
channel,   company-employed   sales   representatives  and,  where  appropriate,
independent commissioned sales representatives and independent distributors sell
our consumer durables products.

We believe we are the largest domestic  marketer of fine tabletop  products.  We
are also a leading domestic  marketer of fine quality  luggage,  business cases,
and personal leather accessories. We compete with a number of other suppliers in
the  wholesale  and direct  response  channels.  We also face  competition  from
lifestyle retail stores that market their own brands.

Clay and feldspar are the  principal  raw materials  used to  manufacture  china
products. Gold and platinum are significant raw materials used to decorate china
products. Fine silver is the principal raw material used to manufacture sterling
silver  giftware and sterling  flatware  products.  Steel is the  principal  raw
material used to manufacture stainless steel flatware. Leather and nylon, tweed,
and wool fabric are the  principal raw materials  used to  manufacture  luggage,
business cases and personal  leather  accessories.  We anticipate that these raw
materials will be in adequate supply.  However,  the acquisition  price of gold,
platinum,  fine  silver,  and steel is  influenced  significantly  by  worldwide
economic events and commodity trading.

Our revenues are  traditionally  greater in the second and third quarters of the
fiscal year, primarily because of seasonal holiday buying.


Other Information
- -----------------
We own  numerous  valuable  trademarks  that  are  essential  to  our  business.
Registrations of trademarks can generally be renewed indefinitely as long as the
trademarks are in use. We have authorized,  through licensing arrangements,  the
use of some of our  trademarks on promotional  items for the primary  purpose of
enhancing brand awareness.

As of April 30, 2005, we employed about 6,100 persons,  including  approximately
1,300  employed on a  part-time  or  temporary  basis.  We believe our  employee
relations are good.

For  information  on the effects of compliance  with federal,  state,  and local
environmental regulations, refer to Note 14, "Environmental Matters," on page 52
of our 2005 Annual Report to  Stockholders,  which  information is  incorporated
into this report by reference.

Our Web site  address  is  www.brown-forman.com.  Please  note that our Web site
address is provided as an inactive textual reference only. Our annual reports on
Form 10-K,  quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any
amendments to these reports are available free of charge on our Web site as soon
as reasonably  practicable after we  electronically  file those reports with the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  The information provided on our Web site is
not part of this report,  and is therefore not  incorporated by reference unless
such information is otherwise specifically referenced elsewhere in this report.



We have posted on our Web site  (www.brown-forman.com)  our Corporate Governance
Guidelines, our Code of Conduct that applies to all directors and employees, and
our Code of Ethics that applies  specifically to our senior financial  officers.
We have also posted on our Web site the  charters of our Audit and  Compensation
Committees.  Copies  of these  materials  are also  available  free of charge by
writing to our Corporate  Secretary,  Michael B.  Crutcher,  850 Dixie  Highway,
Louisville, Kentucky 40210 or e-mailing him at Michael_Crutcher@b-f.com.


(d) Financial information about geographic areas:

Geographic  information  about net sales and long-lived  assets is in Note 12 of
Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements on page 51 of our 2005 Annual Report
to Stockholders, which information is incorporated into this report by reference
in response to Item 8.


Item 2.  Properties

Significant properties by business segments are as follows:

Beverages
- ---------
Owned facilities:
   - Office facilities:
        - Corporate offices (including renovated historic structures)
          - Louisville, Kentucky

   - Production and warehousing facilities:
        - Lynchburg, Tennessee
        - Louisville, Kentucky
        - Collingwood, Ontario
        - Shively, Kentucky
        - Woodford County, Kentucky
        - Frederiksted, St. Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands
        - Monterey County, California
        - San Luis Obispo County, California
        - Sonoma County, California
        - Livorno, Italy
        - Lucca, Italy
        - Pedemonte, Italy
        - Soave, Italy

Leased facilities:
   - Production and bottling facility in Dublin, Ireland
   - Wine production and warehousing facility in Mendocino County, California

The lease terms expire at various dates and are generally renewable.

We believe that the  facilities  are in good  condition and are adequate for the
business.



Consumer Durables
- -----------------
Owned facilities:
   - Office facilities:
        - Lenox Corporate, Wholesale and Brand Organization - Lawrenceville,
           New Jersey
        - Lenox Direct Response and Business Technology Organization (includes
           retail store and warehouse) - Langhorne, Pennsylvania

   - Production and office facilities (each of which includes a retail store):
        - Lenox - Pomona, New Jersey; and Kinston, North Carolina
        - Hartmann - Lebanon, Tennessee

   - Warehousing facilities:
        - Lenox/Dansk/Gorham - Hagerstown, Maryland

Leased facilities:
   - Office facilities:
        - Brooks & Bentley - Kent, England

   - Warehousing facilities:
        - Lenox - South Brunswick, New Jersey (includes a retail store and
           clearance center)
        - Lenox Direct Response - Bristol Township, Pennsylvania

   - Retail stores:
        - The Segment operates 63 Lenox stores in 27 states. In addition, the
           Segment operates 7 Hartmann luggage outlet stores in 6 states.

   - Showrooms:
        - Lenox/Dansk/Gorham - New York, New York; Dallas, Texas; and
           Atlanta, Georgia

The lease terms expire at various dates and are generally renewable.

We believe that the facilities are in good condition and are adequate for the
business.



Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

Beverages
- ---------
Brown-Forman Corporation and many other manufacturers of spirits, wine, and beer
are defendants in a series of essentially  similar class action lawsuits seeking
damages and  injunctive  relief for  alleged  marketing  of beverage  alcohol to
underage  consumers.  Nine  lawsuits  have been filed to date,  the first  three
against eight defendants, including Brown-Forman: Hakki v. Adolph Coors Company,
et.al.,  District of Columbia  Superior  Court No. CD 03-9183  (November  2003);
Kreft v. Zima Beverage Co., et.al., District Court, Jefferson County,  Colorado,
No. 04cv1827 (December 2003); and Wilson v. Zima Company,  et.al., U.S. District
Court for the  Western  District  of North  Carolina,  Charlotte  Division,  No.
3:04cv141  ( January  2004).  Two  virtually  identical  suits with  allegations
similar to those in the first three  lawsuits were filed in Cleveland,  Ohio, in
April and June,  2004,  respectively,  against the original eight  defendants as
well as an  additional  nine  manufacturers  of  spirits  and beer,  and are now
consolidated  as  Eisenberg  v.  Anheuser-Busch,  U.S.  District  Court  for the
District of Northern  Ohio,  No.  1:04cv1081.  Five similar  suits were filed in
2005:  Elizabeth H.  Sciocchette v. Advanced  Brands,  Albany  County,  New York
Supreme Court No.  102205  (February  16,  2005);  Roger and Kathy  Bertovich v.
Advanced  Brands,  Hancock  County,  West Virginia,  Circuit Court No.  05-C-42M
(February 17, 2005);  Jacquelin Tomberlin v. Adolph Coors, Dane County (Madison,
Wisconsin) Circuit Court,  (February 23, 2005); Viola Alston v. Advanced Brands,
Wayne County,  Michigan,  Circuit Court No.  05-509294,  (March,  30, 2005), and
Craig  Konhauzer v. Adolph Coors Company,  Broward County Florida Circuit Court,
No. 05004875 (March 30, 2005). In addition,  Brown-Forman  received in February,
2004,  a  pre-lawsuit  notice  under  the  California  Consumer  Protection  Act
indicating  that the same lawyers  intend to file a lawsuit  there  against many
industry defendants,  including  Brown-Forman,  presumably on the same facts and
legal theories.

The suits  allege  that the  defendants  have  engaged  in  deceptive  marketing
practices and schemes targeted at underage consumers, negligently marketed their
products to the underage, and fraudulently concealed their alleged misconduct.

Plaintiffs  seek class action  certification  on behalf of: (a) a guardian class
consisting  of all persons who were or are parents of children  whose funds were
used to purchase beverage alcohol marketed by the defendants which were consumed
without their prior  knowledge by their  children under the age of 21 during the
period 1982 to present;  and (b) an injunctive  class  consisting of the parents
and guardians of all children currently under the age of 21.

The lawsuits seek: (1) a finding that defendants  engaged in a deceptive  scheme
to market alcoholic beverages to underage persons and an injunction against such
alleged  practices;  (2)  disgorgement  and refund to the guardian  class of all
proceeds  resulting  from sales to the underage  since 1982; and (3) judgment to
each  guardian  class  member for a trebled  award of actual  damages,  punitive
damages, and attorneys fees. The lawsuits,  either collectively or individually,
if ultimately successful, represent significant financial exposure.

Brown-Forman,  in coordination  with other defendants,  is vigorously  defending
itself in these cases, four of which are pending on motions to dismiss.

Consumer Durables
- -----------------
On  August  23 and 26,  2004,  plaintiffs  purporting  to  represent  a class of
consumers  who purchased  tableware  sold in the United States from May 1, 2001,
through the present  filed suit against  Federated  Department  Stores,  the May
Department Stores Company,  Waterford Wedgwood U.S.A., and Brown-Forman's Lenox,
Inc.  subsidiary.  In November 2004,  plaintiffs filed a consolidated  complaint
alleging that the defendants violated Section 1 of the Sherman Act by conspiring
to fix  prices  and to  boycott  sales  to Bed  Bath &  Beyond.  The  cases  are
consolidated in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California,
Nos.  C-04-3514VRW and  C-04-3622VRW.  Plaintiffs seek to recover an undisclosed
amount of damages, trebled in accord with the anti-trust laws, as well as costs,
attorney fees and injunctive  relief.  Lenox, Inc. denies the allegations of the
complaint and intends to defend the cases vigorously.


Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

None.





Executive Officers of the Registrant


                                                Principal Occupation and
     Name                         Age             Business Experience
     ----                         ---       ---------------------------------

Owsley Brown II                    62       Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
                                            of the company since 1995.

Paul C. Varga                      41       President and Chief Executive
                                            Officer of Brown-Forman Beverages
                                            (a division of Brown-Forman) since
                                            August 2003. Global Chief Marketing
                                            Officer for Brown-Forman Beverages
                                            from 2000 to July 2003. Director of
                                            Marketing for Brown-Forman Spirits-
                                            North American Group from 1998 to
                                            2000.

James D. Hanauer                   50       Chief Executive Officer of Lenox,
                                            Incorporated (a subsidiary of
                                            Brown-Forman) since January 2004.
                                            President of Brown-Forman Distillery
                                            Company (a division of Brown-Forman)
                                            from 1996 to January 2004.

Phoebe A. Wood                     52       Executive Vice President and Chief
                                            Financial Officer of the company
                                            since February 2001. Vice President
                                            and Chief Financial Officer for
                                            Propel, Inc. (a subsidiary of
                                            Motorola) from August 2000 to
                                            February 2001.

Michael B. Crutcher                61       Vice Chairman, General Counsel, and
                                            Secretary since August 2003. Senior
                                            Vice President, General Counsel, and
                                            Secretary from 1989 to August 2003.

James S. Welch, Jr.                46       Vice Chairman, Strategy and Human
                                            Resources since August 2003. Senior
                                            Vice President and Executive
                                            Director of Human Resources from
                                            1999 to August 2003.



James L. Bareuther                 59       Executive Vice President of and
                                            Chief Operating Officer of Brown-
                                            Forman Beverages since August 2003.
                                            President of Brown-Forman Spirits
                                            Americas from July 2001 to August
                                            2003. Executive Vice President,
                                            Spirits Marketing and Sales, North
                                            American Group - Brown-Forman
                                            Beverages Worldwide from 1994 to
                                            July 2001.

Jane C. Morreau                    46       Vice President and Controller since
                                            August 2002. Director of Business
                                            Planning & Analysis from 1997 to
                                            July 2002.




                                     PART II

Item 5.  Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder
         Matters

Our Class A and Class B Common  Stock is traded on the New York  Stock  Exchange
(symbols "BFA" and "BFB," respectively).

Holders of record of Common Stock at April 30, 2005:
         Class A Common Stock (Voting)               3,466
         Class B Common Stock (Nonvoting)            4,191

For the other  information  required by this item, refer to the section entitled
"Quarterly  Financial  Information"  at the front of the 2005  Annual  Report to
Stockholders, which information is incorporated into this report by reference.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

For the  information  required  by this  item,  refer  to the  section  entitled
"Selected  Financial Data" on page 26 of the 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders,
which information is incorporated into this report by reference.

Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
         of Operations

For the  information  required  by this  item,  refer  to the  section  entitled
"Management's Discussion and Analysis" on pages 27 through 38 of the 2005 Annual
Report to  Stockholders,  and the section  entitled  "Important  Information  on
Forward-Looking   Statements"   on  page  58  of  the  2005  Annual   Report  to
Stockholders, which information is incorporated into this report by reference.

Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

For the information required by this item, refer to the section entitled "Market
Risks"  beginning on page 36 of the 2005 Annual  Report to  Stockholders,  which
information is incorporated into this report by reference.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

For the information  required by this item, refer to the Consolidated  Financial
Statements,  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,  Reports of Management,
and Report of Independent  Registered Public Accounting Firm on pages 39 through
55 of the 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders,  which information is incorporated
into this report by reference.

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
         Financial Disclosure

None.



Item 9A.  Controls and Procedures

The Chief Executive  Officer ("CEO") and the Chief Financial  Officer ("CFO") of
Brown-Forman  (its principal  executive and principal  financial  officers) have
evaluated  the   effectiveness  of  the  company's   "disclosure   controls  and
procedures" (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e)  under the Securities  Exchange Act of
1934 (the  "Exchange  Act")) as of the end of the period covered by this report.
Based  on  that  evaluation,  the  CEO  and CFO  concluded  that  the  company's
disclosure  controls and  procedures:  are effective to ensure that  information
required to be disclosed by the company in the reports  filed or submitted by it
under the Exchange Act is recorded,  processed,  summarized, and reported within
the time periods  specified in the SEC's rules and forms;  and include  controls
and procedures  designed to ensure that information  required to be disclosed by
the company in such reports is  accumulated  and  communicated  to the company's
management,  including  the CEO and the CFO,  as  appropriate,  to allow  timely
decisions  regarding  required  disclosure.  There  has  been no  change  in the
company's  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  during the most recent
fiscal  quarter  that  has  materially  affected,  or is  reasonably  likely  to
materially affect, the company's internal control over financial reporting.

For the other information  required by this item, refer to 'Management's  Report
on  Internal  Control  over  Financial  Reporting"  and  "Report of  Independent
Registered  Public Accounting Firm" on pages 54 and 55 of the 2005 Annual Report
to  Stockholders,   which  information  is  incorporated  into  this  report  by
reference.


                                    PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

For the information  required by this item,  refer to the following  sections of
our definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held
July 28, 2005, which  information is incorporated into this report by reference:
(a) "Election of Directors" on pages 6 through 8 (for information on directors);
(b) "Corporate Governance  Guidelines,  Committee Charters and Codes" on page 11
(for information on our Code of Ethics);  (c) the last paragraph on page 15 (for
information  on  delinquent  Section 16 filings);  and (d) "Audit  Committee" on
pages 17 through  19.  Also,  see the  information  with  respect to  "Executive
Officers of the Registrant"  under Part I of this report,  which  information is
incorporated herein by reference.

We will post any  amendments  to our Code of Ethics  that  applies  to our chief
executive  officer,  principal  financial  officer,   controller  and  principal
accounting  officer,  and any waivers  that are  required to be disclosed by the
rules of either the SEC or NYSE on our Web site.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation

For the information  required by this item,  refer to the following  sections of
our definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held
July 28, 2005, which  information is incorporated into this report by reference:
(a)  "Executive  Compensation"  on pages 20  through  27; (b)  "Retirement  Plan
Descriptions" on page 28; and (c) "Director Compensation" on page 29.



Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
          Related Stockholder Matters

                      Equity Compensation Plan Information

In July 2004,  shareholders  approved the 2004 Omnibus  Compensation Plan as the
successor to both the 1994 Omnibus  Compensation Plan providing equity awards to
employees and the Non-Employee Directors ("NED") Plan providing equity awards to
non-employee  directors.  At the time the NED Plan was discontinued,  it had not
been submitted to  shareholders.  The following  table  provides  information on
these plans:



For the other  information  required by this item, refer to the section entitled
"Stock  Ownership" on pages 14 through 16 of our definitive  proxy statement for
the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held July 28, 2005,  which  information
is incorporated into this report by reference.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

For the  information  required  by this  item,  refer  to the  section  entitled
"Transactions  with Management" on page 31 of our definitive proxy statement for
the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held July 28, 2005,  which  information
is incorporated into this report by reference.

Item 14.  Principal Accountant Fees and Services

For the information  required by this item,  refer to the section entitled "Fees
Paid to Independent  Auditor" on page 18 of our definitive  proxy  statement for
the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held July 28, 2005,  which  information
is incorporated into this report by reference.



                                     PART IV

Item 15.  Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

(a)  1 and 2 - Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedule:



All other  schedules for which  provision is made in the  applicable  accounting
regulations of the Securities and Exchange  Commission  have been omitted either
because  they are not  required  under the  related  instructions,  because  the
information  required is included in the consolidated  financial  statements and
notes thereto, or because they are inapplicable.

*  Incorporated by reference to Item 8 in this report.


(a)    3 - Exhibits: Filed with this report:

Exhibit Index
- -------------

     10(f)   Form of Restricted Stock Agreement, as amended.

     10(g)   Form of Employee Stock Appreciation Right Award.

     10(h)   Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Award.



     10(i)   Form of Non-Employee Director Stock Appreciation Right Award.

     10(j)   Form of Non-Employee Director Non-Qualified Stock Option Award.

     10(k)   Summary of Director and Named Executive Officer Compensation.

     13      Brown-Forman Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the
             year ended April 30, 2005, but only to the extent set forth in
             Items 1, 5, 6, 7, 7A, 8 and 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K
             for the year ended April 30, 2005.

     21      Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

     23      Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP independent registered public
             accounting firm.

     31.1    CEO Certification pursuant to Section 302 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
             2002.

     31.2    CFO Certification pursuant to Section 302 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
             2002.

     32      CEO and CFO Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as
             adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
             (not considered to be filed).

Previously Filed:
 Exhibit Index
- -------------
    3(i)     Restated Certificate of Incorporation of registrant, which is
             incorporated into this report by reference to Brown-Forman
             Corporation's Form 10-Q filed on March 4, 2004.

    3(ii)    By-laws of Registrant, as amended on May 26, 2005, which is
             incorporated into this report by reference to Brown-Forman
             Corporation's Form 8-K filed on May 27, 2005.

      4      Form of Indenture dated as of March 1, 1994 between Brown-Forman
             Corporation and The First National Bank of Chicago, as Trustee,
             which is incorporated into this report by reference to Brown-Forman
             Corporation's Form S-3 (Registration  No. 33-52551) filed on
             March 8, 1994.

    10(a)    Brown-Forman Corporation Supplemental Excess Retirement Plan, which
             is incorporated into this report by reference to Brown-Forman
             Corporation's Form 10-K filed on July 23, 1990.

    10(b)    A description of the Brown-Forman Savings Plan, which is
             incorporated into this report by reference to page 10 of
             Brown-Forman's definitive proxy statement filed on June 27, 1996
             in connection with its 1996 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.



    10(c)    The description of the terms of $250,000,000 of 2-1/8% Notes due
             2006 and $350,000,000 of 3% Notes due 2008, which description is
             incorporated by reference into this report by reference to the
             Indenture filed with Brown-Forman Corporation's Form S-4
             (Registration No. 333-104657) on April 21, 2003.

    10(d)    Brown-Forman Corporation 2004 Omnibus Compensation Plan, which is
             incorporated into this report by reference to Brown-Forman's
             definitive proxy statement filed on June 30, 2004 in connection
             with its 2004 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

    10(e)    Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of July 30, 2004, among
             Brown-Forman Corporation, the Lenders named therein, Bank of
             America, N.A., as Syndication Agent, Citibank, N.A., HSBC Bank USA
             and National City Bank of Kentucky, as Documentation Agents, and
             JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Administrative Agent, which is incorporated
             into this report by reference to Brown-Forman Corporation's
             Form 10-Q filed on September 2, 2004.

    14       Code of Ethics, which is incorporated into this report by reference
             to Brown-Forman Corporation's Form 10-K filed on July 2, 2004.



                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the  requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934,  the  registrant  has duly  caused  this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                                            BROWN-FORMAN CORPORATION
                                                 (Registrant)



                                            /s/ OWSLEY BROWN II
                                            ------------------------------------
Date:  June 28, 2005                         By:  Owsley Brown II
                                                  Chairman of the Board and
                                                  Chief Executive Officer


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following  persons on behalf of the  registrant and
in the capacities on June 28, 2005 as indicated:




             REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
                        ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE


To the Board of Directors
of Brown-Forman Corporation:

Our audits of the consolidated financial statements,  of management's assessment
of the  effectiveness  of internal  control over financial  reporting and of the
effectiveness  of internal control over financial  reporting  referred to in our
report dated June 22, 2005  appearing in the 2005 Annual Report to  Stockholders
of  Brown-Forman  Corporation  and  Subsidiaries  (which  report,   consolidated
financial statements and assessment are incorporated by reference in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K) also included an audit of the financial  statement schedule
listed in Item  15(a)(2)  of this Form  10-K.  In our  opinion,  this  financial
statement  schedule presents fairly, in all material  respects,  the information
set  forth  therein  when  read in  conjunction  with the  related  consolidated
financial statements.




/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Louisville, Kentucky
June 22, 2005

                                      S-1



                    BROWN-FORMAN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
               For the Years Ended April 30, 2003, 2004, and 2005
                            (Expressed in thousands)



 (1) Doubtful accounts written off, net of recoveries.
 (2) Employee termination benefit payments, write-offs of impaired machinery and
     equipment (net of recoveries), and other cash expenditures related to the
     closing of three manufacturing plants.

                                      S-2



                                                                   Exhibit 10(f)


                   BROWN-FORMAN 2004 OMNIBUS COMPENSATION PLAN
                           RESTRICTED STOCK AGREEMENT

      Capitalized terms used below have the definitions assigned to them in
    the Brown-Forman 2004 Omnibus Compensation Plan effective July 22, 2004
                       (the "Plan"), or as defined below.

                                  SUMMARY
Participant:                       [Name]
Award Date:                        [Date]
Performance Period                 [Date] through [Date]
Share Calculation Date:            As soon as practicable following the
                                   Performance Period
Restriction Ending Date:           [Date]
Target Dollar Award:               $[Value]
Class of Shares:                   Brown-Forman Corporation Class B Common
Award Price per Share:             $[Price]

THIS AWARD,  effective as of the Award Date set out above,  represents the award
of  bonus  opportunity  to be  delivered  in the  form of  Restricted  Stock  by
Brown-Forman  Corporation,   a  Delaware  corporation  (the  "Company")  to  the
Participant named above, who is an employee of the Company or one or more of its
subsidiaries, pursuant to the Plan.

1. Award.  The Plan  Administrator  shall designate a Target Dollar Award amount
for each Participant within 90 days of the beginning of the Performance  Period,
and shall designate  Performance  Measures for the Performance Period, which may
be the same measures as those used for Short-Term Bonus. In arriving at a Target
Dollar Award, the Plan Administrator has the right, but not the requirement,  to
solicit input from the  Participant  as to the target dollars to be delivered as
Restricted Stock.  Shortly after the end of the Performance  Period,  the Target
Dollar  Award will be  adjusted  for actual  performance  against  the  approved
Performance Measures (the "Adjusted Dollars",  which shall never be less than $0
nor more than two times the Target Dollar Award),  and the Adjusted Dollars will
be  converted  into  Restricted  Shares of Class B Common  Stock by dividing the
Adjusted  Dollars by the Award Date  Price per  Share,  rounding  up to the next
whole share.  Restricted  Shares shall be issued in the name of the Participant,
legended with the appropriate restriction,  and held in escrow by the Company or
its agent.  Upon the vesting of the Restricted  Stock,  and the  satisfaction of
applicable  withholding  requirements under IRC Section 10(C), the Company shall
issue or cause to be delivered to the participant  one or more unlegended  stock
certificates in respect of such Restricted Stock.

2. Term; Vesting.  The term of this Award is for a period of five years from the
first day of the Performance  Period of the Award.  The participant  must remain
continuously employed by the Company for a period of five fiscal years beginning
with the fiscal year of the Award and extending  through the Restriction  Ending
Date in order to be  considered  vested  in the  Award,  except as  provided  in
Section 3 below. Assuming continued employment, following the Restriction Ending
Date the restrictions  will be removed and the unrestricted  vested shares shall
be delivered to the Participant.

3.  Termination  of  Employment.  In the event the  Participant  does not remain
continuously  employed by the Company  until the  Restriction  Ending Date,  the
following rules will apply:

Participants  terminating  voluntarily and  Participants  who are discharged for
Cause will forfeit all Restricted Stock.

In the event of retirement,  death, or involuntary termination for reasons other
than discharge for Cause, the Participant may be entitled,  at the discretion of
the Plan Administrator,  to receive a pro-rated portion of each Restricted Stock
Award, with the Restricted Stock released from restrictions at a time determined
by the Plan  Administrator,  but in no  circumstances  later than  described  in
Section 2 above.

4. Change in  Control.  In the event of a Change in Control of the  Company,  as
defined in the Plan,  all  restrictions  shall be  immediately  removed  and the
unrestricted shares shall be delivered to the Participant as soon as practicable
following such Change in Control.

5. Rights as a Stockholder.  During the Performance Period prior to the issuance
of Restricted Stock, the Participant has no rights as a stockholder  (including,
but not limited to, the right to receive regular quarterly dividends or dividend
equivalents).  However, following the issuance of Restricted Stock after the end
of the Performance Period, the Participant will have the same stockholder rights
as other  holders of Class B Common  stock  except that vesting and the right to
sell the  shares is  restricted  as  provided  herein.  Dividends  (or  dividend
equivalents)  are payable to the  Participant  following the issue of Restricted
Stock  during  the  restriction  period,  unless the  payment of such  dividends
creates  issues (as determined by the Plan  Administrator)  under any IRS or SEC
regulations including IRC Section 162(m), in which case they will be accrued and
paid  out  at  the  time  the  underlying   Restricted  Stock  becomes  free  of
restrictions  (or at such later date as the Plan  Administrator  determines such
issues are no longer present).

6.  Restrictions  on Transfer.  This Award and the  restricted  Stock may not be
sold,  transferred,  pledged,  assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated,
other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.

7. Recapitalization.  If there is any change in the Company's Shares through the
declaration of stock dividends,  a  recapitalization,  stock splits,  or through
merger,  consolidation,  exchange of Shares, or otherwise, or in the event of an
extraordinary  dividend or other corporate  transaction,  the Plan Administrator
may adjust the number and class of Shares  subject to this Award  (including  by
making a different kind or class of securities subject to the Award), as well as
the Award Price per Share, to prevent dilution or enlargement of rights.

8.  Beneficiary  Designation.  The Participant  may, from time to time, name any
beneficiary or beneficiaries  (who may be named contingently or successively) to
whom any  benefit  under  this  Award is to be paid in case of his or her  death
before he or she  receives  any or all of such  benefit.  Each such  designation
shall  revoke  all prior  designations  by the  Participant,  shall be in a form
prescribed by the Company,  and will be effective only when delivered during the
Participant's lifetime to the Company at its executive offices, addressed to the
attention of the Compensation Department in Louisville, Kentucky.

9. Continuation of Employment.  This Award shall not confer upon the Participant
any right to continued employment by the Company, nor shall this Award interfere
in any way with the Company's right to terminate the Participant's employment at
any time. A transfer of the Participant's employment between the Company and any
of its  subsidiaries,  or between any divisions or  subsidiaries  of the Company
shall not be deemed a termination of employment.

10.  Miscellaneous.

A) This Award and the Participant's rights under it are subject to all the terms
and conditions of the Plan and this  Restricted  Stock  Program,  as they may be
amended  from time to time,  as well as to such rules as the Plan  Administrator
may adopt. The Plan  Administrator may impose such restrictions on this Award as
it  may  deem  advisable,  including,  without  limitation,  restrictions  under
applicable Federal securities laws, under the requirements of any stock exchange
or market upon which such Shares are then listed  and/or  traded,  and under any
blue sky or state  securities  laws  applicable to such Shares.  The  Restricted
Stock  shall  be  subject  to the  requirements  that,  if at any  time the Plan
Administrator   shall   determine   that  (i)  the  listing,   registration   or
qualification  of Class B Common  Stock  subject  or  related  thereto  upon any
securities  exchange  or under any  federal or state law, or (ii) the consent or
approval of any governmental body, or (iii) an agreement by the Participant with
respect to the  disposition  of shares of Class B Common  Stock is  necessary or
desirable as a condition of, or in connection  with, the delivery or purchase of
shares pursuant thereto, then in such event, the grant of Restricted Stock shall
not be effective  unless such  listing,  registration,  qualification,  consent,
approval  or  agreement  shall  have  been  effected  or  obtained  free  of any
conditions not acceptable to the Plan Administrator.

The Plan  Administrator may administer,  construe,  and make all  determinations
necessary or appropriate to the  administration  of the Plan and this Award, all
of which shall be binding upon the Participant.

B) Subject to the  provisions of the Plan, the Board of Directors may terminate,
amend,  or  modify  the  Plan;  provided,  however,  that no  such  termination,
amendment,  or  modification  of the Plan may in any way  adversely  affect  the
Participant's  rights  under this  Award,  without  the  written  consent of the
Participant.  This Agreement may not be modified, amended or waived except by an
instrument in writing signed by both parties hereto.  The waiver by either party
of  compliance  with any  provision  of this  Agreement  shall not operate or be
construed  as a waiver  of any  other  provision  of this  Agreement,  or of any
subsequent breach by such party of a provision of this Agreement.

C) The Company may deduct or withhold,  or require the  Participant  to remit to
the Company,  an amount  sufficient to satisfy  Federal,  state, and local taxes
(including the  Participant's  FICA  obligation)  required by law to be withheld
with respect to any exercise of the Participant's rights under this Award.

The  Participant  may  remit  sufficient  cash to the  Company  to  satisfy  the
withholding  requirement or, subject to the approval of the Plan  Administrator,
the Participant may elect to satisfy the withholding requirement, in whole or in
part,  by having the Company  withhold  Shares  having an aggregate  Fair Market
Value, on the date the tax is to be determined,  equal to the amount required to
be withheld. Such elections shall be irrevocable, shall be in writing, and shall
be  signed  by the  Participant  before  the day  that the  transaction  becomes
taxable.

D) The  Participant  agrees  to take all  steps  necessary  to  comply  with all
applicable  Federal and state  securities  law in  exercising  his or her rights
under this Award.

E) This Award shall be subject to all applicable  laws,  rules, and regulations,
and to such  approvals  by any  governmental  agencies  or  national  securities
exchanges as may be required.

F) The  Company's  obligations  under  the Plan and this  Award  shall  bind any
successor to the Company,  whether  succession results from a direct or indirect
purchase,  merger,  consolidation,  or otherwise, of all or substantially all of
the business and/or assets of the Company.

G) To the extent not  preempted by Federal law, this Award shall be governed by,
and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware.

H) At all times  when IRC  Section  162(m)  applies,  all  Awards to  Designated
Executive  Officers  shall  comply  with  its  requirements,   unless  the  Plan
Administrator  determines  that  compliance  is not desired or necessary for any
Award or Awards.  To that end, the Plan  Administrator may make such adjustments
it  deems   appropriate   for  a  specific  Award  or  Awards,   except  that  a
performance-based Award cannot be replaced by a  non-performance-based  Award if
performance goals are not achieved, nor can the characterization of an Executive
Officer  as a  Designated  Executive  Officer,  once  made,  change  for a given
Performance Period.

I) This Award is subject to the terms of the Plan and Administrative  Guidelines
promulgated  under it from time to time. In the event of a conflict between this
document and the Plan, the Plan document as well as any  determinations  made by
the Plan Administrator as authorized by the Plan document, shall govern.

J) The invalidity or  unenforceability  of any provision of this Agreement shall
not  affect  the  validity  or  enforceability  of any other  provision  of this
Agreement.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  the parties have caused this Award to be executed as of the
Grant Date.


Brown-Forman Corporation



By:_______________________________
Bruce S. Cote
Vice President,
Director HR Employee Services

                                              Accepted:





                                              __________________________________
                                              Participant




                                                                   Exhibit 10(g)


                   BROWN-FORMAN 2004 OMNIBUS COMPENSATION PLAN
                     EMPLOYEE STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHT AWARD

      Capitalized terms used below have the definitions assigned to them in
    the Brown-Forman 2004 Omnibus Compensation Plan, effective July 22, 2004
                      (the "Plan"), or as defined herein.

                                    SUMMARY
Participant:                         [Name]
Grant Date:                          [Date]
First Exercise Date:                 [Date]
Expiration Date:                     [Date]
Number of Shares:                    [Number]
Class of Shares:                     Brown-Forman Corporation Class B Common
Grant Price:                         $[Price]

THIS AWARD,  effective as of the Grant Date set out above,  represents the grant
of  a  stock  appreciation  right  by  Brown-Forman   Corporation,   a  Delaware
corporation  (the "Company") to the Participant  named above, who is an employee
of the Company or one or more of its subsidiaries, pursuant to the Plan.

1.  Grant  of  Stock  Appreciation  Right.  The  Company  hereby  grants  to the
Participant a Stock-Settled  Stock Appreciation  Right (the "SSAR"),  subject to
the terms and conditions set out within this Award and to the terms of the Plan.

2. Value of the SSAR. The SSAR shall entitle the  Participant,  upon exercise of
the SSAR (in whole or in part),  to receive from the Company an amount  (payable
in the form of Class B Common Shares) determined by multiplying:

A) the  appreciated  value of one Class B Common  Share,  calculated as the Fair
Market Value of one Class B Common Share on the date of exercise minus the Grant
Price as shown above; by

B) the  number  of Class B  Common  Shares  with  respect  to which  the SSAR is
exercised.

3. Term.  The term of this Award is for a period of ten years from the first day
of the fiscal year of grant. To exercise the SSAR, the  Participant  must remain
continuously employed by the Company for at least three years from the first day
of the fiscal year of grant,  except as  provided  in Section 6 below.  Assuming
continuous  employment,  the SSAR will become  exercisable on the First Exercise
Date shown above,  and it must be exercised  before the close of business on the
Expiration Date shown above.

4. How to Exercise  the SSAR.  The SSAR may be  exercised by delivery of written
notice in a prescribed form to the Company at its executive  offices,  addressed
to the attention of the Compensation  Department in Louisville,  Kentucky.  Such
notice  shall state the  Participant's  intention to exercise the SSAR and shall
provide  the  number  of Class B  Common  Shares  as to which  the SSAR is to be
exercised.  Such written notice must be signed by the  Participant or his or her
legal  representative.  SSAR's may be exercised in whole or in part, but not for
fewer than 500 shares at any one time,  unless the SSAR being exercised has less
than 500 remaining shares.

As soon as practicable after the receipt of the Participant's  written notice to
exercise the SSAR (in whole or in part), the Company shall cause to be delivered
to the Participant or his or her legal  representative,  as the case may be, one
or more  certificates  for the Class B Common Shares due to the Participant upon
exercise.  The  Class B  Common  Share  certificate(s)  shall be  issued  in the
Participant's  name (or, at the  discretion of the  Participant,  jointly in the
name of the Participant and the Participant's spouse).

5.  Form  of  Payment.  The  Company  shall  satisfy  its  obligation  upon  the
Participant's  exercise  of the  SSAR  (in  whole  or in part) in Class B Common
Shares based upon the Fair Market Value or the  Company's  Class B Common Shares
on the date of exercise,  as  determined by the Plan  Administrator  in its sole
discretion.   Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  no  fractional  Share  shall  be
distributed in settlement of the SSAR and any portion of the SSAR which would be
settled in a  fractional  Share  shall be  rounded  up to a whole  Share with no
additional  payment  to be made in cash  except as  otherwise  permitted  by the
Internal  Revenue Service under an exemption from the application of IRC Section
409A.

6.  Termination  of  Employment.  In the event the  Participant  does not remain
continuously  employed by the Company during the term of the SSAR, the following
rules will apply:

A) Retirement.  Retirement means  termination of employment on or after reaching
age 55 with at least five (5) full years of service, or on or after reaching age
65 with any  service.  If the  Participant  terminates  employment  by reason of
Retirement,  the SSAR  will  continue  in force  until  the  earlier  of (a) the
Expiration Date; or (b) the end of seven years following the date of Retirement.
Retirement does not affect the First Exercise Date.

B) Death. If the Participant dies, the SSAR will immediately  become exercisable
(if not already  exercisable)  but the SSAR must be  exercised by the earlier of
(a) the  Expiration  Date or (b) the end of five  years  following  the  date of
death.  An  exercisable  SSAR shall be exercised by the  person(s)  named as the
Participant's beneficiary(ies), or, if the Participant has not named one or more
beneficiaries,  by whoever has acquired the  Participant's  rights by will or by
the laws of descent and distribution.

C) Termination  for Cause. A SSAR granted to a Participant who is terminated for
cause, as defined in the Plan, shall expire  immediately as of the date and time
that the Participant is notified of the termination and may not be exercised.

D)  Voluntary  Termination.  A SSAR  granted  to a  Participant  who  terminates
employment  voluntarily  shall  continue  in force  until the earlier of (a) the
Expiration Date or (b) the end of thirty days following the date of termination.
Voluntary Termination does not affect the First Exercise Date.

E) Termination for any Other Reasons. If the Participant's employment terminates
for any reason other than those set out in items A through D immediately  above,
and in the  absence  of any  action by the Plan  Administrator,  the SSAR  shall
expire  immediately  as of the  time  and  date of  termination,  and may not be
exercised. However, the Plan Administrator, in its sole discretion, based on the
facts and circumstances of such  termination,  may accelerate the First Exercise
Date of all or any portion of the SSAR,  and/or may delay the  expiration of all
or any portion of the SSAR to any date not later than the Expiration Date.

7. Change in Control or Potential Change in Control. In the event of a Change in
Control or Potential  Change in Control of the Company,  as defined in the Plan,
the First  Exercise Date and the  Participant's  rights with respect to the SSAR
shall be governed by the terms of Article 11 of the Plan.

8.  Rights as a  Shareholder.  The  Participant  has no rights as a  shareholder
(including,  but not  limited  to, the right to receive  dividends  or  dividend
equivalents,   or  to  vote  on  shareholder  issues)  with  respect  to  Shares
potentially available upon exercise of the SSAR.  Shareholder rights accrue only
to holders of Shares issued and delivered pursuant to exercise of the SSAR.

9.  Restrictions on Transfer.  The SSAR may not be sold,  transferred,  pledged,
assigned,  or otherwise alienated or hypothecated,  other than by will or by the
laws of descent and distribution.  Further, the SSAR shall be exercisable during
the  Participant's  lifetime only by the Participant or the  Participant's  duly
appointed legal representative.

10. Recapitalization. If there is any change in the Company's Shares through the
declaration of Share  dividends or through  recapitalization  resulting in Share
splits or through merger,  consolidation,  exchange of Shares, or otherwise, the
Plan  Administrator  may adjust  the  number and class of Shares  subject to the
SSAR, as well as the Grant Price, to prevent dilution or enlargement of rights.

11.  Beneficiary  Designation.  The Participant may, from time to time, name any
beneficiary or beneficiaries  (who may be named contingently or successively) to
whom any  benefit  under  this  Award is to be paid in case of his or her  death
before he or she  receives  any or all of such  benefit.  Each such  designation
shall  revoke  all prior  designations  by the  Participant,  shall be in a form
prescribed by the Company,  and will be effective only when delivered during the
Participant's lifetime to the Company at its executive offices, addressed to the
attention of the Compensation Department in Louisville, Kentucky.

12. Continuation of Employment. This Award shall not confer upon the Participant
any right to continued employment by the Company, nor shall this Award interfere
in any way with the Company's right to terminate the Participant's employment at
any time. A transfer of the Participant's employment between the Company and any
of its  subsidiaries,  or between any divisions or  subsidiaries  of the Company
shall not be deemed a termination of employment.

13. Tax Consequences.  By accepting the SSAR, the Participant  acknowledges that
(i) he or she  understands  that upon  either the grant or the  exercise  of the
SSAR,  he or she may  recognize  adverse  tax  consequences,  and (ii) he or she
understands that the Company may deduct or withhold,  or require the Participant
to remit to the  Company,  an  amount  of Class B Common  Shares  sufficient  to
satisfy  Federal,  state,  and local taxes  (including  the  Participant's  FICA
obligation)  required by law to be withheld  with respect to any exercise of the
Participant's  rights  under this Award.  You are  encouraged  to consult with a
qualified tax advisor  concerning the SSAR. In addition,  the Participant agrees
that the SSAR shall be  administered  and settled as required for the SSAR to be
deemed not to be deferred  compensation subject to the provisions of IRC Section
409A as provided in Internal Revenue Service Notice 2005-1.

14.      Miscellaneous.

A) This Award and the Participant's rights under it are subject to all the terms
and  conditions  of the Plan,  as the same may be amended from time to time,  as
well  as  to  such  rules  as  the  Plan   Administrator  may  adopt.  The  Plan
Administrator  may impose such  restrictions on any Shares acquired  pursuant to
the  exercise  of  the  SSAR  as  it  may  deem  advisable,  including,  without
limitation,  restrictions  under applicable  Federal  securities laws, under the
requirements  of any stock  exchange  or market  upon which such Shares are then
listed and/or traded, and under any blue sky or state securities laws applicable
to such  Shares.  The Plan  Administrator  in  conjunction  with  the  Company's
compliance  officer  may  designate  periods  during  which  the SSAR may not be
exercised by Participants.

The Plan Administrator may, in its sole discretion,  administer,  construe,  and
make all  determinations  necessary or appropriate to the  administration of the
Plan and the SSAR, all of which shall be binding upon the Participant.

B) Subject to the  provisions of the Plan, the Board of Directors may terminate,
amend,  or  modify  the  Plan;  provided,  however,  that no  such  termination,
amendment,  or  modification  of the Plan may in any way  adversely  affect  the
Participant's  rights  under this  Award,  without  the  written  consent of the
Participant.

C) The  Participant  agrees  to take all  steps  necessary  to  comply  with all
applicable  Federal and state  securities  law in  exercising  his or her rights
under this Award.

D) This Award shall be subject to all applicable  laws,  rules, and regulations,
and to such  approvals  by any  governmental  agencies  or  national  securities
exchanges as may be required.

E) The Company's  obligations under the Plan and this Award, with respect to the
SSAR, shall bind any successor to the Company, whether succession results from a
direct or indirect  purchase,  merger,  consolidation,  or otherwise,  of all or
substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company.

F) To the extent not  preempted by Federal law, this Award shall be governed by,
and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware.

G) At all times  when IRC  Section  162(m)  applies,  all  Awards to  Designated
Executive  Officers  shall  comply  with  its  requirements,   unless  the  Plan
Administrator  determines  that  compliance  is not desired or necessary for any
Award or Awards.  To that end, the Plan  Administrator may make such adjustments
it  deems   appropriate   for  a  specific  Award  or  Awards,   except  that  a
performance-based Award cannot be replaced by a  non-performance-based  Award if
performance goals are not achieved, nor can the characterization of an Executive
Officer  as a  Designated  Executive  Officer,  once  made,  change  for a given
Performance Period.

H) This Award is subject to the terms of the Plan and Administrative  Guidelines
promulgated  under it from time to time. In the event of a conflict between this
document and the Plan, the Plan document as well as any  determinations  made by
the Plan Administrator as authorized by the Plan document, shall govern.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  the parties have caused this Award to be executed as of the
Grant Date.


Brown-Forman Corporation



By:_______________________
Bruce S. Cote
Vice President,
Director HR Employee Services



                                                                   Exhibit 10(h)


                   BROWN-FORMAN 2004 OMNIBUS COMPENSATION PLAN
                    EMPLOYEE NONQUALIFIED STOCK OPTION AWARD

      Capitalized terms used below have the definitions assigned to them in
    the Brown-Forman 2004 Omnibus Compensation Plan, effective July 22, 2004
                       (the "Plan"), or as defined herein.

                                  SUMMARY
Optionee:                          [Name]
Grant Date:                        [Date]
First Exercise Date                [Date]
Expiration Date                    [Date]
Option Shares                      [Number]
Class of Shares                    Brown-Forman Corporation Class B Common
Option Price per Share             $[Price]

THIS AWARD,  effective as of the Grant Date set out above,  represents the grant
of  a  nonqualified  stock  option  by  Brown-Forman  Corporation,   a  Delaware
corporation  (the "Company") to the Optionee named above,  who is an employee of
the Company or one or more of its subsidiaries, pursuant to the Plan.

1. Grant of Option.  The Company  hereby  grants to the  Optionee an option (the
"Option") to purchase,  subject to the terms and  conditions set out within this
Award and to the terms of the Plan, the number of Option Shares shown above,  of
the Class of Shares shown above, at the Option Price per Share shown above.  The
Option Price is the Fair Market Value of a Share on the Grant Date.

2. Term.  The term of this Award is for a period of ten years from the first day
of the fiscal year of grant.  To exercise the option,  the Optionee  must remain
continuously  employed  by the  Company  for at least  three  years,  except  as
provided in Section 3 below.  Assuming  continuous  employment,  the Option will
become  exercisable  on the First  Exercise  Date  shown  above,  and it must be
exercised  before the close of  business  on the  Expiration  Date shown  above.
Options may be exercised in whole or in part,  but not for fewer than 500 shares
at any one time,  unless fewer than 500 shares then remain subject to the Option
and the Option is then being exercised as to all such remaining shares.

3.  Termination  of  Employment.  In the  event  the  Optionee  does not  remain
continuously  employed  by the  Company  during  the  term  of the  Option,  the
following rules will apply:

A) Retirement.  Retirement means  termination of employment on or after reaching
age 55 with at least 5 full years of  service,  or on or after  reaching  age 65
with any service. If the Optionee terminates employment by reason of Retirement,
the Option will continue in force until the earlier of (a) the Expiration  Date;
or (b) the end of seven years following the date of retirement.  Retirement does
not affect the First Exercise Date.

B) Death. If the Optionee dies, the Option will immediately  become  exercisable
(if not already  exercisable) but the Option must be exercised by the earlier of
(a) the  Expiration  Date or (b) the end of five  years  following  the  date of
death.  Exercisable  options  may be  exercised  by the  person(s)  named as the
Optionee's  beneficiary  (ies),  or, if the  Optionee  has not named one or more
beneficiaries,  by whoever has acquired the Optionee's  rights by will or by the
laws of descent and distribution.

C) Termination  for Cause.  Options granted to an Optionee who is terminated for
cause  expire  immediately  at as of the  date and time  that  the  Optionee  is
notified of the termination and may not be exercised.

D)  Voluntary  Termination.  Options  granted  to  an  Optionee  who  terminates
employment  voluntarily  will  continue  in force  until the  earlier of (a) the
Expiration Date or (b) the end of thirty days following the date of termination.
Voluntary Termination does not affect the First Exercise Date.

E) Termination for any Other Reasons.  If the Optionee's  employment  terminates
for any reason other than those set out in items A through D immediately  above,
and in the  absence of any action by the Plan  Administrator,  the option  shall
expire  immediately  as of the  time  and  date of  termination,  and may not be
exercised. However, the Plan Administrator, in its sole discretion, based on the
facts and circumstances of such  termination,  may accelerate the First Exercise
Date of all or any portion of the option, and/or may delay the expiration of all
or any portion of the option to any date not later than the Expiration Date.

4. Change in Control or Potential Change in Control. In the event of a Change in
Control or Potential  Change in Control of the Company,  as defined in the Plan,
the First  Exercise Date and the  Optionee's  rights with respect to this Option
shall be governed by the terms of Article 11 of the Plan.

5.  Rights  as a  Stockholder.  The  Optionee  has no  rights  as a  stockholder
(including,  but not  limited  to, the right to receive  dividends  or  dividend
equivalents,   or  to  vote  on  shareholder  issues)  with  respect  to  Shares
potentially  available  upon the exercise of  unexercised  options.  Stockholder
rights  accrue  only to holders of Shares  issued and  delivered  pursuant to an
Option exercise.

6. Restrictions on Transfer. This Option may not be sold, transferred,  pledged,
assigned,  or otherwise alienated or hypothecated,  other than by will or by the
laws of descent and  distribution.  Further,  this Option  shall be  exercisable
during the  Optionee's  lifetime  only by the  Optionee or the  Optionee's  duly
appointed legal representative.

7. Recapitalization.  If there is any change in the Company's Shares through the
declaration of stock  dividends or through  recapitalization  resulting in stock
splits or through merger,  consolidation,  exchange of Shares, or otherwise, the
Plan  Administrator  may adjust  the number and class of Shares  subject to this
Option,  as well as the Option  Price,  to prevent  dilution or  enlargement  of
rights.

8. How to Exercise  Option.  This Option may be exercised by delivery of written
notice in a prescribed form to the Company at its executive  offices,  addressed
to the attention of the Compensation  Department in Louisville,  Kentucky.  Such
notice:  (a) shall be signed by the  Optionee or his legal  representative;  (b)
shall  specify  the number of full  Shares  then  elected to be  purchased  with
respect to the Option; (c) shall covenant that all Shares acquired shall be sold
or transferred in compliance with all applicable  securities laws; and (d) shall
be  accompanied  by  payment  in full of the  Option  Price of the  Shares to be
purchased.

The Option Price upon exercise of this Option shall be payable to the Company in
full either:  (a) in cash or its equivalent (such  equivalence being at the sole
discretion of the Plan  Administrator);  or (b) by tendering previously acquired
shares  having an aggregate  Fair Market Value at the time of exercise  equal to
the total Option Price  (provided  that the Shares which are tendered  must have
been held by the Optionee for at least six months prior to their tender); or (c)
by a combination of (a) and (b). Subject to approval by the Plan  Administrator,
in lieu of actually  tendering  previously  acquired  shares,  the  Optionee may
furnish a  written  attestation  in form and  substance  acceptable  to the Plan
Administrator  attesting to the  Optionee's  ownership of the shares he would be
tendering.

The Plan  Administrator  also may allow the  Optionee to exercise  pursuant to a
"funded  exercise"  procedure,   as  permitted  under  Federal  Reserve  Board's
Regulation T, subject to applicable securities law restrictions, or by any other
means which the Plan  Administrator,  in its sole  discretion,  determines to be
consistent with the Plan's purpose and applicable law.

As  promptly  as  practicable  after the  receipt  of notice  and  payment  upon
exercise,  the Company  shall cause to be delivered to the Optionee or his legal
representative,  as the case may be, one or more  certificates for the Shares so
purchased.  The Share certificate(s) shall be issued in the Optionee's name (or,
at the  discretion of the Optionee,  jointly in the name of the Optionee and the
Optionee's spouse).

9.  Beneficiary  Designation.  The  Optionee  may,  from time to time,  name any
beneficiary or beneficiaries  (who may be named contingently or successively) to
whom any  benefit  under  this  Award is to be paid in case of his or her  death
before he or she  receives  any or all of such  benefit.  Each such  designation
shall  revoke  all  prior  designations  by  the  Optionee,  shall  be in a form
prescribed by the Company,  and will be effective only when delivered during the
Optionee's  lifetime to the Company at its executive  offices,  addressed to the
attention of the Compensation Department in Louisville, Kentucky.

10.  Continuation  of Employment.  This Award shall not confer upon the Optionee
any right to continued employment by the Company, nor shall this Award interfere
in any way with the Company's  right to terminate the  Optionee's  employment at
any time. A transfer of the Optionee's employment between the Company and any of
its subsidiaries,  or between any divisions or subsidiaries of the Company shall
not be deemed a termination of employment.

11.  Miscellaneous.

A) This Option  Award and the  Optionee's  right under it are subject to all the
terms and  conditions of the Plan, as the same may be amended from time to time,
as  well as to  such  rules  as the  Plan  Administrator  may  adopt.  The  Plan
Administrator  may impose such  restrictions on any Shares acquired  pursuant to
the  exercise  of this  Option  as it may  deem  advisable,  including,  without
limitation,  restrictions  under applicable  Federal  securities laws, under the
requirements  of any stock  exchange  or market  upon which such Shares are then
listed and/or traded, and under any blue sky or state securities laws applicable
to such  Shares.  The Plan  Administrator  in  conjunction  with  the  Company's
compliance  officer  may  designate  periods  during  which  options  may not be
exercised by employee Optionees.

The Plan  Administrator may administer,  construe,  and make all  determinations
necessary  or  appropriate  to the  administration  of the Plan and this  Option
Award, all of which shall be binding upon the Optionee.

B) Subject to the  provisions of the Plan, the Board of Directors may terminate,
amend,  or  modify  the  Plan;  provided,  however,  that no  such  termination,
amendment,  or  modification  of the Plan may in any way  adversely  affect  the
Optionee's rights under this Award, without the written consent of the Optionee.

C) The Company may deduct or  withhold,  or require the Optionee to remit to the
Company,  an amount  sufficient  to  satisfy  Federal,  state,  and local  taxes
(including the  Participant's  FICA  obligation)  required by law to be withheld
with respect to any exercise of the Optionee's rights under this Award.

Subject to the  approval of the Plan  Administrator,  the  Optionee may elect to
satisfy the withholding requirement,  in whole or in part, by having the Company
withhold Shares having an aggregate Fair Market Value, on the date the tax is to
be determined, equal to the amount required to be withheld. Such elections shall
be irrevocable,  shall be in writing, and shall be signed by the Optionee before
the day that the transaction becomes taxable.

D) The Optionee agrees to take all steps necessary to comply with all applicable
Federal and state  securities  law in  exercising  his or her rights  under this
Award.

E) This Award shall be subject to all applicable  laws,  rules, and regulations,
and to such  approvals  by any  governmental  agencies  or  national  securities
exchanges as may be required.

F) The Company's obligations under the Plan and this Award, with respect to this
Option, shall bind any successor to the Company, whether succession results from
a direct or indirect purchase,  merger,  consolidation,  or otherwise, of all or
substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company.

G) To the extent not  preempted by Federal law, this Award shall be governed by,
and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware.

H) At all times  when IRC  Section  162(m)  applies,  all  Awards to  Designated
Executive  Officers  shall  comply  with  its  requirements,   unless  the  Plan
Administrator  determines  that  compliance  is not desired or necessary for any
Award or Awards.  To that end, the Plan  Administrator may make such adjustments
it  deems   appropriate   for  a  specific  Award  or  Awards,   except  that  a
performance-based Award cannot be replaced by a  non-performance-based  Award if
performance goals are not achieved, nor can the characterization of an Executive
Officer  as a  Designated  Executive  Officer,  once  made,  change  for a given
Performance Period.

I) This Award is subject to the terms of the Plan and Administrative  Guidelines
promulgated  under it from time to time. In the event of a conflict between this
document and the Plan, the Plan document as well as any  determinations  made by
the Plan Administrator as authorized by the Plan document, shall govern.


IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  the parties have caused this Award to be executed as of the
Grant Date.


Brown-Forman Corporation



By:_______________________________
Bruce S. Cote
Vice President,
Director HR Employee Services



                                                                   Exhibit 10(i)


                   BROWN-FORMAN 2004 OMNIBUS COMPENSATION PLAN
              NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHT AWARD

      Capitalized terms used below have the definitions assigned to them in
    the Brown-Forman 2004 Omnibus Compensation Plan, effective July 22, 2004
                       (the "Plan"), or as defined herein.

                                    SUMMARY
Participant:                         [Name]
Grant Date:                          [Date]
First Exercise Date:                 [Date]
Expiration Date:                     [Date]
Number of Shares:                    [Number]
Class of Shares:                     Brown-Forman Corporation Class B Common
Grant Price:                         $[Price]

THIS AWARD,  effective as of the Grant Date set out above,  represents the grant
of  a  stock  appreciation  right  by  Brown-Forman   Corporation,   a  Delaware
corporation   (the  "Company")  to  the  Participant   named  above,  who  is  a
Non-Employee Director of the Company pursuant to the Plan.

1.  Grant  of  Stock  Appreciation  Right.  The  Company  hereby  grants  to the
Participant a Stock-settled  Stock Appreciation  Right (the "SSAR"),  subject to
the terms and conditions set out within this Award and to the terms of the Plan.

2. Value of the SSAR. The SSAR shall entitle the  Participant,  upon exercise of
the SSAR (in whole or in part),  to receive from the Company an amount  (payable
in the form of Class B Common Shares) determined by multiplying:

A) the  appreciated  value of one Class B Common  Share,  calculated as the Fair
Market Value of one Class B Common Share on the date of exercise minus the Grant
Price as shown above; by

B) the  number  of Class B  Common  Shares  with  respect  to which  the SSAR is
exercised.

3. Term.  The term of this Award is for a period of ten years from the first day
of the  fiscal  year of grant.  The SSAR will  become  exercisable  on the First
Exercise Date shown above, and it must be exercised before the close of business
on the Expiration Date shown above.

4. How to Exercise  the SSAR.  The SSAR may be  exercised by delivery of written
notice in a prescribed form to the Company at its executive  offices,  addressed
to the attention of the Compensation  Department in Louisville,  Kentucky.  Such
notice  shall state the  Participant's  intention to exercise the SSAR and shall
provide  the  number  of Class B  Common  Shares  as to which  the SSAR is to be
exercised.  Such written notice must be signed by the  Participant or his or her
legal  representative.  SSAR's may be exercised in whole or in part, but not for
fewer than 500 shares at any one time,  unless the SSAR being exercised has less
than 500 remaining shares.

As soon as practicable after the receipt of the Participant's  written notice to
exercise the SSAR (in whole or in part), the Company shall cause to be delivered
to the Participant or his or her legal  representative,  as the case may be, one
or more  certificates  for the Class B Common Shares due to the Participant upon
exercise.  The  Class B  Common  Share  certificate(s)  shall be  issued  in the
Participant's  name (or, at the  discretion of the  Participant,  jointly in the
name of the Participant and the Participant's spouse).

5.  Form  of  Payment.  The  Company  shall  satisfy  its  obligation  upon  the
Participant's  exercise  of the  SSAR  (in  whole  or in part) in Class B Common
Shares based upon the Fair Market Value or the  Company's  Class B Common Shares
on the date of exercise,  as  determined by the Plan  Administrator  in its sole
discretion.   Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  no  fractional  Share  shall  be
distributed in settlement of the SSAR and any portion of the SSAR which would be
settled in a  fractional  Share  shall be  rounded  up to a whole  Share with no
additional  payment  to be made in cash  except as  otherwise  permitted  by the
Internal  Revenue Service under an exemption from the application of IRC Section
409A.

6.  Termination  of  Service.  In the event the  Participant  does not  remain a
Non-Employee  Director of the Company during the term of the SSAR, the following
rules will apply:

A) Voluntary Retirement.  If the Board Service of the Participant  terminates by
reason of Voluntary  Retirement  from Board  Service,  the SSAR will continue in
force  until the  earlier of (a) the  Expiration  Date;  or (b) the end of seven
years following the date of Retirement.

B) Death. If the Participant  dies, the SSAR must be exercised by the earlier of
(a) the  Expiration  Date or (b) the end of five  years  following  the  date of
death.  An  exercisable  SSAR shall be exercised by the  person(s)  named as the
Participant's beneficiary(ies), or, if the Participant has not named one or more
beneficiaries,  by whoever has acquired the  Participant's  rights by will or by
the laws of descent and distribution.

C) Termination for any Other Reasons.  If the Participant's  service  terminates
for any reason other than those set out in items A through B immediately  above,
and in the  absence  of any  action by the Plan  Administrator,  the SSAR  shall
expire  immediately  as of the  time  and  date of  termination,  and may not be
exercised. However, the Plan Administrator, in its sole discretion, based on the
facts and circumstances of such termination,  may delay the expiration of all or
any portion of the SSAR to any date not later than the Expiration Date.

7. Change in Control or Potential Change in Control. In the event of a Change in
Control or Potential  Change in Control of the Company,  as defined in the Plan,
the First  Exercise Date and the  Participant's  rights with respect to the SSAR
shall be governed by the terms of Article 11 of the Plan.

8.  Rights as a  Shareholder.  The  Participant  has no rights as a  shareholder
(including,  but not  limited  to, the right to receive  dividends  or  dividend
equivalents,   or  to  vote  on  shareholder  issues)  with  respect  to  Shares
potentially available upon exercise of the SSAR.  Shareholder rights accrue only
to holders of Shares issued and delivered pursuant to exercise of the SSAR.

9.  Restrictions on Transfer.  The SSAR may not be sold,  transferred,  pledged,
assigned,  or otherwise alienated or hypothecated,  other than by will or by the
laws of descent and distribution.  Further, the SSAR shall be exercisable during
the  Participant's  lifetime only by the Participant or the  Participant's  duly
appointed legal representative.

10. Recapitalization. If there is any change in the Company's Shares through the
declaration of Share  dividends or through  recapitalization  resulting in Share
splits or through merger,  consolidation,  exchange of Shares, or otherwise, the
Plan  Administrator  may adjust  the  number and class of Shares  subject to the
SSAR, as well as the Grant Price, to prevent dilution or enlargement of rights.

11.  Beneficiary  Designation.  The Participant may, from time to time, name any
beneficiary or beneficiaries  (who may be named contingently or successively) to
whom any  benefit  under  this  Award is to be paid in case of his or her  death
before he or she  receives  any or all of such  benefit.  Each such  designation
shall  revoke  all prior  designations  by the  Participant,  shall be in a form
prescribed by the Company,  and will be effective only when delivered during the
Participant's lifetime to the Company at its executive offices, addressed to the
attention of the Compensation Department in Louisville, Kentucky.

12.  Continuation  of Service.  This Award shall not confer upon the Participant
any right to  continued  service as a director  of the  Company,  nor shall this
Award   interfere  in  any  way  with  the  Company's  right  to  terminate  the
Participant's service at any time.

13. Tax Consequences.  By accepting the SSAR, the Participant  acknowledges that
(i) he or she  understands  that upon  either the grant or the  exercise  of the
SSAR,  he or she may  recognize  adverse  tax  consequences,  and (ii) he or she
understands that the Company may deduct or withhold,  or require the Participant
to remit to the  Company,  an  amount  of Class B Common  Shares  sufficient  to
satisfy  Federal,  state,  and local taxes  (including  the  Participant's  FICA
obligation)  required by law to be withheld  with respect to any exercise of the
Participant's  rights  under this Award.  You are  encouraged  to consult with a
qualified tax advisor  concerning the SSAR. In addition,  the Participant agrees
that the SSAR shall be  administered  and settled as required for the SSAR to be
deemed not to be deferred  compensation subject to the provisions of IRC Section
409A as provided in Internal Revenue Service Notice 2005-1.

14.      Miscellaneous.

A) This Award and the Participant's rights under it are subject to all the terms
and  conditions  of the Plan,  as the same may be amended from time to time,  as
well  as  to  such  rules  as  the  Plan   Administrator  may  adopt.  The  Plan
Administrator  may impose such  restrictions on any Shares acquired  pursuant to
the  exercise  of  the  SSAR  as  it  may  deem  advisable,  including,  without
limitation,  restrictions  under applicable  Federal  securities laws, under the
requirements  of any stock  exchange  or market  upon which such Shares are then
listed and/or traded, and under any blue sky or state securities laws applicable
to such  Shares.  The Plan  Administrator  in  conjunction  with  the  Company's
compliance  officer  may  designate  periods  during  which  the SSAR may not be
exercised by Participants.

The Plan Administrator may, in its sole discretion,  administer,  construe,  and
make all  determinations  necessary or appropriate to the  administration of the
Plan and the SSAR, all of which shall be binding upon the Participant.

B) Subject to the  provisions of the Plan, the Board of Directors may terminate,
amend,  or  modify  the  Plan;  provided,  however,  that no  such  termination,
amendment,  or  modification  of the Plan may in any way  adversely  affect  the
Participant's  rights  under this  Award,  without  the  written  consent of the
Participant.

C) The  Participant  agrees  to take all  steps  necessary  to  comply  with all
applicable  Federal and state  securities  law in  exercising  his or her rights
under this Award.

D) This Award shall be subject to all applicable  laws,  rules, and regulations,
and to such  approvals  by any  governmental  agencies  or  national  securities
exchanges as may be required.

E) The Company's  obligations under the Plan and this Award, with respect to the
SSAR, shall bind any successor to the Company, whether succession results from a
direct or indirect  purchase,  merger,  consolidation,  or otherwise,  of all or
substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company.

F) To the extent not  preempted by Federal law, this Award shall be governed by,
and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware.

G) At all times  when IRC  Section  162(m)  applies,  all  Awards to  Designated
Executive  Officers  shall  comply  with  its  requirements,   unless  the  Plan
Administrator  determines  that  compliance  is not desired or necessary for any
Award or Awards.  To that end, the Plan  Administrator may make such adjustments
it  deems   appropriate   for  a  specific  Award  or  Awards,   except  that  a
performance-based Award cannot be replaced by a  non-performance-based  Award if
performance goals are not achieved, nor can the characterization of an Executive
Officer  as a  Designated  Executive  Officer,  once  made,  change  for a given
Performance Period.

H) This Award is subject to the terms of the Plan and Administrative  Guidelines
promulgated  under it from time to time. In the event of a conflict between this
document and the Plan, the Plan document as well as any  determinations  made by
the Plan Administrator as authorized by the Plan document, shall govern.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  the parties have caused this Award to be executed as of the
Grant Date.


Brown-Forman Corporation



By:_______________________
Bruce S. Cote
Vice President,
Director HR Employee Services



                                                                   Exhibit 10(j)


                   BROWN-FORMAN 2004 OMNIBUS COMPENSATION PLAN
             NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR'S NONQUALIFIED STOCK OPTION AWARD

      Capitalized terms used below have the definitions assigned to them in
    the Brown-Forman 2004 Omnibus Compensation Plan effective July 22, 2004
                       (the "Plan"), or as defined herein.

                                  SUMMARY
Optionee:                          [Name]
Grant Date:                        [Date]
First Exercise Date                [Date]
Expiration Date                    [Date]
Option Shares                      [Number]
Class of Shares                    Brown-Forman Corporation Class B Common
Option Price per Share             $[Price]

THIS AWARD,  effective as of the Grant Date set out above,  represents the grant
of  a  nonqualified  stock  option  by  Brown-Forman  Corporation,   a  Delaware
corporation  (the "Company") to the Optionee named above,  who is a Non-Employee
Director of the Company pursuant to the Plan.

1. Grant of Option.  The Company  hereby  grants to the  Optionee an option (the
"Option") to purchase,  subject to the terms and  conditions set out within this
Award and to the terms of the Plan, the number of Option Shares shown above,  of
the Class of Shares shown above, at the Option Price per Share shown above.  The
Option Price is the Fair Market Value of a Share on the Grant Date.

2. Term.  The term of this Award is for a period of ten years from the first day
of the fiscal year of grant. The Option is immediately exercisable following the
Grant Date shown above, and it must be exercised before the earlier of the close
of business on the Expiration  Date shown above or the applicable  date (if any)
set forth in section 3 below.  Options may be exercised in whole or in part, but
not for less than 500 shares at any one time,  unless fewer than 500 shares then
remain  subject to the Option and the Option is then being  exercised  as to all
such remaining shares.

3.  Termination  of  Service.  In the  event  the  Optionee  does  not  remain a
Non-Employee  Director  of the  Company  during  the  term  of the  Option,  the
following rules will apply:

A) Voluntary  Retirement.  If the Board  Service of the Optionee  terminates  by
reason of his or her Voluntary  Retirement  from board service,  the Option will
continue in force until the earlier of (a) the  Expiration  Date; or (b) the end
of seven years following the date of such termination.

B) Death.  If the Optionee  dies, the Option must be exercised by the earlier of
(a) the  Expiration  Date;  or (b) the end of five years  following  the date of
death.  The Option may be exercised  by the  person(s)  named as the  Optionee's
beneficiary(ies),  or, if the Optionee has not named one or more  beneficiaries,
by whoever has acquired the Optionee's  rights by will or by the laws of descent
and distribution.

C) Termination for any Other Reasons. If the Optionee's Board Service terminates
for any reason other than those set out in items A through B immediately  above,
and in the  absence of any action by the Plan  Administrator,  the option  shall
expire immediately as of the date of termination, and may not be exercised after
that date. However, the Plan Administrator, in its sole discretion, based on the
facts and circumstances of such termination,  may delay the expiration of all or
any portion of the option to any date not later than the Expiration Date.

4. Change in Control.  In the event of a Change in Control of the  Company,  the
Optionee's right to exercise this option shall immediately become 100% vested as
of the date that the  definition  of Change in Control has been  fulfilled,  and
shall remain exercisable until the Expiration Date.

The Plan  Administrator,  with the approval of the Board,  may modify the Option
before the  effective  date of the Change in Control,  but no  modification  may
adversely  affect the  Optionee's  rights  under this Award  without the written
consent of the Optionee.

5.  Rights  as a  Stockholder.  The  Optionee  has no  rights  as a  stockholder
(including,  but not  limited  to, the right to receive  dividends  or  dividend
equivalents,   or  to  vote  on  shareholder  issues)  with  respect  to  Shares
potentially  available  upon the exercise of  unexercised  options.  Stockholder
rights  accrue  only to holders of Shares  issued and  delivered  pursuant to an
Option exercise.

6. Restrictions on Transfer. This Option may not be sold, transferred,  pledged,
assigned,  or otherwise alienated or hypothecated,  other than by will or by the
laws of descent and  distribution.  Further,  this Option  shall be  exercisable
during the  Optionee's  lifetime  only by the  Optionee or the  Optionee's  duly
appointed legal representative.

7. Recapitalization.  If there is any change in the Company's Shares through the
declaration of stock  dividends or through  recapitalization  resulting in stock
splits or through merger,  consolidation,  exchange of Shares, or otherwise, the
Plan  Administrator  may adjust  the number and class of Shares  subject to this
Option,  as well as the Option  Price,  to prevent  dilution or  enlargement  of
rights.

8. How to Exercise  Option.  This Option may be exercised by delivery of written
notice in a prescribed form to the Company at its executive  offices,  addressed
to the attention of the Compensation  Department in Louisville,  Kentucky.  Such
notice:  (a) shall be signed by the  Optionee or his legal  representative;  (b)
shall  specify  the number of full  Shares  then  elected to be  purchased  with
respect to the Option; (c) shall covenant that all Shares acquired shall be sold
or transferred in compliance with all applicable  securities laws; and (d) shall
be  accompanied  by  payment  in full of the  Option  Price of the  Shares to be
purchased.

The Option Price upon exercise of this Option shall be payable to the Company in
full either:  (a) in cash or its equivalent (such  equivalence being at the sole
discretion of the Plan  Administrator);  or (b) by tendering previously acquired
shares  having an aggregate  Fair Market Value at the time of exercise  equal to
the total Option Price  (provided  that the Shares which are tendered  must have
been held by the Optionee for at least six months prior to their tender); or (c)
by a combination of (a) and (b). Subject to approval by the Plan  Administrator,
in lieu of actually  tendering  previously  acquired  shares,  the  Optionee may
furnish a  written  attestation  in form and  substance  acceptable  to the Plan
Administrator  attesting  to the  Optionee's  ownership  of the shares he or she
would be tendering.

The Plan  Administrator may allow the Optionee to exercise pursuant to a "funded
exercise"  procedure,  as permitted under Federal Reserve Board's  Regulation T,
subject to applicable  securities law restrictions,  or by any other means which
the Plan Administrator, in its sole discretion, determines to be consistent with
the Plan's purpose and applicable law.

As  promptly  as  practicable  after the  receipt  of notice  and  payment  upon
exercise,  the Company  shall cause to be delivered to the Optionee or his legal
representative,  as the case may be, one or more  certificates for the Shares so
purchased.  The Share certificate(s) shall be issued in the Optionee's name (or,
at the  discretion of the Optionee,  jointly in the name of the Optionee and the
Optionee's spouse).

9.  Beneficiary  Designation.  The  Optionee  may,  from time to time,  name any
beneficiary or beneficiaries  (who may be named contingently or successively) to
whom any  benefit  under  this  Award is to be paid in case of his or her  death
before he or she  receives  any or all of such  benefit.  Each such  designation
shall  revoke  all  prior  designations  by  the  Optionee,  shall  be in a form
prescribed by the Company,  and will be effective only when delivered during the
Optionee's  lifetime to the Company at its executive  offices,  addressed to the
attention of the Compensation Department in Louisville, Kentucky.

10.  Continuation of Service.  This Award shall not confer upon the Optionee any
right to continued  service as a director of the  Company,  nor shall this Award
interfere  in any way  with the  Company's  right to  terminate  the  Optionee's
service as a director at any time.

11.  Miscellaneous.

A) This Option  Award and the  Optionee's  right under it are subject to all the
terms and  conditions of the Plan, as the same may be amended from time to time,
as  well as to  such  rules  as the  Plan  Administrator  may  adopt.  The  Plan
Administrator  may impose such  restrictions on any Shares acquired  pursuant to
the  exercise  of this  Option  as it may  deem  advisable,  including,  without
limitation,  restrictions  under applicable  Federal  securities laws, under the
requirements  of any stock  exchange  or market  upon which such Shares are then
listed and/or traded, and under any blue sky or state securities laws applicable
to such Shares.

The Plan  Administrator may administer,  construe,  and make all  determinations
necessary  or  appropriate  to the  administration  of the Plan and this  Option
Award, all of which shall be binding upon the Optionee.

B) The Board of Directors may terminate,  amend,  or modify the Plan;  provided,
however, that no such termination, amendment, or modification of the Plan may in
any way adversely  affect the  Optionee's  rights under this Award,  without the
written consent of the Optionee.

C) The Company may deduct or  withhold,  or require the Optionee to remit to the
Company,  an amount  sufficient  to  satisfy  Federal,  state,  and local  taxes
(including the  Participant's  FICA  obligation)  required by law to be withheld
with respect to any exercise of the Optionee's rights under this Award.

Subject to the  approval of the Plan  Administrator,  the  Optionee may elect to
satisfy the withholding requirement,  in whole or in part, by having the Company
withhold Shares having an aggregate Fair Market Value, on the date the tax is to
be determined, equal to the amount required to be withheld. Such elections shall
be irrevocable,  shall be in writing, and shall be signed by the Optionee before
the day that the transaction becomes taxable.

D) The Optionee agrees to take all steps necessary to comply with all applicable
Federal and state  securities  law in  exercising  his or her rights  under this
Award.

E) This Award shall be subject to all applicable  laws,  rules, and regulations,
and to such  approvals  by any  governmental  agencies  or  national  securities
exchanges as may be required.

F) The Company's obligations under the Plan and this Award, with respect to this
Option, shall bind any successor to the Company, whether succession results from
a direct or indirect purchase,  merger,  consolidation,  or otherwise, of all or
substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company.

G) To the extent not  preempted by Federal law, this Award shall be governed by,
and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware.

(H) This Award is subject to the terms of the Plan and Administrative Guidelines
promulgated  under it from time to time. In the event of a conflict between this
document and the Plan, the Plan document as well as any  determinations  made by
the Plan Administrator as authorized by the Plan document, shall govern.

IN WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the Company has caused this Award to be executed as of the
Grant Date.

Brown-Forman Corporation




By:_______________________________
Bruce S. Cote
Vice President
Director HR Employee Services



                                                                   Exhibit 10(k)

          Summary of Director and Named Executive Officer Compensation

DIRECTOR COMPENSATION

Directors  who  are  employees  of  Brown-Forman   do  not  receive   additional
compensation  for serving as directors.  The  following  sets forth a summary of
compensation for non-employee directors.

1. Annual Retainer:

   (a) $27,500 in cash, payable in six installments over the course of the board
       service year.  Directors may elect in advance of their board service year
       to receive stock options in lieu of cash payments for all or part of
       their retainer.

   (b) $25,000 in the Black-Scholes value of stock options on Class B Common
       Stock.

2. Board Meeting Fee: $4,000 per meeting attended in person. $2,000 for
   telephonic participation.

3. Committee Meeting Fee: $3,500 per meeting attended in person. $2,000 for
   telephonic participation.

4. Additional Committee Chairman Meeting Fee: $3,000 for personal attendance.
   $1,000 for telephonic participation.

5. Audit Committee Chairman Review: $2,500 per quarterly review with outside
   auditors conducted independently of Audit Committee Meeting.

6. International Travel Supplement: $3,000 per meeting, for directors who travel
   directly from (and immediately back to) an overseas location for a meeting.

7. Expense reimbursement: Directors are reimbursed for their reasonable and
   necessary expenses incurred in connection with attending Board and Committee
   meetings. The product promotion allowance for outside directors is $2,000 per
   year. Directors are also covered under the company's Travel Accident
   Insurance and D & O Liability insurance programs.

In May, 2005, Mr. Patrick  Bousquet-Chavanne  joined the Board for the months of
May,  June and July,  which is the final  one-fourth  of the Board Service Year.
Accordingly,  he was granted  one-fourth  of the cash and stock option  retainer
shown  above,  and will  receive  meeting  fees as shown above for all  meetings
attended from May 2005 forward.


NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICER COMPENSATION

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  current  annualized  base  salaries  of
Brown-Forman's  named  executive  officers.  All  of  Brown-Forman's   executive
officers are at-will employees. Base salary increases are determined annually by
the  Compensation  Committee of the Board of Directors  and become  effective on
August 1 of each year:

   Owsley Brown II            $990,000
   Paul C. Varga              $645,833
   Phoebe A. Wood             $522,003
   James L. Bareuther         $475,000
   Michael B. Crutcher        $455,000

[Note:  The amounts shown above are current  monthly  salary as of June 30, 2005
converted to an annual  equivalent.  These amounts  differ  slightly from actual
salary received during fiscal 2005 as shown in the 2005 proxy statement.]

Cash Bonuses are awarded each year based on short-term  (one-year) and long-term
(three-year)  performance  against  goals  set in the  first  90  days  of  each
performance period. Goals may be based on operating income, Business Value Added
(after-tax  operating income less a capital charge), or other metrics allowed by
the 2004 Omnibus Compensation Plan approved by shareholders in July 2004 (or its
predecessor  plan  for  older  long-term   performance   periods).   The  actual
performance  against  those goals  results in an  adjustment to the target award
opportunity  for  short-term  and  long-term  cash bonus that was set within the
first 90 days of the performance period for each Executive Officer.

On May 26, 2005, after considering management's presentation and recommendations
based on the  performance of the  corporation  and its two business  segments as
well as all other matters and information deemed  appropriate,  the Compensation
Committee of the Board of Directors  approved the following  bonus  payments for
the short-term and long-term  performance periods that ended concurrent with the
close of the fiscal year, April 30, 2005:





                                                                     Exhibit 13



                              FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
          (Expressed in millions, except per share amounts and ratios)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended April 30,                              2004        2005     % Change
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Net Sales                                        $2,577      $2,729        6%
Gross Profit                                     $1,298      $1,400        8%
Operating Income                                 $  400      $  418        4%
Net Income                                       $  254      $  308       21%
Earnings Per Share
 - Basic                                         $ 2.09      $ 2.53       21%
 - Diluted                                       $ 2.08      $ 2.52       21%
Cash Dividends Per Common Share                  $ 0.80      $ 0.92       14%
Return on Average Invested Capital                 15.5%       17.4%
Return on Average Common Stockholders' Equity      27.1%       25.7%
Gross Margin                                       50.4%       51.3%
Operating Margin                                   15.5%       15.3%



                         QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION
               (Expressed in millions, except per share amounts)

       Amounts have been restated to reflect the retroactive adoption of
               FASB Statement No. 123(R), "Share-Based Payment."





               Compound Annual Growth in Total Shareholder Return
            (As of April 30, 2005 and assuming dividend reinvestment)

                                       Brown-Forman        S&P 500
                                        (Class B)           Index
                                         -------           -------
One year ended April 30, 2005              +21%              +6%
Five years ended April 30, 2005            +18%              (3%)
Ten years ended April 30, 2005             +15%             +10%
Fifteen years ended April 30, 2005         +15%             +11%



                                    CONTENTS

                                                              Page
Selected Financial Data                                        26
Management's Discussion and Analysis                           27
Consolidated Statement of Income                               39
Consolidated Balance Sheet                                     40
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows                           41
Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity                 42
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                     43
Reports of Management                                          54
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm        55
Important Information On Forward-Looking Statements            58



                             SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
          (Expressed in millions, except per share amounts and ratios)
                              Year Ended April 30,


Notes:
1.  Includes the consolidated results of Sonoma-Cutrer Vineyards, Finlandia
    Vodka Worldwide, and Tuoni e Canepa since their acquisitions in April 1999,
    December 2002, and February 2003, respectively.
2.  Weighted average shares, earnings per share, and cash dividends declared
    per common share have been adjusted for a 2-for-1 common stock split in
    January 2004.
3.  We define Return on Average Invested Capital as the sum of net income
    (excluding extraordinary items) and after-tax interest expense, divided by
    average invested capital.  Invested capital is the sum of all interest-
    bearing debt and preferred and common equity.
4.  We define Return on Average Common Stockholders' Equity as income applicable
    to common stock divided by average common stockholders' equity.
5.  We define Total Debt to Total Capital as total debt divided by the sum of
    total debt and stockholders' equity.
6.  We define Dividend Payout Ratio as cash dividends divided by net income.
7.  Prior year amounts, beginning in 1997 (the year we started granting stock
    options) have been restated to reflect the retroactive adoption of FASB
    Statement No. 123(R), "Share-Based Payment," during fiscal 2005.



                      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

In  the  discussion  below,  we  review  Brown-Forman's  consolidated  financial
condition and results of  operations  for the fiscal years ended April 30, 2003,
2004, and 2005. We also make statements  relating to our  anticipated  financial
performance  and other  forward-looking  statements and discuss factors that may
affect  the  company's  future  financial  condition  and  performance.  We have
prepared a non-exclusive list of risk factors that could cause actual results to
differ  materially from our anticipated  results.  Please read this Management's
Discussion and Analysis section in conjunction  with our consolidated  financial
statements  for the year  ended  April 30,  2005,  the  related  notes,  and the
important information regarding forward-looking statements on page 58.

In December 2004, the Financial  Accounting Standards Board issued Statement No.
123(R),  "Share-Based  Payment"  ("SFAS  123(R)"),  which requires  companies to
expense  the  fair  value of  stock  options  and  other  forms  of  stock-based
compensation. We adopted SFAS 123(R) during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 by
retroactively  adjusting our financial  statements  for all periods since fiscal
1997, when we first began granting stock options.  Prior year amounts  presented
in this Management's  Discussion and Analysis section have also been restated to
reflect the adoption of SFAS 123(R).

EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW

Brown-Forman  Corporation is a diversified producer and marketer of fine quality
consumer products. Our company consists of two business segments:  Beverages and
Consumer Durables. In fiscal 2005, the Beverages segment generated approximately
98% of the company's total operating income and Consumer Durables  generated the
remaining 2%,  excluding the effect of the latter  segment's $37 million  charge
for impaired goodwill.

Beverages Segment

Our Beverages segment includes various  categories of beverage alcohol products,
such as Tennessee, Canadian, and Kentucky whiskies; Kentucky bourbon; California
sparkling wine; tequila;  table wine;  liqueurs;  vodka; rum; and ready-to-drink
products,  most of which are marketed and sold on a global basis.  The segment's
largest and most important market is the United States,  where approximately 60%
of its net  sales are  generated.  While  sales in the U.S.  grew a modest 3% in
fiscal 2005 and remain a significant  percentage of overall  beverage  revenues,
they have  declined from  approximately  64% a year ago,  reflecting  impressive
international growth in fiscal 2005. Europe, the segment's second most important
geography,  posted  net sales  growth of 24% in fiscal  2005 and now  represents
approximately  29% of the  segment's  total net  sales.  The rest of the  world,
representing  11% of the  segment's net sales,  registered  20% growth in fiscal
2005.

Beverages Fiscal 2005 Net Sales By Geography:
   United States       60%
   Europe              29%
   Rest of the World   11%

Consumer demand for premium and  super-premium  brands in the U.S.  continued to
expand  this past  year,  and our  brands'  performance  reflected  that  trend.
Favorable  demographic  trends and growing  consumer  interest in  spirits-based
cocktails  are key factors  helping to create the  encouraging  environment  for
premium  spirits  brands  in the  U.S.  The  large  international  brewers  have
acknowledged  a loss in market share over the last few years to wine and spirits
brands,   particularly  in  the  all-important   on-premise  segment.  While  we
anticipate  that  this  positive  environment  will  continue  in the  U.S.,  we
recognize that consumer preferences can change very quickly, and are prepared to
respond if these favorable industry dynamics do not continue.




International  expansion of our beverage  brands has provided much of the growth
for the company over the past decade.  The most important export markets for our
beverages are the United Kingdom,  Germany,  Spain,  Italy,  Australia,  France,
South Africa,  Canada,  Japan, and China. As we grow our business outside of the
United  States,  our reported  financial  results are  increasingly  affected by
changing  foreign  exchange rates -- in terms of both revenue from goods sold in
local  currencies  and the  costs  of  goods  and  services  purchased  in local
currencies.  On a net basis,  the company  sells more in local  currency than it
purchases,  thus  exposing  financial  results  to  the  negative  impact  of  a
strengthening  U.S. dollar. To mitigate this, we regularly  purchase  short-term
foreign  currency  forward and option  contracts.  However,  over the long term,
reported  profits  from this  segment  could be  adversely  affected if the U.S.
dollar strengthens against other currencies.

The  segment's  most  important  category  consists  of premium  global  brands,
including Jack Daniel's, Southern Comfort, and Finlandia. This category grew net
sales  13% in  fiscal  2005  and  represented  approximately  two-thirds  of the
segment's total sales.

Beverages Fiscal 2005 Net Sales by Category:
   Premium Global             68%
   Mid-Priced Regional        27%
   Super-Premium Developing    5%

Jack Daniel's  Tennessee  Whiskey  remains the most  important  brand within the
Beverages segment and our premium global category, and is one of the largest and
most  profitable  spirits  brands in the world.  Global  volume  growth for Jack
Daniel's  accelerated in fiscal 2005 to 9%, the strongest growth rate registered
for the brand in over two decades.  In the U.S., where approximately 55% of Jack
Daniel's  cases are sold,  consumer  demand  continued to expand in fiscal 2005.
Increased levels of advertising and promotional support, the healthy environment
for premium  spirits  domestically,  and the brand's  overall  positioning  have
combined to provide  impressive  growth in volumes and  profits.  A  significant
percentage  of our  company's  total  earnings are derived from the brand.  Jack
Daniel's sustainability and growth is vital to the company's overall performance
and it will remain our major focus for the  foreseeable  future.  A  significant
decline in volume or selling price for the brand would have a material  negative
impact on our overall earnings.

Southern  Comfort,  the second most  important  brand in our Beverages  segment,
delivered  strong  volume and profit  growth in fiscal  2005.  The  brand's  two
largest markets,  the U.S. and U.K., both performed well, and trends improved in
fiscal 2005 in many of the brand's other international markets.

During the year,  we  completed  the  acquisition  of the  remaining  20% equity
interest of Finlandia  Vodka  Worldwide,  Ltd. In contrast to Jack  Daniel's and
Southern  Comfort,  the vast majority of Finlandia cases are sold outside of the
U.S.,  where  volumes  grew at a high  single-digit  rate in fiscal  2005.  This
brand's performance is expected to be an important  contributor to the long-term
growth of our Beverages segment.

The segment's  super-premium  developing category,  representing 5% of Beverages
net sales,  consists of a portfolio of  high-margin  brands that we believe have
significant  growth  opportunities   around  the  world.   Consumer  demand  for
super-premium  beverage  brands has  outpaced  that for premium  and  mid-priced
brands in recent years.  Sonoma-Cutrer  Chardonnay,  Tuaca liqueur, and Woodford
Reserve  bourbon  all posted  solid  double-digit  volume  growth at  attractive
margins in fiscal 2005.  We believe the brands in this  category  will emerge as
meaningful contributors to the segment's profits in the years ahead.

Most of the brands comprising the segment's mid-priced regional category,  which
represents  approximately 27% of Beverages net sales, continue to struggle.  Our
large off-premise  driven category leaders,  such as Canadian Mist, Early Times,
Bolla,  and  Fetzer,  are  particularly  susceptible  to  the  heightened  price
competition and discounting that has occurred in their respective categories. In
addition, we have not significantly  benefited from recent lower domestic grapes
costs because of our long-term grape purchase  commitments.  It will be at least
two more harvests before we begin to realize  meaningful savings from lower-cost
grapes for our  largest  wine  brand,  Fetzer.  We  continue  to test  different
combinations  of price support,  advertising,  and  promotional  spending behind
these mid-priced regional brands and are encouraged by these early results.  But
we recognize  that  delivering  growth from this category of brands will require
patience and creativity.

The global  distribution  landscape  for our  beverage  brands has  continued to
evolve.  Our company employs a variety of distribution  models around the world,
and our  preference  for a  particular  arrangement  or  partnership  depends on
several  factors,  including  the  company's  appraisal of a market's  long-term
competitive  dynamics and the stage of development of our portfolio in a market.
In  several  parts  of  the  world,  the  company  owns  and  operates  its  own
distribution  network,  while in many others,  including  the U.S., we use third
parties to distribute our portfolio of beverage  brands.  During fiscal 2005, we
entered  into a  number  of new  distribution  arrangements  around  the  world,
including Russia,  Canada, Brazil, U.S., and many markets in Continental Europe,
to  improve  brand  building  by  choosing  the  most   effective   distribution
arrangement in each market.



Consumer Durables

Our Consumer  Durables  segment  includes  tabletop,  collectibles,  and luggage
products  marketed under the Lenox,  Dansk,  Gorham,  Kirk Stieff,  and Hartmann
brand names.  Sales in our fine china  business rely on three primary  channels:
department  and  specialty  stores;  company-owned  retail  outlet  stores;  and
direct-to-the-consumer  through  catalogs,  direct mail,  and the Internet.  The
financial  results  from  this  segment  have been  disappointing  over the past
several years,  reflecting  weakness  throughout the U.S.  tabletop and giftware
industry.  Consumer  demand for the  products  sold by this  segment has changed
significantly in recent years as a result of more casual lifestyles and industry
consolidation,  which has reduced the number of  traditional  department  stores
selling our product.  The sluggish  economy has hurt sales, as purchases of fine
china are  discretionary  and can be deferred in uncertain  economic  times.  In
addition,   much  of  the  segment's  growth  in  the  1990's  was  led  by  the
direct-to-consumer  division,  Lenox Collections.  Unfortunately,  this channel,
which has the highest profit margins in the segment,  has weakened  considerably
over the past two years. Despite the difficult  environment for this segment, we
continued to expand into new wholesale  channels of  distribution,  particularly
home-specialty  stores, and we benefited from new product  introductions such as
the "kate spade" tabletop line during fiscal 2005. Our management team continues
to implement  specific  actions aimed at increasing  cash flow by reducing fixed
costs,  increasing  production  efficiencies,  and closing  unprofitable  retail
locations. Because of these initiatives, in fiscal 2005, the segment contributed
an incremental $50 million to the company's net cash flow.

However, as a result of difficulties  experienced within this segment,  combined
with our  desire  to focus  our  resources  on  opportunities  for our  beverage
business,  in  February  2005 we  announced  that we  were  exploring  strategic
alternatives for Lenox, Inc., including a possible sale. (Lenox, Inc. represents
the major part of the Consumer  Durables  segment.)  We expect to conclude  this
study this summer.

Outlook

We are  optimistic  about the  earnings  outlook  for  fiscal  2006,  due to the
favorable  environment for premium  spirits,  the many  opportunities  we see to
leverage our fine portfolio of brands, and the talents of some of the best brand
builders in the business.  We currently  expect fiscal 2006 earnings to be $2.70
to $2.80 per share.  Excluding the net impact of the Glenmorangie gain (see Note
17 on page 53) and asset  impairment  charges  from  fiscal  2005 (net  positive
effect of $0.06 per share), earnings per share are projected to grow 10-14%.

CONSOLIDATED SUMMARY OF OPERATING PERFORMANCE

Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004

Consolidated net sales reached record levels in fiscal 2005, growing 6%, or $152
million, to over $2.7 billion. This sales growth reflects acceleration in demand
for our premium  spirits  brands  around the world and the  benefits of a weaker
U.S. dollar.  Beverages sales increased 10%, driven by favorable currency trends
and volume growth and price  increases for our premium  global  spirits  brands.
Sales  of our  Consumer  Durables  segment  declined  9%,  driven  by  the  weak
environment  in the U.S.  tabletop and  giftware  industry,  as consumer  demand
dropped  across all three channels of  distribution  -- wholesale,  retail,  and
direct-to-consumer.

Consolidated  international  sales of $729  million (net of excise taxes of $178
million)  rose 16% in fiscal  2005,  reflecting  the  strengthening  of  foreign
currencies against the U.S. dollar and higher volumes of Jack Daniel's, Southern
Comfort,  and  Finlandia.  Sales in the United States,  representing  68% of our
revenues (excluding excise taxes) were flat. Growth for our large premium global
spirits  brands and  smaller,  super-premium  developing  brands,  both of which
benefited from the favorable  demographic trends and an increase in market share
for spirits,  was offset by declines in sales for Consumer  Durables and several
of our mid-priced regional brands.

Consolidated gross profit is a key performance  measure for us. The same factors
described  above that drove  revenue  growth also drove the 8% increase in gross
profit.  Gross margin  improved for the second  consecutive  year, from 50.4% to
51.3%. This improvement was driven by our higher margin Beverages segment, which
comprised 83% of the  company's  overall gross profit in fiscal 2005 compared to
79% in fiscal 2004. Beverages gross margin also improved for the year, driven by
benefits from favorable  foreign  exchange,  price  increases,  and a continuing
favorable mix shift toward higher-margin brands.

      Fiscal          Gross
       Year          Margin
      ------         ------
       1996           47.9%
       1997           48.3%
       1998           49.9%
       1999           50.5%
       2000           51.4%
       2001           52.5%
       2002           50.9%
       2003           49.7%
       2004           50.4%
       2005           51.3%

Consolidated operating income for fiscal 2005 improved 4%, or $18 million. A $63
million  increase in operating  profits from Beverages was driven by solid gains
for Jack Daniel's, Southern Comfort, and Finlandia;  benefits from a weaker U.S.
dollar;  and the absence of legal settlement  expenses  incurred in fiscal 2004.
These gains were partially  offset by a $45 million decline in operating  income
from  our  Consumer  Durables  segment,  $37  million  of  which  is a  goodwill
impairment charge associated with the Lenox retail business.

                                Operating Income

Dollars in Millions
                              2003          2004          2005
                              ----          ----          ----
Beverages                     $342          $383          $446
Consumer Durables               30            17           (28)
                              ----          ----          ----
Total                         $372          $400          $418
                              ====          ====          ====
Total change                    +7%           +8%           +4%




Diluted  earnings  per share  reached a record  $2.52,  up 21% over fiscal 2005,
representing the largest percentage increase in earnings per share in ten years.
This strong earnings performance was fueled by healthy underlying growth for our
premium spirits brands,  benefits from a weaker U.S. dollar, gain on the sale of
the  company's  investment  in  Glenmorangie  plc,  and  the  absence  of  legal
settlement  expenses  incurred in the  previous  year.  Tempering  the growth in
earnings  for the year was a  significant  decline in profits  from the Consumer
Durables  segment and the  negative  impact on reported  earnings of a strategic
reduction in trade inventories for several of the company's  beverage brands. To
reflect more  accurately  the underlying  operations of the company,  management
believes the  following  adjustments  to reported  earnings per share growth are
important, indicating the base business grew 10% in fiscal 2005:

                                                Growth
                                               vs. 2004
Reported Diluted EPS Growth                       21%
   Glenmorangie gain                             (18%)
   Asset impairments                              15%
   Foreign exchange benefits                      (9%)
   Trade inventory adjustment                      4%
   Absence of fiscal 2004 settlement expenses     (3%)
                                                 -----
Adjusted Diluted EPS Growth                       10%
                                                 =====

BASIC AND DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE. In Note 15 to our financial statements, we
describe our 2004 Omnibus Compensation Plan and how we issue stock options under
it. In Note 1, under  "Stock  Options,"  we describe how the plan is designed to
avoid the dilution of earnings per share.

Fiscal 2004 Compared to Fiscal 2003

Consolidated  net sales grew 8%, or $201 million.  Beverage sales increased 11%,
driven by favorable  foreign  currency  trends,  solid  volume  growth and price
increases  for our premium  spirits  brands,  the addition of new markets to our
distribution  agreement  for Finlandia and its related  agency  brands,  and the
company's  new  distribution  arrangement  in the United  Kingdom.  Sales of our
Consumer Durables segment improved 1%.

Consolidated  gross  profit  increased  $118  million,  or 10%,  reflecting  the
expansion of consumer  demand  around the world for Jack  Daniel's  coupled with
significant  margin  improvement  on both Jack  Daniel's  and  Southern  Comfort
(boosted by higher prices, the new U.K. distribution  arrangement,  and positive
foreign exchange trends). Partially mitigating our gross profit growth in fiscal
2004 were lower volumes for our mid-priced  regional  brands and soft retail and
direct-to-consumer trends for the Consumer Durables segment.

Consolidated operating income for fiscal 2004 improved 8%, or $28 million. A $41
million  increase in profits from the Beverages  segment was driven primarily by
solid gains for both Jack  Daniel's  and Southern  Comfort and  benefits  from a
weaker U.S. dollar,  partially offset by the settlement of a lawsuit with Diageo
Great Britain Limited  regarding the distribution of Jack Daniel's in the United
Kingdom.  This increase in operating  income from Beverages was partially offset
by a $13 million decline in operating income for Consumer  Durables,  reflecting
the challenging environment for tabletop and collectible products.

Diluted  earnings  per share  increased  16% to $2.08 per share in fiscal  2004.
Healthy underlying growth for our premium spirits brands, benefits from a weaker
U.S. dollar, and the effects of the March 2003 share repurchase ($0.14 per share
benefit) boosted earnings for the year.  Tempering this growth was a significant
decline in profits from the Consumer Durables segment, higher pension costs, and
legal settlement expenses.

OTHER KEY PERFORMANCE MEASURES

Our  primary  goal is to  increase  the value of our  shareholders'  investment.
Long-term  growth in the market value of our stock is a good  indication  of our
success in delivering attractive returns to shareholders.

TOTAL SHAREHOLDER  RETURN. A $100 investment in our Class B stock five years ago
would have grown to $225 by the end of fiscal 2005, assuming reinvestment of all
dividends and ignoring personal taxes and transaction  costs. This represents an
annualized return of 18% over the five-year period,  compared to a decline of 3%
for the S&P 500. A more recent  investment in Brown-Forman also outperformed the
market, with our Class B stock yielding a return of 21% over the one-year period
ended April 30, 2005, compared to 6% for the S&P.

RETURN ON AVERAGE  INVESTED  CAPITAL.  Our return on  average  invested  capital
improved nearly 2 percentage  points in fiscal 2005 to 17.4%,  reflecting higher
earnings from  operations,  foreign currency  benefits,  the gain on the sale of
Glenmorangie  shares, and prudent management of invested capital. We believe our
return on invested capital will continue to improve,  given our positive outlook
for earnings growth and careful management of our investment base.

Return on average  common  stockholders'  equity  remained at healthy  levels in
fiscal 2005.  Average common  stockholders  equity returned to a more normalized
level  following a decrease in fiscal 2004,  reflecting  the impact of the March
2003 share repurchase.

                                                  2003     2004     2005
                                                  ----     ----     ----
Return on Average Invested Capital                15.4%    15.5%    17.4%
Return on Average Common Stockholders' Equity     18.7%    27.1%    25.7%



BEVERAGES SEGMENT

Summary of Operating Performance
(Dollars in millions)             2003        2004        2005
                                 ------      ------      ------
Net Sales                        $1,795      $1,992      $2,195
   % Change                          11%         11%         10%
Gross Profit                     $  900      $1,024      $1,156
   % Change                           6%         14%         13%
Advertising Expenses             $  230      $  265      $  293
   % Change                           8%         15%         11%
SG&A Expenses                    $  335      $  373      $  419
   % Change                           9%         11%         13%
Other Expense (Income)           $   (7)     $    3      $   (2)
Operating Income                 $  342      $  383      $  446
   % Change                           4%         12%         16%
Gross Margin                       50.1%       51.4%       52.7%
Operating Margin                   19.0%       19.3%       20.3%


Our  Beverages  segment  includes  strong  brands  representing  a wide range of
varietal  wines,  Champagnes,  and  spirits  such as  whiskey,  bourbon,  vodka,
tequila,  rum, and liqueur.  This segment's largest market is the United States,
which  generally  prohibits  wine and spirits  manufacturers  from selling their
products  directly to  consumers.  Instead,  we sell our  products to  wholesale
distributors,  who then  sell the  products  to  retailers,  who in turn sell to
consumers.  We use a similar tiered  distribution  model in most markets outside
the United States.

Distributors  and  retailers  normally  keep  some  of our  products  on hand as
inventory,  making  it  possible  for  retailers  to sell  more (or less) of our
products to the  consumer  than  distributors  buy from us during any given time
period.  Because we  generally  record  revenues  when we ship our  products  to
distributors, our sales do not necessarily reflect actual consumer demand during
any particular  period.  Ultimately,  of course,  consumer demand is critical in
determining our financial results. Thus, it is important to consider that demand
in assessing our performance.  Depletions,  which are defined as nine-liter case
movements  from  distributors  to retailers,  are generally used in the wine and
spirits  industry as the most  accurate  approximation  of consumer  demand on a
national and international basis.

Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004

Net sales approximated $2.2 billion in fiscal 2005,  increasing $203 million, or
10%. The major drivers of this growth were:

                                             Growth
                                            vs. 2004
Foreign exchange benefits                       3%
Initial shipments of low carbohydrate wines     1%
Trade inventory adjustment                     (1%)
Underlying revenue growth:                      7%
   Volume                    5%
   Price/Mix                 2%
                                              -----
Total                                          10%
                                              =====

We believe that  disclosing the 7% underlying  revenue growth for fiscal 2005 is
important because it more accurately reflects the segment's base performance.

Fiscal 2005 was another  strong year for Jack  Daniel's  Tennessee  Whiskey,  as
volume  increased  for  the  thirteenth   consecutive   year.   Consumer  demand
accelerated  globally  as the brand grew  680,000  cases,  or 9%, to 7.9 million
cases,  the highest  absolute  annual case volume  increase in the brand's  long
history.  The brand's volume was particularly strong in the U.S., growing in the
upper-single digits, while registering double-digit gains outside the U.S., with
significant  contributions from the United Kingdom,  Continental  Europe,  South
Africa,  and China.  Results for Southern  Comfort were also  excellent,  as the
brand grew 5% for the year,  or over 100,000  cases,  the fastest rate of growth
for the brand in 15 years.  Notable strength for Southern Comfort was registered
in the U.S.,  U.K.,  South  Africa,  and  Australia.  Worldwide  depletions  for
Finlandia  rose 7% in fiscal  2005,  led by 30%  volume  growth  in  Poland  and
continued solid performance in the very competitive U.S. market, driven by a new
package rollout and the introduction of a new flavor,  Mango. All three of these
global premium  spirits brands achieved record sales and profit levels in fiscal
2005.



With the exception of Korbel  Champagnes,  depletions  for  mid-priced  regional
brands in our beverage portfolio (Canadian Mist, Early Times, Fetzer, and Bolla)
posted  declines for the year,  though the rates of decline  slowed  compared to
those of the prior year.  Almost all of the segment's  super-premium  developing
brands,  including  Woodford Reserve,  Sonoma-Cutrer,  and Tuaca,  posted strong
double-digit volume growth.  Ready-to-drink (RTD) volumes continued their robust
performance, expanding 12% for the year, fueled primarily by excellent growth in
Australia.

The following table highlights  worldwide depletion results for our major brands
during fiscal 2005:

                        Nine-Liter       % Change
                       Cases (000s)      vs. 2004
                       ------------     -----------

 Jack Daniel's            7,885              9%
 Total RTDs(1)            2,845             12%
 Southern Comfort         2,285              5%
 Fetzer                   2,210            (13%)
 Canadian Mist            2,115             (2%)
 Finlandia                1,845              7%
 Bolla                    1,290            (10%)
 Korbel Champagnes        1,165              2%

 (1) RTD (ready-to-drink) volumes include Jack Daniel's, Southern Comfort, and
     Finlandia RTD products but exclude Jack Daniel's Original Hard Cola, which
     was marketed and sold by SABMiller during fiscal 2004 and which we
     discontinued during fiscal 2005.


Gross profit  expanded 13%, or $132 million.  This growth was fueled by the same
factors that boosted revenue growth,  though  underlying gross profit growth was
much  stronger,  reflecting  volume and margin  improvement  for Jack  Daniel's,
Southern  Comfort,  and  Finlandia.  The following  chart  identifies  the major
factors driving gross profit growth:

                                             Growth
                                            vs. 2004
Foreign exchange benefits                       4%
Initial shipments of low carbohydrate wines     1%
Trade inventory adjustment                     (2%)
Underlying gross profit growth:                 10%
   Volume                    6%
   Price/Mix                 4%
                                              -----
Total                                          13%
                                              =====

We believe that  disclosing  the 10%  underlying  gross profit growth for fiscal
2005 is  important  because  it more  accurately  reflects  the  segment's  base
performance. The gross margin for our Beverages business increased from 51.4% in
fiscal 2004 to 52.7% in fiscal 2005. The major factors driving this  improvement
were the weaker U.S. dollar, price increases on selected brands, and a favorable
shift in mix toward higher-margin brands.

Advertising  expenses  were up 11% as we  continued  our long  track  record  of
reinvesting  substantial dollars to build our brands. Although healthy increases
behind  three of our  major  premium  global  brands,  Jack  Daniel's,  Southern
Comfort,  and  Finlandia,  accounted  for most of the  increase  in  advertising
investments   in  fiscal  2005,  we  also  increased   investments   behind  our
super-premium developing brands, including Woodford Reserve, Tuaca, Amarula, Don
Eduardo, and Sonoma-Cutrer. In addition, advertising investments made in support
of the  introduction of the segment's low carbohydrate  wines,  One.6 Chardonnay
and One.9 Merlot,  and the negative impact of the weaker U.S. dollar on spending
outside of the U.S.  contributed  to the  increase in  advertising  expense.  We
estimate that, on a constant  exchange basis,  our advertising  costs were up 8%
for the year,  following a robust 10% increase (on a constant exchange basis) in
fiscal 2004.

Selling,  general,  and administrative  expenses were up 13%,  influenced by the
following factors:
                                              Growth
                                             vs. 2004
Expected growth                                  4%
Incremental compensation expense                 3%
Higher pension and postretirement costs          1%
Foreign exchange                                 1%
All other                                        4%
                                               -----
Total                                           13%
                                               =====

The "All other" caption above includes  items such as expenses  associated  with
compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley  legislation and enhanced NYSE listing standards,
the development of the company's global distribution  strategy,  and third-party
advisory fees related to the exploration of strategic alternatives for the Lenox
business.

Other  income  improved  $5  million  in fiscal  2005 due to the  absence of $10
million in legal  settlement  expenses  incurred  in the prior  year.  Partially
offsetting this item was a $3 million asset impairment  charge associated with a
minority interest in a small Mexican tequila company.

Operating  income  reached a record  $446  million in fiscal  2005,  growing $63
million, or 16%, over fiscal 2004. This is the strongest operating income growth
rate the  Beverages  segment has  experienced  since the early  1980s.  Positive
factors  driving  operating  income  growth  were strong  performances  from our
premium spirits brands (fueled in part by the accompanying  significant increase
in our  brand-building  investments),  the benefits of a weaker U.S. dollar, and
the absence of litigation  settlement  expenses  incurred last year. These gains
were only partially  offset by lower profits from our  mid-priced  regional wine
and spirits brands and higher selling, general, and administrative expenses.



Fiscal 2004 Compared to Fiscal 2003

Net sales  improved  11%,  or $197  million,  fueled by record  sales and profit
levels for both Jack Daniel's and Southern  Comfort,  reflecting higher volumes,
positive foreign exchange trends, and price increases.  Jack Daniel's registered
growth for the twelfth consecutive year, as the brand surpassed actual volume of
seven million cases,  growing 6% for the year. Results for Southern Comfort were
also strong,  as growth in the U.S.,  U.K.,  and South Africa was only partially
offset by weaker performance in Continental  Europe.  Volumes for Finlandia were
also up,  reflecting  the  addition  of new  markets in late fiscal 2003 and the
introduction of a new package in the U.S. in the second half of the fiscal year.
Partially  offsetting  these  gains were lower  volumes for our wine and spirits
brands (Canadian Mist, Early Times, Fetzer, and Bolla) in the highly competitive
mid-priced category.

Gross  profit grew 14%, or $124  million,  surpassing a milestone of $1 billion.
This growth was sourced  from the same factors that  generated  revenue  growth.
Gross margin for our Beverages  business  increased from 50.1% in fiscal 2003 to
51.4% in fiscal 2004. The major factors driving this improvement were the weaker
U.S. dollar, price increases on selected major wine and spirits brands, a higher
mix of Jack Daniel's volume, and a higher mix of volumes in the high-margin U.K.
market.

Advertising expenses increased 15% as we significantly  increased brand building
activities  behind our  premium  spirits  brands and  several of our  developing
brands,  including Woodford Reserve, Tuaca, and Appleton. The weaker U.S. dollar
also drove up our costs for advertising  outside of the U.S.  compared to fiscal
2003.

Selling,  general,  and administrative  expenses were up 11%,  influenced by the
consolidation  of Finlandia  Vodka Worldwide and Tuoni e Canepa in our financial
statements,  higher pension and postretirement  expenses,  incremental sales and
marketing personnel in the U.K. to support a new distribution  arrangement,  and
various reorganization costs. Excluding these factors, SG&A grew a modest 4%.

Other  expense  was up $10  million in fiscal  2004 due to the  settlement  of a
lawsuit with Diageo Great Britain  Limited  involving the  distribution  of Jack
Daniel's in the United Kingdom.

Operating  income  grew  12%,  or  $41  million,  primarily  reflecting  healthy
underlying growth for premium spirits brands (fueled in part by the double-digit
increase in our  brand-building  investments)  and the benefits of a weaker U.S.
dollar.  These positive  factors were tempered by expenses  associated  with the
Diageo litigation  settlement,  restructuring  charges,  and incremental pension
expenses.

BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT FOR WINE AND SPIRITS

GOVERNMENT  POLICIES,  PUBLIC  ATTITUDES:  Our  ability  to market  and sell our
beverage  alcohol  products  depends  heavily  on  society's  attitudes  towards
drinking and government policies that flow from those attitudes. This is true in
the United States,  our largest  market,  and around the world.

Illegal  alcohol  consumption  by underage  drinkers  and abusive  drinking by a
minority  of  drinkers  give rise to public  issues  of great  significance.  We
strongly oppose  underage and abusive  drinking,  and we contribute  significant
resources to programs aimed at understanding  and curbing underage  drinking and
other forms of alcohol abuse,  especially  drunk driving.  As a society,  we are
more likely to curb  alcohol  abuse  through  better  education  about  beverage
alcohol and  setting a good  example of moderate  drinking  than by  restricting
alcohol  advertising  and  sales or  imposing  punitive  taxation.  We and other
beverage  alcohol  producers take a prominent  role in  encouraging  responsible
consumption of our products and in warning  against  alcohol  abuse.  We observe
voluntary  industry  marketing and  advertising  guidelines.  We support  social
awareness  organizations  that fight alcohol abuse and educate  consumers  about
appropriate  beverage  alcohol  consumption,  often in  partnership  with public
health officials.

Anti-alcohol  groups in the U.S. and Europe increasingly  advocate  governmental
actions that would be unfavorable for our business. Legal or regulatory measures
against  beverage  alcohol  (including its advertising and promotion) could hurt
our  sales.   Especially  in  the  U.S.,  distilled  spirits  are  at  a  marked
disadvantage to beer and wine in taxation,  network television advertising,  and
number and type of sales outlets.  Achieving greater cultural  acceptance of our
products  and parity with beer and wine in access to  consumers  are major goals
that we share with other distillers.

LEVELING THE PLAYING FIELD: Among the objectives we seek are:
 - greater access to television advertising for distilled spirits;
 - fairer product distribution rules, including Sunday sales, and laws that
   permit product tasting, so that our customers can try our beverage products
   and purchase them more conveniently;
 - freedom to advertise our products outdoors (some municipal ordinances
   discriminate against billboard advertising of beverage alcohol); and
 - improved access to foreign markets, many of which have discriminatory tax or
   other non-tariff barriers to U.S. spirits imports.

TAXES: Like all goods, beverage alcohol sales are sensitive to higher tax rates.
No  legislation to increase U.S.  federal  excise taxes on distilled  spirits is
currently  pending,  but future tax increases are always possible.  From time to
time, state legislatures  increase beverage alcohol taxes. The cumulative effect
of such tax increases over time hurts sales.  Because combined federal and state
taxes  currently  account for more than 50% of the price of a typical  bottle of
bourbon,  we work for reasonable excise tax reductions.  Over the past year, the
industry has defeated  tax  increase  proposals in a number of states,  but with
several states  continuing to face budget problems,  we do not expect the threat
of state tax  increases  to abate  next  fiscal  year.  Increased  tax rates and
advertising  restrictions  also affect beverage alcohol markets outside the U.S.
To date,  those changes have not been significant to our overall  business,  but
that could change.

THE LITIGATION  CLIMATE:  A law firm has filed nine state class action  lawsuits
against spirits, beer, and wine manufacturers,  including Brown-Forman, alleging
that our  marketing  causes  illegal  consumption  of alcohol by those under the
legal  drinking  age. We dispute these  allegations  and will defend these cases
vigorously.  However,  adverse  developments in these or similar  lawsuits could
hurt our beverage business, and the overall industry.

DISTRIBUTION  STRATEGY:  Brown-Forman uses a number of different business models
to market and  distribute  our products  overseas.  However,  we largely rely on
other spirits  producers to distribute and market our products  outside the U.S.
Although  consolidation among spirits producers could hinder the distribution of
our spirits and wine products in the future,  to date this has rarely  happened.
Other spirits  companies  typically seek to distribute  our premium  spirits and
wine brands, and we expect that demand to continue.

EXCHANGE RATES: The strength of foreign  currencies  relative to the U.S. dollar
affects revenues and costs in our international  beverage  business.  This year,
our corporate earnings benefited from a weaker U.S. dollar,  particularly in the
U.K. and  Australia.  We have entered into foreign  currency  forward and option
contracts to limit the downside risk to foreign exchange  fluctuations in fiscal
2006. If the U.S. dollar appreciates  significantly,  the effect on our business
would be negative for any unhedged portion of our business.



CONSUMER DURABLES SEGMENT

Summary of Operating Performance
(Dollars in millions)             2003        2004       2005
                                 ------      ------     ------
Net Sales                        $ 581       $ 585      $ 534
   % Change                         (4%)         1%        (9%)
Gross Profit                     $ 280       $ 274      $ 244
   % Change                         (1%)        (2%)      (11%)
Advertising Expenses             $  91       $  89      $  78
   % Change                          8%         (3%)      (12%)
SG&A Expenses                    $ 156       $ 161      $ 155
   % Change                         (9%)         4%        (4%)
Goodwill impairment                 --          --      $  37
Other Expense (Income)           $   3       $   7      $   2
Operating Income (Loss)          $  30       $  17      $ (28)
   % Change                         81%        (45%)      n/m
Gross Margin                      48.2%       46.9%      45.6%
Operating Margin                   5.2%        2.9%      (5.2%)


Our Consumer Durables segment includes fine china, crystal,  silver, and luggage
products  marketed under the Lenox,  Dansk,  Gorham,  Kirk Stieff,  and Hartmann
brand names.  Nearly 60% of our  Consumer  Durables  sales are made  directly to
consumers  through  owned retail  stores,  direct mail,  and the  Internet.  The
remaining sales for this segment represent sales to department stores, specialty
stores,  and  other  distributors.   This  segment's  financial  performance  is
generally  more  vulnerable  to changes in economic  conditions in the U.S. than
that of our Beverages segment.

Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004

Net  sales  declined  $51  million,  or 9%,  in  fiscal  2005,  reflecting  weak
underlying trends in the U.S. for tabletop and giftware products. Reported sales
benefited  from the full-year  impact of the  successful  introduction  of "kate
spade"  co-branded  patterns  and  incremental  revenue  for  Hartmann  luggage.
However,   these  gains  were   insufficient  to  offset  the  overall  softness
experienced across all three channels of distribution -- wholesale,  retail, and
direct-to-consumer.

Gross  profit  fell $30  million  in fiscal  2005 due to the same  factors  that
contributed  to the  decline in sales.  Gross  margin  also  dropped to 45.6% in
fiscal  2005 from 46.9% in fiscal  2004,  reflecting  the  decline in the mix of
high-margin  direct-to-consumer  channel, a significant  increase in liquidation
activity  associated  with  the  closing  of all 41  Dansk  retail  stores,  and
aggressive  discounting  designed to reduce inventory levels at our Lenox retail
outlets.  In addition,  a shift in product mix and a negative  foreign  exchange
impact  contributed  to the 1.3  percentage  point  reduction  in the  segment's
margin.

Advertising  expenses were down for the second  consecutive year, as the segment
sought to reduce  spending in the domestic  direct mail,  catalog,  and Internet
businesses in response to lower consumer response rates.  Selling,  general, and
administrative expenses declined 4%, reflecting tight control of spending, lower
fixed costs, and benefits associated with restructuring actions implemented over
the past two fiscal years.




Goodwill  impairment  charge of $37 million reflects the revised outlook for the
Lenox retail outlet business in light of changing consumer buying patterns.  The
charge  represents  the  excess  of the  book  value  of the  goodwill  over the
estimated fair value calculated by discounting projected future cash flows based
on the revised long-term outlook for the business.

Other  expenses  decreased $5 million in fiscal  2005,  reflecting a gain on the
sale of a closed  distribution  facility and the absence of expenses incurred in
fiscal 2004 related to a new  distribution  center and a write-down  of impaired
real estate associated with previous plant closures.

Operating loss of $28 million was unfavorable $45 million  compared to the prior
year.  Excluding the effect of the $37 million  impairment charge related to the
retail business, the segment's operating profit in fiscal 2005 of $9 million was
down sharply compared to fiscal 2004 operating income of $17 million.  Lower net
sales across all three Lenox channels of distribution were only partially offset
by  reductions in  advertising  spending and  aggressive  management of selling,
general,  and administrative  expenses.  While Lenox profits declined,  Hartmann
contributed $3 million of the company's operating income growth for the year.

Fiscal 2004 Compared to Fiscal 2003

Net sales  increased $4 million,  or 1%, in fiscal 2004 as the segment  expanded
into new wholesale channels of distribution,  including  home-specialty  stores.
Sales  also  benefited  from the  successful  introduction  of the "kate  spade"
tabletop line. These increases were partially offset by revenue declines in both
the  segment's  retail outlet stores (we closed 11 outlet stores in fiscal 2004)
and direct-to-consumer division.

Gross  profit  declined  $6  million,  or 2%, in fiscal  2004,  despite a modest
increase in sales,  reflecting  a negative  shift in channel  and  product  mix,
aggressive discounting designed to lower inventory levels at our retail outlets,
the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange on product sourced from overseas, and
$1 million of higher postretirement-related expenses. As a result, the segment's
overall gross margin declined from 48.2% to 46.9%.

Advertising expenses were down 3% in fiscal 2004, due primarily to a decision to
decrease consumer direct mail and catalog advertising in response to the decline
in consumer  response  rates.  Selling,  general,  and  administrative  expenses
increased  4%,  driven by $3 million  of  severance  expenses  and $2 million of
incremental  postretirement expenses.  Excluding these items, selling,  general,
and administrative expenses were essentially flat compared to fiscal 2003. Other
expenses  increased  $4 million in fiscal  2004,  reflecting  a  write-down  for
impaired real estate  associated with previous plant closures and start-up costs
related to a new distribution center.

Operating  income fell $13 million,  or 45%,  largely  reflecting lower consumer
response  rates in  direct  mail  and  several  charges  incurred  in the  year,
including  severance,  a write-down  for impaired  real estate  associated  with
previous  plant  closures,  and start-up  costs related to the new  distribution
center.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Our ability to generate  cash from  operations  consistently  is one of our most
significant  financial  strengths.  Our  strong  cash  flows  enable  us to  pay
dividends,  pursue brand-building programs, and make strategic acquisitions that
we believe will enhance  shareholder value.  Investment grade ratings of A2 from
Moody's and A from Standard & Poor's provide us with financial  flexibility when
accessing  global  credit  markets.  Cash  flows from  operations  are more than
adequate to meet our  expected  operating  and capital  requirements.  In fiscal
2005, cash from operations enabled us to fund our capital investments, eliminate
commercial  paper  borrowings,   and  pay  $111  million  in  dividends  to  our
shareholders.

Cash Flow Summary
(Dollars in millions)                      2003        2004        2005
                                          ------      ------      ------
Operating activities                      $ 243       $ 304       $ 396
Investing activities:
   Sale of investment in affiliate           --          --          93
   Additions to property, plant,
    and equipment                          (119)        (56)        (49)
   Acquisition of businesses                (99)         --         (64)
   Other                                     (8)         (7)          4
                                          ------      ------      ------
                                           (226)        (63)        (16)
Financing activities:
   Dividends                                (99)        (97)       (111)
   Net issuance (repayment) of debt         596        (162)        (50)
   Acquisition of treasury stock           (561)         --          (3)
   Other                                      3          14          11
                                          ------      ------      ------
                                            (61)       (245)       (153)
                                          ------      ------      ------
Change in cash                            $ (44)      $  (4)      $ 227
                                          ======      ======      ======

Cash provided by operations  increased $92 million,  from $304 million in fiscal
2004 to $396 million in fiscal 2005,  reflecting  higher earnings and reductions
in working  capital.  The decrease in working  capital  reflects  higher current
liabilities due in part to an increase in accrued incentive compensation related
to  our  record  performance  in  fiscal  2005  combined  with  an  increase  in
advertising investments in our Beverages segment.

Cash used for investments dropped  significantly in fiscal 2005, to $16 million,
a decrease of $47 million  compared to fiscal 2004.  The $93 million in proceeds
received  on the sale of our  shares in  Glenmorangie  plc was offset by capital
investments  and the $64 million  acquisition  of the final 20% equity  stake in
Finlandia.

In comparing fiscal 2004 with fiscal 2003, cash provided by operations increased
$61 million in fiscal 2004,  reflecting  higher  earnings and a reduction in the
single largest item on our balance sheet -- inventory.



Cash used for  investments  returned  to a more  normal  level in  fiscal  2004,
decreasing $163 million,  reflecting lower levels of capital  investment and the
2003  acquisitions  of a 35% equity stake in Finlandia and the final interest in
Tuaca.

Investments in property,  plant, and equipment were $119 million in fiscal 2003,
$56 million in fiscal  2004,  and $49 million in fiscal 2005.  Following  record
spending  levels in fiscal 2003,  which  included the purchase of $39 million in
California  vineyard  properties that were  previously  leased via a third-party
financing  arrangement,  spending  returned to more modest levels in fiscal 2004
and fiscal 2005. Expenditures over the three-year period included investments to
improve efficiencies of our production and distribution  facilities for both our
Beverages and Consumer Durables businesses.

                              Capital Expenditures
Dollars in Millions
                              2003          2004          2005
                              ----          ----          ----
Beverages                     $ 91          $ 39          $ 44
Consumer Durables               28            17             5
                              ----          ----          ----
Total                         $119          $ 56          $ 49
                              ====          ====          ====

We expect  capital  expenditures  for fiscal 2006 to be in the  $60-$70  million
range,  moderately higher than our spending over the past two fiscal years. This
increase  reflects   investments  to  expand  capacity  of  our  production  and
distribution  facilities to meet accelerating consumer demand for Jack Daniel's.
In addition,  we will continue to prioritize and fund  investments  that improve
the  efficiency  of our  production  operations  and  enhance the quality of our
brands. We expect to fund fiscal 2006 capital expenditures from cash provided by
operations.

In March 2003, we  repurchased  7.9 million  shares of our common stock for $561
million,  including  transaction costs,  through a "Dutch auction" tender offer.
(That amount does not include $11 million for 155,000  shares that were tendered
but not  delivered to us. We are  pursuing our legal rights in this  matter.) We
financed the  repurchase  by issuing $600 million in debt, of which $250 million
is due in 2006  and  $350  million  is due in  2008.  We  expect  to meet  those
obligations through cash from operations.

We have access to short-term  capital markets through the issuance of commercial
paper,  backed by a bank credit  agreement  for $400  million,  which expires in
fiscal 2010. The credit  agreement  provides us with an immediate and continuing
source of liquidity.  At April 30, 2005, we had no outstanding  borrowings under
this agreement.

We maintain an SEC shelf registration that gives us prompt access to longer-term
financing.  At April 30, 2005, we had $220 million available on our $250 million
shelf registration.

LONG-TERM OBLIGATIONS

We have  long-term  obligations  related to  contracts,  leases,  and  borrowing
arrangements  that we enter into in the normal  course of business  (see Notes 4
and 6 to the  accompanying  consolidated  financial  statements).  The following
table  summarizes the amounts of those  obligations as of April 30, 2005 and the
years in which those obligations must be paid:


Long-Term Obligations                                      2007-     After
(Dollars in millions)                    Total     2006     2010      2010
                                         -----     ----     ----      ----
Long-term debt                           $ 633     $280      $350     $  3
Interest on long-term debt                  36       15        20        1
Grape purchase obligations                 174       33       103       38
Operating leases                            56       22        25        9
Postretirement benefit obligations(1)      n/a      n/a       n/a      n/a
                                         -----     ----      ----     ----
Total                                    $ 899     $350      $498     $ 51
                                         =====     ====      ====     ====

 (1) As of April 30, 2005, we have unfunded pension and other postretirement
     benefit obligations of $202 million. Because the specific periods in which
     those obligations will be funded are not determinable, no amounts related
     to those obligations are reflected in the above table. Historically, we
     have generally funded these obligations with the minimum annual
     contribution required by ERISA, but we may elect to contribute more than
     the minimum amount in future years.

We expect to meet these obligations with internally generated funds.

MARKET RISKS

We have foreign currency  forward and option  contracts,  commodity  futures and
option contracts,  and debt obligations that are exposed to risk from changes in
foreign  currency  exchange  rates,   commodity  prices,   and  interest  rates,
respectively.  The  sensitivity of these  instruments to market  fluctuations is
discussed  below.  See  Note  4 to our  consolidated  financial  statements  for
information regarding our grape purchase obligations,  which are also exposed to
commodity  price  risk,  and  "Critical  Accounting  Policies"  (page  37) for a
discussion  of the  exposure of our pension  and other  postretirement  plans to
risks related to interest rates.

Inflationary,  deflationary,  and recessionary conditions affecting these market
risks also affect the demand for and  pricing of our  products.  See  "Important
Information  Regarding   Forward-Looking   Statements"  (page  58)  for  further
discussion details.

FOREIGN  EXCHANGE.  As a result of continued growth in international  sales, our
annual foreign  currency  revenues now exceed our foreign  currency  expenses by
approximately $300 million. To the extent that this foreign currency exposure is
not hedged,  our results of  operations  and financial  position are  positively
affected when the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign  currencies and negatively
affected when the dollar strengthens. However, we routinely use foreign currency
forward and option  contracts to hedge our foreign  exchange risk.  Provided the
contracts  remain  effective  in hedging the foreign  exchange  risk,  we do not
recognize any unrealized  gains or losses on the contracts in earnings until the
underlying  hedged  transactions are recognized in earnings.  At April 30, 2005,
our foreign currency hedges had a total notional value of $212 million and a net
unrealized loss of $3 million.  Assuming the contracts remain effective  hedges,
we estimate that if the value of the U.S.  dollar  averaged 10% higher in fiscal
2006 than the fiscal  2005  effective  rates for the  currencies  in which we do
business,  our fiscal  2006  operating  income  would  decrease  by $5  million.
Conversely,  a 10%  average  decline in the value of the dollar  would  increase
operating income by $26 million.



COMMODITY  PRICES.  We are  subject  to  commodity  price  volatility  caused by
weather,  supply  conditions,  geopolitical  and economic  variables,  and other
unpredictable  external factors.  We use futures contracts and options to manage
the volatility of pricing for certain commodities,  primarily corn. At April 30,
2005, we had outstanding  hedge positions on  approximately 4 million bushels of
corn with a negligible  net  unrealized  loss. We estimate that a 10% decline in
commodity  prices  would  result  in a  negligible  incremental  loss  on  these
contracts.

INTEREST RATES.  Essentially all of our debt has a fixed interest rate. However,
our short-term  investments and commercial paper  obligations are exposed to the
risk of  changes  in  interest  rates.  At  April  30,  2005  balance,  only our
short-term  investments  had  exposure to market  interest  rates,  as we had no
commercial  paper  outstanding.  Assuming a one  percentage  point  increase  in
interest rates, our net interest expense would decrease by $3 million.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

In Note 14 to our  financial  statements,  we  describe  fully our  exposure  to
environmental claims and our responsibility for our environmental  cleanup costs
in the U.S.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Our financial  statements  reflect  certain  estimates  involved in applying the
following   critical   accounting   policies  that  entail   uncertainties   and
subjectivity.  Using  different  estimates  could have a material  effect on our
operating results, financial condition, and changes in financial condition.

BRANDS AND GOODWILL.  We have obtained most of our brands  through  acquisitions
from other  companies.  (See Note 2 to the accompanying  consolidated  financial
statements for recent  acquisitions.)  Upon  acquisition,  the purchase price is
first allocated to identifiable  assets and  liabilities,  including  intangible
brand names,  based on estimated fair value,  with any remaining  purchase price
recorded as  goodwill.  Goodwill and brand names with  indefinite  lives are not
amortized.  As of April 30,  2005,  we  consider  all of our brand names to have
indefinite lives.

We assess our brand  names and  goodwill  for  impairment  at least  annually to
ensure that future cash flows continue to exceed the related book value. A brand
name is impaired if its book value exceeds its fair value. Goodwill is evaluated
for  impairment if the book value of its reporting  unit exceeds its fair value.
Fair value is determined using discounted future cash flows, with  consideration
of market  values for  similar  assets when  available.  If the fair value of an
evaluated  asset is less than its book value,  the asset is written  down to its
estimated fair value.

Considerable  management judgment is necessary to assess impairment and estimate
fair value. The assumptions used in our evaluations,  such as forecasted  growth
rates and cost of capital,  are  consistent  with our internal  projections  and
operating plans.



PROPERTY, PLANT, AND EQUIPMENT. We depreciate our property, plant, and equipment
on a straight-line  basis using our estimates of useful life, which are 20 to 40
years for buildings and  improvements,  3 to 10 years for machinery,  equipment,
furniture, and fixtures, and 3 to 7 years for capitalized software.

We assess our property,  plant,  and equipment and other  long-lived  assets for
impairment  whenever  events  or  changes  in  circumstances  indicate  that the
carrying value of the asset or asset group may not be recoverable. Fair value is
determined  using  discounted  future cash flows,  with  consideration of market
values for similar  assets  when  available.  If the fair value of an  evaluated
asset is less than its book value, we write it down to its estimated fair value.

Considerable  management judgment is necessary to assess impairment and estimate
fair  value.  Assumptions  used in these  evaluations  are  consistent  with our
internal projections and operating plans.

PENSION AND OTHER  POSTRETIREMENT  BENEFITS.  We sponsor various defined benefit
pension plans as well as postretirement  plans providing retiree health care and
retiree life insurance benefits.  Benefits are based on such factors as years of
service and compensation  level during  employment.  The benefits expected to be
paid are expensed over the employees' expected service. This requires us to make
certain  assumptions to determine the expected benefit,  such as interest rates,
return on plan  assets,  the rate of salary  increases,  expected  service,  and
health care cost trend rates.

The assets,  obligations,  and  assumptions  used to measure pension and retiree
medical  expenses  are  determined  as of  January  31  of  the  preceding  year
("measurement  date").  Because  obligations are measured on a discounted basis,
the discount rate is a significant assumption. It is based on interest rates for
high-quality,  long-term  corporate debt at each measurement  date. The expected
return on pension  plan  assets is based on our  historical  experience  and our
expectations for long-term rates of return.  The other  assumptions also reflect
our  historical  experience  and  management's  best judgment  regarding  future
expectations.  We review our  assumptions on each annual  measurement  date. For
fiscal 2005,  we have reduced the discount  rate from 6.0% to 5.8%.  Pension and
postretirement  benefit expense for fiscal 2006 is estimated to be approximately
$27 million, compared to $15 million for fiscal 2005.

INCOME  TAXES.  Our annual tax rate is based on our income and the statutory tax
rates in the  various  jurisdictions  in which we operate.  The  increase in the
effective rate to 35.3% for fiscal 2005 primarily reflects the  nondeductibility
of goodwill impairment charges recorded during the year. Excluding the impact of
impairment charges, the effective tax rate declined to 32.4%, reflecting a shift
in profits to lower tax jurisdictions.

Significant  judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions.  We establish
reserves when we believe that certain  positions are likely to be challenged and
that we may not succeed,  despite our belief that our tax return  positions  are
fully  supportable.  We adjust  these  reserves in light of  changing  facts and
circumstances,  such as the progress of a tax audit. We believe current reserves
are appropriate for all known contingencies; however, a favorable or unfavorable
change in this estimate may occur in the near future.

Several  years  can  elapse  before  a  particular  matter  for  which  we  have
established  a reserve is resolved.  While it is often  difficult to predict the
final  outcome or the timing of  resolution  of any  particular  tax matter,  we
believe that our reserves reflect the likely outcome of known tax contingencies.
Our effective tax rate includes the impact of reserve  provisions and changes to
reserves that we consider appropriate, as well as related interest.  Unfavorable
settlement  of any  particular  issue could  require use of our cash.  Favorable
resolution  would be  recognized as a reduction to our effective tax rate in the
year of resolution.

On October 22, 2004,  the American Jobs Creation Act ("the Act") was signed into
law.  The Act  contains  provisions  that  might  affect  Brown-Forman's  future
effective  tax  rate,  including  a  special  one-time  85%  dividends  received
deduction for certain repatriated foreign earnings.  The company could make this
one-time election with respect to funds repatriated during either fiscal 2005 or
2006.  The  deduction is subject to a number of  limitations  and  requirements,
including adoption of a specific domestic  reinvestment plan for the repatriated
funds.  We  did  not  repatriate  any  dividends  during  fiscal  2005.  We  are
investigating whether to do so in fiscal 2006 but do not expect to complete this
evaluation until late in fiscal 2006.

The Act also creates a deduction for income from qualified  domestic  production
activities  that will be phased in from 2005  through  2010,  effective  for our
fiscal years 2006 through 2011. In return,  the Act also provides for a two-year
phase-out  of  the  existing   extraterritorial   income   exclusion  ("the  ETI
exclusion")  for  foreign  sales  that  was  viewed  to  be  inconsistent   with
international  trade  protocols by the European  Union.  The new  deduction  for
domestic   production   activities  is  subject  to  certain   limitations   and
interpretations,  so we are not yet in a position to determine  with  reasonable
certainty  the  potential  impact on the  effective  tax rate of  future  years.
However,  we  anticipate  the  combined  net effect of the  phase-out of the ETI
exclusion  and  the  phase-in  of the  new  deduction  for  domestic  production
activities  to result in an  immaterial  increase in our  effective tax rate for
fiscal year 2006.

CONTINGENCIES.  We operate in a  litigious  environment,  and we get sued in the
normal  course of  business.  Sometimes  plaintiffs  seek  substantial  damages.
Significant  judgment is required in  predicting  the outcome of these suits and
claims, many of which take years to adjudicate.  We accrue estimated costs for a
contingency  when we believe that a loss is probable,  and adjust the accrual as
appropriate to reflect changes in facts and circumstances.

A law firm has sued  Brown-Forman and many other  manufacturers and marketers of
spirits,  wines, and beer in a series of nine very similar class action lawsuits
seeking damages and injunctive relief from alleged marketing of beverage alcohol
to underage consumers.  The suits allege that the defendants engage in deceptive
and negligent marketing  practices  targeting underage  consumers.  They seek to
recover  on behalf of parents  those  funds  that  their  children  spent on the
illegal  purchase of alcohol as well as  disgorgement  of all  profits  from the
alleged illegal sales. Brown-Forman is vigorously defending these cases, four of
which are  pending on motions to  dismiss.  It is not  possible  at this time to
predict  the  outcome  of these  claims  but an  unfavorable  result in these or
similar  class  action  lawsuits  could  have a material  adverse  impact on our
business.



                                  Brown-Forman
                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
               (Expressed in millions, except per share amounts)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended April 30,                            2003         2004         2005
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net sales                                      $2,376       $2,577       $2,729
Excise taxes                                      318          364          417
Cost of sales                                     878          915          912
                                               --------------------------------

   Gross profit                                 1,180        1,298        1,400


Advertising expenses                              321          354          371
Selling, general, and administrative expenses     491          534          574
Goodwill impairment                                --           --           37
Other expense (income), net                        (4)          10           --
                                               --------------------------------
   Operating income                               372          400          418


Gain on sale of investment in affiliate            --           --           72
Interest income                                     3            2            7
Interest expense                                    8           21           21
                                               --------------------------------
   Income before income taxes                     367          381          476


Income taxes                                      125          127          168
                                               --------------------------------


   Net income                                  $  242       $  254       $  308
                                               ================================


Earnings per share
 - Basic                                       $ 1.79       $ 2.09       $ 2.53
 - Diluted                                     $ 1.79       $ 2.08       $ 2.52


The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.




                                  Brown-Forman
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
          (Expressed in millions, except share and per share amounts)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
April 30,                                                    2004          2005
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Assets
- ------
Cash and cash equivalents                                   $  68         $ 295

Accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful
   accounts of $11 in 2004 and $12 in 2005                    348           344

Inventories:
   Barreled whiskey                                           218           249
   Finished goods                                             185           192
   Work in process                                            111            89
   Raw materials and supplies                                  43            44
                                                           ---------------------
      Total inventories                                       557           574

Current portion of deferred income taxes                       67            71
Other current assets                                           43            33
                                                           ---------------------
Total Current Assets                                        1,083         1,317

Property, plant, and equipment, net                           515           501
Prepaid pension cost                                          118           130
Investment in affiliates                                       45            15
Trademarks and brand names                                    247           334
Goodwill                                                      315           282
Other assets                                                   53            45
                                                           ---------------------
Total Assets                                               $2,376        $2,624
                                                           =====================

Liabilities
- -----------
Accounts payable and accrued expenses                       $ 271        $  311
Accrued taxes on income                                        48            48
Commercial paper                                               50            --
Current portion of long-term debt                              --           279
                                                           ---------------------
Total Current Liabilities                                     369           638

Long-term debt, less unamortized
 discount of $3 in 2004 and $1 in 2005                        630           352
Deferred income taxes                                         112           132
Accrued pension and other postretirement benefits             137           156
Other liabilities                                              33            36
                                                           ---------------------
Total Liabilities                                           1,281         1,314
                                                           ---------------------
Commitments and contingencies

Stockholders' Equity
- --------------------
Common Stock:
  Class A, voting, $0.15 par value;
    authorized shares, 57,000,000;
    issued shares, 56,841,000                                   9             9
  Class B, nonvoting, $0.15 par value;
    authorized shares, 100,000,000;
    issued shares, 69,188,000                                  10            10

Additional paid-in capital                                     28            34

Retained earnings                                           1,218         1,415

Treasury stock, at cost
 (4,441,000 and 4,141,000 common shares
  in 2004 and 2005, respectively)                            (156)         (147)

Accumulated other comprehensive loss:
  Cumulative translation adjustment                            16            27
  Pension liability adjustment                                (32)          (38)
  Unrealized gain on cash flow hedge contracts                  2            --
                                                           ---------------------
    Total accumulated other comprehensive loss                (14)          (11)
                                                           ---------------------
Total Stockholders' Equity                                  1,095         1,310
                                                           ---------------------
Total Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity                 $2,376        $2,624
                                                           =====================

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.





                                  Brown-Forman
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
      (Expressed in millions; amounts in brackets are reductions of cash)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended April 30,                                   2003      2004      2005
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash flows from operating activities:
   Net income                                         $ 242     $ 254     $ 308
   Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash
    provided by (used for) operations:
      Gain on sale of investment in affiliate            --        --       (72)
      Goodwill impairment                                --        --        37
      Depreciation                                       55        56        58
      Stock-based compensation expense                    6         6         7
      Deferred income taxes                             (17)       (2)       (5)
      Other                                               1         4         4
      Change in assets and liabilities, excluding
       the effects of businesses acquired or sold:
         Accounts receivable                            (30)      (23)        4
         Inventories                                      2        25       (17)
         Other current assets                            (4)      (13)       10
         Accounts payable and accrued expenses          (18)      (25)       42
         Accrued taxes on income                         12         4        --
         Noncurrent assets and liabilities               (6)       18        20
                                                       -------------------------
      Cash provided by operating activities             243       304       396
                                                       -------------------------

Cash flows from investing activities:
   Proceeds from sale of investment in affiliate,
    net of disposal costs                                --        --        93
   Additions to property, plant, and equipment         (119)      (56)      (49)
   Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired      (99)       --       (64)
   Computer software expenditures                        (8)       (5)       (5)
   Trademark and patent expenditures                     (1)       (2)       (1)
   Disposals of property, plant, and equipment            1        --        10
                                                       -------------------------
      Cash (used for) investing activities             (226)      (63)      (16)
                                                       -------------------------

Cash flows from financing activities:
   Net change in commercial paper                        --      (117)      (50)
   Proceeds from long-term debt                         596        --        --
   Debt issuance costs                                   (4)       --        --
   Reduction of long-term debt                           --       (45)       --
   Proceeds from exercise of stock options                7        12         9
   Excess tax benefits from stock options                --         2         2
   Dividends paid                                       (99)      (97)     (111)
   Acquisition of treasury stock                       (561)       --        (3)
                                                       -------------------------
      Cash (used for) financing activities              (61)     (245)     (153)
                                                       -------------------------
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents    (44)       (4)      227

Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year            116        72        68
                                                       -------------------------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year                 $ 72      $ 68      $295
                                                       =========================

Supplemental disclosure of cash paid for:
   Interest                                            $  5      $ 21      $ 21
   Income taxes                                        $130      $129      $174


The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.




                                  Brown-Forman
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
           (Dollars expressed in millions, except per share amounts)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended April 30,                                   2003      2004      2005
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Class A Common Stock:
   Balance at beginning of year                         $ 4       $ 4       $ 9
   Stock split (2-for-1 in 2004)                         --         5        --
                                                     ---------------------------
   Balance at end of year                                 4         9         9
                                                     ---------------------------
Class B Common Stock:
   Balance at beginning of year                           6         6        10
   Retirement of treasury stock                          --        (1)       --
   Stock split (2-for-1 in 2004)                         --         5        --
                                                     ---------------------------
   Balance at end of year                                 6        10        10
                                                     ---------------------------
Additional Paid-in Capital:
   Balance at beginning of year                          18        23        28
   Stock-based compensation expense                       6         6         7
   Adjustment for stock option exercises                 (1)       (3)       (3)
   Excess tax benefits from stock options                --         2         2
                                                     ---------------------------
   Balance at end of year                                23        28        34
                                                     ---------------------------
Retained Earnings:
   Balance at beginning of year                       1,349     1,492     1,218
   Retirement of treasury stock                          --      (420)       --
   Stock split (2-for-1 in 2004)                         --       (10)       --
   Loss on issuance of treasury stock                    (1)       (4)       (3)
   Adjustment for stock option exercises                  1         3         3
   Net income                                           242       254       308
   Cash dividends ($0.73, $0.80, and $0.92 per
    share in 2003, 2004, and 2005, respectively)        (99)      (97)     (111)
                                                     ---------------------------
   Balance at end of year                             1,492     1,218     1,415
                                                     ---------------------------
Treasury Stock, at cost:
   Balance at beginning of year                         (40)     (593)     (156)
   Acquisition of treasury stock                       (561)       --        (3)
   Treasury stock issued under compensation plans         8        16        12
   Retirement of treasury stock (567,000 Class A
    and 5,414,000 Class B shares in 2004)                --       421        --
                                                     ---------------------------
   Balance at end of year                              (593)     (156)     (147)
                                                     ---------------------------
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss):
   Balance at beginning of year                         (19)      (83)      (14)
   Net other comprehensive income (loss)                (64)       69         3
                                                     ---------------------------
   Balance at end of year                               (83)      (14)      (11)
                                                     ---------------------------
Total Stockholders' Equity                             $849    $1,095    $1,310
                                                     ===========================
Comprehensive Income:
   Net income                                          $242      $254      $308
   Other comprehensive income (loss):
   Foreign currency translation adjustment               13        18        11
   Pension liability adjustment, net of
    tax of $52, $31, and $4 in 2003
    2004, and 2005, respectively                        (76)       47        (6)
   Amounts related to cash flow hedges:
      Reclassification to earnings,
       net of tax of $4, $3, and $2 in 2003,
       2004, and 2005, respectively                       6         5         3
      Net loss on hedging instruments,
       net of tax of $4, $1, and $3 in 2003,
       2004, and 2005, respectively                      (7)       (1)       (5)
                                                     ---------------------------
         Net other comprehensive income (loss)          (64)       69         3
                                                     ---------------------------
   Total Comprehensive Income                          $178      $323      $311
                                                     ===========================

Class A Common Shares Outstanding (in thousands):
   Balance at beginning of year                      28,891     28,420   56,841
   Acquisition of treasury stock                       (471)        --      (59)
   Stock split (2-for-1 in 2004)                         --     28,421       --
                                                     ---------------------------
   Balance at end of year                            28,420     56,841   56,782
                                                     ---------------------------
Class B Common Shares Outstanding (in thousands):
   Balance at beginning of year                      39,457     32,147   64,747
   Acquisition of treasury stock                     (7,436)        --       --
   Stock split (2-for-1 in 2004)                         --     32,147       --
   Treasury stock issued under compensation plans       126        453      359
                                                     ---------------------------
   Balance at end of year                            32,147     64,747   65,106
                                                     ---------------------------
Total Common Shares Outstanding (in thousands)       60,567    121,588  121,888
                                                     ===========================

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.



                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Dollars expressed in millions, except per share and per option amounts)


1.  ACCOUNTING POLICIES

References  to "FASB"  are to the  Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board,  the
private-sector  organization that establishes financial accounting and reporting
standards, including Statements of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS").

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION.  Our consolidated  financial statements include the
accounts of all wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries.  We use the equity
method to account  for  investments  in  affiliates  over which we can  exercise
significant  influence  (but not  control).  We carry all other  investments  in
affiliates at cost. We eliminate all intercompany transactions.

CASH EQUIVALENTS.  Cash equivalents  include bank demand deposits and all highly
liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.

ALLOWANCE  FOR DOUBTFUL  ACCOUNTS.  We evaluate the  collectibility  of accounts
receivable based on a combination of factors. When we are aware of circumstances
that may impair a specific customer's ability to meet its financial obligations,
we record a specific  allowance to reduce the net  recognized  receivable to the
amount we reasonably  believe will be  collected.  For all other  customers,  we
recognize  allowances  for  doubtful  accounts  based on the  length of time the
receivables  are  outstanding,   the  current  business  environment,   and  our
historical collection experience for customers of similar nature and background.

INVENTORIES.  We  state  inventories  at the  lower  of  cost  or  market,  with
approximately  80% of consolidated  inventories  being valued using the last-in,
first-out  (LIFO)  method.  Other  inventories  are valued  using the  first-in,
first-out  (FIFO) method.  If the FIFO method had been used,  inventories  would
have  been  $146 and $137  higher  than  reported  at April  30,  2004 and 2005,
respectively. FIFO cost approximates current replacement cost.

Whiskey  must be  barrel-aged  for several  years,  so we bottle and sell only a
portion of our whiskey  inventory each year.  Following  industry  practice,  we
classify  all  barreled  whiskey as a current  asset.  We  include  warehousing,
insurance,  ad valorem taxes, and other carrying charges  applicable to barreled
whiskey in inventory costs.

We classify bulk wine inventories as work in process.

PROPERTY,  PLANT, AND EQUIPMENT. We state property, plant, and equipment at cost
less  accumulated  depreciation.  We calculate  depreciation  on a straight-line
basis over the estimated  useful lives of the assets as follows:  20 to 40 years
for  buildings  and  improvements,  3 to  10  years  for  machinery,  equipment,
furniture, and fixtures, and 3 to 7 years for capitalized software costs.

FOREIGN  CURRENCY  TRANSLATION.  The U.S. dollar is the functional  currency for
most of our consolidated operations.  For those operations,  we report all gains
and losses from  foreign  currency  transactions  in current  income.  The local
currency is the  functional  currency  for some  foreign  operations.  For those
investments,   we  report  cumulative  translation  effects  in  the  cumulative
translation adjustment to stockholders' equity.

REVENUE   RECOGNITION.   We   recognize   revenue   on  our   retail  and  other
direct-to-consumer  sales when the  product is  delivered  to the  customer.  We
recognize  revenue  on  wholesale  sales when title and risk of loss pass to the
distributor,  which  typically  is at the time the product is  shipped.  Certain
sales contain customer acceptance provisions that grant a right of return on the
basis of either subjective criteria or specified objective criteria.  Revenue is
recorded net of the estimated cost of sales returns and allowances.

COST OF  SALES.  Cost of  sales  includes  the  costs of  receiving,  producing,
inspecting, warehousing, insuring, and shipping goods sold during the period.



SHIPPING  AND  HANDLING  FEES AND COSTS.  We report  the  amounts we bill to our
customers  for shipping  and  handling as net sales,  and we report the costs we
incur for shipping and handling as cost of sales.

ADVERTISING  COSTS. We expense most  advertising  costs as we incur them, but we
capitalize and amortize certain  direct-response  advertising costs over periods
not exceeding one year. Capitalized advertising costs totaled $9 and $6 at April
30, 2004 and 2005, respectively.

SALES INCENTIVES.  We offer sales discounts and provide consideration to certain
of our distributors under cooperative advertising arrangements. Discounts, which
are recorded as a reduction of net sales, totaled $120, $125, and $132 for 2003,
2004, and 2005, respectively.  The cost of cooperative advertising arrangements,
which are recorded as  advertising  expenses,  totaled $10, $9, and $9 for 2003,
2004, and 2005, respectively.

SELLING,   GENERAL,   AND  ADMINISTRATIVE   EXPENSES.   Selling,   general,  and
administrative  expenses  include  the costs  associated  with our sales  force,
administrative  staff  and  facilities,   and  other  expenses  related  to  the
non-production functions of our business.

EARNINGS PER SHARE.  We calculate basic earnings per share as net income divided
by the weighted average number of common shares  outstanding during the year. We
calculate  diluted  earnings per share the same way, except that the denominator
also  includes  the  additional  common  shares  that would have been  issued if
outstanding  stock  options had been  exercised,  as  determined by applying the
treasury stock method.

The following table presents  information  concerning basic and diluted earnings
per share:

Year Ended April 30,                                 2003       2004       2005
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Basic and diluted net income                         $242       $254       $308

Share data (in thousands):
   Basic average common shares outstanding        134,748    121,359    121,746
   Effect of dilutive stock options                   378        627        761
                                                  ------------------------------
   Diluted average common shares outstanding      135,126    121,986    122,507
                                                  ==============================

Basic earnings per share                            $1.79      $2.09      $2.53
Diluted earnings per share                          $1.79      $2.08      $2.52


STOCK  OPTIONS.  In December  2004,  the FASB issued SFAS  123(R),  "Share-Based
Payment,"  which  requires  companies to expense the fair value of stock options
and other forms of stock-based  compensation.  We adopted SFAS 123(R) during the
fourth  quarter  of  fiscal  2005  by  retroactively   adjusting  our  financial
statements for all periods since fiscal 1997, when we first began granting stock
options.

Our stock option plan requires  that we purchase  shares to satisfy stock option
requirements, thereby avoiding future dilution of earnings that would occur from
issuing  additional  shares.  We acquire  treasury  shares  from time to time in
anticipation of these  requirements.  We intend to hold enough treasury stock so
that the number of diluted  shares never  exceeds the original  number of shares
outstanding at the inception of the stock option plan (as adjusted for any share
issuances  unrelated  to the  plan).  The  extent to which the number of diluted
shares  exceeds the number of basic shares is  determined  by how much our stock
price has appreciated  since the options were granted,  not by how many treasury
shares we have acquired.

ESTIMATES.  To prepare financial statements that conform with generally accepted
accounting  principles,  our management must make informed estimates that affect
how we report revenues, expenses, assets, and liabilities,  including contingent
assets and  liabilities.  Actual  results could (and probably  will) differ from
these estimates.

2.  ACQUISITIONS

The following  are major  acquisitions  made over the past three years,  each of
which was accounted for as a purchase.

FINLANDIA.  In  December  2004,  we  acquired  the  remaining  capital  stock of
Finlandia  Vodka  Worldwide Ltd.  ("FVW") from the Altia  Corporation of Finland
("Altia") for $64. The value of FVW consists  primarily of the  Finlandia  brand
name, which has an indefinite useful life. As a result of this  transaction,  we
have  preliminarily  allocated an additional  $84 to the  Finlandia  brand name,
which is partially  offset by a deferred  income tax liability of $25, and $5 to
various other net assets.

As previously disclosed, we acquired 45% of FVW in 2000 and an additional 35% in
2002.  The 2002  acquisition  agreement  granted  Altia  an  option  to  require
Brown-Forman  to buy its  remaining  interest  in FVW during a  two-year  window
beginning December 31, 2004. The recent transaction reflects Altia's exercise of
that option.

TUACA.  In February  2003, we acquired the remaining 55% interest in Distillerie
Tuoni e Canepa  ("T&C") for $27 in cash (net of cash  acquired) and a promissory
note of $33 that  was  paid in March  2004.  T&C is the  Italy-based  owner  and
producer of Tuaca liqueur,  which we have distributed in the United States since
1999. This increased our total investment in T&C to $77, which we have allocated
to the individual  assets and  liabilities  acquired.  The  investment  consists
primarily of indefinite-lived  intangible assets, including the Tuaca brand name
and goodwill.  For financial reporting purposes, we have assigned a value of $20
to the Tuaca brand name and $64 to goodwill.

The  operating  results  of both FVW and T&C  have  been  consolidated  with our
financial  statements since we acquired  majority  ownership during fiscal 2003.
(We previously accounted for our investments in those companies using the equity
method).  Consolidated  pro forma  operating  results  for the fiscal year ended
April 30, 2003 would not have been materially  different from the actual amounts
reported for that period.



3.  GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS

The following  table shows the changes in the amounts  recorded as goodwill over
the past two years:

                                                             Consumer
                                                Beverages    Durables     Total
                                                ---------    --------   --------
Goodwill:
   Balance as of April 30, 2003                   $181        $130       $311
      Purchase price allocation adjustment          (1)         --         (1)
      Foreign currency translation adjustment        5          --          5
                                                  ------------------------------
   Balance as of April 30, 2004                    185         130        315
      Impairment                                    --         (37)       (37)
      Foreign currency translation adjustment        4          --          4
                                                  ------------------------------
   Balance as of April 30, 2005                   $189        $ 93       $282
                                                  ==============================

The $37 impairment charge shown above reflects our lowered  expectations for the
future  prospects  of the Lenox  retail  outlet  business  in light of  changing
consumer  buying  patterns.  The amount  represents the excess of the previously
recorded  book value of the goodwill  over the fair value,  as  estimated  using
discounted  projected future cash flows based on the revised  long-term  outlook
for the business.

Our other  intangible  assets consist of trademarks and brand names. As of April
30, 2005, we consider all of our trademarks  and brand names to have  indefinite
useful lives.


4. COMMITMENTS

We have  contracted  with  various  growers  and  wineries to supply some of our
future grape and bulk wine requirements. Many of these contracts call for prices
to be determined by market  conditions,  but some contracts  provide for minimum
purchase  prices that may exceed market  prices.  We have  purchase  obligations
related to these  contracts  of $33 in 2006,  $39 in 2007,  $30 in 2008,  $20 in
2009, $14 in 2010, and $38 after 2010.

We made rental payments under operating  leases for real estate,  vehicles,  and
office,  computer, and manufacturing  equipment of $32 in 2003, $35 in 2004, and
$31 in 2005. We have  commitments  related to minimum  lease  payments of $22 in
2006, $13 in 2007, $7 in 2008, $3 in 2009, $2 in 2010, and $9 after 2010.


5. CREDIT FACILITIES

We have a  committed  revolving  credit  agreement  with  various  domestic  and
international banks for $400, which expires in fiscal 2010. Its most restrictive
covenant requires that our consolidated total debt to consolidated net worth not
exceed a ratio of 2 to 1. At April 30, 2005, we were well within this covenant's
parameters. At April 30, 2005, we also had $220 of debt securities available for
issuance under an SEC shelf registration.


6. DEBT

Our long-term debt consisted of the following:

April 30,                                              2004           2005
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2.125% notes, due in fiscal 2006                       $249           $249
3.0% notes, due in fiscal 2008                          348            349
6.82% to 7.38% notes, due in fiscal 2006                 30             30
Variable rate industrial
 revenue bonds, due through 2026                          3              3
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                        630            631
Less current portion                                     --            279
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                       $630           $352
                                                 ===============================



Debt  payments  required over the next five fiscal years consist of $280 in 2006
and $350 in 2008.  The  weighted  average  interest  rates on the  variable-rate
industrial  revenue  bonds  were  1.2%  and  1.6% at April  30,  2004 and  2005,
respectively. In addition to long-term debt, we had commercial paper outstanding
with weighted average interest rate of 1.0% at April 30, 2004.


7. FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK MANAGEMENT AND DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

We use foreign  currency options and forward  contracts,  generally with average
maturities  of less  than one  year,  as  protection  against  the risk that the
eventual  U.S.  dollar  cash  flows  resulting  from our  forecasted  sales  and
purchases of goods and services in foreign currencies will be adversely affected
by  changes  in  exchange  rates.  We  designate  these   derivative   financial
instruments as cash flow hedges.

We  formally  assess  (both at  inception  and at least  quarterly)  whether the
derivative financial instruments are effective at offsetting changes in the cash
flows  of  the  hedged  transactions.  We  defer  the  effective  portion  of  a
derivative's  change in fair value in  Accumulated  Other  Comprehensive  Income
(Loss) until the underlying  hedged  transaction  is recognized in earnings.  We
recognize any  ineffective  portion of the change in fair value  immediately  in
earnings.  No material  gains or losses were  recognized  in earnings due to the
ineffectiveness of cash flow hedges.

We had  outstanding  foreign  currency  option and  forward  contracts,  hedging
primarily  British  pound,  Australian  dollar,  euro,  and South  African  rand
revenues,  with  notional  amounts  totaling $188 and $212 at April 30, 2004 and
2005,  respectively.  Our credit exposure is, however, limited to the contracts'
fair value (see Note 8) rather than their notional  amounts.  We minimize credit
exposure by entering into foreign  currency  contracts only with major financial
institutions that have earned investment grade credit ratings.


8. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The fair value of cash and cash  equivalents and commercial  paper  approximates
the carrying amount due to the short maturities of these instruments.

We estimate the fair value of long-term debt using  discounted  cash flows based
on our  incremental  borrowing rates for similar debt. The fair value of foreign
currency  contracts is based on quoted market  prices.  A comparison of the fair
values and carrying amounts of these instruments is as follows:

April 30,                            2004                        2005
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                            Carrying        Fair        Carrying         Fair
                             Amount         Value         Amount         Value
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Assets:
   Cash and
    cash equivalents          $ 68          $ 68          $295           $295
   Foreign currency
    contracts                    6             6            --             --

Liabilities:
   Foreign currency
    contracts                   --            --             1              1
   Commercial paper             50            50            --             --
   Long-term debt              630           623           631            618



9.  BALANCE SHEET INFORMATION

April 30,                                              2004           2005
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Property, plant, and equipment:
   Land                                                $ 92           $ 89
   Buildings                                            346            340
   Equipment                                            538            543
   Construction in process                               24             26
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                      1,000            998
   Less accumulated depreciation                        485            497
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                       $515           $501
                                                 ===============================

Accounts payable and accrued expenses:
   Accounts payable, trade                             $ 92           $ 99
   Accrued expenses:
      Advertising                                        37             43
      Compensation and commissions                       65             91
      Excise and other non-income taxes                  20             24
      Self-insurance claims                              12             11
      Interest                                            4              4
      Other                                              41             39
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                        179            212
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                       $271           $311
                                                 ===============================



10. TAXES ON INCOME

We incur  income taxes on our domestic  and foreign  operations.  The  following
table,  based on the  locations  of the taxable  entities  from which sales were
derived  (rather  than the  location of  customers),  presents  the domestic and
foreign components of our income before income taxes:

Year Ended April 30,                        2003          2004           2005
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
United States                               $299          $298           $322
Foreign                                       68            83            154
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            $367          $381           $476
                                            ====================================

The  income  shown  above  was  determined  according  to  financial  accounting
standards.  Because those standards  sometimes differ from the tax rules used to
calculate  taxable  income,  there are  differences  between:  (a) the amount of
taxable income and pretax  financial income for a year; and (b) the tax bases of
assets or liabilities and their amounts as recorded in our financial statements.
As a result,  we recognize a current tax liability for the estimated  income tax
payable on the current tax return,  and  deferred  tax  liabilities  (income tax
payable on income that will be  recognized  on future tax  returns) and deferred
tax assets (income tax refunds from deductions that will be recognized on future
tax returns)  for the  estimated  effects of the  differences  mentioned  above.
Deferred tax assets and  liabilities as of the end of each of the last two years
were as follows:

April 30,                                              2004           2005
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Deferred tax assets:
   Postretirement and other benefits                   $ 30           $ 37
   Accrued liabilities and other                          9              6
   Inventories                                           52             57
                                             -----------------------------------
   Total deferred tax assets                             91            100
                                             -----------------------------------
Deferred tax liabilities:
   Trademarks and brand names                            68             96
   Property, plant, and equipment                        48             48
   Undistributed foreign earnings                        17             17
   Other                                                  3             --
                                             -----------------------------------
   Total deferred tax liabilities                       136            161
                                             -----------------------------------
Net deferred tax liability                             $ 45           $ 61
                                             ===================================

Deferred tax liabilities were not provided on undistributed  earnings of certain
foreign  subsidiaries  ($243 and $265 at April 30, 2004 and 2005,  respectively)
because we expect these  undistributed  earnings to be  reinvested  indefinitely
overseas.  If  these  amounts  were  not  considered   permanently   reinvested,
additional deferred tax liabilities of approximately $41 and $45 would have been
provided as of April 30, 2004 and 2005, respectively.

Total income tax expense for a year includes the tax associated with the current
tax  return  ("current  tax  expense")  and the change in the net  deferred  tax
liability  ("deferred  tax  expense").  Total income tax expense for each of the
last three years was as follows:


Year Ended April 30,                        2003          2004          2005
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Current:
   Federal                                  $114          $100          $135
   Foreign                                    13            20            19
   State and local                            16            13            20
                                            ------------------------------------
                                             143           133           174
                                            ------------------------------------

Deferred:
   Federal                                   (14)           (1)           (2)
   Foreign                                    (2)           (2)           (3)
   State and local                            (2)           (3)           (1)
                                            ------------------------------------
                                             (18)           (6)           (6)
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            $125          $127          $168
                                            ====================================

Our consolidated  effective tax rate may differ from current statutory rates due
to the  recognition  of  amounts  for  events or  transactions  that have no tax
consequences.  The  following  table  reconciles  our  effective tax rate to the
federal statutory tax rate in the United States:

                                             Percent of Income Before Taxes
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended April 30,                        2003          2004           2005
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
U.S federal statutory rate                  35.0%         35.0%          35.0%
State taxes, net of U.S.
   federal tax benefit                       2.5           1.8            1.4
Income taxed at other than U.S.
   federal statutory rate                   (2.1)         (1.4)          (2.0)
Tax benefit from export sales               (1.7)         (2.1)          (2.1)
Impairment charges                            --            --            2.9
Other, net                                   0.4           0.1            0.1
                                           -------------------------------------
Effective rate                              34.1%         33.4%          35.3%
                                           =====================================


11. PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS

We sponsor various defined benefit pension plans as well as postretirement plans
providing retiree health care and retiree life insurance benefits. The following
discussion  provides  information about our obligations  related to these plans,
the assets dedicated to meeting the  obligations,  and the amounts we recognized
in our  financial  statements as a result of  sponsoring  these plans.  We use a
measurement  date of January 31 to determine the amounts of the plan obligations
and assets presented below.



OBLIGATIONS. We provide eligible employees with pension and other postretirement
benefits based on such factors as years of service and compensation level during
employment.  The pension obligation shown below ("projected benefit obligation")
consists  of: (a) benefits  earned by employees to date based on current  salary
levels ("accumulated  benefit  obligation");  and (b) benefits to be received by
the employees as a result of expected future salary  increases.  (The obligation
for  medical  and life  insurance  benefits  is not  affected  by future  salary
increases).  This table shows how the present  value of our  obligation  changed
during each of the last two years.

                                             Pension           Medical and Life
                                             Benefits         Insurance Benefits
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended April 30,                      2004      2005        2004      2005
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Obligation at beginning of year           $449      $511        $ 79      $ 79
Service cost                                14        17           2         2
Interest cost                               29        30           5         4
Actuarial loss (gain)                       38        23          (4)       (3)
Retiree contributions                       --        --           1         1
Benefits paid                              (19)      (22)         (4)       (5)
                                        ----------------------------------------
Obligation at end of year                 $511      $559        $ 79      $ 78
                                        ========================================

Service cost represents the present value of the benefits  attributed to service
rendered by  employees  during the year.  Interest  cost is the  increase in the
present  value of the  obligation  due to the  passage of time.  Actuarial  loss
(gain)  is the  change  in value of the  obligation  resulting  from  experience
different  from that assumed or from a change in an actuarial  assumption.  (The
actuarial assumptions used are discussed at the end of this note).

As shown in the previous  table,  our pension and other  postretirement  benefit
obligations   were  reduced  by  benefit   payments  in  2005  of  $22  and  $5,
respectively. Expected benefit payments over the next ten years are as follows:

                                             Pension           Medical and Life
                                             Benefits         Insurance Benefits
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2006                                           $ 23                  $ 4
2007                                             24                    4
2008                                             26                    4
2009                                             27                    4
2010                                             28                    4
2011-2015                                       162                   26

The Medicare Prescription Drug,  Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 ("the
Act") was enacted in December 2003.  The Act provides a federal  subsidy to plan
sponsors for certain  qualifying  prescription  drug benefits  covered under the
sponsor's   postretirement   medical   benefit   plans.   The  Act  reduced  our
postretirement  benefit  expense  by $2  during  2005 and  reduced  our  benefit
obligation by $16.



ASSETS.  We  specifically  invest  certain  assets in order to fund our  pension
benefit  obligations.  Our  investment  goal is to earn a total return that over
time will grow assets sufficient to fund our plans' liabilities, after providing
appropriate  levels of contributions  and accepting prudent levels of investment
risk. In order to achieve this goal, plan assets are invested primarily in funds
or portfolios of funds actively managed by outside managers.  Investment risk is
managed to prudent levels by company  policies that require  diversification  of
asset classes,  manager styles and individual  holdings.  We measure and monitor
investment risk through quarterly and annual performance  reviews,  and periodic
asset/liability studies.

Asset allocation is the most important method for achieving our investment goals
and is based on our assessment of the plans' long-term return objectives and the
appropriate balances needed for liquidity,  stability and  diversification.  The
allocation  of our  pension  plan  assets at fair value on January  31, 2004 and
2005, and the target allocation for 2006, by asset category, are as follows:

                                                     Asset Allocation
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                          Actual          Actual          Target
                                           2004            2005            2006
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Equity securities                           73%             71%             70%
Debt securities                             15              16              15
Real estate                                  4               5               5
Other                                        8               8              10
                                        ----------------------------------------
Total                                      100%            100%            100%
                                        ========================================

This table shows how the fair value of the pension  plan assets  changed  during
each of the last two years. (We do not have assets set aside for  postretirement
medical or life insurance benefits).

                                             Pension           Medical and Life
                                             Benefits         Insurance Benefits
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended April 30,                      2004      2005        2004      2005
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Fair value at beginning of year           $334      $421        $ --      $ --
Actual return on plan assets                97        23          --        --
Retiree contributions                       --        --           1         1
Company contributions                        9        13           3         4
Benefits paid                              (19)      (22)         (4)       (5)
                                        ----------------------------------------
Fair value at end of year                 $421      $435        $ --      $ --
                                        ========================================

Consistent  with our funding  policy,  we expect to contribute $8 to our pension
plans and $7 to our other postretirement benefit plans in 2006.

FUNDED STATUS.  The funded status of a plan refers to the difference between its
assets and its  obligations.  This amount differs from the amount  recognized on
the balance sheet because,  as discussed  below,  certain changes in the present
value of the obligation and the fair value of the plan assets are amortized over
several years for accounting  purposes.  This table reconciles the funded status
of the plans to the net amount recognized on the balance sheet.

                                             Pension           Medical and Life
                                             Benefits         Insurance Benefits
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
April 30,                                 2004      2005         2004     2005
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Assets                                   $ 421     $ 435         $ --     $ --
Obligations                               (511)     (559)         (79)     (78)
                                          --------------------------------------
Funded status                              (90)     (124)         (79)     (78)
Unrecognized net loss                      187       226            7        5
Unrecognized prior service cost              8         7            5        4
Other                                       --        --            1        1
                                          --------------------------------------
Net amount recognized on balance sheet   $ 105     $ 109         $(66)    $(68)
                                          ======================================

The  unrecognized  net loss  for the  pension  plans  primarily  relates  to the
difference  between  the  actual  cumulative  return on plan  assets  versus the
expected cumulative return. (See below for assumptions regarding expected return
on plan assets).

The net amount is recognized on the consolidated balance sheet as follows:

                                             Pension           Medical and Life
                                             Benefits         Insurance Benefits
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
April 30,                                 2004      2005        2004      2005
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Prepaid pension cost                      $118      $130        $ --      $ --
Accrued postretirement benefits            (71)      (88)        (66)      (68)
Other assets                                 5         3          --        --
Accumulated other comprehensive loss        53        64          --        --
                                          --------------------------------------
Net amount recognized on balance sheet    $105      $109        $(66)     $(68)
                                          ======================================

This  table  compares  our  pension  plans  that have  assets in excess of their
accumulated  benefit  obligations  with those  whose  assets are less than their
obligations. (As discussed above, we have no assets set aside for postretirement
medical or life insurance benefits).

                                                   Accumulated       Projected
                                                    Benefit           Benefit
                                 Plan Assets       Obligation        Obligation
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
April 30,                        2004   2005       2004   2005      2004   2005
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Plans with assets in
 excess of accumulated
 benefit obligation              $292   $306       $259   $285      $292   $321
Plans with accumulated
 benefit obligation in
 excess of assets                 129    129        200    217       219    238
                                ------------------------------------------------
Total                            $421   $435       $459   $502      $511   $559
                                ================================================



PENSION  (INCOME)  EXPENSE.  This  table  shows the  components  of the  pension
(income) expense  recognized during each of the last three years. The amount for
each year includes  amortization  of the prior service cost,  net loss,  and the
transition asset that was unrecognized as of the beginning of the year.

                                                     Pension Benefits
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended April 30,                       2003            2004            2005
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Service cost                               $ 13            $ 14            $ 17
Interest cost                                27              29              30
Expected return on plan assets              (49)            (44)            (43)
Amortization of:
   Unrecognized prior service cost            1               1               1
   Unrecognized net loss                     --              --               4
   Unrecognized transition asset             (2)             (1)             --
                                       -----------------------------------------
Net (income) expense                       $(10)           $ (1)           $  9
                                       =========================================

The prior service cost  represents the cost of retroactive  benefits  granted in
plan  amendments  and is  amortized  on a  straight-line  basis over the average
remaining service period of the employees expected to receive the benefits.  The
net loss results from experience different from that assumed or from a change in
actuarial  assumptions,  and is amortized  over at least that same  period.  The
unrecognized  transition  asset was amortized on a  straight-line  basis through
2004.

The  pension  (income)  expense  recorded  during the year is  estimated  at the
beginning of the year. As a result,  the amount is calculated  using an expected
return on plan assets  rather than the actual  return.  The  difference  between
actual and expected  returns is included in the unrecognized net loss at the end
of the year.

OTHER  POSTRETIREMENT  BENEFIT  EXPENSE.  This table shows the components of the
postretirement  medical and life  insurance  benefit  expense that we recognized
during each of the last three years.

                                           Medical and Life Insurance Benefits
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended April 30,                       2003            2004            2005
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Service cost                                $2              $2              $2
Interest cost                                5               5               4
Amortization of unrecognized net loss       --               1              --
                                       -----------------------------------------
Net expense                                 $7              $8              $6
                                       =========================================


ASSUMPTIONS  AND  SENSITIVITY.  We use  various  assumptions  to  determine  the
obligations and (income) expense related to our pension and other postretirement
benefit plans. The assumptions used in computing  benefit plan obligations as of
the end of the last two years were as follows:

                                             Pension           Medical and Life
                                             Benefits         Insurance Benefits
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In Percent                                2004      2005        2004      2005
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Discount rate                             6.00      5.80        6.00      5.80
Rate of salary increase                   4.00      4.00         --        --
Expected return on plan assets            8.75      8.75         --        --




The assumptions  used in computing  benefit plan (income) expense during each of
the last three years were as follows:

                                          Pension            Medical and Life
                                          Benefits          Insurance Benefits
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In Percent                          2003    2004    2005    2003    2004    2005
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Discount rate                       7.00    6.50    6.00    7.00    6.50    6.00
Rate of salary increase             4.00    4.00    4.00     --      --      --
Expected return on plan assets      9.50    8.75    8.75     --      --      --


The discount  rate  represents  the interest rate used to discount the cash-flow
stream of benefit  payments to a net present  value as of the  current  date.  A
lower  assumed  discount  rate  increases  the  present  value  of  the  benefit
obligation.

The assumed rate of salary  increase  reflects the expected  annual  increase in
salaries as a result of inflation,  merit  increases,  and  promotions.  A lower
assumed rate decreases the present value of the benefit obligation.

The expected return on plan assets  represents the long-term rate of return that
we assume will be earned over the life of the pension  assets,  considering  the
distribution  of  those  assets  among  investment  categories  and the  related
historical rates of return.

The assumed healthcare cost trend rates as of the end of the last two years were
as follows:

                                         Medical and Life Insurance Benefits
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In Percent                                       2004           2005
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Healthcare cost trend rates:
   Present rate before age 65                    8.88           8.32
   Present rate age 65 and after                10.38           9.57


We project  healthcare cost trend rates to decline gradually to 5.5% by 2010 and
to  remain  level  after  that.  Assumed  healthcare  cost  trend  rates  have a
significant effect on the amounts reported for  postretirement  medical plans. A
one percentage point  increase/decrease  in assumed  healthcare cost trend rates
would have increased/decreased the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation
as of April 30, 2005 by $7 and the aggregate service and interest costs for 2005
by $1.


12. BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION

We do business in two operating segments - Beverages and Consumer Durables.  Our
Beverages segment produces,  imports, and markets beverage alcohol products. Our
Consumer  Durables segment  manufactures and sells china,  crystal,  ceramic and
crystal  collectibles,   silver,  luggage,  and  leather  accessories.   Segment
accounting policies are the same as the policies described in Note 1. We have no
intersegment revenues.

The following tables reconcile  segment  operating results and asset information
to consolidated amounts.

                                   2003              2004              2005
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net sales:
   Beverages                     $1,795            $1,992            $2,195
   Consumer Durables                581               585               534
                                 -----------------------------------------------
   Consolidated net sales        $2,376            $2,577            $2,729
                                 ===============================================

Segment profit (loss):
   Beverages                     $  342            $  383            $  446
   Consumer Durables                 30                17               (28)
Amounts not allocated to segments:
   Gain on sale of investment
    in affiliate                     --                --                72
   Interest expense, net             (5)              (19)              (14)
                                 -----------------------------------------------
   Consolidated income
    before income taxes          $  367            $  381            $  476
                                 ===============================================

Depreciation and amortization:
   Beverages                     $   38            $   40            $   42
   Consumer Durables                 17                16                16
                                 -----------------------------------------------
   Consolidated depreciation
    and amortization             $   55            $   56            $   58
                                 ===============================================

Goodwill:
   Beverages                     $  181            $  185            $  189
   Consumer Durables                130               130                93
                                 -----------------------------------------------
   Consolidated goodwill         $  311            $  315            $  282
                                 ===============================================

Total assets:
   Beverages                     $1,809            $1,924            $2,249
   Consumer Durables                455               452               375
                                 -----------------------------------------------
   Consolidated total assets     $2,264            $2,376            $2,624
                                 ===============================================

Our  investments in affiliates are included in the Beverages  segment's  assets.
Long-lived assets located outside the United States are not significant.

                                   2003              2004              2005
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Additions to long-lived assets:
   Beverages                       $ 96              $ 42               $48
   Consumer Durables                 32                21                 7
                                 -----------------------------------------------
                                   $128              $ 63               $55
                                 ===============================================




The following table presents net sales by product category:

                                   2003              2004              2005
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net sales:
   Spirits                       $1,400            $1,639            $1,824
   Wines                            395               353               371
   Tabletop and Gift                554               557               502
   Luggage                           27                28                32
                                 -----------------------------------------------
                                 $2,376            $2,577            $2,729
                                 ===============================================

The following table presents geographic information about net sales:

                                   2003              2004              2005
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net sales:
   United States                 $1,824            $1,823            $1,822
   Other countries                  552               754               907
                                 -----------------------------------------------
                                 $2,376            $2,577            $2,729
                                 ===============================================

Net sales are attributed to countries based on where customers are located.


13.  CONTINGENCIES

We operate in a litigious  environment,  and we get sued in the normal course of
business. Sometimes plaintiffs seek substantial damages. Significant judgment is
required in predicting the outcome of these suits and claims, many of which take
years to adjudicate. We accrue estimated costs for a contingency when we believe
that a loss is  probable,  and adjust  the  accrual  as  appropriate  to reflect
changes in facts and circumstances.

A law firm has sued  Brown-Forman and many other  manufacturers and marketers of
spirits,  wines, and beer in a series of nine very similar class action lawsuits
seeking damages and injunctive relief from alleged marketing of beverage alcohol
to underage consumers.  The suits allege that the defendants engage in deceptive
and negligent marketing  practices  targeting underage  consumers.  They seek to
recover  on behalf of parents  those  funds  that  their  children  spent on the
illegal  purchase of alcohol as well as  disgorgement  of all  profits  from the
alleged illegal sales. Brown-Forman is vigorously defending these cases, four of
which are  pending on motions to  dismiss.  It is not  possible  at this time to
predict  the  outcome  of these  claims  but an  unfavorable  result in these or
similar  class  action  lawsuits  could  have a material  adverse  impact on our
business.

14. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

We face environmental claims resulting from the cleanup of several manufacturing
or waste disposal sites in the United  States.  We accrue for losses  associated
with environmental  cleanup obligations when such losses are probable and can be
reasonably  estimated.  At some sites,  there are other potentially  responsible
parties who are  expected to bear part of the costs,  in which cases our accrual
is based on our  estimate  of our share of the  total  costs.  A portion  of the
cleanup costs with respect to certain sites is expected to be paid by insurance.
The  estimated  recovery of cleanup  costs from insurers is recorded as an asset
when receipt is deemed probable.

We do not believe that any additional  environmental cleanup costs we incur will
have a material adverse effect on our consolidated  financial position,  results
of operations, or cash flows.

15. STOCK OPTIONS

Under our 2004  Omnibus  Compensation  Plan  ("the  Plan"),  we can grant  stock
options and other  stock-based  incentive awards for a total of 5,946,000 shares
of common stock to eligible employees until July 22, 2014. As of April 30, 2005,
awards for 5,282,000 shares remain available for issuance under the Plan. Shares
delivered  to  employees  are limited by the Plan to shares that we purchase for
this purpose. No new shares may be issued.



We grant stock  options at an exercise  price of not less than the fair value of
the underlying stock on the grant date.  Except for the stock options granted at
an exercise  price of $50 per share  (discussed  below),  stock options  granted
under the Plan  become  exercisable  after three years from the first day of the
fiscal year of grant and expire seven years after that date. The grant-date fair
values of these options granted during 2003,  2004, and 2005 were $7.77,  $9.29,
and $10.78 per  option,  respectively.  Fair  values  were  estimated  using the
Black-Scholes pricing model with the following assumptions:

                                      2003      2004      2005
- --------------------------------------------------------------
Risk-free interest rate               3.9%      3.6%      4.0%
Expected volatility                  24.1%     24.6%     24.0%
Expected dividend yield               2.0%      1.9%      1.9%
Expected life (years)                   6         6         6

We have also granted  1,060,000  stock options with an exercise price of $50 per
share that become  exercisable  on May 1, 2006, and expire on September 1, 2007.
The fair value of these  options was $2.89 per option,  using the  Black-Scholes
pricing  model  and  assuming  a  risk-free  interest  rate  of  6.0%,  expected
volatility of 18.0%, an expected dividend yield of 2.2%, and an expected life of
eight years.

We also grant restricted  shares of common stock under the Plan. As of April 30,
2005, there are  approximately  36,000  restricted  shares  outstanding,  with a
remaining restriction period of six years.

In December  2004,  the FASB issued SFAS 123(R),  "Share-Based  Payment,"  which
requires companies to expense the fair value of stock options and other forms of
stock-based  compensation.  We adopted SFAS 123(R) during the fourth  quarter of
fiscal 2005 by retroactively  adjusting our financial statements for all periods
since fiscal 1997,  when we first began granting stock options.  The adoption of
SFAS  123(R)  increased  (decreased)  deferred  tax assets,  additional  paid-in
capital,  and  retained  earnings as of April 30,  2003 by $9,  $23,  and ($14),
respectively.  It also reduced previously  reported net income for both 2003 and
2004 by $4, and reduced  basic and diluted  earnings per share for both 2003 and
2004 by $0.03.

The accompanying  statements of income reflect  compensation  expense related to
stock-based incentive awards on a pre-tax basis of $6 in 2003 and 2004 and $7 in
2005,  partially  offset by deferred  income tax benefits of $2 in 2003 and 2004
and $3 in 2005.

A summary of option  activity  under the Plan as of April 30, 2005,  and changes
during the year then ended is presented below. All options are for an equivalent
number of shares of Class B common stock.




The total intrinsic value of options  exercised  during 2003, 2004, and 2005 was
$3, $8, and $7, respectively.

As of April 30,  2005,  there was $11 of total  unrecognized  compensation  cost
related to nonvested  share-based  compensation  arrangements  granted under the
Plan. That cost is expected to be recognized over a  weighted-average  period of
2.6 years.

16. RESTRUCTURING COSTS

During  2002,  we accrued  $17 of costs  related to our  decision to close three
manufacturing  plants in the Consumer Durables  segment.  The $17 included $9 of
severance  costs  for 600  terminated  employees,  $5 of  other  estimated  cash
expenditures,  and $3 of losses on impaired  machinery and equipment.  We closed
one plant  during  fiscal  2002 and the other two during  fiscal  2003.  We have
replaced the output of these plants by shifting a portion of  production  to two
of our other  facilities  and by  outsourcing  the  remainder.  During 2004,  we
accrued an  additional  $2 for  anticipated  losses on the sale of buildings and
equipment.  We have charged $18 of costs  against the accrual  through April 30,
2005, including $9 of severance costs, $5 of other cash expenditures,  and $4 of
losses on impaired machinery and equipment,  leaving a remaining accrual balance
of $1 as of April 30, 2005.

17. SALE OF INVESTMENT IN AFFILIATE

During 2005,  we sold our equity stake in  Glenmorangie  plc for proceeds of $93
(net of disposal costs),  resulting in a pre-tax gain of $72. Under pre-existing
contracts,  Brown-Forman continues to have distribution and marketing rights for
Glenmorangie  brands in the U.S.  and other  select  markets and  marketing  and
representation rights for the brands in several European markets.



                             REPORTS OF MANAGEMENT

MANAGEMENT'S RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Our management is responsible for the preparation,  presentation,  and integrity
of the financial  information  presented in this Annual Report. The consolidated
financial  statements  were prepared in conformity  with  accounting  principles
generally  accepted in the United States of America  (GAAP),  including  amounts
based on management's best estimates and judgments. In management's opinion, the
consolidated   financial  statements  fairly  present  the  Company's  financial
position, results of operations, and cash flows.

The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors,  which is composed of independent
directors,  meets regularly with the independent  registered  public  accounting
firm,   PricewaterhouseCoopers   LLP   (PwC),   the   internal   auditors,   and
representatives of management to review accounting,  internal control structure,
and financial  reporting  matters.  The internal  auditors and PwC have full and
free  access to the Audit  Committee.  As set forth in our Code of  Conduct  and
Compliance  Guidelines,  we are firmly  committed  to  adhering  to the  highest
standards of moral and ethical behaviors in all of our business activities.

MANAGEMENT'S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
Management  is  also  responsible  for  establishing  and  maintaining  adequate
internal  control over financial  reporting,  as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under
the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934.  Our  internal  control  over  financial
reporting is designed to provide reasonable  assurance regarding the reliability
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial  statements for external
purposes in accordance  with  accounting  principles  generally  accepted in the
United States of America.

Under our supervision, and with the participation of management, we conducted an
evaluation of the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial
reporting based on the framework and criteria in "Internal  Control - Integrated
Framework"  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring  Organizations of the Treadway
Commission.  Based on this evaluation,  management  concluded that the Company's
internal  control over  financial  reporting was effective as of April 30, 2005.
Management's  assessment of the effectiveness of the Company's  internal control
over   financial   reporting   as  of  April  30,  2005  has  been   audited  by
PricewaterhouseCoopers  LLP, an independent  registered  public accounting firm,
which also audited the  Company's  consolidated  financial  statements  in their
report that appears on page 55.




/s/ Owsley Brown II
Owsley Brown II
Chairman of the Board
 and Chief Executive Officer



/s/ Phoebe A. Wood
Phoebe A. Wood
Executive Vice President
 and Chief Financial Officer



            REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND STOCKHOLDERS OF BROWN-FORMAN CORPORATION:

We have  completed  an  integrated  audit  of  Brown-Forman  Corporation's  2005
consolidated  financial  statements  and of its internal  control over financial
reporting  as of April 30,  2005 and  audits  of its 2004 and 2003  consolidated
financial  statements  in accordance  with the  standards of the Public  Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Our opinions,  based on our audits,
are presented below.

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of income, cash flows and
of stockholders' equity present fairly, in all material respects,  the financial
position of  Brown-Forman  Corporation and its  subsidiaries  (the "Company") at
April 30,  2005 and 2004,  and the  results of their  operations  and their cash
flows  for each of the three  years in the  period  ended  April  30,  2005,  in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America.  These  financial  statements are the  responsibility  of the Company's
management.  Our  responsibility  is to express  an  opinion on these  financial
statements  based on our audits.  We conducted our audits of these statements in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company  Accounting  Oversight Board
(United States).  Those standards  require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable  assurance about whether the financial  statements are free of
material misstatement. An audit of financial statements includes examining, on a
test basis,  evidence  supporting  the amounts and  disclosures in the financial
statements,  assessing the accounting  principles used and significant estimates
made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

As discussed in Note 15 to the consolidated  financial  statements,  the Company
changed  the manner in which it  accounts  for  stock-based  compensation  as of
February 1, 2005.

INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL  REPORTING:  Also, in our opinion,  management's
assessment,  included in Management's  Report on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting  appearing on page 54, that the Company maintained  effective internal
control  over  financial  reporting  as of April  30,  2005,  based on  criteria
established in "Internal Control - Integrated Framework" issued by the Committee
of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), is fairly stated,
in all material respects, based on those criteria.  Furthermore, in our opinion,
the Company  maintained,  in all material  respects,  effective internal control
over financial reporting as of April 30, 2005, based on criteria  established in
"Internal  Control - Integrated  Framework"  issued by the COSO.  The  Company's
management  is  responsible  for  maintaining  effective  internal  control over
financial  reporting  and for its  assessment of the  effectiveness  of internal
control over financial  reporting.  Our responsibility is to express opinions on
management's  assessment  and on the  effectiveness  of the  Company's  internal
control over financial  reporting  based on our audit. We conducted our audit of
internal  control over financial  reporting in accordance  with the standards of
the Public Company Accounting  Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable  assurance about
whether  effective  internal control over financial  reporting was maintained in
all material  respects.  An audit of internal  control over financial  reporting
includes   obtaining  an   understanding  of  internal  control  over  financial
reporting, evaluating management's assessment, testing and evaluating the design
and operating  effectiveness  of internal  control,  and  performing  such other
procedures as we consider  necessary in the  circumstances.  We believe that our
audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.

A company's  internal control over financial  reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable  assurance  regarding the reliability of financial  reporting
and the preparation of financial  statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over
financial  reporting  includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to
the  maintenance  of records that, in reasonable  detail,  accurately and fairly
reflect the  transactions  and  dispositions of the assets of the company;  (ii)
provide  reasonable  assurance  that  transactions  are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting  principles,  and that receipts and  expenditures  of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company;  and (iii) provide  reasonable  assurance  regarding  prevention or
timely  detection  of  unauthorized  acquisition,  use,  or  disposition  of the
company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent  limitations,  internal control over financial reporting
may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate  because of changes in  conditions,  or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.




/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Louisville, Kentucky
June 22, 2005




               IMPORTANT INFORMATION ON FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This  annual  report  contains  statements,   estimates,  and  projections  that
constitute "forward looking statements" as defined under U.S. federal securities
laws.  Generally,  the words "expect," "believe," "intend,"  "estimate," "will,"
"anticipate,"  "project,"  and similar  expressions  identify a  forward-looking
statement,  which speaks only as of the date the  statement  is made.  Except as
required  by law,  we do not  intend to update  or  revise  any  forward-looking
statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.

We  believe  that  the   expectations   and  assumptions  with  respect  to  our
forward-looking statements are reasonable. But by their nature,  forward-looking
statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that
in some  cases are out of our  control.  These  factors  could  cause our actual
results to differ materially from  Brown-Forman's  historical  experience or our
present expectations or projections.  Here is a non-exclusive list of such risks
and uncertainties:

 - changes in general economic conditions, particularly in the United
   States where we earn the majority of our profits;
 - a strengthening U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, especially
   the British Pound;
 - reduced bar, restaurant, hotel and travel business in the wake of
   terrorist attacks, such as occurred on 9/11;
 - attempts to limit alcohol sales and marketing through either regulation or
   litigation, including developments in the class action lawsuits filed against
   other beverage alcohol producers and us, alleging that our advertising causes
   illegal alcohol consumption by those under the legal drinking age;
 - a dramatic change in consumer preferences, social trends or cultural
   trends that results in the reduced consumption of our premium
   spirits brands;
 - tax increases, whether at the federal or state level;
 - increases in the price of grain and grapes;
 - continued depressed retail prices and margins in our wine business
   because of our excess wine inventories, existing grape contract
   obligations, and a world-wide oversupply of grapes; and
 - the effects on our Consumer Durables business of the general economy,
   department store business, response rates in our direct marketing
   business, and profitability of mall outlet operations.



                                                                     Exhibit 21

                         SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

                                          Percentage           State or
                                          of Voting          Jurisdiction
Name                                   Securities Owned    of Incorporation
- ----                                   ----------------    ----------------
AMG Trading, L.L.C.                           100%           Delaware
Brown-Forman Beverages Australia Pty. Ltd.    100%           Australia
Brown-Forman Beverages North Asia, L.L.C.     100%           Delaware
B-F Korea, L.L.C.                             100%           Delaware
Brown-Forman Beverages Poland                 100%           Poland
Brown-Forman Beverages UK, Ltd.               100%           United Kingdom
Brown-Forman Relocation Corp.                 100%           Kentucky
Brown-Forman Thailand, L.L.C.                 100%           Delaware
Canadian Mist Distillers, Limited             100%           Ontario, Canada
Early Times Distillers Company                100%           Delaware
Fetzer Vineyards                              100%           California
Fratelli Bolla International Wines, Inc.      100%           Kentucky
Hartmann Incorporated                         100%           Delaware
Heddon's Gate Investments, L.L.C.             100%           Delaware
Jack Daniel's Properties, Inc.                100%           Delaware
Lenox, Incorporated                           100%           New Jersey
Mt. Eagle Corporation                         100%           Delaware
Sonoma-Cutrer Vineyards, Inc.                 100%           California
Southern Comfort Properties, Inc.             100%           California
Washington Investments, L.L.C.                100%           Kentucky
Woodford Reserve Stables, L.L.C.              100%           Kentucky
Longnorth Limited                             100% (1) (3)   Ireland
Clintock Limited                              100% (1) (4)   Ireland
Brooks & Bentley Limited                      100% (2)       United Kingdom
DID, Incorporated                             100% (2)       Delaware
Voldgade Investment Holdings A/S              100% (3)       Denmark
Pitts Bay Trading Limited                      75% (4)       Bermuda
BFC Tequila Limited                            67% (4)       Ireland
Drake Investments, Inc.                       100% (5)       Delaware
Jack Daniel Distillery,
   Lem Motlow, Prop., Inc.                    100% (5)       Tennessee
Brown-Forman Korea Ltd.                       100% (6)       Korea
Fratelli Bolla, S.p.A.                        100% (7)       Italy
Brown-Forman Worldwide (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.   100% (8)       China
Alkometa s.r.o.                               100% (9)       Czech Republic
Finlandia Polska                              100% (9)       Poland
Brown-Forman Beverages Worldwide,
   Comercio de Bebidas Ltda.                  100% (10)      Brazil
Brown-Forman Worldwide, L.L.C.                100% (10)      Delaware
JDPI Investments, L.L.C.                      100% (11)      Delaware
Amercain Investments C.V.                     100% (12)      Netherlands
Brown-Forman Beverages Africa, Ltd.           100% (13)      Bermuda
Finlandia Vodka Worldwide Ltd.                100% (14)      Finland
Distillerie Tuoni e Canepa Srl                100% (15)      Italy


The companies listed above constitute all active subsidiaries in which
Brown-Forman Corporation owns, either directly or indirectly, the majority of
the voting securities. No other active affiliated companies are controlled by
Brown-Forman Corporation.

 (1)  Includes qualifying shares assigned to Brown-Forman Corporation.
 (2)  Owned by Lenox, Incorporated.
 (3)  Owned by Amercain Investments C.V.
 (4)  Owned by Longnorth Limited.
 (5)  Owned by Jack Daniel's Properties, Inc.
 (6)  Owned by B-F Korea, L.L.C.
 (7)  Owned by Fratelli Bolla International Wines, Inc.
 (8)  Owned by Brown-Forman Beverages North Asia, L.L.C.
 (9)  Owned by Finlandia Vodka Worldwide Ltd.
(10)  Owned 99% by Brown-Forman Corporation and 1% by Early Times Distillers
      Company.
(11)  Owned 99% by Jack Daniel's Properties, Inc. and 1% by Fetzer Vineyards.
(12)  Owned 95% by Brown-Forman Corporation and 5% by Heddon's Gate
      Investments, L.L.C.
(13)  Owned 99% by Clintock Limited and 1% by Longnorth Limited.
(14)  Owned 80% by Voldgade Investment Holdings A/S and 20% by Brown-Forman
      Beverages UK, Ltd.
(15)  Owned 55% by Fratelli Bolla International Wines, Inc. and 45% by
      Voldgade Investment Holdings A/S.




                                                                    Exhibit 23

            CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

We  hereby  consent  to the  incorporation  by  reference  in  the  Registration
Statements on Form S-3 (No. 33-12413 and 33-52551) and Form S-8 (No.  333-08311,
333-38649,  333-74567,  333-77903,  333-88925  and  333-89294)  of  Brown-Forman
Corporation  and  Subsidiaries of our report dated June 22, 2005 relating to the
financial statements,  management's  assessment of the effectiveness of internal
control over financial  reporting and the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting,  which appears in the Annual Report to Stockholders,  which
is  incorporated  in this  Annual  Report on Form 10-K.  We also  consent to the
incorporation  by reference  of our report  dated June 22, 2005  relating to the
financial statement schedule, which appears in this Form 10-K.



/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Louisville, Kentucky
June 28, 2005




                                                                    Exhibit 31.1

       CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

I, Owsley Brown II, certify that:

1.  I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Brown-Forman Corporation;

2.  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of
    a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
    statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
    were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3.  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
    information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects
    the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
    registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report.

4.  The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for
    establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
    in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over
    financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and
    15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

    a)  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
        disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision,
        to ensure that material information relating to the registrant,
        including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others
        within those entities, particularly during the period in which this
        report is being prepared;

    b)  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
        internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our
        supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability
        of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
        external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
        principles;

    c)  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and
        procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
        effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end
        of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

    d)  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control
        over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most
        recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the
        case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
        likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over
        financial reporting; and

5.  The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our
    most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
    registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of
    directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):

    a)  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
        operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
        reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to
        record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

    b)  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
        employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal
        control over financial reporting.


Date:   June 28, 2005                           By: /s/ Owsley Brown II
                                                Owsley Brown II
                                                Chief Executive Officer


                                                                    Exhibit 31.2

     CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

I, Phoebe A. Wood, certify that:

1.  I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Brown-Forman Corporation;

2.  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of
    a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
    statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
    were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3.  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
    information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects
    the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
    registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report.

4.  The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for
    establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
    in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over
    financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and
    15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

    a)  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
        disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision,
        to ensure that material information relating to the registrant,
        including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others
        within those entities, particularly during the period in which this
        report is being prepared;

    b)  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
        internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our
        supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability
        of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
        external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
        principles;

    c)  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and
        procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
        effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end
        of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

    d)  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control
        over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most
        recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the
        case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
        likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over
        financial reporting; and

5.  The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our
    most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
    registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of
    directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):

    a)  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
        operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
        reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to
        record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

    b)  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
        employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal
        control over financial reporting.


Date:   June 28, 2005                           By: /s/ Phoebe A. Wood
                                                Phoebe A. Wood
                                                Chief Financial Officer



                                                                    Exhibit 32

    CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO
                 SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

In connection with the Annual Report of Brown-Forman Corporation ("the Company")
on Form 10-K for the period ended April 30, 2005,  as filed with the  Securities
and  Exchange  Commission  on  the  date  hereof  (the  "Report"),  each  of the
undersigned  hereby  certifies,  pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  Section 1350, as adopted
pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, in the capacity as an
officer of the Company, that:

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
    respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.



Dated: June 28, 2005

                                           /s/ Owsley Brown II
                                           Owsley Brown II
                                           Chief Executive Officer and Chairman




                                           /s/ Phoebe A. Wood
                                           Phoebe A. Wood
                                           Executive Vice President
                                            and Chief Financial Officer


A signed  original of this  written  statement  required by Section 906 has been
provided to the Company and will be retained by the Company and furnished to the
Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.

This  certificate is being  furnished  solely for purposes of Section 906 and is
not being filed as part of the Report.

