
10-K
form10k2004.txt


                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K

              ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                    For the fiscal year ended April 30, 2004
                        Commission file number 002-26821

                            BROWN-FORMAN CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                    Delaware                                   61-0143150
       (State or other jurisdiction of                        (IRS Employer
        incorporation or organization)                      Identification No.)

             850 Dixie Highway                                    40210
            Louisville, Kentucky                                (Zip Code)
   (Address of principal executive offices)

        Registrant's telephone number, including area code (502) 585-1100

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                         Name of Each Exchange
              Title of Each Class                         on Which Registered
              -------------------                        ----------------------
Class A Common Stock (voting) $0.15 par value            New York Stock Exchange

Class B Common Stock (nonvoting) $0.15 par value         New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to
  Section 12(g) of the Act:                              None


Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [X] No[ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes [X] No[ ]

The aggregate market value, as of the last business day of the most recently
completed second fiscal quarter, of the voting and nonvoting equity held by
nonaffiliates of the registrant was approximately $2,300,000,000.

The number of shares outstanding for each of the registrant's classes of
Common Stock on June 30, 2004 was:
     Class A Common Stock (voting)            56,841,070
     Class B Common Stock (nonvoting)         64,926,934

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Portions of the Registrant's 2004 Annual Report to Stockholders are incorporated
by reference into Parts I, II, and IV of this report.  Portions of the Proxy
Statement of Registrant for use in connection with the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held July 22, 2004 are incorporated by reference into Part
III of this report.





                                     PART I
Item 1.  Business

(a) General development of business:

Brown-Forman Corporation ("we," "us," or "our" below) was incorporated under the
laws of the State of Delaware in 1933,  successor to a business  founded in 1870
as  a  partnership  and  subsequently   incorporated   under  the  laws  of  the
Commonwealth of Kentucky in 1901.  Through the first 85 years, we were primarily
a bourbon  company,  marketing  brands  such as Early  Times  and Old  Forester.
Starting in the  mid-1950s,  we began a series of  acquisitions,  including  the
purchase  of Jack  Daniel's  Tennessee  Whiskey  in  1956,  and  the  subsequent
acquisitions  of Canadian Mist Canadian  whisky,  Southern  Comfort  liqueur,  a
minority  equity  position in the  company  that owns  Glenmorangie  Single Malt
Scotch,  an 80%  investment in Finlandia  Vodka  Worldwide,  and Tuaca  liqueur.
Beginning in the 1990s, we also acquired premium wine companies including Fetzer
Vineyards California wines, Bolla Italian wines, and California's  Sonoma-Cutrer
Vineyards.

Our principal  executive  offices are located at 850 Dixie Highway,  Louisville,
Kentucky  40210  (mailing   address:   P.O.  Box  1080,   Louisville,   Kentucky
40201-1080), and our telephone number is (502) 585-1100.

(b) Financial information about segments:

Information  regarding net sales,  operating income, and total assets of each of
our  business  segments  is  in  Note  12 of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements  on  page  46 of  our  2004  Annual  Report  to  Stockholders,  which
information is incorporated into this report by reference in response to Item 8.

(c) Narrative description of business:

The two segments comprising our operations are described below.

Beverages
- ---------
We manufacture,  bottle,  import, export, and market a wide variety of alcoholic
beverage brands.  We also  manufacture and market new and used oak barrels.  Our
principal beverage brands are:

     Spirits                                       Wines
     -------                                       -----
     Jack Daniel's                                 Fetzer Vineyards
     Gentleman Jack                                Bolla
     Jack Daniel's Single Barrel                   Bel Arbor
     Jack Daniel's Country Cocktails               Bonterra Vineyards
     Jack Daniel's Original Hard Cola              Jekel Vineyards
     Canadian Mist                                 Sonoma-Cutrer Vineyards
     Southern Comfort                              Fontana Candida
     Finlandia                                     Korbel*
     Old Forester                                  Mariah*
     Early Times                                   Michel Picard*
     Woodford Reserve
     Pepe Lopez
     Tuaca
     Don Eduardo*
     Glenmorangie*
     Glen Moray*
     Ardbeg*
     Appleton*
     Amarula*

  * Brands represented in the U.S and other select markets by Brown-Forman




Our primary spirits brand is Jack Daniel's,  which is the fifth-largest  premium
spirits  brand  and the  largest  selling  American  whiskey  brand in the world
according  to  volume   statistics   recently   published  by  a  leading  trade
publication.  Our other leading brands are Southern Comfort,  the second-largest
selling  liqueur in the United States,  and Canadian  Mist,  the  second-largest
selling Canadian whisky  worldwide,  according to the recently  published volume
statistics  referenced  above.  Our largest wine brands are Fetzer Vineyards and
Bolla,  two of the leading  premium wine brands in the United  States  generally
selling in the $6-10 per bottle price range  according to information  published
by a leading  consumer  market research firm. That same firm cites Korbel as the
largest selling premium champagne in the retail channel in the United States. We
believe the statistics used to rank these products are reasonably accurate.

Our strategy is to market high quality  products that satisfy the preferences of
consumers of legal  drinking age and to support those  products  with  extensive
international,  national,  and regional marketing  programs.  These programs are
intended to extend consumer brand recognition and brand loyalty.

In the  United  States,  we sell  spirits  and wines  either  through  wholesale
distributors  or  directly to state  governments  in those  states that  control
alcohol  sales.  The contracts that we have with many of our  distributors  have
formulas which determine reimbursement to distributors if we terminate them; the
amount  of  reimbursement  is based  primarily  on the  distributor's  length of
service and a percentage of its purchases  over time.  Some states have statutes
which limit our ability to terminate distributor  contracts.  Outside the United
States,  we  typically  distribute  our  products  by  selecting  the best local
distributor for our brands in each specific market. Our principal export markets
are the United Kingdom,  Australia,  Germany,  Spain, Italy, Japan,  Canada, and
France.

The principal  raw  materials  used in  manufacturing  and  packaging  distilled
spirits are corn, rye, malted barley, glass, cartons, and wood for new white oak
barrels, which are used for storage of bourbon and Tennessee whiskey. Currently,
none of these raw materials is in short supply,  and there are adequate  sources
from which they may be obtained.

The  principal  raw  materials  used in the  production  of wines are grapes and
packaging  materials.  Grapes  are  primarily  purchased  under  contracts  with
independent  growers and, from time to time,  are adversely  affected by weather
and other forces which may limit  production.  We believe that our relationships
with our growers are good.



The  industry  is  highly  competitive  and there  are many  brands  sold in the
consumer market. Trade information indicates that we are one of the largest wine
and spirit suppliers in the United States in terms of revenues.

The  Alcohol  and Tobacco  Tax and Trade  Bureau of the United  States  Treasury
Department  regulates the wine and spirits  industry with respect to production,
blending,  bottling, sales, advertising and transportation of industry products.
Also, each state regulates  advertising,  promotion,  transportation,  sale, and
distribution of such products.

Under  federal  regulations,  whiskey  must be aged for at least two years to be
designated  "straight  whiskey." We age our  straight  whiskeys for a minimum of
three to five years.  Federal  regulations  also require that "Canadian"  whisky
must be manufactured in Canada in compliance with Canadian laws and must be aged
in Canada for at least three  years.  We believe we are in  compliance  with the
regulations.

Due to aging  requirements,  production  of whiskeys is scheduled to meet demand
three to five  years in the  future.  Accordingly,  inventories  are  larger  in
relation  to sales  and  total  assets  than  would  be  normal  for most  other
businesses.

Consumer Durables
- -----------------
Our Consumer  Durables  business consists of a portfolio of consumer brands that
have a rich  heritage in the  domestic  market.  We sell fine china  dinnerware,
crystal stemware and giftware,  stainless steel flatware,  and silver-plated and
metal  giftware  under the Lenox and Gorham  brands.  Dansk is our  contemporary
tabletop,  houseware and giftware brand.  We sell premium casual  dinnerware and
fine china giftware under the Lenox trademark,  and sterling silver flatware and
sterling silver giftware under the Gorham and Kirk Stieff  trademarks.  Hartmann
is our luggage,  business  case,  and personal  leather  accessories  brand.  In
addition,  in the direct response  channel,  we sell  collectible and home decor
products  in the United  States  under the Lenox  brand and  outside  the United
States primarily under the Brooks & Bentley brand.

We market our products  domestically through authorized  department stores, home
specialty  stores,  and gift and jewelry  shops,  and through our  company-owned
stores  and  the  internet.  The  following  table  provides  information  about
company-owned store openings and closures for the two most recent fiscal years:

                                Lenox       Dansk      Hartmann     Total

   As of April 30, 2002           60          49           5         114
     Opened                        5           2           2           9
     Closed                       (2)         (5)         --          (7)
                                 ----        ----        ----       -----
   As of April 30, 2003           63          46           7         116
     Opened                       --          --           1           1
     Closed                       (5)         (5)         (1)        (11)
                                 ----        ----        ----       -----
   As of April 30, 2004           58          41           7         106
                                 ====        ====        ====       =====



We also sell our products domestically through strategic partnerships with third
party companies and the incentive,  premium, business gift and military exchange
distribution  channels, and internationally  through authorized retailers,  duty
free stores and  distributors.  We sell collectible and home decor products both
domestically  and in the United  Kingdom  through the direct  response  channel,
including  mail-order,  catalogs  and the  internet.  We also sell  collectibles
domestically through independent collectible shops and select department stores.
In the wholesale  channel,  company-employed  sales  representatives  and, where
appropriate,  independent  commissioned  sales  representatives  and independent
distributors sell our consumer durables products.

We believe we are the largest domestic  marketer of fine tabletop  products.  We
are also a leading domestic  marketer of fine quality  luggage,  business cases,
and personal leather accessories. We compete with a number of other suppliers in
the wholesale  channel.  We also face  competition  from lifestyle retail stores
that market their own brands.

Clay and feldspar are the  principal  raw materials  used to  manufacture  china
products. Gold and platinum are significant raw materials used to decorate china
products. Fine silver is the principal raw material used to manufacture sterling
silver  giftware and sterling  flatware  products.  Steel is the  principal  raw
material used to manufacture stainless steel flatware.  Leather and nylon, tweed
and wool fabric are the  principal raw materials  used to  manufacture  luggage,
business cases and personal  leather  accessories.  We anticipate that these raw
materials will be in adequate supply.  However,  the acquisition  price of gold,
platinum,  fine  silver  and  steel is  influenced  significantly  by  worldwide
economic events and commodity trading.

Our revenues are  traditionally  greater in the second and third quarters of the
fiscal year, primarily because of seasonal holiday buying.

Other Information
- -----------------
We own  numerous  valuable  trademarks  that  are  essential  to  our  business.
Registrations of trademarks can generally be renewed indefinitely as long as the
trademarks are in use. We have authorized,  through licensing arrangements,  the
use of some of our  trademarks on promotional  items for the primary  purpose of
enhancing brand awareness.

As of April 30, 2004, we employed about 6,400 persons,  including  approximately
700  employed  on a  part-time  or  temporary  basis.  We believe  our  employee
relations are good.

For  information  on the effects of compliance  with federal,  state,  and local
environmental regulations, refer to Note 14, "Environmental Matters," on page 47
of our 2004 Annual Report to  Stockholders,  which  information is  incorporated
into this report by reference.

Our  website  address  is  www.brown-forman.com.  Please  note that our  website
address is provided as an inactive textual reference only. Our annual reports on
Form 10-K,  quarterly reports on Form 10-Q,  current reports on Form 8-K and any
amendments to these reports are available  free of charge on our website as soon
as reasonably  practicable after we  electronically  file those reports with the
Securities and Exchange  Commission.  The information provided on our website is
not part of this report,  and is therefore not  incorporated by reference unless
such information is otherwise specifically referenced elsewhere in this report.



We have posted on our website  (www.brown-forman.com)  our Corporate  Governance
Guidelines, our Code of Conduct that applies to all directors and employees, and
our Code of Ethics that applies  specifically to our senior financial  officers.
We have also posted on our website  the  charters of our Audit and  Compensation
Committees.  Copies  of these  materials  are also  available  free of charge by
writing to our Corporate  Secretary,  Michael B.  Crutcher,  850 Dixie  Highway,
Louisville, Kentucky 40210 or e-mailing him at Michael_Crutcher@b-f.com.

(d) Financial information about geographic areas:

Geographic  information  about net sales and long-lived  assets is in Note 12 of
Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements on page 46 of our 2004 Annual Report
to Stockholders, which information is incorporated into this report by reference
in response to Item 8.

Item 2.  Properties

Significant properties by business segments are as follows:

Beverages
- ---------
Owned facilities:
   - Office facilities:
        - Corporate offices (including renovated historic structures)
          - Louisville, Kentucky

   - Production and warehousing facilities:
        - Lynchburg, Tennessee
        - Louisville, Kentucky
        - Collingwood, Ontario
        - Shively, Kentucky
        - Woodford County, Kentucky
        - Frederiksted, St. Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands
        - Mendocino County, California
        - Monterey County, California
        - San Luis Obispo County, California
        - Sonoma County, California
        - Livorno, Italy
        - Lucca, Italy
        - Pedemonte, Italy
        - Soave, Italy

Leased facilities:
   - Production and bottling facility in Dublin, Ireland
   - Wine production and warehousing facility in Mendocino County, California

The lease terms expire at various dates and are generally renewable.

We believe that the  facilities  are in good  condition and are adequate for the
business.



Consumer Durables
- -----------------
Owned facilities:
   - Office facilities:
        - Lenox corporate - Lawrenceville, New Jersey
        - Headquarters for Lenox Direct Response/Collectibles Division
          (includes retail store and warehouse) - Langhorne, Pennsylvania

   - Production and office facilities (each of which includes a retail store):
        - Lenox - Pomona, New Jersey; and Kinston, North Carolina
        - Hartmann - Lebanon, Tennessee

   - Warehousing facilities:
        - Lenox/Dansk/Gorham - Hagerstown, Maryland
        - Lenox/Dansk/Gorham - Williamsport, Maryland

Leased facilities:
   - Office facilities:
        - Brooks & Bentley - Kent, England

   - Warehousing facilities:
        - Lenox - South Brunswick, New Jersey (includes a retail store and
           clearance center); and Oxford, North Carolina
        - Lenox/Dansk/Gorham - Williamsport, Maryland
        - Lenox Direct Response/Collectibles - Bristol Township, Pennsylvania

   - Retail stores:
        - The Segment operates 58 Lenox stores in 29 states and 41 Dansk stores
           in 24 states. In addition, the Segment operates 7 Hartmann luggage
           outlet stores in 6 states.

   - Showrooms:
        - Lenox/Dansk/Gorham - New York, New York; Dallas, Texas; and
           Atlanta, Georgia

The lease terms expire at various dates and are generally renewable.

We believe that the facilities are in good condition and are adequate for the
business.



Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

Brown-Forman  Corporation and many other manufacturers of spirits, wine and beer
are defendants in a series of essentially  similar class action lawsuits seeking
damages and  injunctive  relief over alleged  marketing  of beverage  alcohol to
underage  consumers.  Five  lawsuits  have been filed to date,  the first  three
against  eight  defendants,  including  Brown-Forman:  "Hakki  v.  Adolph  Coors
Company,  et.al.,"  U.S.  District  Court  for the  District  of  Columbia,  No.
1:03cv02621  (GK),  filed November 2003;  "Kreft v. Zima Beverage Co.,  et.al.,"
District Court, Jefferson County,  Colorado, No. 04cv1827,  filed December 2003;
and  "Wilson v. Zima  Company,  et.al.,"  U.S.  District  Court for the  Western
District of North Carolina,  Charlotte  Division,  No. 3:04cv141,  filed January
2004. Two virtually  identical  suits with  allegations  similar to those in the
first three  lawsuits  were filed in Cleveland,  Ohio, in April and June,  2004,
respectively,  against the original  eight  defendants  as well as an additional
nine  manufacturers of spirits and beer, styled  "Eisenberg v.  Anheuser-Busch,"
U.S.  District  Court for the District of Northern  Ohio,  No.  1:04cv1081,  and
"Tully v.  Anheuser-Busch,"  U.S.  District  Court for the  District of Northern
Ohio,  No.  1:04cv1101.  In addition,  Brown-Forman  has received a  pre-lawsuit
notice under the California  Consumer  Protection  Act indicating  that the same
lawyers  intend  to file a  lawsuit  there  against  many  industry  defendants,
including Brown-Forman, presumably on the same facts and legal theories.

The suits  allege  that the  defendants  have  engaged  in  deceptive  marketing
practices and schemes targeted at underage consumers, negligently marketed their
products to the underage, and fraudulently concealed their alleged misconduct.

Plaintiffs  seek class action  certification  on behalf of: (a) a guardian class
consisting  of all persons who were or are parents of children  whose funds were
used to purchase beverage alcohol marketed by the defendants which were consumed
without their prior  knowledge by their  children under the age of 21 during the
period 1982 to present;  and (b) an injunctive  class  consisting of the parents
and guardians of all children currently under the age of 21.

The lawsuits seek: (1) a finding that defendants  engaged in a deceptive  scheme
to market alcoholic beverages to underage persons and an injunction against such
alleged  practices;  (2)  disgorgement  and refund to the guardian  class of all
proceeds  resulting  from sales to the underage  since 1982; and (3) judgment to
each  guardian  class  member for a trebled  award of actual  damages,  punitive
damages, and attorneys fees. The lawsuits,  either collectively or individually,
if ultimately successful, represent significant financial exposure.

Brown-Forman denies that it intentionally  markets its beverage alcohol products
to minors and denies that its advertising is illegal. It will defend these cases
vigorously.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

None.





Executive Officers of the Registrant


                                                Principal Occupation and
     Name                         Age             Business Experience
     ----                         ---       ---------------------------------

Owsley Brown II                    61       Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
                                            of the company since 1995.

Paul C. Varga                      40       President and Chief Executive
                                            Officer of Brown-Forman Beverages
                                            (a division of Brown-Forman) since
                                            August 2003. Global Chief Marketing
                                            Officer for Brown-Forman Beverages
                                            from 2000 to July 2003. Director of
                                            Marketing for Brown-Forman Spirits-
                                            North American Group from 1998 to
                                            2000.

Phoebe A. Wood                     51       Executive Vice President and Chief
                                            Financial Officer of the company
                                            since February 2001. Vice President
                                            and Chief Financial Officer for
                                            Propel, Inc. (a subsidiary of
                                            Motorola) from August 2000 to
                                            February 2001. Vice President,
                                            Finance, Planning and Control for
                                            ARCO Alaska, Inc. from 1996 to 2000.

Michael B. Crutcher                60       Vice Chairman, General Counsel, and
                                            Secretary since August 2003. Senior
                                            Vice President, General Counsel, and
                                            Secretary from 1989 to August 2003.

James S. Welch, Jr.                45       Vice Chairman, Strategy and Human
                                            Resources since August 2003. Senior
                                            Vice President and Executive
                                            Director of Human Resources from
                                            1999 to August 2003.

James L. Bareuther                 58       Executive Vice President of and
                                            Chief Operating Officer of Brown-
                                            Forman Beverages since August 2003.
                                            President of Brown-Forman Spirits
                                            Americas from July 2001 to August
                                            2003. Executive Vice President,
                                            Spirits Marketing and Sales, North
                                            American Group - Brown-Forman
                                            Beverages Worldwide from 1994 to
                                            July 2001.

Jane C. Morreau                    45       Vice President and Controller since
                                            August 2002. Director of Business
                                            Planning & Analysis from 1997 to
                                            July 2002.






                                     PART II

Item 5.  Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters,
         and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

The  principal  market  for  Brown-Forman  common  shares is the New York  Stock
Exchange.

Holders of record of Common Stock at April 30, 2004:
         Class A Common Stock (Voting)               3,458
         Class B Common Stock (Nonvoting)            4,161

Information  regarding  securities  authorized  for  issuance  under our  equity
compensation  plans can be found in the section  entitled  "Equity  Compensation
Plan  Information"  on page 22 of our definitive  proxy statement for the Annual
Meeting  of  Stockholders  to be  held  July  22,  2004,  which  information  is
incorporated into this report by reference.

For the other  information  required by this item, refer to the section entitled
"Quarterly  Financial  Information"  at the front of the 2004  Annual  Report to
Stockholders, which information is incorporated into this report by reference.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

For the  information  required  by this  item,  refer  to the  section  entitled
"Selected  Financial Data" on page 22 of the 2004 Annual Report to Stockholders,
which information is incorporated into this report by reference.

Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
         of Operations

For the  information  required  by this  item,  refer  to the  section  entitled
"Management's Discussion and Analysis" on pages 23 through 33 of the 2004 Annual
Report to  Stockholders,  and the section  entitled  "Important  Information  on
Forward-Looking   Statements"   on  page  52  of  the  2004  Annual   Report  to
Stockholders, which information is incorporated into this report by reference.

Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

For the information required by this item, refer to the section entitled "Market
Risks"  beginning on page 31 of the 2004 Annual  Report to  Stockholders,  which
information is incorporated into this report by reference.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

For the information  required by this item, refer to the Consolidated  Financial
Statements,  Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements,  Report of Management,
and Report of Independent  Registered Public Accounting Firm on pages 34 through
49 of the 2004 Annual Report to Stockholders,  which information is incorporated
into this report by reference.



Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
         Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9A.  Controls and Procedures

The Chief Executive  Officer ("CEO") and the Chief Financial  Officer ("CFO") of
Brown-Forman  (its principal  executive and principal  financial  officers) have
evaluated  the   effectiveness  of  the  company's   "disclosure   controls  and
procedures" (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e)  under the Securities  Exchange Act of
1934 (the  "Exchange  Act")) as of the end of the period covered by this report.
Based  on  that  evaluation,  the  CEO  and CFO  concluded  that  the  company's
disclosure  controls and  procedures:  are effective to ensure that  information
required to be disclosed by the company in the reports  filed or submitted by it
under the Exchange Act is recorded,  processed,  summarized, and reported within
the time periods  specified in the SEC's rules and forms;  and include  controls
and procedures  designed to ensure that information  required to be disclosed by
the company in such reports is  accumulated  and  communicated  to the company's
management,  including  the CEO and the CFO,  as  appropriate,  to allow  timely
decisions  regarding  required  disclosure.  There  has  been no  change  in the
company's  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  during the most recent
fiscal  quarter  that  has  materially  affected,  or is  reasonably  likely  to
materially affect, the company's internal control over financial reporting.

                                    PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

For the information  required by this item,  refer to the following  sections of
our definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held
July 22, 2004, which  information is incorporated into this report by reference:
(a) "Election of Directors" on pages 6 through 8 (for information on directors);
(b) "Corporate Governance  Guidelines,  Committee Charters and Codes" on page 11
(for information on our Code of Ethics);  (c) the last paragraph on page 15 (for
information  on  delinquent  Section 16 filings);  and (d) "Audit  Committee" on
pages 16 through  18.  Also,  see the  information  with  respect to  "Executive
Officers of the Registrant"  under Part I of this report,  which  information is
incorporated herein by reference.

We will post any  amendments  to our Code of Ethics  that  applies  to our chief
executive  officer,  principal  financial  officer,   controller  and  principal
accounting  officer,  and any waivers  that are  required to be disclosed by the
rules of either the SEC or NYSE on our website.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation

For the information  required by this item,  refer to the following  sections of
our definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held
July 22, 2004, which  information is incorporated into this report by reference:
(a)  "Executive  Compensation"  on pages 21  through  24; (b)  "Retirement  Plan
Descriptions" on page 25; and (c) "Director Compensation" on page 26.



Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
          Related Stockholder Matters

For the information  required by this item,  refer to the following  sections of
our definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held
July 22, 2004, which  information is incorporated into this report by reference:
(a) "Equity Compensation Plan Information" on page 22; and (b) "Stock Ownership"
on pages 14 and 15.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

For the  information  required  by this  item,  refer  to the  section  entitled
"Transactions  with Management" on page 33 of our definitive proxy statement for
the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held July 22, 2004,  which  information
is incorporated into this report by reference.


Item 14.  Principal Accountant Fees and Services

For the information  required by this item,  refer to the section entitled "Fees
Paid to Independent  Auditor" on page 17 of our definitive  proxy  statement for
the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held July 22, 2004,  which  information
is incorporated into this report by reference.

                                     PART IV

Item 15.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)  1 and 2 - Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedule:





All other  schedules for which  provision is made in the  applicable  accounting
regulations of the Securities and Exchange  Commission  have been omitted either
because  they are not  required  under the  related  instructions,  because  the
information  required is included in the consolidated  financial  statements and
notes thereto, or because they are inapplicable.

*  Incorporated by reference to Item 8 in this report.


(a)    3 - Exhibits: Filed with this report:

Exhibit Index
- -------------

     13      Brown-Forman Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the
             year ended April 30, 2004, but only to the extent set forth in
             Items 1, 5, 6, 7, 7A and 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for
             the year ended April 30, 2004.

     14      Code of Ethics.

     21      Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

     23      Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP independent registered public
             accounting firm.

     31.1    CEO Certification pursuant to Section 302 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
             2002.

     31.2    CFO Certification pursuant to Section 302 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
             2002.

     32      CEO and CFO Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as
             adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
             (not considered to be filed).

Previously Filed:
 Exhibit Index
- -------------
    3(i)     Restated Certificate of Incorporation of registrant, which is
             incorporated into this report by reference to Brown-Forman
             Corporation's Form 10-Q filed on March 4, 2004.

    3(ii)    By-laws of Registrant, as amended on May 29, 2003, which is
             incorporated into this report by reference to Brown-Forman
             Corporation's Form 10-K filed on July 24, 2003.

      4      Form of Indenture dated as of March 1, 1994 between Brown-Forman
             Corporation and The First National Bank of Chicago, as Trustee,
             which is incorporated into this report by reference to Brown-Forman
             Corporation's Form S-3 (Registration  No. 33-52551) filed on
             March 8, 1994.



    10(a)    A description of the Brown-Forman Omnibus Compensation Plan, which
             is incorporated into this report by reference to Brown-Forman
             Corporation's Form S-8 (Registration No. 333-88925) filed on
             October 13, 1999.

    10(b)    Brown-Forman Corporation Supplemental Excess Retirement Plan, which
             is incorporated into this report by reference to Brown-Forman
             Corporation's Form 10-K filed on July 23, 1990.

    10(c)    A description of the Brown-Forman Savings Plan, which is
             incorporated into this report by reference to page 10 of the
             registrant's definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of
             Stockholders held on July 25, 1996.

    10(d)    A description of the Brown-Forman Non-Employee Director
             Compensation Plan, which is incorporated into this report by
             reference to Brown-Forman Corporation's Form S-8 (Registration No.
             333-38649) filed on October 24, 1997.

    10(e)    Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of October 19, 2001, among
             Brown-Forman Corporation, the Lenders named therein, Bank of
             America, N.A. and Bank One, NA, as Co-Syndication Agents, National
             City Bank of Kentucky and Suntrust Bank, as Co-Documentation
             Agents, and The Chase Manhattan Bank, as Administrative Agent,
             which is incorporated into this report by reference to
             Brown-Forman Corporation's Form 10-Q filed on March 7, 2003.

    10(f)    Amended and Restated 364-Day Credit Agreement, dated as of
             October 19, 2001, and amended and restated as of October 11, 2002,
             among Brown-Forman Corporation, the Lenders named therein, Bank of
             America, N.A. and Bank One, NA, as Co-Syndication Agents, National
             City Bank of Kentucky and Suntrust Bank, as Co-Documentation
             Agents, and JP Morgan Chase Bank, as Administrative Agent, which is
             incorporated into this report by reference to Brown-Forman
             Corporation's Form 10-Q filed on March 7, 2003.

    10(g)    The description of the terms of $250,000,000 of 2-1/8% Notes due
             2006 and $350,000,000 of 3% Notes due 2008, which description is
             incorporated by reference into this report by reference to the
             Indenture filed with Brown-Forman Corporation's Form S-4
             (Registration No. 333-104657) on April 21, 2003.


(b) Reports on Form 8-K:

    None.



                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the  requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934,  the  registrant  has duly  caused  this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                                            BROWN-FORMAN CORPORATION
                                                 (Registrant)



                                            /s/ OWSLEY BROWN II
                                            ------------------------------------
Date:  July 1, 2004                          By:  Owsley Brown II
                                                  Chairman of the Board and
                                                  Chief Executive Officer


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following  persons on behalf of the  registrant and
in the capacities on July 1, 2004 as indicated:




             REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
                        ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE


To the Board of Directors
of Brown-Forman Corporation:

Our audits of the consolidated  financial  statements  referred to in our report
dated May 27,  2004  appearing  in the 2004  Annual  Report to  Shareholders  of
Brown-Forman   Corporation  and  Subsidiaries  (which  report  and  consolidated
financial statements are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form
10-K) also included an audit of the financial  statement schedule listed in Item
15(a)(2) of this Form 10-K. In our opinion,  this financial  statement  schedule
presents  fairly,  in all material  respects,  the information set forth therein
when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.



/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Louisville, Kentucky
July 1, 2004

                                      S-1



                    BROWN-FORMAN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
               For the Years Ended April 30, 2002, 2003, and 2004
                            (Expressed in thousands)



 (1) Doubtful accounts written off, net of recoveries.
 (2) Employee termination benefit payments, write-offs of impaired machinery and
     equipment (net of recoveries), and other cash expenditures related to the
     closing of three manufacturing plants.

                                      S-2



                                                                     Exhibit 13



                              FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended April 30,                              2003        2004     % Change
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Net Sales                                        $2,376      $2,577        8%
Gross Profit                                     $1,180      $1,298       10%
Operating Income                                 $  378      $  407        8%
Net Income                                       $  245      $  258        5%
Earnings Per Share
 - Basic                                         $ 1.82      $ 2.12       17%
 - Diluted                                       $ 1.82      $ 2.11       16%
Cash Dividends Per Common Share                  $ 0.73      $ 0.80       10%
Return on Average Invested Capital                 15.7%       15.8%
Return on Average Common Stockholders' Equity      19.1%       27.8%
Gross Margin                                       49.7%       50.4%
Operating Margin                                   15.9%       15.8%



                         QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION
(Expressed in millions, except per share amounts)




                            Total Shareholder Return
                        (including dividend reinvestment)


      Fiscal              Brown-Forman          S&P 500
       Year                (Class B)             Index
      ------                -------             -------
       1994                  $100                $100
       1995                   114                 117
       1996                   140                 153
       1997                   184                 191
       1998                   211                 270
       1999                   279                 329
       2000                   211                 362
       2001                   241                 315
       2002                   318                 275
       2003                   316                 239
       2004                   394                 294
      10-Year Annual Growth   +15%                +11%




                                    CONTENTS

                                                              Page
Selected Financial Data                                        22
Management's Discussion and Analysis                           23
Consolidated Statement of Income                               34
Consolidated Balance Sheet                                     35
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows                           36
Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity                 37
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                     38
Report of Management                                           49
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm        49
Important Information On Forward-Looking Statements            52



                             SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

(Expressed in millions, except per share amounts and ratios)
Year Ended April 30,


Notes:
1.  Includes the consolidated results of Sonoma-Cutrer Vineyards, Finlandia
    Vodka Worldwide, and Tuoni e Canepa since their acquisitions in April 1999,
    December 2002, and February 2003, respectively.
2.  Weighted average shares, earnings per share, and cash dividends declared
    per common share have been adjusted for a 2-for-1 common stock split in
    fiscal 2004.
3.  We define Return on Average Invested Capital as the sum of net income
    (excluding extraordinary items) and after-tax interest expense, divided by
    average invested capital.  Invested capital is the sum of all interest-
    bearing debt and preferred and common equity.
4.  We define Return on Average Common Stockholders' Equity as income applicable
    to common stock divided by average common stockholders' equity.
5.  We define Total Debt to Total Capital as total debt divided by the sum of
    total debt and stockholders' equity.
6.  We define Dividend Payout Ratio as cash dividends divided by net income.
7.  We have reclassified some prior year amounts to conform with this year's
    presentation.




                      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

In  the  discussion  below,  we  review  Brown-Forman's  consolidated  financial
condition and results of  operations  for the fiscal years ended April 30, 2002,
2003, and 2004. We also make statements  relating to our  anticipated  financial
performance  and other  forward-looking  statements and discuss factors that may
affect  the  company's  future  financial  condition  and  performance.  We have
prepared a non-exclusive list of risk factors that could cause actual results to
differ  materially from our anticipated  results.  Please read this Management's
Discussion and Analysis section in conjunction  with our consolidated  financial
statements  for the year ended  April 30, 2004 and the  related  notes,  and the
important information regarding forward-looking statements on page 52.

EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW

Brown-Forman  Corporation is a diversified producer and marketer of fine quality
consumer products. Our company consists of two business segments:  Beverages and
Consumer Durables. In fiscal 2004, the Beverage segment generated  approximately
96% of the company's total operating  income and the Consumer  Durables  segment
generated the remaining 4%.

Our Beverage segment includes both wine and spirits brands,  which are produced,
marketed, and sold on a global basis.  Approximately two-thirds of the segment's
sales are generated in the United States,  by far the company's  largest market.
In general, the domestic market for premium spirits brands has improved over the
past year.  We  believe  several  factors  are  driving  this  favorable  trend,
including positive demographic trends, a growing consumer interest in cocktails,
and more effective consumer advertising.  In addition, we believe that there are
also potential benefits to sales resulting from the increasing popularity of low
carbohydrate  diets, which is causing some consumers to switch from beer to wine
and spirits. We currently  anticipate that these trends will continue.  However,
we  recognize  that  consumer  trends can change very  quickly and these  recent
beneficial industry factors may not continue into the future.

Much of the growth for the  Beverage  segment over the past decade has been from
the  international  markets for our spirits  brands.  The most important  export
markets for  Brown-Forman  are the United Kingdom,  Australia,  Germany,  Spain,
Italy, Japan, Canada, and France. As we continue to expand outside of the United
States,  our  financial  results  are more  exposed  to  foreign  exchange  rate
fluctuations.  Although we have purchased  foreign currency option contracts for
the upcoming  year to help protect  against a significant  strengthening  of the
U.S.  dollar,  over the longer  term,  profits from our  international  beverage
business may be adversely affected if the U.S. dollar strengthens  against other
currencies.

The wine business has been  extremely  challenging  over the past few years.  An
oversupply  of  grapes  in  both   California  and  Australia  has  resulted  in
significant  retail price  competition,  reducing industry  margins.  Generally,
Australian wineries have a lower cost of grapes than comparable quality wineries
in California,  thereby  providing a significant  advantage for those producers.
Although a weaker U.S.  dollar and aggressive  cost-cutting  in California  have
helped  close the gap,  imported  wine brands  continue to be priced  lower than
comparable California wine brands. As a result,  volumes and margins for many of
the major wine brands from California have been weak.

Jack Daniel's  Tennessee Whiskey is the most important brand within the Beverage
segment  and is one of the  largest and most  profitable  spirits  brands in the
world. Global volume growth for Jack Daniel's  accelerated in fiscal 2004 to 6%,
the strongest  growth rate  registered for the brand in five years. In the U.S.,
which  represents  about 55% of the  brand's  volume,  consumer  demand for Jack
Daniel's  continued to accelerate in fiscal 2004.  The healthy  environment  for
premium spirits,  increased levels of advertising and promotional  support,  and
the brand's  overall  positioning  are  combining to provide  volume  growth and
increased  profitability.  It is important to note that a significant percentage
of our company's total earnings are derived from the brand.  Although it remains
very healthy by most  consumer  measures,  and we remain  confident  that we can
continue to grow the brand on a global basis, a significant decline in volume or
pricing for the brand would hurt the overall earnings for our company.



Southern  Comfort,  the second most  important  brand in our  Beverage  segment,
continues to provide good earnings growth. The brand's two largest markets,  the
U.S.  and the  U.K.,  are  both  performing  well,  although  many of the  other
international  markets for the brand have weakened.  The segment's other premium
spirits brands,  including  Finlandia,  Tuaca, and Woodford  Reserve,  have also
experienced  an  acceleration  in  demand  and  are  expected  to  be  important
contributors to the long-term growth of our Beverage business. In contrast,  the
company's   mid-priced  spirits  brands  are  not  doing  as  well.  Our  large,
off-premise driven category leaders,  such as Canadian Mist and Early Times, are
susceptible to price competition in those  categories,  and discounting over the
last 18  months  has  eroded  profits.  We  recognize  that  growth  from  these
mid-priced brands will be difficult.

The segment's  wine  portfolio  has struggled in recent years.  Our largest wine
brand,  Fetzer,  has been unable to take advantage of lower industry grape costs
in California  because of its grape  purchase  commitments.  It will be at least
three more harvests before Fetzer will derive meaningful cost savings from lower
cost grapes. In contrast to the oversupply in California,  a shortage of certain
Italian grape  varietals  (primarily  Pinot Grigio) and foreign  exchange trends
have increased  costs for Bolla.  Aggressive  price increases  partially  offset
these cost pressures, but volumes suffered as a result during fiscal 2004.

We have not made major investments in overseas distribution  networks;  instead,
we mostly use other  spirits  producers  to  distribute  and market our products
outside the U.S. In April 2005,  many of our  distribution  contracts in Western
Europe will expire.  We are  currently  undertaking  an extensive  review of our
distribution agreements in these markets. As a result, we may have opportunities
to improve our distribution  arrangements in many of these  countries.  Although
consolidation   among   spirits   producers   theoretically   could  hinder  the
distribution  of our spirits and wine  products in the future,  to date this has
rarely  happened.  Other spirits  companies  typically  seek to  distribute  our
premium spirits and wine brands, and we expect that demand to continue.

Our Consumer  Durables  segment  includes  tabletop,  collectibles,  and luggage
products  marketed under the Lenox,  Dansk,  Gorham,  Kirk Stieff,  and Hartmann
brand names.  Sales in our fine china  business rely on three primary  channels:
department     stores,     company-owned     retail    outlet    stores,     and
direct-to-the-consumer  through  catalogs,  direct  mail and the  internet.  The
financial  results from this segment have been  disappointing  over the past few
years,  as  purchases  of fine china and  luggage are  discretionary  and can be
deferred in uncertain  economic times. The fine china business relies heavily on
the department store channel, which has been struggling.  Major chains have also
consolidated in recent years, which has resulted in a reduction in the number of
stores selling our products.  In addition,  much of the growth in the 1990's was
led  by the  direct-to-consumer  division,  referred  to as  Lenox  Collections.
Unfortunately,  this  channel,  which  has the  highest  profit  margins  in the
segment, weakened considerably over the past two years.

In partial response to the difficulties of this segment, in January 2004 several
members of the senior  management  team at Lenox were replaced.  The new team of
executives is already  implementing  specific actions that should benefit future
earnings and cash flow of the segment.  These  actions  include  reducing  fixed
costs,  increasing production  efficiencies,  closing unprofitable retail outlet
locations,  and developing new products.  As a result,  we expect an increase in
free cash flow and earnings for this segment in the next year.

Overall,  we are optimistic  about the earnings  outlook for fiscal 2005, due to
expected growth for Jack Daniel's and Southern Comfort,  improved  profitability
for the wine brands,  and benefits from the recent  initiatives  in the Consumer
Durables segment. We currently expect fiscal 2005 earnings to grow approximately
10-15%, to a range of $2.32 to $2.42 per share.

CONSOLIDATED SUMMARY OF OPERATING PERFORMANCE

Fiscal 2004 Compared to Fiscal 2003

Consolidated net sales reached record levels in fiscal 2004, growing 8%, or $201
million.  This sales  growth  reflects  an  acceleration  in demand for  premium
spirits brands, particularly in the United States, the company's largest market.
Beverage sales increased 11%,  driven by favorable  currency  trends,  continued
volume growth and price increases for our premium  spirits brands,  the addition
of new  markets to our  distribution  agreement  for  Finlandia  and its related
agency  brands,  and the company's new  distribution  arrangement  in the United
Kingdom.  Sales of our Consumer Durables segment improved 1% as modest increases
in sales to wholesale  customers,  particularly to specialty stores, were offset
by declines in sales in the segment's retail and direct-to-consumer channels.

Consolidated  international  sales of $628 million (excluding excise taxes) rose
29% in fiscal 2004,  reflecting the strengthening of foreign  currencies against
the U.S. dollar, higher volumes of Jack Daniel's, the addition of new markets to
our  distribution  agreement  for  Finlandia,   and  the  benefits  of  the  new
distribution  arrangement  in the United  Kingdom.  Sales in the United  States,
representing 72% of our revenues  (excluding excise taxes), were up a modest 1%,
as  accelerating  volume  trends for Jack  Daniel's  and  Southern  Comfort,  in
particular,  were  partially  offset by declines  for Fetzer,  Bolla,  and Lenox
retail and direct-to-consumer divisions.

Consolidated gross profit is a key performance  measure for us. The same factors
described  above that drove  revenue  growth  also drove the  increase  in gross
profit.

Gross margin improved from 49.7% to 50.4%, the first increase since fiscal 2001.
This improvement was driven by our higher-margin  Beverage  segment,  which grew
significantly  faster than the Consumer Durables  segment.  The Beverage segment
gross margin benefited from favorable  foreign  exchange trends,  higher prices,
the absence of lower-margin  discontinued  wine brands,  and a continuing  shift
toward higher-margin products.



      Fiscal          Gross
       Year          Margin
      ------         ------
       1995           48.3%
       1996           47.9%
       1997           48.3%
       1998           49.9%
       1999           50.5%
       2000           51.4%
       2001           52.5%
       2002           50.9%
       2003           49.7%
       2004           50.4%


Consolidated operating income for fiscal 2004 improved 8%, or $29 million. A $42
million  increase in profits from the Beverage segment was driven by solid gains
for both Jack Daniel's and Southern Comfort, benefits from a weaker U.S. dollar,
and a modest  increase  in  profits  from  our wine  brands.  These  gains  were
partially  offset by a $13  million  decline in  operating  income for  Consumer
Durables,   reflecting  the  continued  challenging  environment  for  tabletop,
collectibles, and luggage, as well as several charges incurred in fiscal 2004.


                                Operating Income

Dollars in Millions
                              2002          2003          2004
                              ----          ----          ----
Beverages                     $336          $348          $390
Consumer Durables               17            30            17
                              ----          ----          ----
Total                         $353          $378          $407
                              ====          ====          ====
Total change                    -6%           +7%           +8%


Diluted  earnings  per share  reached a record  $2.11,  up 16% over fiscal 2003,
representing  the largest  percentage  increase  in  earnings  per share in nine
years. This strong earnings  performance was fueled by healthy underlying growth
for our premium spirits brands,  benefits from a weaker U.S. dollar, the effects
of the March 2003 share  repurchase  (+$0.14),  and a modest increase in profits
from our wine  brands.  Tempering  the  growth  in  earnings  for the year was a
significant  decline in  profits  from the  Consumer  Durables  segment,  higher
pension  costs,  and the  settlement  of a lawsuit  with  Diageo  involving  the
distribution of Jack Daniel's in the United Kingdom.

BASIC AND DILUTED  EARNINGS PER SHARE.  We have a stock option plan described in
Note 15 to our financial  statements.  Our plan requires that we purchase shares
to satisfy  stock  option  requirements,  thereby  avoiding  future  dilution of
earnings that would occur from issuing  additional  shares.  We acquire treasury
shares from time to time in  anticipation  of these  requirements.  We intend to
hold  enough  treasury  stock so that the number of diluted  shares is always no
more than the original number of shares outstanding at inception of the plan (as
adjusted for any share issuances unrelated to our stock option plan). The extent
to which the  number of diluted  shares  exceeds  the number of basic  shares is
determined  by how much our stock price has  appreciated  since the options were
granted, not by how many treasury shares we have acquired.

Fiscal 2003 Compared to Fiscal 2002

Consolidated  net sales grew 7%, or $153 million.  Beverage sales increased 11%,
due to solid growth for Jack Daniel's  Tennessee  Whiskey and Southern  Comfort,
the impact of our new United  Kingdom  distribution  arrangement,  and favorable
foreign  exchange trends.  Significantly  lower revenues for our wine brands and
our Consumer Durables segment partially offset these gains.

Consolidated gross profit increased $48 million, or 4%, reflecting the expansion
of consumer demand around the world for Jack Daniel's,  coupled with significant
margin improvement on both Jack Daniel's and Southern Comfort (boosted by higher
prices,  the new U.K.  distribution  arrangement,  and positive foreign exchange
trends). Partially mitigating our gross profit growth in fiscal 2003 were higher
grape costs, a competitive  pricing  environment for wines,  and soft retail and
direct-to-consumer trends for the Consumer Durables segment.

Consolidated operating income for fiscal 2003 improved 7%, or $25 million. A $12
million  increase in profits from the Beverage  segment was driven  primarily by
solid  gains  for Jack  Daniel's  and  Southern  Comfort,  partially  offset  by
significantly  lower earnings on wines.  In addition,  operating  income for the
Consumer Durables segment increased $13 million,  largely reflecting the absence
of $17 million of business improvement initiative costs incurred in fiscal 2002.

Diluted  earnings per share increased 9% to $1.81 per share in fiscal 2003. (All
EPS amounts  have been  adjusted to reflect the January 2004  two-for-one  stock
split).  Solid growth from our spirits  brands and lower costs  associated  with
business  improvement  initiatives  more than offset the significant  decline in
profits for wines and Consumer  Durables.  The benefits of the repurchase of 7.9
million shares of the company's common stock in March 2003 also boosted earnings
per share by $0.01 in fiscal 2003.

OTHER KEY PERFORMANCE MEASURES

Our  primary  goal is to  increase  the value of our  shareholders'  investment.
Long-term  growth in the market value of our stock is a good  indication  of our
success in delivering an attractive return to shareholders.

TOTAL  SHAREHOLDER  RETURN. A $100 investment in our Class B stock ten years ago
would have grown to $394 by the end of fiscal 2004, assuming reinvestment of all
dividends and ignoring personal taxes and transaction  costs. This represents an
annualized  return of 15% over the ten-year period,  compared to 11% for the S&P
500. A more recent investment in Brown-Forman also outperformed the market, with
our Class B stock  yielding an average  annual return of 18% over the three-year
period ended April 30, 2004, compared to an average annual decline of 2% for the
S&P 500.



RETURN ON AVERAGE INVESTED CAPITAL. Following several years of declining trends,
our return on average  invested  capital  improved  slightly in fiscal 2004.  We
expect this trend to continue in fiscal 2005, as the repayment of  approximately
$200 million of our deferred tax liability  over a five-year  period as required
by a change in U.S. tax regulations ended in fiscal 2003. In addition, we expect
our recent  investments  in  Finlandia  and Tuaca,  which were  dilutive  to our
returns last year, will enhance our returns over the long-term. We believe these
factors,  coupled  with our  positive  outlook  for  earnings  growth  and tight
management  of our  investment  base,  will  continue to increase  our return on
invested capital over time.

Return on  average  common  stockholders'  equity  grew to near  record  levels,
reflecting the benefit of our March 2003 share repurchase.


                                                  2002     2003     2004
                                                  ----     ----     ----
Return on Average Invested Capital                15.9%    15.7%    15.8%
Return on Average Common Stockholders' Equity     18.5%    19.1%    27.8%



BEVERAGE SEGMENT

Summary of Operating Performance
(Dollars in millions)             2002        2003        2004
                                 ------      ------      ------
Net Sales                        $1,618      $1,795      $1,992
   % Change                           3%         11%         11%
Gross Profit                     $  849      $  900      $1,024
   % Change                           0%          6%         14%
Advertising Expenses             $  213      $  230      $  265
   % Change                           0%          8%         15%
SG&A Expenses                    $  303      $  329      $  366
   % Change                          (4%)         9%         11%
Other Expense (Income)           $   (3)     $   (7)     $    3
Operating Income                 $  336      $  348      $  390
   % Change                           3%          4%         12%
Gross Margin                       52.5%       50.1%       51.4%
Operating Margin                   20.7%       19.4%       19.6%



Our Beverage  segment  includes strong brands  representing a wide range of wine
varietals,  champagnes,  and distilled spirits such as whiskey,  bourbon, vodka,
tequila,  rum, and liqueur.  This segment's largest market is the United States,
which  generally  prohibits  wine and spirits  manufacturers  from selling their
products  directly to  consumers.  Instead,  we sell our  products to  wholesale
distributors,  who then  sell the  products  to  retailers,  who in turn sell to
consumers.  We also use a  similar  tiered  distribution  model in most  markets
outside the United States.

Distributors  and  retailers  normally  keep  some  of our  products  on hand as
inventory,  making  it  possible  for  retailers  to sell  more (or less) of our
products to the  consumer  than  distributors  buy from us during any given time
period.  Because we record  revenues when we ship our products to  distributors,
our  sales  do  not  necessarily  reflect  actual  consumer  demand  during  any
particular  period.  Ultimately,  of  course,  consumer  demand is  critical  in
determining our financial results. Thus, it is important to consider that demand
in assessing our performance.  Depletions,  which are defined as nine-liter case
movements  from  distributors  to retailers,  are generally used in the wine and
spirits  industry as the most  accurate  approximation  of consumer  demand on a
national and international basis.

Fiscal 2004 Compared to Fiscal 2003

Net sales reached nearly $2 billion in fiscal 2004,  increasing $197 million, or
11%. The major drivers of this growth were:

                                                               % of Growth
                                                                 vs. 2003
                                                                 --------
   A weaker U.S. dollar                                              4%
   The full-year impact of new markets for Finlandia and
    related agency brands; net of discontinued wine brands           2%
   The new distribution arrangement in the U.K                       1%
   Underlying revenue growth                                         4%
                                                                 --------
   Total                                                            11%
                                                                 ========

We believe that  disclosing the 4% underlying  revenue growth for fiscal 2004 is
important  because it is a more accurate  reflection of the ongoing  operational
performance  of the segment.  However,  our spirits  sales grew at a higher rate
than 4%, driven by solid volume growth and price increases,  while revenues fell
for our wine portfolio.

It was  another  strong  year for Jack  Daniel's  Tennessee  Whiskey,  as volume
increased for the twelfth consecutive year. Consumer demand accelerated globally
and the brand surpassed an annualized volume of seven million cases,  growing 6%
for the year. The brand's volumes were  particularly  strong in the U.S.,  U.K.,
Canada,  South  Africa,  and  China.  Volumes  in  Korea,  Japan,  and  most  of
Continental Europe were sluggish,  however,  as mixed economic  conditions and a
growing  anti-alcohol  sentiment in Europe  moderated  growth in these  markets.
Results for Southern Comfort were also strong,  as growth in the U.S., U.K., and
South Africa was only  partially  offset by weaker  performance  in  Continental
Europe.  Both brands achieved  record sales and profit levels,  driven by higher
volumes, positive foreign exchange trends, and price increases.




Volumes for Finlandia were also up,  reflecting the new markets of  distribution
added late last fiscal  year.  Sales of  Finlandia  in the U.S.  improved in the
second  half of the  fiscal  year,  as the  introduction  of a new  package  and
increased  promotional  investments  stimulated  demand for the brand.  However,
Canadian Mist struggled in the highly  competitive  mid-priced whiskey market in
the U.S. Several of the segment's super-premium brands,  including both Woodford
Reserve and Tuaca,  experienced  accelerating  rates of demand and  double-digit
volume growth.

The company's two largest wine brands,  Fetzer and Bolla, both increased pricing
this past year more aggressively than their  competitors.  This factor,  coupled
with continued competitive pressure from both imported and domestic wine brands,
contributed  to the  significant  decline  in  volumes  and  sales for these two
brands.  However,  volumes and  revenues  for Korbel  Champagnes  were higher in
fiscal 2004,  as the brand  continued to increase its market share in the United
States.

The following table highlights worldwide depletion results for our major brands
during fiscal 2004:


                        Nine-Liter      % of Growth
                       Cases (000s)       vs. 2003
                       ------------     -----------

 Jack Daniel's            7,205              6%
 Total RTDs(1)            2,540             14%
 Southern Comfort         2,185              1%
 Canadian Mist            2,150             (7%)
 Finlandia(2)             1,725             35%
 Fetzer                   2,550            (14%)
 Bolla                    1,440            (13%)
 Korbel Champagnes        1,145              2%

 (1) RTD (ready-to-drink) volumes include Jack Daniel's, Southern Comfort and
     Finlandia RTD products with the exception of Jack Daniel's Original Hard
     Cola, which was marketed and sold by SABMiller during fiscal 2004.
 (2) Depletions for Finlandia benefited from the addition of new markets to
     Brown-Forman's distribution agreement.  Excluding these new markets,
     comparable depletions for Finlandia were up 2%.


Gross  profit  for the  beverage  business  reached a new  milestone  of over $1
billion in fiscal 2004,  expanding 14%, or $124 million.  This growth was fueled
by the same factors that boosted revenue growth, though overall underlying gross
profit growth was much stronger,  reflecting  volume and margin  improvement for
Jack  Daniel's and  Southern  Comfort.  The  following  chart  details the major
factors driving gross profit growth:
                                                               % of Growth
                                                                 vs. 2003
                                                                 --------
   A weaker U.S. dollar                                              4%
   The full-year impact of new markets for Finlandia and
    related agency brands; net of discontinued wine brands           1%
   The new distribution arrangement in the U.K                       1%
   Underlying gross profit growth                                    8%
                                                                 --------
   Total                                                            14%
                                                                 ========

We believe that disclosing the 8% underlying gross profit growth for fiscal 2004
is important  because it is a more accurate  reflection of the ongoing operating
performance of the segment. The gross margin for our Beverage business increased
from 50.1% in fiscal 2003 to 51.4% in fiscal  2004.  The major  factors  driving
this improvement were the weaker U.S. dollar,  price increases on selected major
wine and spirits brands, a higher mix of Jack Daniel's volume,  and a higher mix
of volumes in the high-margin U.K. market.

Advertising  expenses  were up 15% as we  continued  our long  track  record  of
reinvesting  substantial  dollars in brand  building  activities for our premium
spirits brands.  Although Jack Daniel's and Finlandia drove most of the increase
in advertising  investments in fiscal 2004, we also significantly  increased our
investments behind our developing brands, including Woodford Reserve, Tuaca, and
Appleton. The weaker U.S. dollar also drove up our costs for advertising outside
of the U.S.  over fiscal 2003. On a constant  exchange  basis,  our  advertising
costs were up 10% for the year.



Selling, general and administrative expenses were up 11%, influenced
by the following factors:
                                                               % of Growth
                                                                 vs. 2003
                                                                 --------
   Consolidation of Finlandia Vodka Worldwide and
    Tuoni e Canepa (both acquired in late fiscal 2003)               3%
   Higher pension and postretirement expenses                        2%
   Incremental sales and marketing personnel in the
    U.K. (to support the new distribution arrangement)               1%
   Wine reorganization costs                                         1%
   Underlying SG&A growth                                            4%
                                                                 --------
   Total                                                            11%
                                                                 ========

We believe that disclosing the 4% underlying SG&A growth is important because it
is a more  accurate  reflection  of the  ongoing  operating  performance  of the
segment.  Other expense was up $10 million in fiscal 2004 due to the  settlement
of a lawsuit with Diageo  involving  the  distribution  of Jack  Daniel's in the
United Kingdom.

Operating  income  reached a record  $390  million in fiscal  2004,  growing $42
million, or 12%, over fiscal 2003. This is the strongest  year-over-year  growth
rate in  operating  income the  Beverage  segment  has  experienced  since 1990.
Positive factors driving earnings growth were solid  performance for our premium
spirits   brands   (fueled  in  part  by  the   double-digit   increase  in  our
brand-building investments),  the benefits of a weaker U.S. dollar, and a modest
improvement in wines.  These gains were only partially offset by the $10 million
in expenses associated with the Diageo litigation settlement, $4 million in wine
restructuring costs, and $7 million in incremental pension expenses.

Fiscal 2003 Compared to Fiscal 2002

Net sales improved 11%, or $177 million. Jack Daniel's registered growth for the
eleventh  consecutive  year,  as volumes  increased  in 16 of the brand's top 20
markets  around  the  world.  The new U.K.  distribution  arrangement,  positive
foreign  exchange and higher  volumes and pricing for Southern  Comfort  boosted
revenues in fiscal 2003.

Gross profit grew 6%, or $51 million,  reflecting  solid gains for Jack Daniel's
and Southern Comfort,  a more profitable  distribution  arrangement in the U.K.,
and favorable  foreign exchange  movements.  These  improvements  were partially
offset by  significantly  lower  profits for our wine brands.  The  recording of
excise taxes for the new U.K. distribution arrangement, higher costs and pricing
pressure  for wines  contributed  to the  decline in gross  margin from 52.5% in
fiscal 2002 to 50.1% in fiscal 2003.

Advertising expenses increased 8% as we increased brand-building  activities for
our spirits brands.  Selling,  general and  administrative  expenses were up 9%,
influenced  by an  increase  in sales and  marketing  costs  related  to the new
distribution  arrangement  in the U.K.  and new  markets  added  as a result  of
acquiring additional ownership and distribution of Finlandia.

Operating income grew 4%, or $12 million,  primarily  reflecting  healthy growth
for spirits, tempered partially by lower profits for wines.

BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT FOR WINE AND SPIRITS

GOVERNMENT  POLICIES,  PUBLIC  ATTITUDES:  Our  ability  to market  and sell our
beverage  alcohol  products  depends heavily on government  policy towards those
products and the attitude of society in general toward  drinking  them.  This is
true in the United States, our largest market, and around the world.

A small  minority  of drinkers  abuse  beverage  alcohol,  giving rise to public
issues of great significance. We strongly oppose abusive drinking and contribute
significant  resources to programs aimed at  understanding  and curbing  alcohol
abuse -- especially drunk driving and underage  drinking.  As a society,  we are
more likely to curb  alcohol  abuse  through  better  education  about  beverage
alcohol and moderate drinking than by restricting  alcohol advertising and sales
or imposing  punitive  taxation.  We and other beverage alcohol producers take a
prominent  role in  encouraging  responsible  consumption of our products and in
warning  against  alcohol abuse.  We observe  voluntary  industry  marketing and
advertising  guidelines.  We support social awareness  organizations  that fight
alcohol abuse and educate consumers about beverage alcohol, often in partnership
with public health officials.

Anti-alcohol  groups  in  the  U.S.  and  Europe  are  increasingly   advocating
governmental  actions  that  would be  unfavorable  for our  business.  Legal or
regulatory  measures  against  beverage  alcohol  (including its advertising and
promotion) could adversely affect our sales.  Especially in the U.S.,  distilled
spirits are at a marked disadvantage to beer and wine in taxation,  advertising,
and number and type of sales outlets.  Achieving greater cultural  acceptance of
our  products  and parity  with beer and wine in access to  consumers  are major
goals, which we share with other distillers.

LEVELING THE PLAYING FIELD: Among the objectives we seek are:
 - greater access to television advertising for distilled spirits;
 - fairer product distribution rules, so that our customers can buy our
   beverage products more conveniently. Over the past year, our industry
   has successfully lobbied for laws allowing spirits sales on Sundays in
   Idaho, Massachusetts and Virginia. We are actively working to pass
   similar legislation in a number of other U.S. markets;
 - ability to use consumer education opportunities such as tastings (in
   the last two years, the spirits industry helped pass legislation allowing
   consumer tastings in nine states);
 - freedom to advertise our products outdoors (some municipal ordinances
   discriminate against billboard advertising of spirits products); and
 - improved access to foreign markets, many of which have discriminatory
   tax or other non-tariff barriers to U.S. beverage imports.




TAXES: Like all goods, beverage alcohol sales are sensitive to higher tax rates.
No  legislation to increase U.S.  federal  excise taxes on distilled  spirits is
currently  pending,  but future tax increases are always possible.  From time to
time state legislatures  increase beverage alcohol taxes. Some states even allow
local taxes.  A number of states  continue to face  financial  difficulties  and
could raise  excise  taxes to remedy  this.  The  cumulative  effect of such tax
increases  over time hurts  sales.  Because  combined  federal  and state  taxes
currently account for more than 50% of the price of a typical bottle of bourbon,
we work for reasonable  excise tax  reductions.  Over the past year the industry
has defeated tax increase  proposals in over 30 states,  but with several states
continuing  to face  budget  problems,  we do not expect the threat of state tax
increases  to abate  next  fiscal  year.  Increased  tax rates  and  advertising
restrictions  also affect  beverage  alcohol  markets  outside the U.S. To date,
those  changes in our export  markets have not been  significant  to our overall
business, but that could change.

THE LITIGATION  CLIMATE:  Publicity  surrounding  the many lawsuits  against the
tobacco  industry  (and,  to a  lesser  extent,  against  the gun and  fast-food
industries)  has prompted  some  commentators  to suggest that alcohol  might be
next. We believe that because the products and industry  practices  differ,  the
legal theories that created  liability for the tobacco companies do not apply to
beverage alcohol.

Five class  action  lawsuits  have been  filed  against  Brown-Forman  and other
spirits,  beer,  and  wine  manufacturers  alleging  that our  marketing  causes
consumption  of alcohol by those  under the legal  drinking  age. We will defend
these cases and contest the allegations.  However, adverse developments in these
or similar lawsuits could hurt our Beverage business, and the overall industry.

THE  PUBLIC  HEALTH  COMMUNITY:  We seek  partnerships  with the  public  health
community to combat alcohol abuse and improve understanding of beverage alcohol.
We have seen some notable successes, but we are disappointed that groups such as
the American Medical  Association and the World Health  Organization so far have
chosen to attack beverage alcohol  producers rather than work with us jointly to
combat  alcohol  abuse.  Long-range,  these  kinds  of  attacks  could  hurt our
business.

EXCHANGE RATES: The strength of foreign  currencies  relative to the U.S. dollar
affects profits and costs in our international beverage business. This year, our
corporate  earnings  benefited from a weaker U.S.  dollar,  particularly  in the
United Kingdom and Australia.  We have entered into foreign currency forward and
option contracts to limit the downside risk to foreign exchange  fluctuations in
fiscal 2005. If the U.S.  dollar  appreciates  significantly,  the effect on our
business  would be negative  for any portion of our  business  that has not been
hedged.


CONSUMER DURABLES SEGMENT

Summary of Operating Performance
(Dollars in millions)             2002       2003       2004
                                 ------      ------     ------
Net Sales                        $ 605       $ 581      $ 585
   % Change                         (3%)        (4%)        1%
Gross Profit                     $ 283       $ 280      $ 274
   % Change                         (7%)        (1%)       (2%)
Advertising Expenses             $  85       $  91      $  89
   % Change                          4%          8%        (3%)
SG&A Expenses                    $ 171       $ 156      $ 161
   % Change                         (1%)        (9%)        4%
Other Expense (Income)           $  10       $   3      $   7
Operating Income                 $  17       $  30      $  17
   % Change                        (64%)        81%       (45%)
Gross Margin                      46.8%       48.2%      46.9%
Operating Margin                   2.8%        5.2%       2.9%


Our Consumer  Durables  segment  includes  tabletop,  collectibles,  and luggage
products  marketed under the Lenox,  Dansk,  Gorham,  Kirk Stieff,  and Hartmann
brand names.  Consumer Durables sales made directly to consumers through our own
retail stores,  direct mail, and the internet are now approaching  nearly 60% of
the segment's total. The remaining sales for this segment are made to department
stores, specialty stores and other distributors.

Fiscal 2004 Compared to Fiscal 2003

Net sales  increased $4 million,  or 1%, in fiscal 2004 as the segment  expanded
into new wholesale  channels of  distribution,  particularly  specialty  stores.
Sales also benefited from the successful introduction of the kate spade tabletop
line, which has increased sales through bridal registries.  These increases were
partially  offset by declines in both the segment's retail outlet stores (closed
11 outlet stores in fiscal 2004) and direct-to-consumer division.

Gross  profit  declined $6 million,  or 2%, in fiscal  2004,  despite the modest
increase in sales,  reflecting  a shift in channel and product  mix,  aggressive
discounting designed to lower retail outlet inventories,  the unfavorable impact
of  foreign  exchange  on  product  sourced  overseas,  and $1 million of higher
pension and  postretirement  expense.  As a result,  the segment's overall gross
margin declined from 48.2% to 46.9%.

Advertising  expenses were down 3% in fiscal 2004 due primarily to a decision to
decrease consumer direct mail and catalog advertising in response to the decline
in  consumer  response  rates.  Selling,  general  and  administrative  expenses
increased  4%,  driven by $3 million  of  severance  expenses  and $2 million of
incremental pension and postretirement expenses. Excluding these items, selling,
general and  administrative  expenses were  essentially  flat compared to fiscal
2003.



Other expenses increased $4 million in fiscal 2004,  reflecting a write-down for
impaired real estate  associated with previous plant closures and start-up costs
related to the new distribution center.

Operating  income fell $13  million,  or 45%,  primarily  due to lower  consumer
response rates in the direct channel. In addition,  the segment incurred several
charges in fiscal 2004,  including  severance,  a write-down  for impaired  real
estate  associated with previous plant  closures,  and start-up costs related to
the new distribution center. The new management team at Lenox has taken steps to
reduce fixed costs, increase production efficiencies,  close unprofitable retail
outlet  locations,  and  develop  relevant  new  products,  which we expect will
benefit fiscal 2005 results.

Fiscal 2003 Compared to Fiscal 2002

Net sales  declined $24 million,  or 4%, in fiscal 2003  reflecting a decline in
revenues  through the  segment's  retail outlet stores and a reduction in orders
from  department  stores.  In addition,  for the first time in eight years,  the
direct-to-consumer  channel,  which  includes  direct  mail,  catalogs,  and the
internet,  also slowed.  Hartmann continued to suffer as airline travel remained
depressed,  a trend  that  was  further  exacerbated  by the war in Iraq and the
outbreak of the SARS virus.

Gross profit declined $3 million in fiscal 2003. However,  gross margin improved
from 46.8% to 48.2%,  reflecting  firmer  pricing,  improved  product  mix,  and
manufacturing  efficiencies resulting from the business improvement  initiatives
implemented in fiscal 2002.

Advertising  expenses were up 8%, due primarily to an increase in advertising of
collectible items.  Selling,  general and  administrative  expenses declined 9%,
reflecting the absence of business  improvement  initiative costs of $12 million
incurred in fiscal 2002 and the tight control of costs.

Operating  income increased $13 million,  or 81%,  although the increase largely
reflects  the  absence  of  $17  million  in  costs  from  business  improvement
initiatives   designed  to  rationalize   manufacturing   capacity,   streamline
procurement and production practices, and improve connections with customers.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Our ability to  consistently  generate  cash from  operations is one of our most
significant  financial  strengths.  Our  strong  cash  flows  enable  us to  pay
dividends,  pursue brand-building  programs,  make strategic  acquisitions,  and
undertake  other  initiatives  that we believe will enhance  shareholder  value.
Investment grade ratings of A2 from Moody's and A from Standard & Poor's provide
us with financial  flexibility  when accessing  credit markets.  Cash flows from
operations,  together  with  access  to  global  credit  markets,  are more than
adequate to meet our expected operating and capital requirements.


Cash Flow Summary
(Dollars in millions)                      2002        2003        2004
                                          ------      ------      ------
Cash from operating activities            $ 249       $ 243       $ 306
Additions to property, plant,
   and equipment                            (71)       (119)        (56)
Acquisitions and other investments           (8)       (108)         (7)
Dividends                                   (94)        (99)        (97)
Net issuance (repayment) of debt            (37)        596        (162)
Acquisition of treasury stock               (13)       (561)         --
Other                                         4           4          12
                                          ------      ------      ------
      Change in cash                      $  30       $ (44)      $  (4)
                                          ======      ======      ======

Cash provided by operations  increased $63 million,  from $243 million in fiscal
2003 to $306 million in fiscal 2004,  largely  reflecting  higher earnings and a
reduction  in the single  largest  item on our balance  sheet --  inventory.  We
successfully  managed our  inventory  levels over this past year through  closer
management of our supply chain.  We reduced our raw materials and finished goods
inventories in the Beverage segment and aggressively  liquidated excess Consumer
Durables inventory.



Cash used for  investments  returned  to a more  normal  level in  fiscal  2004,
decreasing  $163  million.  In fiscal 2003,  we had an  unusually  high level of
capital  expenditures  (see discussion  below) and acquired an additional equity
stake in Finlandia and the remaining interest in Tuaca.

In comparing fiscal 2003 with fiscal 2002, cash provided by operations  declined
$6  million,  reflecting  higher  levels  of  working  capital.  Cash  used  for
investments  increased  $147  million,   reflecting  higher  levels  of  capital
investments and the acquisitions of Finlandia and Tuaca.

In March 2003, we  repurchased  7.9 million  shares of our common stock for $561
million,  including  transaction costs,  through a "Dutch Auction" tender offer.
(That amount does not include $11 million for 155,000  shares that were tendered
but not  delivered to us. We are pursuing our legal rights in this  matter).  We
financed the  repurchase  by issuing $600 million in debt, of which $250 million
is due in 2006  and  $350  million  is due in  2008.  We  expect  to meet  those
obligations through cash from operations.

We have access to short-term  capital markets through the issuance of commercial
paper,  backed  by  bank  credit  agreements.  Our  committed  revolving  credit
agreements  total $400 million,  $200 million of which expire in fiscal 2005 and
the remaining $200 million of which expire in fiscal 2007. The credit agreements
provide us with an immediate and  continuing  source of liquidity.  At April 30,
2004, we had no outstanding borrowings under these agreements.

We maintain an SEC shelf registration that gives us prompt access to longer-term
financing.  At April 30, 2004, we had $220 million available on our $250 million
shelf registration.

CAPITAL EXPENDITURES

We invested $71 million in property,  plant,  and equipment in fiscal 2002, $119
million  in fiscal  2003,  and $56  million  in fiscal  2004.  Following  record
spending  levels in fiscal 2003,  which  included the purchase of $39 million in
California vineyard properties that were previously leased through a third-party
financing  arrangement,  spending returned to more modest levels in fiscal 2004.
Expenditures  included investments to improve efficiencies of our production and
distribution facilities for both our Beverage and Consumer Durables businesses.


                              Capital Expenditures
Dollars in Millions
                              2002          2003          2004
                              ----          ----          ----
Beverages                     $ 54          $ 91          $ 39
Consumer Durables               17            28            17
                              ----          ----          ----
Total                         $ 71          $119          $ 56
                              ====          ====          ====


We expect  capital  expenditures  for fiscal 2005 to be in the  $60-$70  million
range as we continue to invest in  opportunities  to improve the efficiencies of
our  production  operations,  enhance  the  quality  of our  brands  and  devote
resources  to  building  our  brands.  We expect  to fund  fiscal  2005  capital
expenditure requirements with cash from operations.

LONG-TERM OBLIGATIONS

We have  long-term  obligations  related to  contracts,  leases,  and  borrowing
arrangements  that we enter into in the normal  course of business  (see Notes 4
and 6 to the  accompanying  consolidated  financial  statements).  The following
table  summarizes the amounts of those  obligations as of April 30, 2004 and the
years in which those obligations must be paid:


Long-Term Obligations                                      2006-     After
(Dollars in millions)                    Total     2005     2009      2009
                                         -----     ----     ----      ----
Long-term debt                           $ 633     $ --      $630     $  3
Unconditional purchase obligations         201       37       112       52
Operating leases                            68       27        37        4
                                         -----     ----      ----     ----
Total                                    $ 902     $ 64      $779     $ 59
                                         =====     ====      ====     ====

We expect to meet these obligations with internally generated funds.

MARKET RISKS

We have foreign currency  forward and option  contracts,  commodity  futures and
option contracts,  and debt obligations that are exposed to risk from changes in
foreign  currency  exchange  rates,   commodity  prices,   and  interest  rates,
respectively.  The  sensitivity of these  instruments to market  fluctuations is
discussed  below.  See  Note  4 to our  consolidated  financial  statements  for
information regarding our grape purchase obligations,  which are also exposed to
commodity  price  risk,  and  "Critical  Accounting  Policies"  (page  32) for a
discussion  of the  exposure of our pension  and other  postretirement  plans to
risks related to interest rates.

Inflationary,  deflationary,  and recessionary conditions affecting these market
risks also affect the demand for and  pricing of our  products.  See  "Important
Information  Regarding   Forward-Looking   Statements"  (page  52)  for  further
discussion.



FOREIGN EXCHANGE.  As a result of continued growth in our  international  sales,
our annual foreign currency receipts now exceed our foreign currency payments by
approximately $250 million.  To the extent this foreign currency exposure is not
hedged, our results of operations and financial position are positively affected
by a weakening of the U.S.  dollar  against  foreign  currencies  and negatively
affected when the dollar strengthens. However, we routinely use foreign currency
forward and option  contracts to hedge our foreign  exchange risk.  Provided the
contracts  remain  effective  in hedging the foreign  exchange  risk,  we do not
recognize any unrealized  gains or losses on the contracts in earnings until the
underlying  hedged  transactions are recognized in earnings.  At April 30, 2004,
our foreign currency hedges had a total notional value of $188 million and a net
unrealized gain of $3 million.  Assuming the contracts remain effective  hedges,
we  estimate  that a 10%  increase in the value of the U.S.  dollar  against the
other  currencies  in which we conduct  business  would  reduce our fiscal  2005
operating  income by $3 million,  while a 10%  decline in value  would  increase
operating income by $22 million.

COMMODITY  PRICES.  We are  subject  to  commodity  price  volatility  caused by
weather,  supply  conditions,  geopolitical  and economic  variables,  and other
unpredictable  external factors.  We use futures contracts and options to manage
the volatility of pricing for certain commodities,  primarily corn. At April 30,
2004, we had outstanding  hedge positions of  approximately 3 million bushels of
corn with a negligible  net  unrealized  gain. We estimate that a 10% decline in
commodity  prices would result in an incremental loss on these contracts of less
than $1 million.

INTEREST  RATES.  Most of our  debt  has a fixed  interest  rate.  However,  our
short-term  investments and commercial paper obligations are exposed to the risk
of changes in interest  rates.  Assuming  year-end  variable rate investment and
debt levels,  a one  percentage  point  increase in interest  rates would have a
negligible effect on our annual net interest expense.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

We face environmental claims resulting from the cleanup of several manufacturing
or waste  disposal  sites in the U.S.  We  accrue  for  losses  associated  with
environmental  cleanup  obligations  when such  losses are  probable  and can be
reasonably  estimated.  At some sites,  there are other potentially  responsible
parties who are  expected to bear part of the costs,  in which cases our accrual
is based on our  estimate  of our share of the  total  costs.  A portion  of the
cleanup costs with respect to certain sites is expected to be paid by insurance.
The  estimated  recovery of cleanup  costs from insurers is recorded as an asset
when receipt is deemed probable.

We do not believe that any additional  environmental cleanup costs we incur will
have a material adverse effect on our consolidated  financial position,  results
of operations, or cash flows.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Our financial  statements  reflect  certain  estimates  involved in applying the
following   critical   accounting   policies  that  entail   uncertainties   and
subjectivity.  Using  different  estimates  could have a material  effect on our
operating results, financial condition, and changes in financial condition.

BRANDS AND GOODWILL.  We have obtained most of our brands  through  acquisitions
from other  companies.  (See Note 3 to the accompanying  consolidated  financial
statements for recent  acquisitions).  Upon  acquisition,  the purchase price is
first allocated to identifiable  assets and  liabilities,  including  intangible
brand names,  based on estimated fair value,  with any remaining  purchase price
recorded  as  goodwill.  Goodwill  and  indefinite-lived  brand  names  are  not
amortized.  As of April 30,  2004,  we  consider  all of our brand names to have
indefinite lives.

We assess our brand  names and  goodwill  for  impairment  at least  annually to
ensure that future cash flows continue to exceed the related book value. A brand
name is impaired if its book value exceeds its fair value. Goodwill is evaluated
for  impairment if the book value of its reporting  unit exceeds its fair value.
Fair value is determined using discounted future cash flows, with  consideration
of market  values for  similar  assets when  available.  If the fair value of an
evaluated  asset is less than its book value,  the asset is written  down to its
estimated fair value.

Considerable  management judgment is necessary to assess impairment and estimate
fair value. The assumptions used in our evaluations,  such as forecasted  growth
rates and cost of capital,  are  consistent  with our internal  projections  and
operating plans.

PROPERTY, PLANT, AND EQUIPMENT. We depreciate our property, plant, and equipment
on a straight-line  basis using our estimates of useful life, which are 20 to 40
years for buildings and improvements, 3 to 10 years for machinery and equipment,
and 3 to 7 years for capitalized software.

We assess our property,  plant,  and equipment and other  long-lived  assets for
impairment  whenever  events  or  changes  in  circumstances  indicate  that the
carrying value of the asset or asset group may not be recoverable. Fair value is
determined  using  discounted  future cash flows,  with  consideration of market
values for similar  assets  when  available.  If the fair value of an  evaluated
asset is less than its book value,  the asset is written  down to its  estimated
fair value.

Considerable  management judgment is necessary to assess impairment and estimate
fair  value.  Assumptions  used in these  evaluations  are  consistent  with our
internal projections and operating plans.

PENSION AND OTHER  POSTRETIREMENT  BENEFITS.  We sponsor various defined benefit
pension plans as well as postretirement  plans providing retiree health care and
retiree life insurance benefits.  Benefits are based on such factors as years of
service and compensation  level during  employment.  The benefits expected to be
paid are expensed over the employees' expected service. This requires us to make
certain  assumptions to determine the expected benefit,  such as interest rates,
return on plan  assets,  the rate of salary  increases,  expected  service,  and
health care cost trend rates.



The assets,  obligations,  and  assumptions  used to measure pension and retiree
medical  expenses  are  determined  as of  January  31  of  the  preceding  year
("measurement  date").  Because  obligations are measured on a discounted basis,
the discount rate is a significant assumption. It is based on interest rates for
high-quality,  long-term  corporate debt at each measurement  date. The expected
return on pension  plan  assets is based on our  historical  experience  and our
expectations for long-term rates of return.  The other  assumptions also reflect
our  historical  experience  and  management's  best judgment  regarding  future
expectations.  We review our  assumptions on each annual  measurement  date. For
fiscal  2005,  we have  reduced the  discount  rate from 6.5% to 6.0%,  based on
Moody's AA corporate bond index. Pension and postretirement  benefit expense for
fiscal 2005 is estimated to be approximately $16 million, compared to $7 million
for fiscal 2004.

INCOME  TAXES.  Our annual tax rate is based on our income and the statutory tax
rates in the  various  jurisdictions  in which we  operate.  The  decline in the
annual rate to 33.5% for fiscal 2004 primarily reflects a shift in earnings from
higher taxed jurisdictions in the U.S.

Significant  judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions.  We establish
reserves when we believe that certain  positions are likely to be challenged and
that we may not succeed,  despite our belief that our tax return  positions  are
fully  supportable.  We adjust  these  reserves in light of  changing  facts and
circumstances,  such as the progress of a tax audit. We believe current reserves
are appropriate for all known contingencies,  however, it is reasonably possible
that a favorable or  unfavorable  change in this  estimate may occur in the near
future.

Several  years  can  elapse  before  a  particular  matter  for  which  we  have
established  a reserve is resolved.  While it is often  difficult to predict the
final  outcome or the timing of  resolution  of any  particular  tax matter,  we
believe that our reserves reflect the likely outcome of known tax contingencies.
Our annual tax rate  includes  the impact of reserve  provisions  and changes to
reserves that we consider appropriate, as well as related interest.  Unfavorable
settlement  of any  particular  issue could  require use of our cash.  Favorable
resolution  would be  recognized as a reduction to our effective tax rate in the
year of resolution.

The U.S. Congress has introduced  legislation that would, if passed,  repeal the
current  extraterritorial  income tax  regime,  and replace it with a new regime
that is compliant with the rules of the World Trade Organization. We realize tax
benefits with respect to export sales from the U.S. under the current regime. We
are uncertain as to what impact any new  legislation  in this area would have on
our annual tax rate.  However, we do not anticipate the impact, if any, would be
material.

CONTINGENCIES.  We operate in a  litigious  environment,  and we get sued in the
normal  course of  business.  Sometimes  plaintiffs  seek  substantial  damages.
Significant  judgment is required in  predicting  the outcome of these suits and
claims, many of which take years to adjudicate.  We accrue estimated costs for a
contingency  when we believe that a loss is probable,  and adjust the accrual as
appropriate to reflect changes in facts and circumstances.

Brown-Forman  and  many  other  manufacturers  of  spirits,  wine  and  beer are
defendants  in a series of similar  class action  lawsuits  seeking  damages and
injunctive  relief  over  alleged  marketing  of  beverage  alcohol to  underage
consumers.  The suits  allege  that the  defendants  have  engaged in  deceptive
marketing  practices  and schemes  targeted at underage  consumers,  negligently
marketed  their  products to the  underage,  and  fraudulently  concealed  their
alleged misconduct.  Brown-Forman  denies that we intentionally  market beverage
alcohol  products to minors and denies that our advertising is illegal.  We will
vigorously  defend this position and it is not possible at this time to estimate
a possible loss or range of loss, if any, in these lawsuits. However, an adverse
result in these lawsuits or similar class action  lawsuits could have a material
adverse effect on our business.



                                  Brown-Forman
                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME

(Expressed in millions, except per share amounts)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended April 30,                            2002         2003         2004
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net sales                                      $2,223       $2,376       $2,577
Excise taxes                                      250          318          364
Cost of sales                                     841          878          915
                                               --------------------------------

   Gross profit                                 1,132        1,180        1,298


Advertising expenses                              298          321          354
Selling, general, and administrative expenses     474          485          527
Other expense (income), net                         7           (4)          10
                                               --------------------------------
   Operating income                               353          378          407


Interest income                                     3            3            2
Interest expense                                    8            8           21
                                               --------------------------------
   Income before income taxes                     348          373          388


Income taxes                                      120          128          130
                                               --------------------------------


   Net income                                  $  228       $  245       $  258
                                               ================================


Earnings per share
 - Basic                                       $ 1.66       $ 1.82       $ 2.12
 - Diluted                                     $ 1.66       $ 1.82       $ 2.11


The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.




                                  Brown-Forman
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET

(Expressed in millions, except share and per share amounts)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
April 30,                                                    2003          2004
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Assets
- ------
Cash and cash equivalents                                   $  72         $  68

Accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful
   accounts of $12 in 2003 and $11 in 2004                    325           348

Inventories:
   Barreled whiskey                                           222           218
   Finished goods                                             203           185
   Work in process                                            112           111
   Raw materials and supplies                                  48            43
                                                           ---------------------
      Total inventories                                       585           557

Current portion of deferred income taxes                       56            67
Other current assets                                           30            43
                                                           ---------------------
Total Current Assets                                        1,068         1,083

Property, plant, and equipment, net                           506           515
Prepaid pension cost                                           39           118
Investment in affiliates                                       41            45
Trademarks and brand names                                    235           247
Goodwill                                                      311           315
Other assets                                                   64            53
                                                           ---------------------
Total Assets                                               $2,264        $2,376
                                                           =====================

Liabilities
- -----------
Commercial paper                                            $ 167        $   50
Accounts payable and accrued expenses                         297           271
Accrued taxes on income                                        44            48
Current portion of long-term debt                              40            --
                                                           ---------------------
Total Current Liabilities                                     548           369

Long-term debt, less unamortized
 discount of $4 in 2003 and $3 in 2004                        629           630
Deferred income taxes                                          78           122
Accrued pension and other postretirement benefits             143           137
Other liabilities                                              26            33
                                                           ---------------------
Total Liabilities                                           1,424         1,291
                                                           ---------------------
Commitments and contingencies

Stockholders' Equity
- --------------------
Common Stock:
  Class A, voting, $0.15 par value;
    authorized shares, 57,000,000;
    issued shares, 56,841,000                                   4             9
  Class B, nonvoting, $0.15 par value;
    authorized shares, 100,000,000;
    issued shares, 69,188,000                                   6            10

Retained earnings                                           1,506         1,236

Treasury stock, at cost
 (16,857,000 and 4,441,000 common shares
  in 2003 and 2004, respectively)                            (593)         (156)

Accumulated other comprehensive loss:
  Cumulative translation adjustment                            (2)           16
  Pension liability adjustment                                (79)          (32)
  Unrealized gain (loss) on cash flow hedge contracts          (2)            2
                                                           ---------------------
    Total accumulated other comprehensive loss                (83)          (14)
                                                           ---------------------
Total Stockholders' Equity                                    840         1,085
                                                           ---------------------
Total Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity                 $2,264        $2,376
                                                           =====================

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.





                                  Brown-Forman
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

(Expressed in millions; amounts in brackets are reductions of cash)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended April 30,                                   2002      2003      2004
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash flows from operating activities:
   Net income                                         $ 228     $ 245     $ 258
   Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash
    provided by (used for) operations:
      Depreciation                                       55        55        56
      Deferred income taxes                             (43)      (15)       (1)
      Other                                               3         1         4
      Change in assets and liabilities, excluding
       the effects of businesses acquired or sold:
         Accounts receivable                             23       (30)      (23)
         Inventories                                      5         2        25
         Other current assets                             5        (4)      (13)
         Accounts payable and accrued expenses           15       (18)      (25)
         Accrued taxes on income                        (13)       12         4
         Noncurrent assets and liabilities              (29)       (5)       21
                                                       -------------------------
      Cash provided by operating activities             249       243       306
                                                       -------------------------

Cash flows from investing activities:
   Additions to property, plant, and equipment          (71)     (119)      (56)
   Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired       --       (99)       --
   Computer software expenditures                        (8)       (8)       (5)
   Trademark and patent expenditures                     --        (1)       (2)
   Disposals of property, plant, and equipment           --         1        --
                                                       -------------------------
      Cash (used for) investing activities              (79)     (226)      (63)
                                                       -------------------------

Cash flows from financing activities:
   Net change in commercial paper                       (37)       --      (117)
   Proceeds from long-term debt                          --       596        --
   Debt issuance costs                                   --        (4)       --
   Reduction of long-term debt                           --        --       (45)
   Proceeds from exercise of stock options                4         7        12
   Dividends paid                                       (94)      (99)      (97)
   Acquisition of treasury stock                        (13)     (561)       --
                                                       -------------------------
      Cash (used for) financing activities             (140)      (61)     (247)
                                                       -------------------------
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents     30       (44)       (4)

Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year             86       116        72
                                                       -------------------------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year                 $116      $ 72      $ 68
                                                       =========================

Supplemental disclosure of cash paid for:
   Interest                                            $  8      $  5      $ 21
   Income taxes                                        $175      $130      $129


The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.




                                  Brown-Forman
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

(Dollars expressed in millions, except per share amounts)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended April 30,                                   2002      2003      2004
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Class A Common Stock:
   Balance at beginning of year                         $ 4       $ 4       $ 4
   Stock split (2-for-1 in 2004)                         --        --         5
                                                     ---------------------------
   Balance at end of year                                 4         4         9
                                                     ---------------------------

Class B Common Stock:
   Balance at beginning of year                           6         6         6
   Retirement of treasury stock                          --        --        (1)
   Stock split (2-for-1 in 2004)                         --        --         5
                                                     ---------------------------
   Balance at end of year                                 6         6        10
                                                     ---------------------------
Retained Earnings:
   Balance at beginning of year                       1,226     1,360     1,506
   Retirement of treasury stock                          --        --      (420)
   Stock split (2-for-1 in 2004)                         --        --       (10)
   Loss on issuance of treasury stock                    --        --        (4)
   Tax benefit related to stock-based compensation       --        --         3
   Net income                                           228       245       258
   Cash dividends ($0.68, $0.73, and $0.80 per
    share, split-adjusted, in 2002, 2003, and
    2004, respectively)                                 (94)      (99)      (97)
                                                     ---------------------------
   Balance at end of year                             1,360     1,506     1,236
                                                     ---------------------------
Treasury Stock, at cost:
   Balance at beginning of year                         (32)      (40)     (593)
   Acquisition of treasury stock                        (13)     (561)       --
   Treasury stock issued under compensation plans         5         8        16
   Retirement of treasury stock (567,000 Class A
    and 5,414,000 Class B shares in 2004)                --        --       421
                                                     ---------------------------
   Balance at end of year                               (40)     (593)     (156)
                                                     ---------------------------
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss):
   Balance at beginning of year                         (17)      (19)      (83)
   Net other comprehensive income (loss)                 (2)      (64)       69
                                                     ---------------------------
   Balance at end of year                               (19)      (83)      (14)
                                                     ---------------------------
Total Stockholders' Equity                           $1,311      $840    $1,085
                                                     ===========================
Comprehensive Income:
   Net income                                          $228      $245     $258
   Other comprehensive income (loss):
   Foreign currency translation adjustment                2        13       18
   Pension liability adjustment,
    net of tax of $52 in 2003 and $31 in 2004            (3)      (76)      47
   Amounts related to cash flow hedges:
      Cumulative effect of accounting change,
       net of tax of $1 in 2002                           2        --       --
      Reclassification to earnings,
       net of tax of $1, $4, and $3 in 2002,
       2003, and 2004, respectively                      (2)        6        5
      Net loss on hedging instruments,
       net of tax of $1, $4, and $1 in 2002,
       2003, and 2004, respectively                      (1)       (7)      (1)
                                                     ---------------------------
         Net other comprehensive loss                    (2)      (64)      69
                                                     ---------------------------
   Total Comprehensive Income                          $226      $181     $327
                                                     ===========================

Class A Common Shares Outstanding (in thousands):
   Balance at beginning of year                      28,988     28,891   28,420
   Acquisition of treasury stock                        (97)      (471)      --
   Stock split (2-for-1 in 2004)                         --         --   28,421
                                                     ---------------------------
   Balance at end of year                            28,891     28,420   56,841
                                                     ---------------------------
Class B Common Shares Outstanding (in thousands):
   Balance at beginning of year                      39,471     39,457   32,147
   Acquisition of treasury stock                        (93)    (7,436)      --
   Stock split (2-for-1 in 2004)                         --         --   32,147
   Treasury stock issued under compensation plans        79        126      453
                                                     ---------------------------
   Balance at end of year                            39,457     32,147   64,747
                                                     ---------------------------
Total Common Shares Outstanding (in thousands)       68,348     60,567  121,588
                                                     ===========================

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.



                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Dollars expressed in millions, except per share and per option amounts)


1.  ACCOUNTING POLICIES

References  to "FASB"  are to the  Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board,  the
private-sector  organization that establishes financial accounting and reporting
standards, including Statements of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS").

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION.  Our consolidated  financial statements include the
accounts of all wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries.  We use the equity
method to account  for  investments  in  affiliates  over which we can  exercise
significant  influence  (but not  control).  We carry all other  investments  in
affiliates at cost. We eliminate all intercompany transactions.

CASH EQUIVALENTS.  Cash equivalents  include bank demand deposits and all highly
liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.

ALLOWANCE  FOR DOUBTFUL  ACCOUNTS.  We evaluate the  collectibility  of accounts
receivable based on a combination of factors. When we are aware of circumstances
that may impair a specific customer's ability to meet its financial obligations,
we record a specific  allowance to reduce the net  recognized  receivable to the
amount we reasonably  believe will be  collected.  For all other  customers,  we
recognize  allowances  for  doubtful  accounts  based on the  length of time the
receivables  are  outstanding,   the  current  business  environment,   and  our
historical collection experience for customers of similar nature and background.

INVENTORIES.  We  state  inventories  at the  lower  of  cost  or  market,  with
approximately  80% of consolidated  inventories  being valued using the last-in,
first-out (LIFO) method.  All remaining  inventories are valued using either the
first-in,  first-out  or the average  cost  methods.  If we did not use the LIFO
method,  inventories would have been $130 and $146 higher than reported at April
30, 2003 and 2004, respectively.

Whiskey  must be  barrel-aged  for several  years,  so we bottle and sell only a
portion of our whiskey  inventory each year.  Following  industry  practice,  we
classify  all  barreled  whiskey as a current  asset.  We  include  warehousing,
insurance,  ad valorem taxes, and other carrying charges  applicable to barreled
whiskey in inventory costs.

We classify bulk wine inventories as work in process.

PROPERTY,  PLANT, AND EQUIPMENT. We state property, plant, and equipment at cost
less  accumulated  depreciation.  We calculate  depreciation  on a straight-line
basis over the estimated  useful lives of the assets as follows:  20 to 40 years
for buildings and improvements, 3 to 10 years for machinery and equipment, and 3
to 7 years for capitalized software costs.

FOREIGN  CURRENCY  TRANSLATION.  The U.S. dollar is the functional  currency for
most of our consolidated operations.  For those operations,  we report all gains
and losses from  foreign  currency  transactions  in current  income.  The local
currency is the  functional  currency  for some  foreign  operations.  For those
investments,   we  report  cumulative  translation  effects  in  the  cumulative
translation adjustment to stockholders' equity.

REVENUE  RECOGNITION.  We recognize  revenue when title and risk of loss pass to
the buyer, which typically is at the time the product is shipped.

COST OF  SALES.  Cost of  sales  includes  the  costs of  receiving,  producing,
inspecting, warehousing, insuring, and shipping goods sold during the period.

SHIPPING  AND  HANDLING  FEES AND COSTS.  We report  the  amounts we bill to our
customers  for shipping  and  handling as net sales,  and we report the costs we
incur for shipping and handling as cost of sales.

ADVERTISING  COSTS. We expense most  advertising  costs as we incur them, but we
capitalize and amortize certain  direct-response  advertising costs over periods
not exceeding one year.  Capitalized  advertising costs totaled $9 at both April
30, 2003 and 2004.

SALES INCENTIVES.  We offer sales discounts and provide consideration to certain
of our distributors under cooperative advertising arrangements. Discounts, which
are recorded as a reduction of net sales, totaled $107, $120, and $125 for 2002,
2003, and 2004, respectively.  The cost of cooperative advertising arrangements,
which are recorded as advertising  expenses,  totaled $11, $10, and $9 for 2002,
2003, and 2004, respectively.

SELLING,   GENERAL,   AND  ADMINISTRATIVE   EXPENSES.   Selling,   general,  and
administrative  expenses  include  the costs  associated  with our sales  force,
administrative  staff  and  facilities,   and  other  expenses  related  to  the
non-production functions of our business.

EARNINGS PER SHARE.  We calculate basic earnings per share as net income divided
by the weighted average number of common shares  outstanding during the year. We
calculate  diluted  earnings per share the same way, except that the denominator
also  includes  the  additional  common  shares  that would have been  issued if
outstanding  stock  options had been  exercised,  as  determined by applying the
treasury stock method.

The following table presents  information  concerning basic and diluted earnings
per share:

Year Ended April 30,                                 2002       2003       2004
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Basic and diluted net income                         $228       $245       $258

Share data (in thousands):
   Basic average common shares outstanding        136,678    134,748    121,359
   Effect of dilutive stock options                   291        378        627
                                                  ------------------------------
   Diluted average common shares outstanding      136,969    135,126    121,986
                                                  ==============================

Basic net income per share                          $1.66      $1.82      $2.12
Diluted net income per share                        $1.66      $1.82      $2.11




STOCK OPTIONS. We apply Accounting  Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting
for Stock Issued to Employees,"  and related  interpretations  in accounting for
stock  options.  Accordingly,  no  stock-based  employee  compensation  cost  is
reflected in net income, as no options granted under those plans had an exercise
price below the market  value of the  underlying  stock on the grant  date.  The
following  table  illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per share if
we had instead recognized  compensation expense for stock options based on their
fair value at their grant dates consistent with the methodology prescribed under
SFAS 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation."

Year Ended April 30,                                 2002       2003       2004
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income, as reported                              $228       $245       $258
Stock-based employee compensation
 expense determined under fair value
 based method, net of tax                               4          4          4
                                                     ---------------------------
   Pro forma net income                              $224       $241       $254
                                                     ===========================
Earnings per share - pro forma:
   Basic                                            $1.64      $1.79      $2.09
   Diluted                                          $1.64      $1.79      $2.08

Earnings per share - as reported:
   Basic                                            $1.66      $1.82      $2.12
   Diluted                                          $1.66      $1.82      $2.11


Our stock option plan requires  that we purchase  shares to satisfy stock option
requirements, thereby avoiding future dilution of earnings that would occur from
issuing  additional  shares.  We acquire  treasury  shares  from time to time in
anticipation of these  requirements.  We intend to hold enough treasury stock so
that the number of diluted shares is always no more than the original  number of
shares  outstanding  at  inception of the stock option plan (as adjusted for any
share  issuances  unrelated  to the  plan).  The  extent to which the  number of
diluted  shares exceeds the number of basic shares is determined by how much our
stock price has  appreciated  since the options  were  granted,  not by how many
treasury shares we have acquired.

ESTIMATES.  To prepare financial statements that conform with generally accepted
accounting  principles,  our management must make informed estimates that affect
how we report revenues, expenses, assets, and liabilities,  including contingent
assets and  liabilities.  Actual  results could (and probably  will) differ from
these estimates.

RECLASSIFICATIONS.  We have reclassified some prior year amounts to conform with
this year's presentation.

OTHER. In January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 46, "Consolidation of
Variable  Interest  Entities," which addresses the accounting for assets held in
other  entities  such as trusts and  special-purpose  companies.  As the leasing
arrangement that held our developing vineyard properties in a separate trust was
terminated  in  2003,  we had  no  variable  interest  entities  subject  to the
provisions of this Interpretation at April 30, 2003 or 2004.


2. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS

In July 2001, the FASB issued SFAS 141,  "Business  Combinations," and SFAS 142,
"Goodwill  and Other  Intangible  Assets."  SFAS 141 requires  that the purchase
method  of  accounting  be  used  for all  business  combinations  initiated  or
completed  after June 30, 2001. SFAS 141 also specifies the criteria under which
intangible assets acquired in a purchase method business  combination  should be
recognized and reported apart from goodwill. SFAS 142 requires that goodwill and
intangible  assets with  indefinite  useful  lives no longer be  amortized,  but
instead  be  assessed  for  impairment  at least  annually  by  applying  a fair
value-based  test. SFAS 142 also requires that  intangible  assets with definite
useful lives be amortized over their respective  estimated useful lives to their
estimated  residual values,  and reviewed for impairment in accordance with SFAS
144,  "Accounting  for the  Impairment  or  Disposal of  Long-Lived  Assets." We
adopted SFAS 142 as of May 1, 2001.

Equity  method  intangibles  totaling  $9 and $8 as of April 30,  2003 and 2004,
respectively,  are included in "Investment  in  Affiliates" in the  accompanying
consolidated  balance  sheet.  We have no  significant  intangible  assets  with
definite  useful lives and thus had no significant  amortization  expense during
the three years ended April 30, 2004.



3.  ACQUISITIONS

The following  are major  acquisitions  made over the past three years,  each of
which was accounted for as a purchase.

FINLANDIA. During 2000, we acquired 45% of Finlandia Vodka Worldwide Ltd ("FVW")
for $84. We acquired an additional  35% interest for $72 (net of cash  acquired)
in December 2002.  This increased our total interest in FVW to 80% and our total
net investment to $158,  which we have  allocated to the  individual  assets and
liabilities  acquired.  The investment consists primarily of the Finlandia brand
name, which has an indefinite useful life. For financial reporting purposes,  we
have  assigned a value of $216 to the Finlandia  brand name,  which is partially
offset by a deferred income tax liability of $57.

The  minority  shareholder  of FVW (Altia  Corporation)  has an option  during a
two-year window beginning  December 31, 2004, to require us to buy its remaining
20% interest in FVW. Buying the remaining  interest would cost us  approximately
39 million  euros ($47 at April 30,  2004) plus  interest  of 4.5% per year from
August 1, 2000.

TUACA.  In February  2003, we acquired the remaining 55% interest in Distillerie
Tuoni e Canepa  ("T&C") for $27 in cash (net of cash  acquired) and a promissory
note of $33 that  was  paid in March  2004.  T&C is the  Italy-based  owner  and
producer of Tuaca liqueur,  which we have distributed in the United States since
1999. This increased our total investment in T&C to $77, which we have allocated
to the individual  assets and  liabilities  acquired.  The  investment  consists
primarily of indefinite-lived  intangible assets, including the Tuaca brand name
and goodwill.  For financial reporting purposes, we have assigned a value of $20
to the Tuaca brand name and $64 to goodwill.

The  operating  results  of both FVW and T&C  have  been  consolidated  with our
financial  statements since we acquired  majority  ownership during fiscal 2003.
(We previously accounted for our investments in those companies using the equity
method).  Consolidated  pro forma  operating  results for the fiscal years ended
April 30, 2002 and 2003 would not have been materially different from the actual
amounts reported for those periods.

The  following  table  shows the  effect of the T&C  acquisition  on the  amount
recorded as goodwill in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet:

                                                             Consumer
                                                Beverages    Durables     Total
                                                ---------    --------   --------
Goodwill:
   Balance as of April 30, 2002                   $116        $130       $246
   Adjustments related to Tuoni e Canepa:
      Reclassified from Investment in Affiliates    10          --         10
      Acquired during period                        55          --         55
                                                  ------------------------------
   Balance as of April 30, 2003                    181         130        311
   Adjustments related to Tuoni e Canepa:
      Purchase price allocation adjustment          (1)         --         (1)
      Foreign currency translation adjustment        5          --          5
                                                  ------------------------------
   Balance as of April 30, 2004                   $185        $130       $315
                                                  ==============================



4. COMMITMENTS

We have  contracted  with  various  growers  and  wineries to supply some of our
future grape and bulk wine requirements. Many of these contracts call for prices
to be determined by market  conditions,  but some contracts  provide for minimum
purchase  prices that may exceed market  prices.  We have  purchase  obligations
related to these  contracts  of $37 in 2005,  $35 in 2006,  $34 in 2007,  $26 in
2008, $17 in 2009, and $52 after 2009.

We made rental payments for real estate,  vehicles, as well as office, computer,
and manufacturing  equipment under operating leases of $31 in 2002, $32 in 2003,
and $35 in 2004. We have commitments related to minimum lease payments of $27 in
2005, $17 in 2006, $11 in 2007, $6 in 2008, $3 in 2009, and $4 after 2009.


5. CREDIT FACILITIES

We  have  committed  revolving  credit  agreements  with  various  domestic  and
international  banks for  $400,  $200 of which  expire  in  fiscal  2005 and the
remaining  $200 of which  expire in fiscal  2007.  The most  restrictive  of the
agreements'  covenants requires that our consolidated total debt to consolidated
net worth not exceed a ratio of 2 to 1. At April 30,  2004,  we were well within
this  covenant's  parameters.  At  April  30,  2004,  we also  had  $220 of debt
securities available for issuance under an SEC shelf registration.


6. DEBT

Our long-term debt consisted of the following:

April 30,                                              2003           2004
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2.125% notes, due 2006                                 $249           $249
3.0% notes, due 2008                                    347            348
6.82% to 7.38% notes, due 2005                           30             30
Non-interest bearing note, due 2004                      33             --
Variable rate industrial
 revenue bonds, due through 2026                         10              3
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                       $669           $630
Less current portion                                     40             --
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                       $629           $630
                                                 ===============================

Debt  payments  required over the next five fiscal years consist of $280 in 2006
and $350 in 2008.  The weighted  average  interest  rates on the  variable  rate
industrial  revenue  bonds  were  1.6%  and  1.2% at April  30,  2003 and  2004,
respectively. In addition to long-term debt, we had commercial paper outstanding
with  weighted  average  interest  rates of 1.2% and 1.0% at April 30,  2003 and
2004, respectively.


7. FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK MANAGEMENT AND DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

Effective  May  1,  2001,  we  adopted  SFAS  133,  "Accounting  for  Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities." That Statement requires that all derivative
instruments  be  reported on the balance  sheet at fair  value.  The  cumulative
effect of  adopting  SFAS 133 was not  material  to our  consolidated  financial
statements.

We use foreign  currency options and forward  contracts,  generally with average
maturities  of less  than one  year,  as  protection  against  the risk that the
eventual  U.S.  dollar  cash  flows  resulting  from our  forecasted  sales  and
purchases of goods in foreign  currencies will be adversely  affected by changes
in exchange rates. We designate these derivative  financial  instruments as cash
flow hedges.

We  formally  assess  (both at  inception  and at least  quarterly)  whether the
derivative financial instruments are effective at offsetting changes in the cash
flows  of  the  hedged  transactions.  We  defer  the  effective  portion  of  a
derivative's  change in fair value in  Accumulated  Other  Comprehensive  Income
(Loss) until the underlying  hedged  transaction  is recognized in earnings.  We
recognize any  ineffective  portion of the change in fair value  immediately  in
earnings.

No  material   gains  or  losses  were   recognized   in  earnings  due  to  the
ineffectiveness of cash flow hedges. We expect to reclassify the majority of the
existing  $2 net gain from  Accumulated  Other  Comprehensive  Loss to  earnings
during fiscal 2005. However, the amount we ultimately reclassify may differ as a
result of future changes in exchange rates.

We had  outstanding  foreign  currency  option and  forward  contracts,  hedging
primarily  British pound,  Australian  dollar,  euro, and Japanese yen revenues,
with  notional  amounts  totaling  $110  and $188 at April  30,  2003 and  2004,
respectively.  Our credit exposure is,  however,  limited to the contracts' fair
value (see Note 8) rather than their notional amounts. We minimize credit losses
by  entering  into  foreign   currency   contracts  only  with  major  financial
institutions that have earned investment grade credit ratings.


8. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The fair value of cash and cash  equivalents and commercial  paper  approximates
the carrying amount due to the short maturities of these instruments.

We estimate the fair value of long-term debt using  discounted  cash flows based
on our  incremental  borrowing rates for similar debt. The fair value of foreign
currency  contracts is based on quoted market  prices.  A comparison of the fair
values and carrying amounts of these instruments is as follows:

April 30,                            2003                        2004
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                            Carrying        Fair        Carrying         Fair
                             Amount         Value         Amount         Value
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Assets:
   Cash and
    cash equivalents         $ 72           $ 72          $ 68           $ 68

Liabilities:
   Foreign currency
    contracts                    3             3             6              6
   Commercial paper            167           167            50             50
   Long-term debt              669           669           630            623





9.  BALANCE SHEET INFORMATION

April 30,                                              2003           2004
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Property, plant, and equipment:
   Land                                                $ 88           $ 92
   Buildings                                            314            346
   Equipment                                            518            538
   Construction in process                               68             24
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                        988          1,000
   Less accumulated depreciation                        482            485
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                       $506           $515
                                                 ===============================

Accounts payable and accrued expenses:
   Accounts payable, trade                             $ 94           $ 92
   Accrued expenses:
      Advertising                                        50             37
      Compensation and commissions                       64             65
      Excise and other non-income taxes                  18             20
      Self-insurance claims                              12             12
      Interest                                            4              4
      Other                                              55             41
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                        203            179
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                       $297           $271
                                                 ===============================


10. TAXES ON INCOME

We incur  income taxes on our domestic  and foreign  operations.  The  following
table,  which is based on the locations of the taxable entities from which sales
were derived (rather than the location of customers),  presents the domestic and
foreign components of our income before income taxes:

Year Ended April 30,                        2002          2003           2004
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
United States                               $315          $305           $305
Foreign                                       33            68             83
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            $348          $373           $388
                                            ====================================

The  income  shown  above  was  determined  according  to  financial  accounting
standards.  Because those standards  sometimes differ from the tax rules used to
calculate  taxable  income,  there are  differences  between:  (a) the amount of
taxable income and pretax  financial income for a year; and (b) the tax bases of
assets or liabilities and their amounts as recorded in our financial statements.
As a result,  we recognize a current tax liability for the estimated  income tax
payable on the current tax return,  and  deferred  tax  liabilities  (income tax
payable on income that will be  recognized  on future tax  returns) and deferred
tax assets (income tax refunds from deductions that will be recognized on future
tax returns)  for the  estimated  effects of the  differences  mentioned  above.
Deferred tax assets and  liabilities as of the end of each of the last two years
were as follows:

April 30,                                              2003           2004
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Deferred tax assets:
   Postretirement and other benefits                   $ 54           $ 20
   Accrued liabilities and other                         15              9
   Inventories                                           42             52
                                             -----------------------------------
   Total deferred tax assets                            111             81
                                             -----------------------------------
Deferred tax liabilities:
   Trademarks and brand names                            62             68
   Property, plant, and equipment                        38             48
   Undistributed foreign earnings                        17             17
   Other                                                 16              3
                                             -----------------------------------
   Total deferred tax liabilities                       133            136
                                             -----------------------------------
Net deferred tax liability                             $ 22           $ 55
                                             ===================================

Deferred tax liabilities were not provided on undistributed  earnings of certain
foreign  subsidiaries  ($186 and $243 at April 30, 2003 and 2004,  respectively)
because we expect these  undistributed  earnings to be  reinvested  indefinitely
overseas.  If  these  amounts  were  not  considered   permanently   reinvested,
additional deferred tax liabilities of approximately $41 and $45 would have been
provided as of April 30, 2003 and 2004, respectively.

Total income tax expense for a year includes the tax associated with the current
tax  return  ("current  tax  expense")  and the change in the net  deferred  tax
liability  ("deferred  tax  expense").  Total income tax expense for each of the
last three years was as follows:


Year Ended April 30,                        2002          2003          2004
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Current:
   Federal                                  $144          $114          $100
   Foreign                                     5            13            20
   State and local                            14            16            13
                                            ------------------------------------
                                             163           143           133
                                            ------------------------------------

Deferred:
   Federal                                   (35)          (11)            1
   Foreign                                    --            (2)           (1)
   State and local                            (8)           (2)           (3)
                                            ------------------------------------
                                             (43)          (15)           (3)
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            $120          $128          $130
                                            ====================================

Our consolidated  effective tax rate may differ from current statutory rates due
to the  recognition  of  amounts  for  events or  transactions  that have no tax
consequences.  The  following  table  reconciles  our  effective tax rate to the
federal statutory tax rate in the United States:

                                             Percent of Income Before Taxes
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended April 30,                        2002          2003           2004
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
U.S federal statutory rate                  35.0%         35.0%          35.0%
State taxes, net of U.S.
   federal tax benefit                       2.3           2.5            1.8
Income taxed at other than U.S.
   federal statutory rate                   (1.3)         (2.0)          (1.4)
Tax benefit from export sales               (2.0)         (1.7)          (2.1)
Other, net                                   0.5           0.4            0.2
                                           -------------------------------------
Effective rate                              34.5%         34.2%          33.5%
                                           =====================================




11. PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS

The following  discussion provides  information about our obligations related to
these plans, the assets that are dedicated to meeting the  obligations,  and the
amounts we  recognized  in our  financial  statements  as a result of sponsoring
these plans. We use a measurement date of January 31 to determine the amounts of
the plan obligations and assets presented below.

OBLIGATIONS. We provide eligible employees with pension and other postretirement
benefits based on such factors as years of service and compensation level during
employment.  The pension obligation shown below ("projected benefit obligation")
consists  of: (a) benefits  earned by employees to date based on current  salary
levels ("accumulated  benefit  obligation");  and (b) benefits to be received by
the employees as a result of expected future salary  increases.  (The obligation
for  medical  and life  insurance  benefits  is not  affected  by future  salary
increases).  This table shows how the present  value of our  obligation  changed
during each of the last two years.

                                             Pension           Medical and Life
                                             Benefits         Insurance Benefits
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended April 30,                      2003      2004        2003      2004
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Obligation at beginning of year           $402      $449        $ 69      $ 79
Service cost                                13        14           2         2
Interest cost                               27        29           5         5
Actuarial loss (gain)                       25        38           7        (4)
Benefits paid                              (18)      (19)         (4)       (3)
                                        ----------------------------------------
Obligation at end of year                 $449      $511        $ 79      $ 79
                                        ========================================

Service cost represents the present value of the benefits  attributed to service
rendered by  employees  during the year.  Interest  cost is the  increase in the
present  value of the  obligation  due to the  passage of time.  Actuarial  loss
(gain)  is the  change  in value of the  obligation  resulting  from  experience
different  from that assumed or from a change in an actuarial  assumption.  (The
actuarial assumptions used are discussed at the end of this note).

The Medicare Prescription Drug,  Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 ("the
Act") was enacted in December 2003.  The Act provides a federal  subsidy to plan
sponsors for certain  qualifying  prescription  drug benefits  covered under the
sponsor's postretirement medical benefit plans. The change in the obligation for
medical and life insurance  benefits during 2004 includes a $7 million actuarial
gain resulting from the Act.



ASSETS.  We  specifically  invest  certain  assets in order to fund our  pension
benefit  obligations.  Our  investment  goal is to earn a total return that over
time will grow assets sufficient to fund our plans' liabilities, after providing
appropriate  levels of contributions  and accepting prudent levels of investment
risk.  In order to achieve  this goal,  plan assets are  invested  primarily  in
funds or portfolios of funds actively  managed by outside  managers.  Investment
risk  is  managed  to  prudent   levels  by  company   policies   that   require
diversification  of asset classes,  manager styles and individual  holdings.  We
measure and monitor  investment  risk on an ongoing basis through  quarterly and
annual performance reviews, and periodic asset/liability studies.

Asset allocation is the most important method for achieving our investment goals
and is based on our assessment of the plans' long-term return objectives and the
appropriate balances needed for liquidity,  stability and  diversification.  The
allocation  of our  pension  plan  assets at fair value on January  31, 2003 and
2004, and the target allocation for 2005, by asset category, are as follows:

                                                     Asset Allocation
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                          Actual          Actual          Target
                                           2003            2004            2005
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Equity securities                           76%             73%             70%
Debt securities                             21              15              15
Real estate                                 --               4               5
Other                                        3               8              10
                                        ----------------------------------------
Total                                      100%            100%            100%
                                        ========================================

This table shows how the fair value of the pension  plan assets  changed  during
each of the last two years. (We do not have assets set aside for  postretirement
medical or life insurance benefits).

                                             Pension           Medical and Life
                                             Benefits         Insurance Benefits
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended April 30,                      2003      2004        2003      2004
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Fair value at beginning of year           $431      $334        $ --      $ --
Actual return on plan assets               (80)       97          --        --
Retiree contributions                       --        --           1         1
Company contributions                        1         9           3         3
Benefits paid                              (18)      (19)         (4)       (4)
                                        ----------------------------------------
Fair value at end of year                 $334      $421        $ --      $ --
                                        ========================================

Consistent  with our funding  policy,  we expect to contribute $2 to our pension
plans and $5 to our other postretirement benefit plans in 2005.

FUNDED STATUS.  The funded status of a plan refers to the difference between its
assets and its  obligations.  This amount differs from the amount  recognized on
the balance sheet because,  as discussed  below,  certain changes in the present
value of the obligation and the fair value of the plan assets are amortized over
several years for accounting  purposes.  This table reconciles the funded status
of the plans to the net amount recognized on the balance sheet.

                                             Pension           Medical and Life
                                             Benefits         Insurance Benefits
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
April 30,                                 2003      2004         2003     2004
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Assets                                   $ 334     $ 421         $ --     $ --
Obligations                               (449)     (511)         (79)     (79)
                                          --------------------------------------
Funded status                             (115)      (90)         (79)     (79)
Unrecognized net loss                      203       187           12        7
Unrecognized prior service cost              8         8            5        5
Other                                       (1)       --           --        1
                                          --------------------------------------
Net amount recognized on balance sheet   $  95     $ 105         $(62)    $(66)
                                          ======================================

The  unrecognized  net loss  for the  pension  plans  primarily  relates  to the
difference  between  the  actual  cumulative  return on plan  assets  versus the
expected cumulative return. (See below for assumptions regarding expected return
on plan assets).

The net amount is recognized on the consolidated balance sheet as follows:

                                             Pension           Medical and Life
                                             Benefits         Insurance Benefits
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
April 30,                                 2003      2004        2003      2004
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Prepaid pension cost                      $ 39      $118        $ --      $ --
Accrued postretirement benefits            (81)      (71)        (62)      (66)
Other assets                                 6         5          --        --
Accumulated other comprehensive loss       131        53          --        --
                                          --------------------------------------
Net amount recognized on balance sheet    $ 95      $105        $(62)     $(66)
                                          ======================================

This  table  compares  our  pension  plans  that have  assets in excess of their
accumulated  benefit  obligations  with those  whose  assets are less than their
obligations.  (As  discussed  above,  we  do  not  have  assets  set  aside  for
postretirement medical or life insurance benefits).

                                                   Accumulated       Projected
                                                    Benefit           Benefit
                                 Plan Assets       Obligation        Obligation
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
April 30,                        2003   2004       2003   2004      2003   2004
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Plans with assets in
 excess of accumulated
 benefit obligation              $ 57   $292       $ 47   $259      $ 49   $292
Plans with accumulated
 benefit obligation in
 excess of assets                 277    129        358    200       400    219
                                ------------------------------------------------
Total                            $334   $421       $405   $459      $449   $511
                                ================================================



PENSION INCOME. This table shows the components of the pension income recognized
during  each of the  last  three  years.  The  income  for  each  year  includes
amortization  of the net loss (gain),  prior service cost, and transition  asset
that was unrecognized as of the beginning of the year.

                                                     Pension Benefits
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended April 30,                       2002            2003            2004
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Service cost                               $ 14            $ 13            $ 14
Interest cost                                27              27              29
Expected return on plan assets              (49)            (49)            (44)
Amortization of:
   Unrecognized prior service cost            1               1               1
   Unrecognized net loss (gain)              (2)             --              --
   Unrecognized transition asset             (3)             (2)             (1)
                                       -----------------------------------------
Net income                                 $(12)           $(10)           $ (1)
                                       =========================================

The prior service cost  represents the cost of retroactive  benefits  granted in
plan  amendments.  These costs are amortized on a  straight-line  basis over the
average  remaining  service  period of the  employees  expected  to receive  the
benefits. The net loss (gain), which results from experience different from that
assumed or from a change in actuarial  assumptions,  is amortized  over at least
that  same  period.  The  unrecognized  transition  asset  was  amortized  on  a
straight-line basis through 2004.

The pension income recorded during the year is estimated at the beginning of the
year.  As a result,  the amount is calculated  using an expected  return on plan
assets rather than the actual return. The difference between actual and expected
returns is included in the unrecognized net loss (gain) at the end of the year.

OTHER  POSTRETIREMENT  BENEFIT  EXPENSE.  This table shows the components of the
postretirement  medical and life  insurance  benefit  expense that we recognized
during each of the last three years.


                                           Medical and Life Insurance Benefits
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended April 30,                       2002            2003            2004
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Service cost                                $1              $2              $2
Interest cost                                3               5               5
Amortization of unrecognized net loss       --              --               1
                                       -----------------------------------------
Net expense                                 $4              $7              $8
                                       =========================================


ASSUMPTIONS  AND  SENSITIVITY.  We use various  assumptions in  determining  the
obligations and expense (income) related to our pension and other postretirement
benefit plans. The assumptions used in computing  benefit plan obligations as of
the end of the last two years were as follows:

                                             Pension           Medical and Life
                                             Benefits         Insurance Benefits
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In Percent                                2003      2004        2003      2004
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Discount rate                             6.50      6.00        6.50      6.00
Rate of salary increase                   4.00      4.00         --        --
Expected return on plan assets            8.75      8.75         --        --

The assumptions  used in computing  benefit plan expense (income) during each of
the last three years were as follows:

                                              Pension          Medical and Life
                                              Benefits        Insurance Benefits
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In Percent                          2002    2003    2004    2002    2003    2004
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Discount rate                       7.50    7.00    6.50    7.50    7.00    6.50
Rate of salary increase             4.50    4.00    4.00     --      --      --
Expected return on plan assets     10.00    9.50    8.75     --      --      --




The discount  rate  represents  the interest rate used to discount the cash-flow
stream of benefit  payments to a net present  value as of the current  date.  We
base this rate on Moody's AA corporate bond index. A lower assumed discount rate
increases the present value of the benefit obligation.

The assumed rate of salary  increase  reflects the expected  annual  increase in
salaries as a result of inflation,  merit  increases,  and  promotions.  A lower
assumed rate decreases the present value of the benefit obligation.

The expected return on plan assets  represents the long-term rate of return that
we assume will be earned over the life of our pension  assets,  considering  the
distribution  of  those  assets  among  investment  categories  and the  related
historical rates of return.

The assumed healthcare cost trend rates as of the end of the last two years were
as follows:

                                         Medical and Life Insurance Benefits
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In Percent                                       2003           2004
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Healthcare cost trend rates:
   Present rate before age 65                    9.44           8.88
   Present rate age 65 and after                11.19          10.38


We project  healthcare cost trend rates to decline gradually to 5.5% by 2010 and
to  remain  level  after  that.  Assumed  healthcare  cost  trend  rates  have a
significant effect on the amounts reported for  postretirement  medical plans. A
one percentage point  increase/decrease  in assumed  healthcare cost trend rates
would have increased/decreased the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation
as of April 30, 2004 by $6 and the aggregate service and interest costs for 2004
by $1.


12. BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION

We do business in two  operating  segments - Beverages  and  Consumer  Durables.
These  segments  reflect the two categories of products from which we derive our
revenues.  Our  Beverage  segment  produces,  imports,  and  markets  wines  and
distilled spirits.  Our Consumer Durables segment  manufactures and sells china,
crystal,  ceramic  and  crystal  collectibles,   silver,  luggage,  and  leather
accessories.

Segment accounting policies are the same as the policies described in Note 1. We
have no intersegment revenues.

The following tables reconcile  segment  operating results and asset information
to consolidated amounts.

                                   2002              2003              2004
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net sales:
   Beverages                     $1,618            $1,795            $1,992
   Consumer Durables                605               581               585
                                 -----------------------------------------------
   Consolidated                  $2,223            $2,376            $2,577
                                 ===============================================

Operating income:
   Beverages                     $  336            $  348            $  390
   Consumer Durables                 17                30                17
Amounts not allocated to segments:
   Interest expense, net             (5)               (5)              (19)
                                 -----------------------------------------------
   Consolidated income
    before income taxes          $  348            $  373            $  388
                                 ===============================================

Depreciation and amortization:
   Beverages                     $   37            $   38            $   40
   Consumer Durables                 18                17                16
                                 -----------------------------------------------
   Consolidated                  $   55            $   55            $   56
                                 ===============================================

Goodwill:
   Beverages                     $  116            $  181            $  185
   Consumer Durables                130               130               130
                                 -----------------------------------------------
   Consolidated                  $  246            $  311            $  315
                                 ===============================================

Total assets:
   Beverages                     $1,573            $1,809            $1,924
   Consumer Durables                443               455               452
                                 -----------------------------------------------
   Consolidated                  $2,016            $2,264            $2,376
                                 ===============================================

Our  investments  in affiliates are included in the Beverage  segment's  assets.
Long-lived assets located outside the United States are not significant.

                                   2002              2003              2004
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Additions to long-lived assets:
   Beverages                        $58              $ 96               $42
   Consumer Durables                 21                32                21
                                 -----------------------------------------------
   Consolidated                     $79              $128               $63
                                 ===============================================

The following table presents geographic information about net sales:

                                   2002              2003              2004
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net sales:
   United States                 $1,830            $1,824            $1,823
   Other countries                  393               552               754
                                 -----------------------------------------------
                                 $2,223            $2,376            $2,577
                                 ===============================================

Net sales are attributed to countries based on where customers are located.



13.  CONTINGENCIES

We operate in a litigious  environment,  and we get sued in the normal course of
business. Sometimes plaintiffs seek substantial damages. Significant judgment is
required in predicting the outcome of these suits and claims, many of which take
years to adjudicate. We accrue estimated costs for a contingency when we believe
that a loss is  probable,  and adjust  the  accrual  as  appropriate  to reflect
changes in facts and circumstances.

Brown-Forman  and  many  other  manufacturers  of  spirits,  wine  and  beer are
defendants  in a series of similar  class action  lawsuits  seeking  damages and
injunctive  relief  over  alleged  marketing  of  beverage  alcohol to  underage
consumers.  The suits  allege  that the  defendants  have  engaged in  deceptive
marketing  practices  and schemes  targeted at underage  consumers,  negligently
marketed  their  products to the  underage,  and  fraudulently  concealed  their
alleged misconduct.  Brown-Forman  denies that we intentionally  market beverage
alcohol  products to minors and denies that our advertising is illegal.  We will
vigorously  defend this position and it is not possible at this time to estimate
a possible loss or range of loss, if any, in these lawsuits. However, an adverse
result in these lawsuits or similar class action  lawsuits could have a material
adverse effect on our business.

14. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

We face environmental claims resulting from the cleanup of several manufacturing
or waste disposal sites in the United  States.  We accrue for losses  associated
with environmental  cleanup obligations when such losses are probable and can be
reasonably  estimated.  At some sites,  there are other potentially  responsible
parties who are  expected to bear part of the costs,  in which cases our accrual
is based on our  estimate  of our share of the  total  costs.  A portion  of the
cleanup costs with respect to certain sites is expected to be paid by insurance.
The  estimated  recovery of cleanup  costs from insurers is recorded as an asset
when receipt is deemed probable.

We do not believe that any additional  environmental cleanup costs we incur will
have a material adverse effect on our consolidated  financial position,  results
of operations, or cash flows.


15. STOCK OPTIONS

Under our Omnibus Compensation Plan ("the Plan"), we can grant stock options and
other  stock-based  incentive  awards for a total of 6,800,000  shares of common
stock to eligible  employees until April 30, 2005. Shares delivered to employees
are  limited by the Plan to shares  that we purchase  for this  purpose.  No new
shares may be issued.

We grant stock  options at an exercise  price of not less than the fair value of
the underlying stock on the grant date.  Except for the stock options granted at
an exercise  price of $50 per share  (discussed  below),  stock options  granted
under the Plan  become  exercisable  after three years from the first day of the
fiscal year of grant and expire seven years after that date.  The fair values of
these options granted during 2002,  2003, and 2004 were $8.69,  $7.77, and $9.29
per option,  respectively.  Fair values were estimated  using the  Black-Scholes
pricing model with the following assumptions:

                                      2002      2003      2004
- --------------------------------------------------------------
Risk-free interest rate               4.8%      3.9%      3.6%
Expected volatility                  23.6%     24.1%     24.6%
Expected dividend yield               2.1%      2.0%      1.9%
Expected life (years)                   6         6         6

We have also granted  1,064,000  stock options with an exercise price of $50 per
share that become  exercisable  on May 1, 2006, and expire on September 1, 2007.
The fair value of these  options was $2.89 per option,  using the  Black-Scholes
pricing  model  and  assuming  a  risk-free  interest  rate  of  6.0%,  expected
volatility of 18.0%, an expected dividend yield of 2.2%, and an expected life of
eight years.

As  of  April  30,  2004,  we  have  no  other  significant  stock-based  awards
outstanding under the Plan.



The following table  summarizes  option activity for the three years ended April
30, 2004.  All options are for an equivalent  number of shares of Class B common
stock.

                                       Options                    Weighted
                                     Outstanding              Average Exercise
                                    (in thousands)            Price Per Option
                                     -----------              ----------------
Balance, April 30, 2001                 3,577                     $33.33

   Granted                                716                      35.74
   Exercised                             (159)                     24.05
   Forfeited                               (6)                     31.18
                                     -----------              ----------------
Balance, April 30, 2002                 4,128                      34.10

   Granted                                742                      32.13
   Exercised                             (254)                     26.58
   Forfeited                              (31)                     30.19
                                     -----------              ----------------
Balance, April 30, 2003                 4,585                      34.23

   Granted                                726                      39.24
   Exercised                             (459)                     26.58
   Forfeited                              (17)                     33.68
                                     -----------              ----------------
Balance, April 30, 2004                 4,835                     $35.71
                                     ===========              ================

The following  table  summarizes  the status of stock options  outstanding as of
April 30, 2004, by exercise price:

                      Options               Remaining                Options
Exercise Price      Outstanding            Contractual             Exercisable
  Per Option       (in thousands)          Life (Years)          (in thousands)
- --------------      -----------            ------------            -----------
 $18.06                  114                   2.0                      114
  24.56                  216                   3.0                      216
  25.22                  572                   6.0                      572
  30.63                  324                   4.0                      324
  31.13                  466                   5.0                      466
  32.11                  737                   8.0                       --
  34.17                  616                   7.0                       --
  39.23                  726                   9.0                       --
 $50.00                1,064                   3.3                       --
                    -----------            ------------            -----------
                       4,835                   5.8                    1,692
                    ===========            ============            ===========


16. RESTRUCTURING COSTS

During  2002,  we accrued  $17 of costs  related to our  decision to close three
manufacturing  plants in the Consumer Durables  segment.  The $17 included $9 of
severance  costs  for 600  terminated  employees,  $5 of  other  estimated  cash
expenditures,  and $3 of losses on impaired  machinery and equipment.  We closed
one plant  during  fiscal  2002 and the other two during  fiscal  2003.  We have
replaced the output of these plants by shifting a portion of  production  to two
of our other  facilities  and by  outsourcing  the  remainder.  During 2004,  we
accrued an  additional  $2 for  anticipated  losses on the sale of buildings and
equipment.  We have charged $16 of costs  against the accrual  through April 30,
2004, including $8 of severance costs, $5 of other cash expenditures,  and $3 of
losses on impaired machinery and equipment,  leaving a remaining accrual balance
of $3 as of April 30, 2004.



                              REPORT OF MANAGEMENT

As  Brown-Forman's  CEO  and  CFO,  we are  responsible  for  the  presentation,
integrity,  and objectivity of the information  contained in these  consolidated
financial  statements.  We have discharged this responsibility by establishing a
rigorous system of corporate conduct,  internal audit, external audit, and board
oversight.

CORPORATE CONDUCT:  In the current turbulent  business climate,  we are proud of
Brown-Forman's  hard-earned  reputation for conducting  business in a forthright
manner. We take seriously our  responsibility to foster a strong ethical climate
so that  employees  conduct  the  company's  business  according  to the highest
personal and corporate standards.

Our  Code of  Conduct  and  Compliance  Guidelines  set out  unambiguously  each
employee's duty to ensure open  communication  throughout the company,  disclose
potential conflicts of interest, comply with all applicable domestic and foreign
laws (including  financial  disclosure  laws), and keep proprietary  information
confidential.   The  company  systematically   assesses  compliance  with  these
standards, including annual verification statements signed by all employees, and
review by the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors (comprising  independent
directors).

INTERNAL  AUDIT:  We are also  responsible  for  establishing  and maintaining a
system  of  internal  audit  designed  to  provide  reasonable  assurance  at  a
reasonable  cost that  financial  records are reliable for  preparing  financial
statements  and that  assets are  properly  accounted  for and  safeguarded.  We
believe that, as of April 30, 2004, the internal audit system  accomplishes  its
objectives adequately.

EXTERNAL  AUDIT:  PricewaterhouseCoopers  LLP,  independent  accountants  (PwC),
audited the company's consolidated  financial statements.  As part of its audit,
PwC evaluated  selected  internal  accounting  controls to establish the nature,
timing,  and extent of its audit tests.  We gave PwC access to all the company's
financial  records and related  data,  as well as the minutes of  stockholders',
directors',  and other appropriate meetings. We believe that all representations
made to PwC during the audit were valid and appropriate.

BOARD OVERSIGHT: The Board of Directors, through its Audit Committee, meets with
management,  the internal  auditors,  and the independent  accountants to ensure
that each is discharging  its  responsibilities  properly.  Both the independent
accountants and the internal  auditors have free access to the Audit  Committee,
without  management  present,  to discuss the  results of their work,  including
internal accounting controls and the quality of financial reporting.

Accordingly,  we can report that the consolidated  financial  statements in this
Annual  Report  have  been  prepared  in  accordance  with  generally   accepted
accounting  principles.  They include  amounts  based on our best  estimates and
judgments. We also prepared the related financial information in this report and
are responsible for its accuracy and consistency with the financial statements.




/s/ Owsley Brown II
Owsley Brown II
Chairman of the Board
 and Chief Executive Officer



/s/ Phoebe A. Wood
Phoebe A. Wood
Executive Vice President
 and Chief Financial Officer



                        REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS


TO BROWN-FORMAN CORPORATION:
In our opinion,  the  accompanying  consolidated  balance sheets and the related
consolidated  statements of income,  of  stockholders'  equity and of cash flows
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Brown-Forman
Corporation and Subsidiaries (the "Company") at April 30, 2003 and 2004, and the
results of their  operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
the  period  ended  April 30,  2004 in  conformity  with  accounting  principles
generally accepted in the United States of America.  These financial  statements
are the  responsibility of the Company's  management;  our  responsibility is to
express  an  opinion  on these  financial  statements  based on our  audits.  We
conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company  Accounting  Oversight  Board (United  States).  Those  standards
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable  assurance about
whether the financial  statements  are free of material  misstatement.  An audit
includes  examining,  on a test  basis,  evidence  supporting  the  amounts  and
disclosures in the financial  statements,  assessing the  accounting  principles
used and  significant  estimates made by management,  and evaluating the overall
financial  statement  presentation.   We  believe  that  our  audits  provide  a
reasonable basis for our opinion.



/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Louisville, Kentucky
May 27, 2004




               IMPORTANT INFORMATION ON FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This  annual  report  contains  statements,   estimates,   or  projections  that
constitute "forward looking statements" as defined under U.S. federal securities
laws.  Generally,  the words "expect," "believe," "intend,"  "estimate," "will,"
"anticipate," and "project," and similar expressions  identify a forward-looking
statement,  which speaks only as of the date the  statement  is made.  Except as
required  by law,  we do not  intend to update  or  revise  any  forward-looking
statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.

We  believe  that  the   expectations   and  assumptions  with  respect  to  our
forward-looking statements are reasonable. But by their nature,  forward-looking
statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that
in some  cases are out of our  control.  These  factors  could  cause our actual
results to differ materially from  Brown-Forman's  historical  experience or our
present expectations or projections.  Here is a non-exclusive list of such risks
and uncertainties:

 - changes in general economic conditions, particularly in the United
   States where we earn the majority of our profits;
 - a strengthening U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, especially
   the British Pound;
 - reduced bar, restaurant, hotel and travel business in wake of other
   terrorist attacks, such as occurred on 9/11;
 - developments in the class action lawsuits filed against Brown-Forman
   and other spirits, beer and wine manufacturers alleging
   that our advertising causes illegal consumption of alcohol by those
   under the legal drinking age, or other attempts to limit alcohol
   marketing, through either litigation or regulation;
 - a dramatic change in consumer preferences, social trends or cultural
   trends that results in the reduced consumption of our premium
   spirits brands;
 - tax increases, whether at the federal or state level;
 - increases in the price of grain and grapes;
 - continued depressed retail prices and margins in our wine business
   because of our excess wine inventories, existing grape contract
   obligations, and a world-wide oversupply of grapes; and
 - the effects on our Consumer Durables business of the general economy,
   department store business, response rates in our direct marketing
   business, and profitability of mall outlet operations.



                                                                     Exhibit 14

                  CODE OF ETHICS FOR SENIOR FINANCIAL OFFICERS

A. Purpose

At Brown-Forman  Corporation (the "Company"),  we pride ourselves on maintaining
the highest ethical standards in the conduct of our business. The Company's Code
of Conduct,  together with our Compliance  Guidelines,  sets forth  standards of
behavior for our employees regarding the ethical conduct of our business and our
relations with the public, customers, fellow employees, competitors,  suppliers,
the media, government and others.

As a  result  of  recent  corporate  scandals  involving  accounting  and  other
financial  misconduct,  newly passed laws and rules require the chief  executive
officer and senior financial officers of public companies to adhere to a Code of
Ethics that is particularly  focused on the behavior of individuals with primary
responsibility  for  financial  and  accounting  functions,  policies and public
disclosures.  This Code of Ethics is  incorporated  into our Code of Conduct and
constitutes a Compliance Guideline for our Senior Financial Officers.

While these ethical  requirements  have always been part of our Code of Conduct,
by adopting this Code of Ethics the Company reaffirms its strong commitment to:

   - Honest and ethical conduct, including the ethical handling of actual or
     apparent conflicts of interest;

   - Full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable disclosure in reports and
     documents that The Company files with or submits to the Securities and
     Exchange Commission and in other public communications made by the Company;

   - Compliance with applicable governmental laws, rules and regulations,
     including, without limitation, compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
     2002, as well as any implementing regulations promulgated by the Securities
     and Exchange Commission and the corporate governance rules of the New York
     Stock Exchange, and any other legal requirements that may be imposed by
     governmental agencies and regulators to help restore investor confidence;



   - The prompt internal reporting of violations of the Code of Ethics to any of
     the persons set forth on Exhibit A hereto; and

   - Accountability and adherence to the Code of Ethics.

B. Senior Financial Officers

For the purposes of this Code of Ethics, the Company's Senior Financial Officers
are the:

   1. Chief Executive Officer;

   2. Chief Financial Officer;

   3. Directors of Corporate Finance, Corporate Development, Strategy, Tax, and
      Investor Relations;

   4. Controller; General Auditor; and Treasurer;

   5. Chief Financial Officers of the operating groups, presently: Wine;
      Spirits; Spirits Americas; Spirits Asia Pacific; Spirits Europe, Africa
      and Eurasia; the Distillery Company, Hartmann and Lenox; and

   6. Successor officers having substantially the same financial reporting
      responsibilities, even though their job titles may be different.

C. Standard of Conduct

Under the Brown-Forman  Compliance  Program,  the Company's  financial  officers
always have been expected to conduct the financial,  accounting,  reporting, and
auditing  activities  of the Company with the highest  ethical  standards and in
compliance with all laws and regulations.  This Code of Ethics is not limited to
the situations  described below, nor is it intended to address or anticipate all
situations  involving  financial  officers with respect to the  reliability  and
accuracy of our books,  records,  and accounts,  as well as the integrity of all
financial  disclosures and financial dealings of the Company.  It is intended to
convey that the Company expects our senior financial  officers to engage only in
conduct that is above  reproach and that fully  reflects  their duty to maintain
reliable and accurate financial records and reports for the Company.



Each Senior Financial Officer is required to:

   1. Act in all Company financial and accounting matters with honesty,
      integrity and fair dealing, and in full compliance with all applicable
      laws and regulations.

   2. Establish financial and accounting procedures that to the extent
      reasonably possible ensure that the Company's books and records are
      complete, accurate and conform with applicable national or international
      accounting standards.

   3. Never approve, authorize or participate in any activity that involves the
      falsification of documents or accounts, the making of misleading or
      intentionally incomplete entries into the Company's books and records, or
      transactions or recording of business transactions off the Company's books
      and records.  Any Senior Financial Officer who becomes aware of such
      activities is required to report them to his or her superior; if the
      matter is not promptly corrected, the officer shall report it to the
      General Auditor, the General Counsel, or the Audit Committee of the Board
      of Directors (the "Audit Committee").

   4. Elevate his or her duty of loyalty and care to the interests of the
      Company over any personal or family interest or the interests of third
      parties and avoid becoming involved in any transaction that creates a
      material conflict of interest with the Company; and disclose to any of the
      persons in Exhibit A for prior review and approval any situation that
      might reasonably be expected to give an appearance of a personal benefit
      to the financial officer, his or her family, or other third parties at the
      expense of, or to the disadvantage of the Company.

   5. Impose systems and processes which, if followed and monitored, provide
      reasonable assurance that Company officers and directors do not use
      Company funds or assets for unauthorized (as opposed to approved
      perquisites) personal benefit, or for the benefit of their relatives or
      other third parties.



   6. Engage in dealings with outside and internal auditors that are open,
      honest, and not misleading.

   7. Respect the confidentiality of information acquired in the course of one's
      work except when authorized or otherwise legally obligated to disclose.

   8. Avoid having an ownership interest in any other enterprise if that
      interest compromises your loyalty to the Company.  For example, you may
      not own an interest in a company that competes with the Company or that
      does business with the Company unless you obtain the written approval of
      any of the persons listed on Exhibit A hereto before making any such
      investment. However, it is not typically considered, and the Company does
      not consider it, a conflict of interest (and therefore prior written
      approval is not required) to make investments in competitors, clients or
      suppliers that are listed on a national or international securities
      exchange so long as the total value of the investment is less than one
      percent (1%) of the outstanding stock of the company and the amount of the
      investment is not so significant that it would affect your business
      judgment on behalf of the Company.  Also, this is not intended to prohibit
      an ownership interest, of any amount, in a company that makes products
      that compete with the Company's products, so long as the product line
      involved does not represent more than five percent of the Company's
      consolidated gross revenues for its last full fiscal year.

   9. Being employed by or serving as a director of a competitor of the Company
      is strictly prohibited, as is any activity that is intended to or that you
      should reasonably expect to advance a competitor's interests at the
      expense of the Company's interests.  You may not market products or
      services in competition with the Company's current or potential business
      activities.  It is your responsibility to consult with the Chief Executive
      Officer to determine whether a planned activity will compete with any of
      the Company's business activities before you pursue the activity in
      question.  However, it is not typically considered, and the Company does
      not consider it, a conflict of interest (and therefore prior written
      approval is not required) to serve as a director of a company that makes
      products that compete with the Company's products, so long as the product
      line involved does not represent more than five percent of the Company's
      consolidated gross revenues for its last full fiscal year.  The provisions
      of this paragraph 9 do not apply to an employee who serves on the board of
      a corporation or joint venture at Brown-Forman's request.



  10. Directly, or through another of the Senior Financial Officers, fully,
      regularly and accurately report to the Audit Committee concerning material
      financial accounting and reporting activities of the Company, including:

         - any proposed significant changes in Company accounting policies and
           practices;

         - assurance that the financial and accounting aspects of all projects,
           activities, reports, or other business that come before them are
           lawful, accurate complete, in conformance with general accepted
           accounting practices, corporate policy and procedure, and not
           designed for some ulterior or misleading purpose;

         - timely, accurate and complete disclosures to the Audit Committee and
           others, as appropriate, of any violation of Company financial and
           accounting policies or procedures; and

         - annual assurance to the Audit Committee that internal financial
           control systems are reasonably designed to detect fraud in the
           financial books and records of the Company.

D. Penalties for Failure to Comply

Senior  Financial  Officers  who fail to comply  with this Code are  subject  to
disciplinary  action,  up to and  including  termination  from the Company.  The
Company may also refer  matters  involving a violation of this Code of Ethics to
the relevant government  regulatory and enforcement  agencies,  as circumstances
may warrant.



E. Confidential Disclosure and Monitoring Procedures

All employees have the responsibility to report observed or suspected violations
of law, Company policy, or this Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, as
well  as any  activity  that  might  constitute  financial  fraud  or  financial
misconduct, to any one of the individuals listed in the attached Exhibit A or to
the Audit Committee under the Complaint Handling and Review Procedure.  Like all
employees,  the Senior  Financial  Officers  should each also  promptly make all
facts  known to his or her  supervisor  if at any time he or she  believes  that
someone  is  engaged  in an or may  engage  in an  activity  that  violates  the
Brown-Forman Code of Conduct and Compliance Guidelines. If the employee believes
his or her  supervisor  may  be  engaged  in  the  questionable  activity  or is
reporting  to someone  who may be so engaged,  the  employee  should  report the
relevant facts to the Compliance Omsbudsman in the Legal Department.

It is the duty of the responsible Chief Financial Officer,  along with the Legal
Department and the General Auditor,  to ensure that any suspected  misconduct or
financial fraud is disclosed promptly to the Audit Committee.

A Senior  Financial  Officer may also report  suspected  misconduct or financial
fraud directly to the Audit Committee.

For the complete Code of Conduct,  Compliance  Guidelines,  and other Compliance
Officers and reporting vehicles, refer to the Compliance Center on BF Connect or
Lenox LEO.

F. Penalties for Retaliation  Against Employees Who Report Financial  Misconduct
   In Good Faith

It is the  Company's  policy  that no employee  who makes good faith  reports of
suspected  misconduct,  including  any  violation  of this or other the  Company
policies,  guidelines,  or procedures,  shall suffer  retaliatory  acts from any
Company employee,  officer,  manager or director. Any employee who believes that
he or she is suffering retaliation for making a good faith report of a violation
of this Code or other  Company  policy and  procedure  should notify the General
Counsel,  the General  Auditor,  or the Audit  Committee.  Employees,  officers,
managers or directors who are determined to have engaged in such retaliation are
subject  to  immediate  termination  of  employment  from  the  Company,  as the
situation and facts warrant.




                                   EXHIBIT A*

Chief Financial Officer                 Phoebe Wood          502-774-7841
General Counsel                         Michael Crutcher     502-774-7202
General Auditor                         Fred Ament           502-774-7450
B-F Compliance Ombudsman                Bill Blodgett        502-774-7202
Lenox/Hartmann Compliance Ombudsman     Lou Fantin           609-844-1333
V.P. Finance                            Jane Morreau         502-774-7165

* This Exhibit A is intended to encompass the current positions listed above.
  If there is a change in personnel, the new person shall be deemed to be the
  occupant of the position.  If there is a change in the nature of the
  position, due to organizational restructuring or otherwise, then this
  Exhibit A shall be deemed to be modified to include those positions
  exercising the same or similar functions as the positions listed above,
  and the persons holding them from time to time.



                                                                     Exhibit 21

                         SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

                                          Percentage           State or
                                          of Voting          Jurisdiction
Name                                   Securities Owned    of Incorporation
- ----                                   ----------------    ----------------
AMG Trading, L.L.C.                           100%           Delaware
Brown-Forman Beverages Australia Pty. Ltd.    100%           Australia
Brown-Forman Beverages North Asia, L.L.C.     100%           Delaware
B-F Korea, L.L.C.                             100%           Delaware
Brown-Forman Beverages Poland                 100%           Poland
Brown-Forman Beverages UK, Ltd.               100%           United Kingdom
Brown-Forman Relocation Corp.                 100%           Kentucky
Canadian Mist Distillers, Limited             100%           Ontario, Canada
Early Times Distillers Company                100%           Delaware
Fetzer Vineyards                              100%           California
Fratelli Bolla International Wines, Inc.      100%           Kentucky
Hartmann Incorporated                         100%           Delaware
Heddon's Gate Investments, L.L.C.             100%           Delaware
Jack Daniel's Properties, Inc.                100%           Delaware
Lenox, Incorporated                           100%           New Jersey
Mt. Eagle Corporation                         100%           Delaware
Sonoma-Cutrer Vineyards, Inc.                 100%           California
Southern Comfort Properties, Inc.             100%           California
Washington Investments, L.L.C.                100%           Kentucky
Longnorth Limited                             100% (1) (3)   Ireland
Clintock Limited                              100% (1) (4)   Ireland
Brooks & Bentley Limited                      100% (2)       United Kingdom
DID, Incorporated                             100% (2)       Delaware
Voldgade Investment Holdings A/S              100% (3)       Denmark
Pitts Bay Trading Limited                      75% (4)       Bermuda
BFC Tequila Limited                            67% (4)       Ireland
Drake Investments, Inc.                       100% (5)       Delaware
Jack Daniel Distillery,
   Lem Motlow, Prop., Inc.                    100% (5)       Tennessee
Brown-Forman Korea Ltd.                       100% (6)       Korea
Fratelli Bolla, S.p.A.                        100% (7)       Italy
Finlandia Vodka Worldwide Ltd.                 80% (8)       Finland
Alkometa s.r.o.                               100% (9)       Czech Republic
Finlandia Polska                              100% (9)       Poland
Brown-Forman Beverages Worldwide,
   Comercio de Bebidas Ltda.                  100% (10)      Brazil
Brown-Forman Worldwide, L.L.C.                100% (10)      Delaware
JDPI Investments, L.L.C.                      100% (11)      Delaware
Amercain Investments C.V.                     100% (12)      Netherlands
Brown-Forman Beverages Africa, Ltd.           100% (13)      Bermuda
Distillerie Tuoni e Canepa Srl                100% (14)      Italy


The companies listed above constitute all active subsidiaries in which
Brown-Forman Corporation owns, either directly or indirectly, the majority of
the voting securities. No other active affiliated companies are controlled by
Brown-Forman Corporation.

 (1)  Includes qualifying shares assigned to Brown-Forman Corporation.
 (2)  Owned by Lenox, Incorporated.
 (3)  Owned by Amercain Investments C.V.
 (4)  Owned by Longnorth Limited.
 (5)  Owned by Jack Daniel's Properties, Inc.
 (6)  Owned by B-F Korea, L.L.C.
 (7)  Owned by Fratelli Bolla International Wines, Inc.
 (8)  Owned by Voldgade Investment Holdings A/S.
 (9)  Owned by Finlandia Vodka Worldwide Ltd.
(10)  Owned 99% by Brown-Forman Corporation and 1% by Early Times Distillers
      Company.
(11)  Owned 99% by Jack Daniel's Properties, Inc. and 1% by Fetzer Vineyards.
(12)  Owned 95% by Brown-Forman Corporation and 5% by Heddon's Gate
      Investments, L.L.C.
(13)  Owned 99% by Clintock Limited and 1% by Longnorth Limited.
(14)  Owned 55% by Fratelli Bolla International Wines, Inc. and 45% by
      Voldgade Investment Holdings A/S.




                                                                    Exhibit 23

            CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

We  hereby  consent  to the  incorporation  by  reference  in  the  Registration
Statement on Form S-3 (Nos.  33-12413 and 33-52551) and Form S-8 (No. 333-08311,
333-38649,  333-74567,  333-77903,  333-88925  and  333-89294)  of  Brown-Forman
Corporation  and  Subsidiaries  of our report dated May 27, 2004 relating to the
financial statements, which appears in the Annual Report to Shareholders,  which
is  incorporated  in this  Annual  Report on Form 10-K.  We also  consent to the
incorporation  by  reference  of our report  dated May 27, 2004  relating to the
financial statement schedule, which appears in this Form 10-K.


/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Louisville, Kentucky
July 1, 2004




                                                                    Exhibit 31.1

       CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

I, Owsley Brown II, certify that:

1.  I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Brown-Forman Corporation;

2.  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of
    a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
    statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
    were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3.  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
    information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects
    the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
    registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report.

4.  The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for
    establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
    in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:

    a)  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
        disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision,
        to ensure that material information relating to the registrant,
        including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others
        within those entities, particularly during the period in which this
        report is being prepared;

    b)  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and
        procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
        effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end
        of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

    c)  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control
        over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most
        recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the
        case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
        likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over
        financial reporting; and

5.  The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our
    most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
    registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of
    directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):

    a)  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
        operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
        reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to
        record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

    b)  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
        employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal
        control over financial reporting.


Date:   July 1, 2004                            By: /s/ Owsley Brown II
                                                Owsley Brown II
                                                Chief Executive Officer


                                                                    Exhibit 31.2

     CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

I, Phoebe A. Wood, certify that:

1.  I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Brown-Forman Corporation;

2.  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of
    a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
    statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
    were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3.  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
    information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects
    the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
    registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report.

4.  The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for
    establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
    in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:

    a)  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
        disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision,
        to ensure that material information relating to the registrant,
        including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others
        within those entities, particularly during the period in which this
        report is being prepared;

    b)  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and
        procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
        effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end
        of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

    c)  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control
        over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most
        recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the
        case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
        likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over
        financial reporting; and

5.  The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our
    most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
    registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of
    directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):

    a)  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
        operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
        reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to
        record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

    b)  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
        employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal
        control over financial reporting.


Date:   July 1, 2004                            By: /s/ Phoebe A. Wood
                                                Phoebe A. Wood
                                                Chief Financial Officer



                                                                    Exhibit 32

    CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO
                 SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

In connection with the Annual Report of Brown-Forman Corporation ("the Company")
on Form 10-K for the period ended April 30, 2004,  as filed with the  Securities
and  Exchange  Commission  on  the  date  hereof  (the  "Report"),  each  of the
undersigned  hereby  certifies,  pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  Section 1350, as adopted
pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, in the capacity as an
officer of the Company, that:

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
    respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.



Dated: July 1, 2004

                                           /s/ Owsley Brown II
                                           Owsley Brown II
                                           Chief Executive Officer and Chairman



Dated: July 1, 2004

                                           /s/ Phoebe A. Wood
                                           Phoebe A. Wood
                                           Executive Vice President
                                            and Chief Financial Officer


A signed  original of this  written  statement  required by Section 906 has been
provided to the Company and will be retained by the Company and furnished to the
Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.

This  certificate is being  furnished  solely for purposes of Section 906 and is
not being filed as part of the Report.


