Item 1A.  Risk factors

In addition to the other information in this report and our other filings with the SEC, you should carefully consider the risks described below, which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. These risks are not the only risks that we face. Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial.





-8-






Reductions in third-party reimbursement levels, from private or governmental agency plans, and potential changes in industry pricing benchmarks for prescription drugs could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.



The substantial majority of the prescriptions we fill are reimbursed by third-party payers, including private and governmental agency payers. The continued efforts of health maintenance organizations, managed care organizations, PBM companies, governmental agencies, and other third-party payers to reduce prescription drug costs and pharmacy reimbursement rates, as well as litigation and other legal proceedings relating to how drugs are priced, may adversely impact our results of operations. In the United States, plan changes with rate adjustments often occur in January and our reimbursement arrangements may provide for rate adjustments at prescribed intervals during their term. In addition, in an environment where some PBM clients utilize narrow or restricted pharmacy provider networks, some of these entities may offer pricing terms that we may not be willing to accept or otherwise restrict our participation in their networks of pharmacy providers.





In addition, many payers in the United States are increasingly considering new metrics as the basis for reimbursement rates. It is possible that the pharmaceutical industry or regulators may evaluate and/or develop an alternative pricing reference to replace average wholesale price, which is the pricing reference used for many of our contracts. In addition, many state Medicaid fee-for-service programs have established pharmacy network payments on the basis of actual acquisition cost, which could have an impact on reimbursement practices in other commercial and governmental arrangements. Future changes to the pricing benchmarks used to establish pharmaceutical pricing, including changes in the basis for calculating reimbursement by third-party payers, could adversely affect us.



A shift in pharmacy mix toward lower margin plans, products, and programs could adversely affect our results of operations.





We derive a significant portion of our sales in the United States from prescription drug sales reimbursed by a limited number of pharmacy benefit management companies.





-9-








We could be adversely affected by a decrease in the introduction of new brand name and generic prescription drugs as well as increases in the cost to procure prescription drugs.



The profitability of our pharmacy businesses depends upon the utilization of prescription drugs. Utilization trends are affected by, among other factors, the introduction of new and successful prescription drugs as well as lower-priced generic alternatives to existing brand name drugs. Inflation in the price of drugs also can adversely affect utilization, particularly given the increased prevalence of high-deductible health insurance plans and related plan design changes. New brand name drugs can result in increased drug utilization and associated sales, while the introduction of lower priced generic alternatives typically results in relatively lower sales, but relatively higher gross profit margins. Accordingly, a decrease in the number or magnitude of significant new brand name drugs or generics successfully introduced, delays in their introduction, or a decrease in the utilization of previously introduced prescription drugs, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.



In addition, if we experience an increase in the amounts we pay to procure pharmaceutical drugs, including generic drugs, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our gross profit margins would be adversely affected to the extent we are not able to offset such cost increases. Any failure to fully offset any such increased prices and costs or to modify our activities to mitigate the impact could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, any future changes in drug prices could be significantly different than our expectations.



Consolidation and strategic alliances in the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business operations, competitive positioning, financial condition and results of operations.



Many organizations in the healthcare industry, including PBM companies, have consolidated in recent years to create larger healthcare enterprises with greater bargaining power, which has resulted in greater pricing pressures. If this consolidation trend continues, it could give the resulting enterprises even greater bargaining power, which may lead to further pressure on the prices for our products and services. If these pressures result in reductions in our prices, our businesses would become less profitable unless we are able to achieve corresponding reductions in costs or develop profitable new revenue streams.



New and proposed acquisitions, partnerships and strategic alliances in the healthcare industry also can alter market dynamics and impact our businesses and competitive positioning. For example, in November 2018, CVS Health Corporation, an integrated pharmacy health care company that operates one of the largest retail drugstore chains and PBM companies in the United States, acquired Aetna, Inc., one of the largest diversified health care benefits companies. Changes in the participants in global sourcing enterprises relating to drug procurement, whether as a result of mergers, acquisitions or other transactions, can also have a similar effect on market dynamics and our business. In addition, further consolidation among generic drug manufacturers could lead to generic drug inflation in the future. We expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies, government contracting requirements, and other pressures will continue to cause the healthcare industry to evolve, potentially resulting in further business consolidations and alliances and increased vertical integration among the industry participants we engage with, and which could, if we are not able to successfully anticipate and respond to evolving industry conditions in a timely and effective manner, materially and adversely impact our business operations, financial condition and results of operations.



Our growth strategy is partially dependent upon our ability to identify and successfully complete acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic partnerships and alliances.





-10-






A significant element of our growth strategy is to identify, pursue and successfully complete and integrate acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic partnerships and alliances that either expand or complement our existing operations. We have grown significantly through acquisitions in recent years and expect to continue to acquire, partner with or invest in businesses that build on or are deemed complementary to our existing businesses or further our strategic objectives. Due in part to consolidation in the industries in which we compete, there is significant competition for attractive targets and opportunities when available. There can be no assurance that attractive acquisition or other strategic relationship opportunities will be available, that we will be successful in identifying, negotiating and consummating favorable transaction opportunities, or that any such transactions we complete will be successful and justify our investment of financial and other resources.





Our strategic relationships include outsourcing and similar relationships. We outsource certain business and administrative functions and rely on third parties to perform certain services on our behalf. We rely on these third parties to meet our quality and performance requirements and to timely perform as expected. We periodically negotiate provisions and renewals of these relationships, and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to us or such third parties. If our continuing relationship with certain third-party providers is interrupted, or if such third-party providers experience disruptions or do not perform as anticipated, or we experience problems with any transition, we may experience operational difficulties, reputational harm, and increased costs that could materially and adversely affect our business operations and results of operations.



We are exposed to risks related to litigation and other legal proceedings.





Legal proceedings, in general, and securities, derivative action and class action and multi-district litigation, in particular, can be expensive and disruptive. Some of these suits may purport or may be determined to be class actions and/or involve parties seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages, and may remain unresolved for several years. For example, we are a defendant in numerous litigation proceedings relating to opioids. From time to time, the Company is also involved in legal proceedings as a plaintiff involving antitrust, tax, contract, intellectual property and other matters. See note 10, commitments and contingencies, for more information.





-11-






The Company’s financial results may also be adversely affected by the litigation and other legal proceedings of companies in which it has an equity method investment. Any unfavorable outcome or settlement related to these proceedings could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial results.



Like other companies in the retail pharmacy and pharmaceutical wholesale industries, the Company is subject to extensive regulation by national, state and local government agencies in the United States and other countries in which it operates. There continues to be a heightened level of review and/or audit by regulatory authorities of, and increased litigation regarding, the Company’s and the rest of the health care and related industry’s business, compliance and reporting practices. As a result, the Company regularly is the subject of government actions of the types described above. In addition, under the qui tam or “whistleblower” provisions of the federal and various state false claims acts, persons may bring lawsuits alleging that a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute or similar laws has resulted in the submission of “false” claims to federal and/or state healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. After a private party has filed a qui tam action, the government must investigate the private party's claim and determine whether to intervene in and take control over the litigation. These actions may remain under seal while the government makes this determination.



We cannot predict with certainty the outcomes of these legal proceedings and other contingencies, and the costs incurred in litigation can be substantial, regardless of the outcome. Substantial unanticipated verdicts, fines and rulings do sometimes occur. As a result, we could from time to time incur judgments, enter into settlements or revise our expectations regarding the outcome of certain matters, and such developments could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the amounts are accrued and/or our cash flows in the period in which the amounts are paid. In addition, as a result of governmental investigations or proceedings, the Company may be subject to damages, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other sanctions, including the possible suspension or loss of licensure and/or suspension or exclusion from participation in government programs. The outcome of some of these legal proceedings and other contingencies could require us to take, or refrain from taking, actions which could negatively affect our operations. Additionally, defending against these lawsuits and proceedings may involve significant expense and diversion of management’s attention and resources.



Our business results depend on our ability to successfully manage ongoing organizational change and business transformation and achieve cost savings and operating efficiency initiatives.





The industries in which we operate are highly competitive and constantly evolving. New entrants to the market, existing competitor actions or other changes in market dynamics could adversely impact us.





-12-






alternative supply sources such as importers and manufacturers who supply directly to pharmacies. Competition may also come from other sources in the future. As competition increases in the markets in which we operate, a significant increase in general pricing pressures could occur, including pressure on the convenience premium of our retail pricing model, which could require us to reevaluate our pricing structures to remain competitive. For example, if we are not able to anticipate and successfully respond to changes in market conditions in our Pharmaceutical Wholesale division, including changes driven by competitors, suppliers or manufacturers and increased competition from national and regional cooperative wholesalers, it could result in a loss of customers or renewal of contracts or arrangements on less favorable terms.



We also could be adversely affected if we fail to identify or effectively respond to changes in market dynamics. As technology, consumer behavior, omni-channel and differential retail models, and market conditions continue to evolve in the United States, it is important that we maintain the relevance of our brand and product and service offerings to customers and patients. In recent years, we announced that we are testing a number of concepts and initiatives designed to position our stores in the United States as convenient neighborhood health destinations for healthcare and retail products and services. The concepts being tested include new approaches to pricing and promotions, product selection, in-store and digital experience, and strategic partnerships that bring new products and services to our customers. We plan to use these pilots to listen to customers, learn and adjust based on feedback, with decisions on the nature and extent of further roll-outs made over time as we gain experience. If our customers are not receptive to these changes, if we are unable to expand successful programs in a timely manner, or we otherwise do not effectively respond to changes in market dynamics, our businesses and financial performance could be materially and adversely affected.



Additionally, specialty pharmacy represents a significant and growing proportion of prescription drug spending in the United States, a significant portion of which is dispensed outside of traditional retail pharmacies. Because our specialty pharmacy business focuses on complex and high-cost medications, many of which are made available by manufacturers to a limited number of pharmacies (so-called limited distribution drugs), that serve a relatively limited universe of patients, the future growth of this business depends to a significant extent upon expanding our ability to access key drugs and successfully penetrate key treatment categories. Accordingly, it is important that we and our affiliates compete effectively in this evolving market, or our business operations, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. To better serve this evolving market, in March 2017, we and Prime Therapeutics LLC, a PBM, closed a transaction to form a combined central specialty pharmacy and mail services company, AllianceRx Walgreens Prime, using an innovative model that seeks to align pharmacy, PBM and health plans to coordinate patient care, improve health outcomes and deliver cost of care opportunities. If this joint venture is not able to compete effectively in this evolving market and successfully adapt to changing market conditions, our business operations, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.



Our substantial international business operations subject us to a number of operating, economic, political, regulatory and other international business risks.



Our substantial international business operations are important to our growth and prospects, including particularly those of our Retail Pharmacy International and Pharmaceutical Wholesale divisions, and are subject to a number of risks, including:



•compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations, including retail and wholesale pharmacy, licensing, tax, foreign trade, intellectual property, privacy and data protection, immigration, currency, political and other business restrictions and requirements and local laws and regulations, whose interpretation and enforcement vary significantly among jurisdictions and can change significantly over time;



•additional U.S. and other regulation of non-domestic operations, including regulation under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and other anti-corruption laws;



•potential difficulties in managing foreign operations, mitigating credit risks in foreign markets, enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems;



•price controls imposed by foreign countries, tariffs, duties or other restrictions on foreign currencies or trade sanctions and other trade barriers imposed by foreign countries that restrict or prohibit business transactions in certain markets, or fluctuations in currency rates;



•impact of recessions and economic slowdowns in economies outside the United States, including foreign currency devaluation, higher interest rates, inflation, and increased government regulation or ownership of traditional private businesses;





-13-






•the instability of foreign economies, governments and currencies and unexpected regulatory, economic or political changes in foreign markets; and



•developing and emerging markets may be especially vulnerable to periods of instability and unexpected changes, and consumers in those markets may have relatively limited resources to spend on products and services.



These factors can also adversely affect our payers, vendors and customers in international markets, which in turn can negatively impact our businesses. We cannot assure you that one or more of these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our business operations, results of operation and financial condition.



Many of these factors are subject to change based on changes in political, economic and regulatory influences. For example:





•





•



There can be no assurance that any or all of these developments will not have a material adverse effect on our business operations, results of operations and financial condition.



We are exposed to risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.



We operate in 25countries across the globe, and oursignificant operations outside of the United States expose us to currency exchange rate fluctuations and related risks, including transaction currency exposures relating to the import and export of goods in currencies other than businesses’ functional currencies as well as currency translation exposures relating to profits and net assets denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We present our financial statements in U.S. dollars and have a significant proportion of net assets and income in non-U.S. dollar currencies, primarily the British pound sterling and the Euro, as well as a range of other foreign currencies. Our results of operations and capital ratios can therefore be sensitive to movements in foreign exchange rates. Due to the constantly changing currency exposures to which we are subject and the



-14-






volatility of currency exchange rates, we cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations upon our future results of operations. In addition, fluctuations in currencies relative to the U.S. dollar may make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of our reported results of operations. A depreciation of non-U.S. dollar currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations.



We may from time to time, in some instances, enter into foreign currency contracts or other derivative instruments intended to hedge a portion of our foreign currency fluctuation risks, which subjects us to additional risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations to us, that could materially and adversely affect us. Additionally, we may (and currently do) use foreign currency debt to hedge some of our foreign currency fluctuation risks. The periodic use of such hedging activities may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place. We cannot assure you that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including particularly the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against major currencies or the currencies of large developing countries, will not materially affect our consolidated financial results.



We may experience a significant disruption in our information technology and computer systems.



We rely extensively on our computer systems to manage our ordering, pricing, point-of-sale, pharmacy fulfillment, inventory replenishment, customer loyalty programs, finance and other processes. Our systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, facility damage, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches including credit card or personally identifiable information breaches, vandalism, natural disasters, catastrophic events, human error and potential cyber threats, including malicious codes, worms, phishing attacks, denial of service attacks, ransomware and other sophisticated cyber attacks, and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. If any of our systems are damaged, fail to function properly or otherwise become unavailable, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them, and may experience loss or corruption of critical data and interruptions or disruptions and delays in our ability to perform critical functions, which could materially and adversely affect our businesses and results of operations.





If we or the businesses we interact with do not maintain the privacy and security of sensitive customer and business information, it could damage our reputation and we could suffer a loss of revenue, incur substantial additional costs and become subject to litigation and regulatory scrutiny.



The protection of customer, employee, and company data is critical to our businesses. Cybersecurity and other information technology security risks, such as a significant breach of customer, employee, or company data, could create significant workflow disruption, attract a substantial amount of media attention, damage our customer relationships, reputation and brand, and result in lost sales, fines or lawsuits. Throughout our operations, we receive, retain and transmit certain personal information that our customers and others provide to purchase products or services, fill prescriptions, enroll in promotional programs, participate in our customer loyalty programs, register on our websites, or otherwise communicate and interact with us. In addition, aspects of our operations depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Like other global companies, we and businesses we interact with have experienced threats to data and systems, including by perpetrators of random or targeted malicious cyber-attacks, computer viruses, worms, bot attacks or other



-15-






destructive or disruptive software and attempts to misappropriate customer information, including credit card information, and cause system failures and disruptions. Any compromise of our data security systems or of those of businesses with whom we interact, which results in confidential information being accessed, obtained, damaged or used by unauthorized or improper persons, could harm our reputation and expose us to regulatory actions, customer attrition, remediation expenses, and claims from customers, financial institutions, payment card associations and other persons, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may not immediately produce signs of intrusion, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. In addition, a security breach could require that we expend substantial additional resources related to the security of information systems and disrupt our businesses.



We depend on and interact with the information technology networks and systems of third-parties for many aspects of our business operations, including payers, strategic partners and cloud service providers. These third parties may have access to information we maintain about our company, operations, customers, employees and vendors, or operating systems that are critical to or can significantly impact our business operations. Like us, these third-parties are subject to risks imposed by data breaches and cyber-attacks and other events or actions that could damage, disrupt or close down their networks or systems. Any expansion of information technology outsourcing, including through arrangements with our strategic partners, may increase vulnerabilities and weaknesses relating to cybersecurity and data management. Security processes, protocols and standards that we have implemented and contractual provisions requiring security measures that we may have sought to impose on such third-parties may not be sufficient or effective at preventing such events, which could result in unauthorized access to, or disruptions or denials of access to, or misuse of, information or systems that are important to our business, including proprietary information, sensitive or confidential data, and other information about our operations, customers, employees and suppliers, including personal information.





A significant change in, or noncompliance with, governmental regulations and other legal requirements could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and profitability.



We operate in complex, highly regulated environments around the world and could be materially and adversely affected by changes to applicable legal requirements including the related interpretations and enforcement practices, new legal requirements and/or any failure to comply with applicable regulations. Businesses in our Pharmaceutical Wholesale division



-16-










We could be adversely affected by violations of anti-bribery, anti-corruption and/or international trade laws.





-17-






business operations. An adverse outcome under any such investigation or audit could damage our reputation and subject us to fines or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, financial condition, and results of operations.



Disruption in our global supply chain could negatively impact our businesses.



The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international vendors, and any future disruption in our supply chain or inability to find qualified vendors and access products that meet requisite quality and safety standards in a timely and efficient manner could adversely impact our businesses. The loss or disruption of such supply arrangements for any reason, including for issues such as labor disputes, loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites, inability to procure sufficient raw materials, quality control issues, ethical sourcing issues, a supplier’s financial distress, natural disasters, civil unrest or acts of war or terrorism, trade sanctions or other external factors over which we have no control, could interrupt product supply and, if not effectively managed and remedied, have a material adverse impact on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations.



We use a single wholesaler of branded and generic pharmaceutical drugs as our primary source of such products for our Retail Pharmacy USA division.





Our distribution agreement with AmerisourceBergen is subject to early termination in certain circumstances and, upon the expiration or termination of the agreement, there can be no assurance that we or AmerisourceBergen will be willing to renew the agreement or enter into a new agreement, on terms favorable to us or at all. If such expiration or termination occurred, we believe that alternative sources of supply for most generic and brand-name pharmaceuticals are readily available and that we could obtain and qualify alternative sources, which may include self-distribution in some cases, for substantially all of the prescription drugs we sell on an acceptable basis, such that the impact of any such expiration or termination would be temporary. However, there can be no assurance we would be able to engage alternative supply sources or implement self-distribution processes on a timely basis or on terms favorable to us, or effectively manage these transitions, any of which could adversely affect our business operations, financial condition and results of operations.



The anticipated strategic and financial benefits of our relationship with AmerisourceBergen may not be realized.



As ofAugust 31, 2019, we beneficially owned approximately27%of the outstanding AmerisourceBergen common stock and had designated one member of AmerisourceBergen’s board of directors. In addition, we have the right, but not the obligation, under the transactions contemplated by the Framework Agreement dated as of March 18, 2013 by and among the Company, Alliance Boots and AmerisourceBergen (the “Framework Agreement”) to acquire up to an additional8,398,752AmerisourceBergen shares in the open market and thereafter designate another member of AmerisourceBergen’s board of directors, subject in each case to applicable legal and contractual requirements. There can be no assurance that we will complete any specific level of such potential equity investments in AmerisourceBergen, or that our existing investment, or any future investment if completed, will ultimately be profitable.



The Company accounts for its investment in AmerisourceBergen using the equity method of accounting, subject to a two-month reporting lag, with the net earnings attributable to the investment classified within the operating income of the Company’s Pharmaceutical Wholesale segment. The financial performance of AmerisourceBergen, including any charges which may arise relating to its ongoing opioid litigation, will impact the Company’s results of operations. Additionally, a substantial and sustained decline in the price of AmerisourceBergen’s common stock could trigger an impairment evaluation of



-18-






our investment. These considerations may materially and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.



Further, our ability to transact in AmerisourceBergen securities is subject to certain restrictions set forth in our agreements with AmerisourceBergen and arising under applicable laws and regulations, which in some circumstances could adversely our ability to transact in AmerisourceBergen securities in amounts and at the times desired. We could also encounter unforeseen costs, circumstances or issues existing or arising with respect to the transactions and collaboration resulting from these agreements. Many of these potential circumstances are outside of our control and any of them could result in increased costs, decreased revenue, decreased synergies and the diversion of management time and attention. If we are unable to achieve our objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the expected benefits may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, which could have a material adverse impact on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations.



We may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of assets from Rite Aid, which could adversely impact our results of operations.





From time to time, we make investments in companies over which we do not have sole control. Some of these companies may operate in sectors that differ from our current operations and have different risks.



From time to time, we make debt or equity investments in companies that we may not control or over which we may not have sole control. For example, while we have a significant equity investment in AmerisourceBergen and have a designee serving on the board of directors of AmerisourceBergen as of the date of this report, we do not have the ability to control day-to-day operations of that company. Some of the businesses in which we have made noncontrolling investments operate in markets or industries that are different from our primary lines of business and/or operate in different geographic markets than we do. For example we have an equity investment in Sinopharm Holding GuoDa Drugstores Co., Ltd., a leading retail pharmacy chain in China. Investments in these businesses, among other risks, subject us to the operating and financial risks of the businesses we invest in and to the risk that we do not have sole control over the operations of these businesses. We rely on the internal controls and financial reporting controls of these entities and their failure to maintain effectiveness or comply with applicable standards may materially and adversely affect us. Investments in entities over which we do not have sole control, including joint ventures and strategic partnerships and alliances, present additional risks such as having differing objectives from our partners or the entities in which we are invested, becoming involved in disputes, or competing with those persons.



Changes in economic conditions could adversely affect consumer buying practices.



Our performance has been, and may continue to be, adversely impacted by changes in global, national, regional or local economic conditions and consumer confidence. These conditions can also adversely affect our key vendors and customers. External factors that affect consumer confidence and over which we exercise no influence include unemployment rates, inflation, levels of personal disposable income, levels of taxes and interest and global, national, regional or local economic conditions, as well as acts of war or terrorism. Changes in economic conditions and consumer confidence could adversely affect consumer preferences, purchasing power and spending patterns, which could lead to a decrease in overall consumer spending as well as in prescription drug and health services utilization and which could be exacerbated by the increasing prevalence of high-deductible health insurance plans and related plan design changes. Our business operations have been adversely affected by challenging market conditions in our Retail Pharmacy International division, particularly our Boots business in the United Kingdom, on account of the economic environment, including the uncertainty associated with Brexit.



-19-






In addition, reduced or flat consumer spending may drive us and our competitors to offer additional products at promotional prices. All of these factors could materially and adversely impact our business operations, financial condition and results of operations.



Economic conditions in Europe and certain emerging market countries, together with austerity measures being taken by certain governments, could adversely affect us.



We have significant assets and operations within Europe and certain emerging market countries in our Retail Pharmacy International and Pharmaceutical Wholesale divisions. An economic slowdown within any such markets could adversely affect our businesses in affected regions by reducing the prices our customers may be able or willing to pay for our products and services or by reducing the demand for our products and services, either of which could result in a material adverse impact on our results of operations. In recent years, in response to the economic environment, a number of governments, including the government in the United Kingdom, have announced or implemented austerity measures to reduce healthcare spending for the government-sponsored healthcare systems and constrain overall government expenditures. These measures, which include efforts aimed at reforming healthcare coverage and reducing healthcare costs, continue to exert pressure on the pricing of and reimbursement timelines for pharmaceutical drugs. Any new austerity measures may be similar to or vary in scope and nature from existing austerity measures and could have a material adverse effect on our international business operations and results of operations.



If we do not successfully develop and maintain a relevant omni-channel experience for our customers, our businesses and results of operations could be adversely impacted.





If the merchandise and services that we offer fail to meet customer needs, our sales may be adversely affected.





Our private brand offerings expose us to various additional risks.



In addition to brand name products, we offer our customers private brand products that in many instances, are not available from other retailers. We seek to continue to grow our private brand offerings as part of our growth strategy, including through



-20-






the offering of No7, the introduction of Complete Home and other brands owned or licensed on an exclusive basis, as well as through selective acquisitions. Maintaining consistent product quality, competitive pricing, and availability of our private brand offerings for our customers, as well as the timely development and introduction of new products, is important in differentiating us from other retailers and developing and maintaining customer loyalty. The expansion of our private brand offerings also subjects us to additional risks, such as potential product liability risks and mandatory or voluntary product recalls; our ability to successfully protect our proprietary rights and successfully navigate and avoid claims related to the proprietary rights of third parties; our ability to successfully administer and comply with applicable contractual obligations and regulatory requirements; and other risks generally encountered by entities that source, sell and market exclusive branded offerings for retail. An increase in sales of our private brands may also adversely affect sales of our vendors’ products, which, in turn, could adversely affect our relationship with certain of our vendors. Any failure to adequately address some or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business operations, results of operations and financial condition.



We face significant competition in attracting and retaining talented employees. Further, managing succession for, and retention of, key executives is critical to our success, and failure to do so could have an adverse impact on our future performance.



Our ability to attract, engage and retain qualified and experienced employees, including in executive and other key strategic positions, is essential to meet current and future goals and objectives and there is no guarantee we will be able to attract and retain such employees by offering market competitive compensation, opportunities, empowerment and resources. There can be no assurance that competition among potential employers will not result in increased salaries or other benefits. An inability to retain existing employees or attract additional employees, or an unexpected loss of leadership or loss of key personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.



In addition, failure to adequately plan for succession of senior management and other key management roles or the failure of key employees to successfully transition into new roles could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. While we have succession plans in place and employment arrangements with certain key executives, these do not guarantee the services of these executives will continue to be available to us.



We are subject to payment-related and other financial services risks that could increase our operating costs, expose us to fraud or theft, subject us to potential liability and potentially disrupt our business operations.





Additionally, we offer money (wire) transfer services and sell prepaid debit, credit and gift cards at certain business units. These products and services require us to comply with global anti-money laundering laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines, sanctions, penalties and damage to our reputation.



Changes in healthcare regulatory environments may adversely affect our businesses.



Political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry to significant changes that could adversely affect our results of operations. In recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant changes in an effort to reduce costs and government spending. These changes include an increased reliance on managed care; cuts in certain Medicare and Medicaid funding in the United States and the funding of governmental payers in foreign jurisdictions; consolidation of competitors, suppliers and other market participants; and the development of large, sophisticated purchasing groups. We expect the healthcare industry to continue to change significantly in the future. Some of these potential changes, such as a reduction in



-21-






governmental funding for certain healthcare services or adverse changes in legislation or regulations governing prescription drug pricing, healthcare services or mandated benefits, may cause customers to reduce the amount of our products and services they purchase or the price they are willing to pay for our products and services. We expect continued governmental and private payer pressure to reduce pharmaceutical pricing. Changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers’ pricing or distribution policies could also significantly reduce our profitability.



In the United States, electoral results and changes in political leadership have generated uncertainty with respect to, and could result in, significant changes in legislation, regulation and government policy that could significantly impact our businesses and the health care and retail industries. There have been multiple attempts to repeal, modify or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the ACA, which was enacted in 2010 to provide health insurance coverage to millions of previously uninsured Americans through a combination of insurance market reforms, an expansion of Medicaid, subsidies and health insurance mandates. We cannot predict whether current or future efforts to modify these laws and/or adopt new healthcare legislation will be successful, nor can we predict the impact that such a development would have on our business and operating results. Future legislation or rulemaking or other regulatory actions or developments under the ACA or otherwise could adversely impact the number of Americans with health insurance and, consequently, prescription drug coverage, increase regulation of pharmacy services, result in changes to pharmacy reimbursement rates, and otherwise change the way we do business. We cannot predict the timing or impact of any future legislative, rulemaking or other regulatory actions, but any such actions could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.



We could be adversely affected by product liability, product recall, personal injury or other health and safety issues.





We have significant outstanding debt; our debt and associated payment obligations could significantly increase in the future if we incur additional debt and do not retire existing debt.



We have outstanding debt and other financial obligations and significant unused borrowing capacity. As ofAugust 31, 2019, we had approximately$17 billionof outstanding indebtedness, including short-term debt. Our debt level and related debt service obligations could have negative consequences, including:



•requiring us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal, interest and other amounts payable on our debt, which would reduce the funds we have available for other purposes, such as working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases and dividends;



•making it more difficult or expensive for us to obtain any necessary future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, debt refinancing, acquisitions or other purposes;



•reducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our industry and market conditions and making us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business operations; and



•exposing us to interest rate risk given that a portion of our debt obligations is at variable interest rates.



We may incur or assume significantly more debt in the future, including in connection with acquisitions, strategic investments or joint ventures. If we add new debt and do not retire existing debt, the risks described above could increase.



-22-






We also could be adversely impacted by any failure to renew or replace, on terms acceptable to us or at all, existing funding arrangements when they expire, and any failure to satisfy applicable covenants.



Additionally, a portion of our indebtedness bears interest at fluctuating interest rates, some of which is tied to the London interbank offered rate for deposits of U.S. dollars (“LIBOR”). LIBOR tends to fluctuate based on general interest rates, rates set by the Federal Reserve and other central banks, the supply of and demand for credit in the London interbank market and general economic conditions. In July 2017, the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority, which regulates LIBOR, announced that it intends to stop compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR after 2021. The expected phase out of LIBOR could cause market volatility or disruption and may adversely affect our access to the capital markets and cost of funding.



Our long-term debt obligations include covenants that may adversely affect our ability, and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries, to incur certain secured indebtedness or engage in certain types of transactions. In addition, our existing credit agreements require us to maintain as of the last day of each fiscal quarter a ratio of consolidated debt to total capitalization not to exceed a certain level. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. If we breach any of these restrictions or covenants and do not obtain a waiver from the lenders, then, subject to applicable cure periods, our outstanding indebtedness could be declared immediately due and payable. This could have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial condition.



We could be adversely affected by downgrades to our credit ratings or disruptions in our ability to access well-functioning capital markets.





We may be unable to keep existing store locations or open new locations in desirable places on favorable terms, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.



We compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations for our stores. Local land use and zoning regulations, environmental regulations and other regulatory requirements may impact our ability to find suitable locations and influence the cost of constructing, renovating and operating our stores. In addition, real estate, zoning, construction and other delays may adversely affect store openings and renovations and increase our costs. Further, changing local demographics at existing store locations may adversely affect revenue and profitability levels at those stores. The termination or expiration of leases at existing store locations may adversely affect us if the renewal terms of those leases are unacceptable to us and we are forced to close or relocate stores. For example, in fiscal 2019, we announced the closure of approximately 200 locations in the United States and approximately 200 stores in the United Kingdom, respectively, under our Transformational Cost Management Program. If we determine to close or relocate a store subject to a lease, we may remain obligated under the applicable lease for the balance of the lease term. If we are unable to maintain our existing store locations or open new locations in desirable places and on favorable terms, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.



As a holding company, Walgreens Boots Alliance is dependent on funding from its operating subsidiaries to pay dividends and other obligations.





-23-






Walgreens Boots Alliance is a holding company with no business operations of its own. Its assets primarily consist of direct and indirect ownership interests in, and its business is conducted through, subsidiaries which are separate legal entities. As a result, it is dependent on funding from its subsidiaries, including Walgreens and Alliance Boots, to meet its obligations. Additionally, Walgreens Boots Alliance’s subsidiaries may be restricted in their ability to pay cash dividends or to make other distributions to Walgreens Boots Alliance, which may limit the payment of cash dividends or other distributions to the holders of Walgreens Boots Alliance common stock. Credit facilities and other debt obligations of Walgreens Boots Alliance, as well as statutory provisions, may further limit the ability of Walgreens Boots Alliance and its subsidiaries to pay dividends. Payments to Walgreens Boots Alliance by its subsidiaries are also contingent upon its subsidiaries’ earnings and business considerations. Future Walgreens Boots Alliance dividends will be determined based on earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors considered relevant by its Board of Directors.



Our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly.



Our operating results have historically varied on a quarterly basis, including increased variability in the second quarter of fiscal 2019, and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. Factors that may affect our quarterly operating results, some of which are beyond the control of management, include, but are not limited to the timing of the introduction of new generic and brand name prescription drugs; inflation, including with respect to generic drug procurement costs; seasonality, including the timing and severity of the cough, cold and flu season; changes or rates of change in payer reimbursement rates and terms; fluctuations in inventory, energy, transportation, labor, healthcare and other costs; significant acquisitions, dispositions, joint ventures and other strategic initiatives; asset impairment charges, including the performance of and impairment charges related to our equity method investments; the relative magnitude of our LIFO provision in any particular quarter; foreign currency fluctuations; market conditions, including any impact relating to Brexit; prolonged severe weather in key markets; and many of the other risk factors discussed herein. Accordingly, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and investors should not place undue reliance on the results of any particular quarter as an indication of our future performance.



Our businesses are seasonal in nature, and adverse events during the holiday and cough, cold and flu seasons could adversely impact our operating results.



Our businesses are seasonal in nature, with the second fiscal quarter (December, January and February) typically generating a higher proportion of retail sales and earnings than other fiscal quarters. We purchase significant amounts of seasonal inventory in anticipation of the holiday season. Adverse events, such as deteriorating economic conditions, higher unemployment, higher gas prices, public transportation disruptions, or unanticipated adverse weather, could result in lower-than-planned sales during key selling seasons. For example, frequent or unusually heavy snowfall, ice storms, rainstorms, windstorms or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period could make it difficult for our customers to travel to our stores and increase our snow removal and other costs. This could lead to lower sales or to unanticipated markdowns, negatively impacting our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, both prescription and non-prescription drug sales are affected by the timing and severity of the cough, cold and flu season, which can vary considerably from year to year.



We could be adversely impacted by changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters.







-24-






New accounting guidance also may require changes to our processes, accounting systems and internal controls that could increase our operating costs and/or significantly change our financial statements. For example, in February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which supersedes Topic 840, Leases. This ASU, which became effective for us beginning on September 1, 2019 (fiscal 2020), seeks to increase the transparency and comparability of organizations by recognizing operating lease assets and operating lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements. The adoption approach for these accounting standards affect the comparability of our consolidated financial statements. Implementing new accounting guidance may require us to make significant changes to and investments in our accounting systems and processes, which could result in significant adverse changes to our financial statements. See, “new accounting pronouncements,” within note1,summary of major accounting policies, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



We have a substantial amount of goodwill and other intangible assets which could, in the future, become impaired and result in material non-cash charges to our results of operations.



As of

August 31, 2019

, we had

$27.4 billion

9%

. As at

August 31, 2019

, the carrying value of the goodwill of the Boots reporting unit is

$2.6 billion

. The fair values of certain indefinite-lived intangibles within the Boots reporting unit exceeded their carrying amounts ranging from approximately

3%

to approximately

29%

, except for the pharmacy licenses. As at

August 31, 2019

, the carrying value of these indefinite-lived intangibles within Boots reporting unit is

$6.9 billion

. As a result of an annual evaluation, during the three months ended

August 31, 2019

, the Company recorded an impairment of

$73 million

on its pharmacy licenses in the Boots reporting unit. Because of the significance of our goodwill and intangible assets, any future impairment of these assets could result in material non-cash charges to our results of operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.



We could be subject to adverse changes in tax laws, regulations and interpretations or challenges to our tax positions.



We are a large corporation with operations in the United States and numerous other jurisdictions around the world. As such, we are subject to tax laws and regulations of the U.S. federal, state and local governments as well as various foreign jurisdictions. We compute our income tax provision based on enacted tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we operate. As the tax rates vary among jurisdictions, a change in earnings attributable to the various jurisdictions in which we operate could result in an unfavorable change in our overall tax provision.



From time to time, changes in tax laws or regulations may be proposed or enacted that could adversely affect our overall tax liability. For example, the U.S. tax legislation enacted on December 22, 2017 represented a significant overhaul of the U.S. federal tax code that impacted our U.S. federal income tax position. There can be no assurance that changes in tax laws or regulations, both within the United States and the other jurisdictions in which we operate, will not materially and adversely affect our effective tax rate, tax payments, financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, changes in tax laws and regulations that impact our customers and counterparties or the economy generally may also impact our financial condition and results of operations.



Tax laws and regulations are complex and subject to varying interpretations, and we are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities. Any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a negative impact on our effective tax rate, tax payments, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the determination of our income tax provision and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment, and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. The ultimate tax determination may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our results of operations in the period or periods for which such determination is made. Any significant failure to comply with applicable tax laws and regulations in all relevant jurisdictions could give rise to substantial penalties and liabilities. Any changes in enacted tax laws (such as the recent U.S. tax legislation), rules or regulatory



-25-






or judicial interpretations; or any change in the pronouncements relating to accounting for income taxes could materially and adversely impact our effective tax rate, tax payments, financial condition and results of operations.



Our insurance strategies may expose us to unexpected costs.



We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance to provide for potential liability for workers’ compensation; automobile and general liability; property, director and officers’ liability; and employee healthcare benefits. Provisions for losses related to self-insured risks generally are based upon actuarially determined estimates. Any actuarial projection of losses is subject to a high degree of variability. Substantial, unanticipated losses or liabilities, including those due to natural disasters or otherwise, as well as changes in legal claims, trends and interpretations, variability in inflation rates, changes in the nature and method of claims settlement, benefit level changes due to changes in applicable laws, insolvency of insurance carriers, and changes in discount rates could all materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.



We could be adversely impacted by changes in assumptions used in calculating pension assets and liabilities.



We operate certain defined benefit pension plans in the United Kingdom, which were closed to new entrants in 2010, as well as smaller plans in other jurisdictions. The valuation of the pension plans’ assets and liabilities depends in part on assumptions, which are primarily based on the financial markets as well as longevity and employee retention rates. This valuation is particularly sensitive to material changes in the value of equity, bond and other investments held by the pension plans, changes in the corporate bond yields which are used in the measurement of the liabilities, changes in market expectations for long-term price inflation, and new evidence on projected longevity rates. Funding requirements and the impact on the statement of earnings relating to these pension plans are also influenced by these factors. Adverse changes in the assumptions used to calculate the value of pension assets and liabilities, including lower than expected pension fund investment returns and/or increased life expectancy of plan participants, or regulatory change could require us to increase the funding of its defined benefit pension plans or incur higher expenses, which would adversely impact our results of operations and financial position.



Certain stockholders may have significant voting influence over matters requiring stockholder approval.



As of September 30, 2019, affiliates of Stefano Pessina, our Executive Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (the “SP Investors”), had sole or shared voting power, directly or indirectly, over an aggregate of approximately 16.2% of our outstanding common stock. The SP Investors have agreed to, for so long as they have the right to designate a nominee for election to the Board, to vote all of their shares of common stock in accordance with the Board’s recommendation on matters submitted to a vote of the Company’s stockholders (including with respect to the election of directors). The SP Investors’ significant interest in our common stock potentially could determine the outcome of matters submitted to a vote by our stockholders. The influence of the SP Investors could result in the Company taking actions that other stockholders do not support or failing to take actions that other stockholders support. As a result, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected.



Conflicts of interest, or the appearance of conflicts of interest, may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also owners or directors of companies we may have dealings with.





Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, Delaware law and/or our agreements with certain stockholders may impede the ability of our stockholders to make changes to our Board or impede a takeover.





-26-






Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the “DGCL”), could make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of the Board or discourage, delay, or prevent a merger, consolidation, or acquisitions that stockholders may otherwise consider favorable. These provisions include the authorization of the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by the Board, limitations on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings, and advance notice requirements for nomination for election to the Board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. We are also subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the DGCL, which prohibits us, except under specified circumstances, from engaging in any mergers, significant sales of stock or assets, or business combinations with any stockholder or group of stockholders who own 15% or more of our common stock.



Under the Company Shareholders Agreement, the SP Investors are entitled to designate one nominee to the Board (currently Stefano Pessina) for so long as the SP Investors continue to meet certain beneficial ownership thresholds and subject to certain other conditions. Pursuant to the Company Shareholders Agreement, the SP Investors have agreed that, for so long as they have the right to designate a nominee to the Board, they will vote all of their shares of common stock in accordance with the Board’s recommendation on matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders (including with respect to the election of directors).



While these provisions do not make us immune from takeovers or changes in the composition of the Board, and are intended to protect our stockholders from, among other things, coercive or otherwise unfair tactics, these provisions could have the effect of making it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of the Board or discouraging, delaying, or preventing a merger, consolidation, or acquisitions that stockholders may otherwise consider favorable.



We cannot guarantee that our stock repurchase program will be fully implemented or that it will enhance long-term stockholder value.



In June 2018, our Board of Directors approved a new stock repurchase program authorizing the repurchase of up to $10 billion of our common stock. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date and we are not obligated to repurchase a specified number or dollar value of shares, on any particular timetable or at all. There can be no assurance that we will repurchase stock at favorable prices. The repurchase program may be suspended or terminated at any time and, even if fully implemented, may not enhance long-term stockholder value.



The market price of our common stock may be volatile.



The market price of shares of our common stock may be volatile. Broad general economic, political, market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of the shares, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition to the other risk factors identified in this Item 1A, factors that could cause fluctuations in the price of the shares include:



•actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results and the results of competitors;



•changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts that might cover us;



•conditions or trends in the industry, including regulatory changes or changes in the securities marketplace;



•announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures;



•announcements of investigations or regulatory scrutiny of our operations or lawsuits filed against us;



•additions or departures of key personnel;



•issuances or sales of our common stock (or the exercise of related registration rights), including sales of shares by our directors and officers or key investors, including the SP Investors and certain other former Alliance Boots stockholders, subject to restrictions in the case of shares held by persons deemed to be our affiliates and to certain obligations pursuant to a shareholders agreement (as amended, the “Company Shareholders Agreement”) with certain of the SP Investors; and



•various other market factors or perceived market factors, including rumors or speculation, whether or not correct, involving or affecting us or our industries, vendors, customers, strategic partners or competitors.



There are a number of additional business risks that could materially and adversely affect our businesses and financial results.



-27-








Many other factors could materially and adversely affect our businesses and financial results, including:



•our ability to establish effective advertising, marketing and promotional programs;



•inflation, new or increased taxes, adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in market conditions or otherwise;



•natural disasters, civil unrest, severe weather conditions, terrorist activities, global political and economic developments, war, health epidemics or pandemics or the prospect of these events;



•liabilities or expense relating to the protection of the environment, related health and safety matters, environmental remediation or compliance with environmental laws and regulations, including those governing exposure to, and the management and disposal of, hazardous substances;



•the long-term effects of climate change on general economic conditions and the pharmacy industry in particular, along with changes in the supply, demand or available sources of energy and the regulatory and other costs associated with energy production and delivery;



•adverse publicity and potential losses, liabilities and reputational harm stemming from any public incident (whether occurring online, in social media, in our stores or other company facilities, or elsewhere) involving our company, our personnel or our brands, including any such public incident involving our customers, products, services, stores or other property, or those of any of our vendors or other parties with which we do business; and



•negative publicity, even if unwarranted, related to safety or quality, human and workplace rights, or other issues damaging our brand image and corporate reputation, or that of any of our vendors or strategic allies.





