Item 1.Business

Regency Centers
Corporation began its operations as a Real Estate Investment Trust (“REIT”) in 1993 and is the managing general partner in Regency Centers, L.P. The term “the Company” or “Regency” means the Parent Company and the
Operating Partnership, collectively. Our key strategic goals are focused on producing superior results for our shareholders by achieving total shareholder returns in excess of REIT shopping center averages, and sustaining growth in our net asset
value and our earnings over an extended period of time. We will achieve these goals by investing in and operating a high-quality portfolio of primarily grocery-anchored shopping centers that are tenanted by market-dominant grocers, category-leading
anchors, specialty retailers, and restaurants located in areas with above average household incomes and population densities.

At December 31, 2010, we directly owned 215 shopping centers located in 23 states representing 23.3 million square feet of
gross leasable area (“GLA”). Through co-investment partnerships, we own partial ownership interests in 181 shopping centers located in 25 states and the District of Columbia representing 21.8 million square feet of GLA. The shopping
center portfolio that we manage, on a “Combined Basis” (total of consolidated and unconsolidated properties), represents 396 shopping centers located in 28 states and the District of Columbia and contains 45.1 million square feet of
GLA.

We earn revenues and generate cash flow by leasing space in our shopping centers to grocery stores, major retail
anchors, side-shop retailers, and restaurants, including ground leasing or selling building pads (out-parcels) to these same types of tenants. Historically, we have experienced growth in revenues by increasing occupancy and rental rates in our
shopping centers. Although both of these important operating metrics declined during 2009 and 2010 as a result of the recession, the economy appears to be recovering and we are intensely focused on returning these metrics to historic levels. Our
shopping centers generate substantial daily traffic by conveniently offering necessities and services. This high traffic should generate increased sales to our tenants, and attract new tenants to our shopping centers, thereby driving higher
occupancy levels and rental-rate growth.

We seek a range of strong national, regional and local specialty retailers, for the
same reason that we choose to anchor our centers with leading grocers and major retailers who provide a mix of goods and services that meet consumer needs. We have created a formal partnering process, the Premier Customer Initiative
(“PCI”), to promote mutually beneficial relationships with our side-shop retailers. The objective of PCI is for us to build a







Index to Financial Statements

base of non-anchor tenants who represent the “best-in-class” operators in their respective merchandising categories. Such retailers reinforce the consumer appeal and other strengths of
a center’s anchor, help grow and stabilize a center’s occupancy, reduce re-leasing downtime, reduce tenant turnover, and yield higher sustainable rents.

We grow our shopping center portfolio through acquisitions of operating centers and shopping center development. We will continue to use our unique combination of development capabilities, market
presence, and anchor relationships to invest in value-added opportunities sourced from land owners and joint venture partners, the redevelopment of existing centers, developing land that we already own, and other opportunities. Development is
customer driven and serves the growth needs of our anchors and specialty retailers, resulting in new modern shopping centers with long-term anchor leases that produce attractive returns on our invested capital.

Maintaining a high quality portfolio also involves identifying and selling assets that are at risk of not achieving our long-term
investment goals. Proceeds from these sales are targeted for reinvestment into higher quality new development, redevelopment of existing centers, or acquisitions that will generate sustainable revenue growth and higher returns.

We also invest in real estate partnerships. These co-investment partnerships provide us with a reliable capital source for shopping
center acquisitions, as well as the opportunity to earn fees for asset management, property management, and other investing and financing services. As asset manager, we are engaged by our partners to apply similar operating, investment and
capital strategies to the portfolios owned by the co-investment partnerships as those applied to the portfolio that we wholly-own. Co-investment partnerships also grow their shopping center investments through acquisitions from third parties or
direct purchases from us.

We have implemented a greengenuity program envisioned to improve our environmental sustainability.
To date we have received LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) certifications by the U.S. Green Building Council on three shopping centers and we are targeting five additional shopping centers for certification. We also continue to
install network lighting controls and smart irrigation controllers that will reduce our power and water consumption in addition to other sustainability initiatives. It is our intent to be one of the leaders in the design, construction and operation
of environmentally efficient shopping centers that will contribute to our key strategic goals.

Competition

We are among the largest owners of shopping centers in the nation based on revenues, number of properties, gross leasable area, and market
capitalization. There are numerous companies and private individuals engaged in the ownership, development, acquisition, and operation of shopping centers which compete with us in our targeted markets, including grocery store chains that also anchor
some of our shopping centers. This results in competition for attracting anchor tenants, as well as the acquisition of existing shopping centers and new development sites. We believe that the principal competitive factors in attracting tenants in
our market areas are competitive in-fill locations, above average trade area demographics, rental costs, tenant mix, property age, and property maintenance. We believe that our competitive advantages are driven by our locations within our market
areas, the design and high quality of our shopping centers, the strong demographics surrounding our shopping centers, our relationships with our anchor tenants and our side-shop and out-parcel retailers, our PCI program that allows us to efficiently
provide retailers with multiple locations, our practice of maintaining and renovating our shopping centers, and our ability to source and develop new shopping centers.

Changes in Policies

Our Board of Directors establishes the policies that
govern our investment and operating strategies including, among others, development and acquisition of shopping centers, tenant and market focus, debt and equity financing policies, quarterly distributions to stock and unit holders, and REIT tax
status. The Board of Directors may amend these policies at any time without a vote of our stockholders.







Index to Financial Statements

Employees

Our headquarters are located at One Independent Drive, Suite 114, Jacksonville, Florida. We presently maintain 17 market offices nationwide where we conduct management, leasing, construction, and
investment activities. At December 31, 2010, we had 392 employees and we believe that our relations with our employees are good.

Compliance with Governmental Regulations

Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, we may be liable for the cost to remove or remediate certain hazardous or toxic substances at our shopping centers. These laws
often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. The cost of required remediation and the owner’s liability for remediation could exceed the value of
the property and/or the aggregate assets of the owner. The presence of such substances, or the failure to properly remediate such substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the property or borrow using the property as collateral.
We have a number of properties that could require or are currently undergoing varying levels of environmental remediation. Environmental remediation is not currently expected to have a material financial impact on us due to reserves for remediation,
insurance programs designed to mitigate the cost of remediation, and various state-regulated programs that shift the responsibility and cost to the state.

Executive Officers

The executive officers of the Company are appointed
each year by the Board of Directors. Each of the executive officers has been employed by the Company in the position indicated in the list or positions indicated in the pertinent notes below. Each of the executive officers has been employed by the
Company for more than five years.



NameAgeTitleExecutive Officer inPosition Shown 
SinceMartin E. Stein, Jr.58Chairman and Chief Executive Officer1993Brian M.
Smith56President and Chief Operating Officer2009(1)Bruce M. Johnson63Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer1993



(1)In February 2009, Brian M. Smith, Managing Director and Chief Investment Officer of the Company since 2005, was appointed to the position of President. Prior to serving
as our Managing Director and Chief Investment Officer, from March 1999 to September 2005, Mr. Smith served as Managing Director of Investments for our Pacific, Mid-Atlantic, and Northeast divisions.

Company Website Access and SEC Filings

The Company’s website may be accessed atwww.regencycenters.com. All of our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) can be accessed through our website promptly
after filing; however, in the event that the website is inaccessible, we will provide paper copies of our most recent annual report on Form 10-K, the most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q, current reports filed or furnished on Form 8-K, and all
related amendments, excluding exhibits, free of charge upon request. These filings are also accessible on the SEC’s website atwww.sec.gov.

General Information

The Company’s registrar and stock transfer agent
is Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (“Wells Fargo Shareowner Services”), South St. Paul, MN. The Company offers a dividend reinvestment plan (“DRIP”) that enables its stockholders to reinvest dividends automatically, as well as to make
voluntary cash payments toward the purchase of additional shares. For more information, contact Wells Fargo toll free at (800) 468-9716 or the Company’s Shareholder Relations Department.







Index to Financial Statements

The Company’s Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm is KPMG LLP, Jacksonville,
Florida. The Company’s legal counsel is Foley & Lardner LLP, Jacksonville, Florida.

Annual Meeting

The Company’s annual meeting will be held at The River Club, One Independent Drive, 35thFloor, Jacksonville, Florida, at 11:00 a.m. on Tuesday, May 3,
2011.



