Item 1.    Business



Regency Centers Corporation began its operations as a real estate investment trust ("REIT") in 1993 and is the managing general partner in Regency Centers, L.P.  We endeavor to be the preeminent, best-in-class national shopping center company distinguished by sustaining growth in shareholder value and compounding total shareholder return in excess of our peers.  We work to achieve these goals through reliable growth in net operating income from a portfolio of dominant, infill shopping centers, balance sheet strength, value-added development capabilities and an engaged team of talented and dedicated people.  All of our operating, investing, and financing activities are performed through the Operating Partnership, its wholly-owned subsidiaries, and through its investments in real estate partnerships with third parties (also referred to as "co-investment partnerships" or "joint ventures"). The Parent Company currently owns approximately99.8%of the outstanding common partnership units of the Operating Partnership.



AtDecember 31, 2012, we directly owned204shopping centers (the “Consolidated Properties”) located in24states representing22.5 millionsquare feet of gross leasable area (“GLA”).  Through co-investment partnerships, we own partial ownership interests in144shopping centers (the “Unconsolidated Properties”) located in24states and the District of Columbia representing17.8 millionsquare feet of GLA.

We earn revenues and generate cash flow by leasing space in our shopping centers to grocery stores, major retail anchors, restaurants, side-shop retailers, and service providers, as well as ground leasing or selling building pads ("out-parcels") to these same types of tenants. Historically, we have experienced growth in revenues by increasing occupancy and rental rates in our existing shopping centers and by acquiring and developing new shopping centers.  AtDecember 31, 2012, the consolidated shopping centers were94.1%leased, as compared to92.2%atDecember 31, 2011.

We monitor the operating performance and rent collections of all tenants in our shopping centers, especially those tenants operating retail formats that are experiencing significant changes in competition, business practice, and store closings in other locations.  We also evaluate consumer preferences, shopping behaviors, and demographics to anticipate both challenges and opportunities in the changing retail industry that may affect our tenants.

We grow our shopping center portfolio through acquisitions of operating centers and new shopping center development. We will continue to use our development capabilities, market presence, and anchor relationships to invest in value-added new development and redevelopments of existing centers. Development is customer driven, meaning we generally have an executed lease from the anchor before we start construction. Developments serve the growth needs of our anchors and retailers, resulting in modern shopping centers with long-term anchor leases that produce attractive returns on our invested capital. This development process typically requires two to three years once construction has commenced, but can vary subject to the size and complexity of the project.  We fund our acquisition and development activity from various capital sources including property sales, equity offerings, and new debt.












Co-investment partnerships provide us with an additional capital source for shopping center acquisitions, as well as the opportunity to earn fees for asset management, property management, and other investing and financing services. As asset manager, we are engaged by our partners to apply similar operating, investment and capital strategies to the portfolios owned by the co-investment partnerships as those applied to the portfolio that we wholly-own. Co-investment partnerships grow their shopping center investments through acquisitions from third parties or direct purchases from us.  Although selling properties to co-investment partnerships reduces our direct ownership interest, it provides a source of capital that further strengthens our balance sheet while we continue to share, to the extent of our ownership interest, in the risks and rewards of shopping centers that meet our high quality standards and long-term investment strategy.



We  recognize the importance of continually improving the environmental sustainability performance  of our real estate assets.  To date we have received LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) certifications by the U.S. Green Building Council at seven shopping centers and have four additional in-process developments targeting certification.  We also continue to implement best practices in our operating portfolio to reduce our power and water consumption, in addition to other sustainability initiatives. We believe that the design, construction and operation of environmentally efficient shopping centers will contribute to our key strategic goals.



Competition



We are among the largest owners of shopping centers in the nation based on revenues, number of properties, gross leasable area, and market capitalization. There are numerous companies and private individuals engaged in the ownership, development, acquisition, and operation of shopping centers that compete with us in our targeted markets, including grocery store chains that also anchor some of our shopping centers. This results in competition for attracting anchor tenants, as well as the acquisition of existing shopping centers and new development sites.  We believe that our competitive advantages are driven by our locations within our market areas, the design and high quality of our shopping centers, the strong demographics surrounding our shopping centers, our relationships with our anchor tenants and our side-shop and out-parcel retailers, our practice of maintaining and renovating our shopping centers, and our ability to source and develop new shopping centers.



Employees



Our headquarters are located at One Independent Drive, Suite 114, Jacksonville, Florida. We presently maintain 17 market offices nationwide where we conduct management, leasing, construction, and investment activities. AtDecember 31, 2012, we had 368 employees and we believe that our relations with our employees are good.



Compliance with Governmental Regulations



Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, we may be liable for the cost to remove or remediate certain hazardous or toxic substances at our shopping centers. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. The cost of required remediation and the owner's liability for remediation could exceed the value of the property and/or the aggregate assets of the owner. The presence of such substances, or the failure to properly remediate such substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the property or borrow using the property as collateral. While we have a number of properties that could require or are currently undergoing varying levels of environmental remediation, environmental remediation is not currently expected to have a material financial impact on us due to reserves for remediation, insurance programs designed to mitigate the cost of remediation, and various state-regulated programs that shift the responsibility and cost to the state.












Executive Officers



The executive officers of the Company are appointed each year by the Board of Directors. Each of the executive officers has been employed by the Company in the position indicated in the list or positions indicated in the pertinent notes below. Each of the executive officers has been employed by the Company for more than five years.

NameAgeTitleExecutive Officer in Position Shown SinceMartin E. Stein, Jr.60Chairman and Chief Executive Officer1993Brian M. Smith57President and Chief Operating Officer2009(1)Lisa Palmer44Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer2013(2)Dan M. Chandler, III46Managing Director - West2009(3)John S. Delatour54Managing Director - Central1999James D. Thompson59Managing Director - East1993



(1)In February 2009, Brian M. Smith, Managing Director and Chief Investment Officer of the Company since 2005, was appointed to the position of President. Prior to serving as our Managing Director and Chief Investment Officer, from March 1999 to September 2005, Mr. Smith served as Managing Director of Investments for our Pacific, Mid-Atlantic, and Northeast divisions.



(2)Lisa Palmer is our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Ms. Palmer served as Senior Manager of Investment Services in 1996 and assumed the role of Vice President of Capital Markets in 1999. She served as Senior Vice President of Capital Markets from 2003 to 2012 until assuming the role of Chief Financial Officer in January 2013.



(3)Dan M. Chandler, III, has served as our Managing Director - West since August 2009.  From August 2007 to April 2009, Mr. Chandler was a principal with Chandler Partners, a private commercial and residential real estate developer in Southern California.  During 2009, Mr. Chandler was also affiliated with Urban|One, a real estate development and management firm in Los Angeles.  Mr. Chandler was a Managing Director for us from 2006 to July 2007, Senior Vice President of Investments from 2002 to 2006, and Vice President of Investments from 1997 to 2002.



Company Website Access and SEC Filings



The Company's website may be accessed atwww.regencycenters.com. All of our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) can be accessed free of charge through our website promptly after filing; however, in the event that the website is inaccessible, we will provide paper copies of our most recent annual report on Form 10-K, the most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q, current reports filed or furnished on Form 8-K, and all related amendments, excluding exhibits, free of charge upon request. These filings are also accessible on the SEC's website atwww.sec.gov.



General Information



The Company's registrar and stock transfer agent is Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (“Wells Fargo Shareowner Services”), Mendota Heights, MN. The Company offers a dividend reinvestment plan (“DRIP”) that enables its stockholders to reinvest dividends automatically, as well as to make voluntary cash payments toward the purchase of additional shares. For more information, contact Wells Fargo toll free at (800) 468-9716 or the Company's Shareholder Relations Department at (904) 598-7000.

The Company's Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm is KPMG LLP, Jacksonville, Florida. The Company's legal counsel is Foley & Lardner LLP, Jacksonville, Florida.

Annual Meeting



The Company's annual meeting will be held at The Ponte Vedra Inn & Club, 200 Ponte Vedra Blvd, Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida, at 11:00 a.m. on Tuesday, May 7,2013.
















