Item 1.Business

Regency Centers
Corporation began its operations as a Real Estate Investment Trust (“REIT”) in 1993 and is the managing general partner in Regency Centers, L.P. ). The term “the Company” or “Regency” means the Parent Company and the
Operating Partnership, collectively. Our key strategic goals are focused on total share and unit holder return in excess of peer indices and sustaining growth in net asset value and earnings. We will achieve these goals through owning, operating and
investing in a high-quality portfolio of primarily grocery-anchored shopping centers that are tenanted by market-dominant grocers, category-leading anchors, specialty retailers, and restaurants located in areas with above average household incomes
and population densities. All of our operating, investing, and financing activities are performed through the Operating Partnership, its wholly-owned subsidiaries, and through its investments in real estate partnerships with third parties (also
referred to as co-investment partnerships or joint ventures). The Parent Company currently owns 99% of the outstanding common partnership units of the Operating Partnership. Because of our structure and certain public debt financing, the Operating
Partnership is also a registrant.

At December 31, 2009, we directly owned 216 shopping centers located in 23 states
representing 23.0 million square feet of gross leasable area (“GLA”). Through co-investment partnerships, we own partial ownership interests in 184 shopping centers located in 25 states and the District of Columbia representing
22.0 million square feet of GLA. The shopping center portfolio that we manage, on a Combined Basis, represents 400 shopping centers located in 28 states and the District of Columbia and contains 45.0 million square feet of GLA.

We earn revenues and generate cash flow by leasing space in our shopping centers to grocery stores, major retail anchors, side-shop
retailers, and restaurants, including ground leasing or selling building pads (out-parcels) to these same types of tenants. Historically, we have experienced growth in revenues by increasing occupancy and rental rates in our existing shopping
centers, and by acquiring and developing new shopping centers. Our shopping centers generate substantial daily traffic by conveniently offering necessities and services. This high traffic generates increased sales, thereby driving higher occupancy
and rental-rate growth, which we expect will provide sustained growth in earnings per share and unit, and net asset value over the long term.

We seek a range of strong national, regional and local specialty retailers, for the same reason that we choose to anchor our centers with leading grocers and major retailers who provide a mix of goods and
services that meet consumer needs. We have created a formal partnering process, the Premier Customer Initiative (“PCI”), to promote mutually beneficial relationships with our side-shop retailers. The objective of PCI is for us to build a
base of non-anchor tenants who represent the “best-in-class” operators in their respective merchandising categories. Such retailers reinforce the consumer appeal and other strengths of a center’s anchor, help grow and stabilize a
center’s occupancy, reduce re-leasing downtime, reduce tenant turnover, and yield higher sustainable rents.

We grow our
shopping center portfolio through acquisitions of operating centers and shopping center development. We will continue to use our unique combination of development capabilities, market presence, and







anchor relationships to invest in value-added opportunities sourced from distressed owners, the redevelopment of existing centers, developing land that we already own, and other opportunities.
Development is customer driven, meaning we generally have an executed lease from the anchor before we start construction. Developments serve the growth needs of our anchors and specialty retailers, resulting in modern shopping centers with long-term
anchor leases that produce attractive returns on our invested capital. This development process typically requires three to five years from initial land or redevelopment acquisition through construction, lease-up, and stabilization of rental income,
but can take longer depending upon tenant demand for new stores and the size of the project.

We also invest in real estate
partnerships. These co-investment partnerships provide us with a reliable capital source for shopping center acquisitions, as well as the opportunity to earn fees for asset management, property management, and other investing and financing
services. As asset manager, we are engaged by our partners to apply similar operating, investment and capital strategies to the portfolios owned by the co-investment partnerships as those applied to the portfolio that we
wholly-own. Co-investment partnerships also grow their shopping center investments through acquisitions from third parties or direct purchases from us.

Competition

We are among the largest owners of shopping centers in
the nation based on revenues, number of properties, gross leasable area, and market capitalization. There are numerous companies and private individuals engaged in the ownership, development, acquisition, and operation of shopping centers which
compete with us in our targeted markets. This results in competition for attracting anchor tenants, as well as the acquisition of existing shopping centers and new development sites. We believe that the principal competitive factors in attracting
tenants in our market areas are location, demographics, rental costs, tenant mix, property age, and property maintenance. We believe that our competitive advantages include our locations within our market areas, the design quality of our shopping
centers, the strong demographics surrounding our shopping centers, our relationships with our anchor tenants and our side-shop and out-parcel retailers, our PCI program that allows us to provide retailers with multiple locations, our practice of
maintaining and renovating our shopping centers, and our ability to source and develop new shopping centers.

Changes in
Policies

Our Board of Directors establishes the policies that govern our investment and operating strategies
including, among others, development and acquisition of shopping centers, tenant and market focus, debt and equity financing policies, quarterly distributions to stock and unit holders, and REIT tax status. The Board of Directors may amend these
policies at any time without a vote of our stockholders.

Employees

Our headquarters are located at One Independent Drive, Suite 114, Jacksonville, Florida. We presently maintain 18 market offices nationwide
where we conduct management, leasing, construction, and investment activities. At December 31, 2009, we had 380 employees and we believe that our relations with our employees are good.

Compliance with Governmental Regulations

Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, we may be liable for the cost to remove or remediate certain hazardous or toxic substances at our shopping centers. These laws
often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. The cost of required remediation and the owner’s liability for remediation could exceed the value of
the property and/or the aggregate assets of the owner. The presence of such substances, or the failure to properly remediate such substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the property or borrow using the property as collateral.
We have a number of properties that could require or are currently undergoing varying levels of environmental remediation. Environmental remediation is not currently expected to have a material financial impact on us due to reserves for remediation,
insurance programs designed to mitigate the cost of remediation, and various state-regulated programs that shift the responsibility and cost to the state.

Executive Officers

The executive officers of the Company are
appointed each year by the Board of Directors. Each of the executive officers has been employed by the Company in the position or positions indicated in the list and pertinent notes below. Each of the executive officers has been employed by the
Company for more than five years.







NameAgeTitleExecutive Officer inPosition ShownSinceMartin E. Stein, Jr.57Chairman and Chief Executive Officer1993Brian M. Smith55President and Chief Operating Officer2005(1)Bruce M. Johnson62Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer1993



(1)In February 2009, Brian M. Smith, Managing Director and Chief Investment Officer of the Company since 2005, was appointed to the position of President.
Prior to serving as our Managing Director and Chief Investment Officer, from March 1999 to September 2005, Mr. Smith served as Managing Director of Investments for our Pacific, Mid-Atlantic, and Northeast divisions.

Company Website Access and SEC Filings

The Company’s website may be accessed atwww.regencycenters.com. All of our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission
(“SEC”) can be accessed through our website promptly after filing; however, in the event that the website is inaccessible, we will provide paper copies of our most recent annual report on Form 10-K, the most recent quarterly report on Form
10-Q, current reports filed or furnished on Form 8-K, and all related amendments, excluding exhibits, free of charge upon request. These filings are also accessible on the SEC’s website atwww.sec.gov.

General Information

The Company’s registrar and stock transfer agent is American Stock Transfer & Trust Company (“AST”), New York, New York. The Company offers a dividend reinvestment plan
(“DRIP”) that enables its stockholders to reinvest dividends automatically, as well as to make voluntary cash payments toward the purchase of additional shares. For more information, contact AST’s Shareholder Services Group toll free
at (866) 668-6550 or the Company’s Shareholder Relations Department.

The Company’s Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm is KPMG LLP, Jacksonville, Florida. The Company’s General Counsel is Foley & Lardner LLP, Jacksonville, Florida.

Annual Meeting

The Company’s annual
meeting will be held at The River Club, One Independent Drive, 35thFloor, Jacksonville, Florida, at 11:00 a.m. on Tuesday, May 4, 2010.







