Item 1.    Business



Regency Centers Corporation began its operations as a REIT in 1993 and is the managing general partner of Regency Centers, L.P.  We endeavor to be a preeminent, best-in-class grocery-anchored shopping center company, distinguished by total shareholder return and per share growth in Core Funds from Operations ("Core FFO") and Net Asset Value ("NAV") that positions Regency as a leader among its peers. We work to achieve these goals through:



•reliable growth in net operating income ("NOI") from a high-quality, growing portfolio of thriving, neighborhood and community shopping centers;

•disciplined value-add development and redevelopment activities profitably creating and enhancing high-quality shopping centers;

•a conservative balance sheet and track record of cost effectively accessing capital to withstand market volatility and to efficiently fund investments; and,

•an engaged and talented team of people guided by our culture.



All of our operating, investing, and financing activities are performed through the Operating Partnership, its wholly-owned subsidiaries, and through its co-investment partnerships.  The Parent Company currently owns approximately99.8%of the outstanding common partnership units of the Operating Partnership.



As ofDecember 31, 2013, we directly owned202shopping centers (the “Consolidated Properties”) located in23states representing22.5 millionsquare feet of gross leasable area (“GLA”).  Through co-investment partnerships, we own partial ownership interests in126shopping centers (the “Unconsolidated Properties”) located in23states and the District of Columbia representing15.5 millionsquare feet of GLA.



We earn revenues and generate cash flow by leasing space in our shopping centers to grocery stores, major retail anchors, restaurants, side-shop retailers, and service providers, as well as ground leasing or selling building pads ("out-parcels") to these same types of tenants.  We experience growth in revenues by increasing occupancy and rental rates in our existing shopping centers and by acquiring and developing new shopping centers.  As ofDecember 31, 2013, our Consolidated Properties were94.5%leased, as compared to94.1%as ofDecember 31, 2012.



We grow our shopping center portfolio through acquisitions of operating centers and new shopping center development.  We will continue to use our development capabilities, market presence, and anchor relationships to invest in value-added new developments and redevelopments of existing centers.  Development is customer driven, meaning we generally have an executed lease from the anchor before we start construction.  Development serves the growth needs of our anchors and retailers, resulting in high quality shopping centers with long-term anchor leases that produce attractive returns on our invested capital.  This development process typically requires two to three years once construction has commenced, but can vary subject to the size and complexity of the project.  We fund our acquisition and development activity from various capital sources including operating cash flows, property sales, equity offerings, and new debt.



Co-investment partnerships provide us with an additional capital source for shopping center acquisitions, developments, and redevelopments, as well as the opportunity to earn fees for asset management, property management, and other investing and financing services.  As an asset manager, we are engaged by our partners to apply similar operating, investment, and capital strategies to the portfolios owned by the co-investment partnerships as those applied to the portfolio that we wholly-own.












We recognize the importance of continually improving the environmental sustainability performance of our real estate assets.  To date we have received LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) certifications by the U.S. Green Building Council atsevenshopping centers and have LEED certification targeted atsixadditional development properties in-process or recently completed.  We also continue to implement best practices in our operating portfolio to reduce our power and water consumption, in addition to other sustainability initiatives.  We believe that the design, construction and operation of environmentally efficient shopping centers will contribute to our key strategic goals.



Competition



We are among the largest owners of shopping centers in the nation based on revenues, number of properties, GLA, and market capitalization.  There are numerous companies and individuals engaged in the ownership, development, acquisition, and operation of shopping centers that compete with us in our targeted markets, including grocery store chains that also anchor some of our shopping centers.  This results in competition for attracting anchor tenants, as well as the acquisition of existing shopping centers and new development sites.  We believe that our competitive advantages are driven by:

•our locations within our market areas;

•the design and high quality of our shopping centers;

•the strong demographics surrounding our shopping centers;

•our relationships with our anchor tenants and our side-shop and out-parcel retailers;

•our practice of maintaining and renovating our shopping centers; and,

•our ability to source and develop new shopping centers.



Employees



Our headquarters are located at One Independent Drive, Suite 114, Jacksonville, Florida.  We presently maintain 17 market offices nationwide, where we conduct management, leasing, construction, and investment activities.  As ofDecember 31, 2013, we had 363 employees and we believe that our relations with our employees are good.



Compliance with Governmental Regulations



Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, we may be liable for the cost to remove or remediate certain hazardous or toxic substances at our shopping centers.  These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances.  The cost of required remediation and the owner's liability for remediation could exceed the value of the property and/or the aggregate assets of the owner.  The presence of such substances, or the failure to properly remediate such substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the property or borrow using the property as collateral.  While we have a number of properties that could require or are currently undergoing varying levels of environmental remediation, known environmental remediation is not currently expected to have a material financial impact on us due to existing accrued liabilities for remediation, insurance programs designed to mitigate the cost of remediation, and various state-regulated programs that shift the responsibility and cost to the state.



Executive Officers



Our executive officers are appointed each year by our Board of Directors.  Each of our executive officers has been employed by us in the position indicated in the list or positions indicated in the pertinent notes below.  Each of our executive officers has been employed by us for more than five years.



NameAgeTitleExecutive Officer in Position Shown SinceMartin E. Stein, Jr.61Chairman and Chief Executive Officer1993Brian M. Smith59President and Chief Operating Officer2009(1)Lisa Palmer45Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer2013(2)Dan M. Chandler, III47Managing Director - West2009(3)John S. Delatour54Managing Director - Central1999James D. Thompson58Managing Director - East1993



(1)Brian M. Smith is our President and Chief Operating Officer.  Mr. Smith served as Managing Director of Investments for our Pacific, Mid-Atlantic, and Northeast divisions from March 1999 to September 2005, then served as Managing Director and Chief Investment Officer from September 2005 to February 2009, until he was appointed President and Chief Operating Officer.












(2)Lisa Palmer is our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.  Ms. Palmer served as Senior Manager of Investment Services in 1996 and assumed the role of Vice President of Capital Markets in 1999.  She served as Senior Vice President of Capital Markets from 2003 to 2012 until assuming the role of Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in January 2013.



(3)Dan M. Chandler, III, is our Managing Director - West.  Mr. Chandler served as Vice President of Investment for Regency from 1997 to 2002, Senior Vice President of Investments from 2002 to 2006, and Managing Director from 2006 to 2007.  From August 2007 to April 2009, he was a principal with Chandler Partners, a private commercial and residential real estate developer in Southern California.  During 2009, he was also affiliated with Urban|One, a real estate development and management firm in Los Angeles, prior to returning to Regency to serve in his current role of Managing Director - West.



Company Website Access and SEC Filings



Our website may be accessed atwww.regencycenters.com.  All of our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) can be accessed free of charge through our website promptly after filing; however, in the event that the website is inaccessible, we will provide paper copies of our most recent annual report on Form 10-K, the most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q, current reports filed or furnished on Form 8-K, and all related amendments, excluding exhibits, free of charge upon request.  These filings are also accessible on the SEC's website atwww.sec.gov.



General Information



Our registrar and stock transfer agent is Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (“Wells Fargo Shareowner Services”), Mendota Heights, MN.  We offer a dividend reinvestment plan (“DRIP”) that enables our stockholders to reinvest dividends automatically, as well as to make voluntary cash payments toward the purchase of additional shares.  For more information, contact Wells Fargo Shareowner Services toll free at (800) 468-9716 or our Shareholder Relations Department at (904) 598-7000.



Our independent registered public accounting firm is KPMG LLP, Jacksonville, Florida.  Our legal counsel is Foley & Lardner LLP, Jacksonville, Florida.



Annual Meeting



Our annual meeting will be held at The Ponte Vedra Inn & Club, 200 Ponte Vedra Blvd, Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida, at 11:00 a.m. on Friday, May 2,2014.
















