Item 1:Business



General



Waters Corporation
    (“Waters®”

    or the “Company”), an analytical instrument
    manufacturer, primarily designs, manufactures, sells and
    services, through its Waters Division, high performance liquid
    chromatography (“HPLC”), ultra performance liquid
    chromatography
    (“UPLC®”

    and together with HPLC, referred to as “LC”) and mass
    spectrometry (“MS”) instrument systems and support
    products, including chromatography columns, other consumable
    products and comprehensive post-warranty service plans. These
    systems are complementary products that can be integrated
    together and used along with other analytical instruments.
    Through its TA Division
    (“TA®”),

    the Company primarily designs, manufactures, sells and services
    thermal analysis, rheometry and calorimetry instruments. The
    Company is also a developer and supplier of software-based
    products that interface with the Company’s instruments as
    well as other manufacturers’ instruments.



The Company’s products are used by pharmaceutical, life
    science, biochemical, industrial, academic and government
    customers working in research and development, quality assurance
    and other laboratory applications. The Company’s LC and MS
    instruments are utilized in this broad range of industries to
    detect, identify, monitor and measure the chemical, physical and
    biological composition of materials, as well as to purify a full
    range of compounds. These instruments are used in drug discovery
    and development, including clinical trial testing, the analysis
    of proteins in disease processes (known as
    “proteomics”), food safety analysis and environmental
    testing. The Company’s thermal analysis, rheometry and
    calorimetry instruments are used in predicting the suitability
    of fine chemicals, polymers and viscous liquids for uses in
    various industrial, consumer goods and healthcare products, as
    well as for life science research.



Waters is a holding company that owns all of the outstanding
    common stock of Waters Technologies Corporation, its operating
    subsidiary. Waters became a publicly-traded company with its
    initial public offering (“IPO”) in November 1995.
    Since the IPO, the Company has added two significant and
    complementary technologies to its range of products with the
    acquisitions of TA Instruments in May 1996 and Micromass Limited
    (“Micromass®”)

    in September 1997.



Business
    Segments



The Company’s business activities, for which financial
    information is available, are regularly reviewed and evaluated
    by the chief operating decision makers. As a result of this
    evaluation, the Company determined that it has two operating
    segments: Waters Division and TA Division. As indicated above,
    the Company operates in the analytical instruments industry,
    designing, manufacturing, distributing and servicing products in
    three technologies: LC and MS instruments; columns and other
    chemistry consumables that can be integrated and used along with
    other analytical instruments; and thermal analysis, rheometry
    and calorimetry instruments. The Company’s two operating
    segments, Waters Division and TA Division, have similar economic
    characteristics; product processes; products and services; types
    and classes of customers; methods of distribution and regulatory
    environments. Because of these similarities, the two segments
    have been aggregated into one reporting segment for financial
    statement purposes.



Information concerning revenues and long-lived assets
    attributable to each of the Company’s products, services
    and geographic areas is set forth in Note 16 in the Notes
    to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated
    herein by reference.



Waters
    Division



High
    Performance and Ultra Performance Liquid
    Chromatography



Developed in the 1950’s, HPLC is the standard technique
    used to identify and analyze the constituent components of a
    variety of chemicals and other materials. The Company believes
    that HPLC’s performance capabilities enable it to separate
    and identify approximately 80% of all known chemicals and
    materials. As a result, HPLC is used to





analyze substances in a wide variety of industries for research
    and development purposes, quality control and process
    engineering applications.



The most significant end-use markets for HPLC are those served
    by the pharmaceutical and life science industries. In these
    markets, HPLC is used extensively to identify new drugs, develop
    manufacturing methods and assure the potency and purity of new
    pharmaceuticals. HPLC is also used in a variety of other
    applications, such as analyses of foods and beverages for
    nutritional labeling and compliance with safety regulations, the
    testing of water and air purity within the environmental testing
    industry, as well as applications in other industries, such as
    chemical and consumer products. HPLC is also used by
    universities, research institutions and government agencies,
    such as the United States Food and Drug Administration
    (“FDA”) and the United States Environmental Protection
    Agency (“EPA”) and their international counterparts
    that mandate testing requiring HPLC instrumentation.



Traditionally, a typical HPLC system has consisted of five basic
    components: solvent delivery system, sample injector, separation
    column, detector and data acquisition unit. The solvent delivery
    system pumps solvents through the HPLC system, while the sample
    injector introduces samples into the solvent flow. The
    chromatography column then separates the sample into its
    components for analysis by the detector, which measures the
    presence and amount of the constituents. The data acquisition
    unit, usually referred to as the instrument’s software or
    data system, then records and stores the information from the
    detector.



®

®



Waters manufactures LC instruments that are offered in
    configurations that allow for varying degrees of automation,
    from component configured systems for academic research
    applications to fully automated systems for regulated testing,
    and that have a variety of detection technologies, from
    ultra-violet (“UV”) absorbance to MS, optimized for
    certain analyses. The Company also manufactures tailored LC
    systems for the analysis of biologics, as well as an LC detector
    utilizing evaporative light scattering technology to expand the
    usage of LC to compounds that are not amenable to UV absorbance
    detection.



The primary consumable products for LC are chromatography
    columns. These columns are packed with separation media used in
    the LC testing process and are replaced at regular intervals.
    The chromatography column contains one of several types of
    packing material, typically stationary phase particles made from
    silica. As the sample flows through the column, it is separated
    into its constituent components.



Waters HPLC columns can be used on Waters-branded and
    competitors’ LC systems. The Company believes that it is
    one of the few suppliers in the world that processes silica,
    packs columns and distributes its own products. In doing so, the
    Company believes it can better ensure product consistency, a key
    attribute for its customers in quality control laboratories, and
    can react quickly to new customer requirements. The Company
    believes that its ACQUITY UPLC lines of columns are used nearly
    exclusively on its ACQUITY UPLC instrument systems and,
    furthermore, that its ACQUITY UPLC instrument primarily uses
    ACQUITY UPLC columns. In 2010, 2009 and





2008, the Company experienced growth in its LC chromatography
    column and sample preparation businesses, especially in ACQUITY
    UPLC columns.



The Company’s chemistry consumable products also include
    environmental and food safety testing products. Environmental
    laboratories use these products for quality control and
    proficiency testing and also purchase product support services
    required to help with their federal and state mandated
    accreditation requirements or with quality control over critical
    pharmaceutical analysis. In addition, the Company provides tests
    to identify and quantify mycotoxins in various agricultural
    commodities. These test kits provide reliable, quantitative
    detection of particular mycotoxins through the choice of
    flurometer, LC-MS or HPLC.



In February 2009, the Company acquired Thar Instruments, Inc.
    (“Thar”), a global leader in the design, development
    and manufacture of analytical and preparative supercritical
    fluid chromatography and supercritical fluid extraction
    (“SFC”) systems.



Based upon reports from independent marketing research firms and
    publicly-disclosed sales figures from competitors, the Company
    believes that it is one of the world’s largest
    manufacturers and distributors of LC instruments, chromatography
    columns and other consumables and related services. The Company
    also believes that it has the leading LC market share in the
    United States, Europe and Asia, and believes it has a leading
    market share position in Japan.



Mass
    Spectrometry



MS is a powerful analytical technique that is used to identify
    unknown compounds, to quantify known materials and to elucidate
    the structural and chemical properties of molecules by measuring
    the masses of individual molecules that have been converted into
    ions.



The Company believes it is a market leader in the development,
    manufacture, sale and distribution of MS instruments. These
    instruments can be integrated and used along with other
    complementary analytical instruments and systems, such as LC,
    chemical electrophoresis, chemical electrophoresis
    chromatography and gas chromatography. A wide variety of
    instrumental designs fall within the overall category of MS
    instrumentation, including devices that incorporate quadrupole,
    ion trap,time-of-flight(“Tof”) and classical magnetic sector technologies.
    Furthermore, these technologies are often used in tandem to
    maximize the efficacy of certain experiments.



Currently, the Company offers a wide range of MS instruments
    utilizing various combinations of quadrupole, Tof, ion mobility
    and magnetic sector designs. These instruments are used in drug
    discovery and development, as well as for environmental and food
    safety testing. The majority of mass spectrometers sold by the
    Company are designed to utilize an LC system as the sample
    introduction device. These products supply a diverse market with
    a strong emphasis on the life science, pharmaceutical,
    biomedical, clinical, food and environmental market segments
    worldwide.



®

tm

time-of-flight

tm

®

tm

®

tm

®

tm

®

tm

®

®

UPLC/MS/MS

®

tm





The Xevo G2 Q-Tof is one of the most sensitive, exact mass
    quantitative and qualitative bench-top MS/MS instrument system
    developed because it combines the integrated workflow benefits
    of Engineered
    Simplicitytmfound in existing Xevo Q-Tof instrument systems with the ground
    breaking Quantof technology of the SYNAPT G2 instrument system.



LC-MS



LC and MS are instrumental technologies often embodied within an
    analytical system tailored for either a dedicated class of
    analyses or as a general purpose analytical device. An
    increasing percentage of the Company’s customers are
    purchasing LC and MS components simultaneously and it is
    becoming common for LC and MS instrumentation to be used within
    the same laboratory and operated by the same user. The
    descriptions of LC and MS above reflect the historical
    segmentation of these analytical technologies and the historical
    categorization of their respective practitioners. Increasingly
    in today’s instrument market, this segmentation and
    categorization is becoming obsolete as a high percentage of
    instruments used in the laboratory embody both LC and MS
    technologies as part of a single device. In response to this
    development and to further promote the high utilization of these
    hybrid instruments, the Company has organized its Waters
    Division to develop, manufacture, sell and service integrated
    LC-MS systems.



Waters
    Division Service



The servicing and support of LC and MS instruments and
    accessories is an important source of revenue for the Waters
    Division. These revenues are derived primarily through the sale
    of support plans, demand service, customer training and
    performance validation services. Support plans most typically
    involve scheduled instrument maintenance and an agreement to
    promptly repair a non-functioning instrument in return for a fee
    described in a contract that is priced according to the
    configuration of the instrument.



TA
    Division



Thermal
    Analysis, Rheometry and Calorimetry



Thermal analysis measures the physical characteristics of
    materials as a function of temperature. Changes in temperature
    affect several characteristics of materials, such as their
    physical state, weight, dimension and mechanical and electrical
    properties, which may be measured by one or more thermal
    analysis techniques, including calorimetry. Consequently,
    thermal analysis techniques are widely used in the development,
    production and characterization of materials in various
    industries, such as plastics, chemicals, automobiles,
    pharmaceuticals and electronics.



Rheometry instruments complement thermal analyzers in
    characterizing materials. Rheometry characterizes the flow
    properties of materials and measures their viscosity, elasticity
    and deformation under different types of “loading” or
    conditions. The information obtained under such conditions
    provides insight into a material’s behavior during
    manufacturing, transport, usage and storage.



tm

and/or





In July 2008, the Company acquired VTI Corporation
    (“VTI”), a manufacturer of sorption analysis and
    thermogravimetric analysis (“TGA”) instruments.
    VTI’s products are widely used in the evaluation of
    pharmaceuticals, catalysts and energy-related materials. This
    acquisition added two technologies which complement TA’s
    existing gravimetric analysis product line. VTI’s sorption
    analysis products are designed for water and organic vapor
    sorption studies of pharmaceuticals and related materials.
    VTI’s high pressure, high vacuum TGA projects are designed
    for high pressure sorption studies, which are commonly used in
    the analysis of energy-related materials.



TA
    Service



The Company sells, supports and services TA’s product
    offerings through its headquarters in New Castle, Delaware. TA
    operates independently from the Waters Division, though several
    of its overseas offices are situated in Waters’ facilities.
    TA has dedicated field sales and service operations. Service
    sales are primarily derived from the sale of replacement parts
    and from billed labor fees associated with the repair,
    maintenance and upgrade of installed systems.



Customers



The Company has a broad and diversified customer base that
    includes pharmaceutical accounts, other industrial accounts,
    universities and government agencies. The pharmaceutical segment
    represents the Company’s largest sector and includes
    multinational pharmaceutical companies, generic drug
    manufacturers, contract research organizations (CROs) and
    biotechnology companies. The Company’s other industrial
    customers include chemical manufacturers, polymer manufacturers,
    food and beverage companies and environmental testing
    laboratories. The Company also sells to various universities and
    government agencies worldwide. The Company’s technical
    support staff works closely with its customers in developing and
    implementing applications that meet their full range of
    analytical requirements.



The Company experiences an increase in sales in the fourth
    quarter, as a result of purchasing habits for capital goods of
    customers that tend to exhaust their spending budgets by
    calendar year end. The Company does not rely on any single
    customer or one group of customers for a material portion of its
    sales. During fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, no single
    customer accounted for more than 3% of the Company’s net
    sales.



Sales and
    Service



The Company has one of the largest sales and service
    organizations in the industry, focused exclusively on the
    various instrument systems’ installed base. Across these
    product technologies, using respective specialized sales and
    service forces, the Company serves its customer base with
    approximately 2,700 field representatives in 89 sales offices
    throughout the world as of December 31, 2010. The
    Company’s sales representatives have direct responsibility
    for account relationships, while service representatives work in
    the field to install instruments, train customers and minimize
    instrument downtime. In-house, technical support representatives
    work directly with customers providing them assistance with
    applications and procedures on Company products. The Company
    provides customers with comprehensive information through
    various corporate and regional internet websites and product
    literature, and also makes consumable products available through
    electronic ordering facilities and a dedicated catalog.



Manufacturing



The Company provides high quality LC products by overseeing each
    stage of the production of its instruments, columns and chemical
    reagents. The Company currently assembles a portion of its LC
    instruments at its facility in Milford, Massachusetts, where it
    performs machining, assembly and testing. The Milford facility
    maintains quality management and environmental management
    systems in accordance with the requirements of ISO 9001:2008,
    ISO 13485:2003 and ISO 14001:2004, and adheres to applicable
    regulatory requirements (including the FDA Quality System
    Regulation and the European In-Vitro Diagnostic Directive). The
    Company outsources manufacturing of certain electronic
    components, such as computers, monitors and circuit boards, to
    outside vendors that can meet the Company’s quality
    requirements. In 2006, the Company transitioned the
    manufacturing of LC instrument systems





and components to a well-established contract manufacturing firm
    in Singapore. The Company has continued to pursue outsourcing
    opportunities as they may arise.



The Company manufactures its LC columns at its facilities in
    Taunton, Massachusetts and Wexford, Ireland, where it processes,
    sizes and treats silica and polymeric media that are packed into
    columns, solid phase extraction cartridges and bulk shipping
    containers. The Wexford facility also manufactures and
    distributes certain data, instruments and software components
    for the Company’s LC, MS and TA product lines. The
    Company’s Taunton facility is certified to ISO 9001:2008.
    The Wexford facility is certified to ISO 9001:2008 and ISO
    13485:2003.
    VICAM®manufactures antibody resin and magnetic beads that are packed
    into columns and kits in Milford, Massachusetts and Nixa,
    Missouri. Environmental Resource Associates manufactures
    environmental proficiency kits in Arvada, Colorado. Thar
    manufactures SFC systems in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.



The Company manufactures most of its MS products at its
    facilities in Manchester, England, Cheshire, England and
    Wexford, Ireland. Certain components or modules of the
    Company’s MS instruments are manufactured by long-standing
    outside contractors. Each stage of this supply chain is closely
    monitored by the Company to maintain high quality and
    performance standards. The instruments, components or modules
    are then returned to the Company’s facilities where its
    engineers perform final assembly, calibrations to customer
    specifications and quality control procedures. The
    Company’s MS facilities are certified to ISO 9001:2008 and
    ISO 13485:2003.



Thermal analysis, rheometry and calorimetry products are
    manufactured by TA. Thermal analysis products are manufactured
    at the Company’s New Castle, Delaware facility. Rheometry
    products are manufactured at the Company’s New Castle,
    Delaware and Crawley, England facilities. Microcalorimetry
    products are manufactured at the Company’s Lindon, Utah
    facility. Similar to MS, elements of TA’s products are
    manufactured by outside contractors and are then returned to the
    Company’s facilities for final assembly, calibration and
    quality control. The Company’s New Castle facility is
    certified to ISO 9001:2008 standards and the Crawley facility is
    certified to ISO 9001:2000.



Research
    and Development



The Company maintains an active research and development program
    focused on the development and commercialization of products
    that both complement and update its existing product offering.
    The Company’s research and development expenditures for
    2010, 2009 and 2008 were $84 million, $77 million and
    $82 million, respectively. Nearly all of the Company’s
    current LC products were developed at the Company’s main
    research and development center located in Milford,
    Massachusetts, with input and feedback from the Company’s
    extensive field organizations and customers. The majority of the
    Company’s MS products were developed at facilities in
    England and nearly all of the Company’s current thermal
    analysis products were developed at the Company’s research
    and development center in New Castle, Delaware. At
    December 31, 2010, there were 697 employees involved
    in the Company’s research and development efforts. The
    Company has increased research and development expenses relating
    to acquisitions and the Company’s continued commitment to
    invest significantly in new product development and existing
    product enhancements. Despite the Company’s active research
    and development programs, there can be no assurances that the
    Company’s product development and commercialization efforts
    will be successful or that the products developed by the Company
    will be accepted by the marketplace.



Employees



The Company employed approximately 5,400 employees at
    December 31, 2010, with approximately 44% of the
    Company’s employees located in the United States. The
    Company believes its employee relations are generally good. The
    Company’s employees are not unionized or affiliated with
    any internal or external labor organizations. The Company
    believes that its future success largely depends upon its
    continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees.





Competition



The analytical instrument and systems market is highly
    competitive. The Company encounters competition from several
    worldwide instrument manufacturers and other companies in both
    domestic and foreign markets for each of its three technologies.
    The Company competes in its markets primarily on the basis of
    instrument performance, reliability, service and, to a lesser
    extent, price. Some competitors have instrument businesses that
    are generally more diversified than the Company’s business,
    but are typically less focused on the Company’s chosen
    markets. Some competitors have greater financial and other
    resources than the Company.



In the markets served by the Waters Division, the Company’s
    principal competitors include: Agilent Technologies, Inc.,
    Shimadzu Corporation, Bruker BioSciences, Danaher Corporation,
    Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. and Dionex Corporation (which has
    announced an agreement to be acquired by Thermo Fisher
    Scientific Inc). In the markets served by the TA Division, the
    Company’s principal competitors include: PerkinElmer, Inc.,
    Mettler-Toledo International Inc., NETZSCH-Geraetebau GmbH,
    Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., Malvern Instruments Ltd.,
    Anton-Paar and General Electric Company.



The market for consumable LC products, including separation
    columns, is highly competitive and more fragmented than the
    analytical instruments market. The Company encounters
    competition in the consumable columns market from chemical
    companies that produce column chemicals and small specialized
    companies that pack and distribute columns. The Company believes
    that it is one of the few suppliers that processes silica, packs
    columns and distributes its own product. The Company competes in
    this market on the basis of reproducibility, reputation,
    performance and, to a lesser extent, price. The Company’s
    principal competitors for consumable products include:
    Phenomenex, Inc., Supelco, Inc., Agilent Technologies, Inc.,
    General Electric Company, Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. and
    Merck and Co., Inc. The ACQUITY UPLC instrument is designed to
    offer a predictable level of performance when used with ACQUITY
    UPLC columns and the Company believes that the expansion of the
    ACQUITY UPLC instrument base will enhance its chromatographic
    column business because of the high level of synergy between
    ACQUITY UPLC columns and the ACQUITY UPLC instrument. In 2009,
    Agilent Technologies, Inc. introduced a new LC system, which it
    termed a UHPLC, and which it has claimed has similar performance
    characteristics to Waters’ ACQUITY UPLC.



Patents,
    Trademarks and Licenses



The Company owns a number of United States and foreign patents
    and has patent applications pending in the United States and
    abroad. Certain technology and software is licensed from third
    parties. The Company also owns a number of trademarks. The
    Company’s patents, trademarks and licenses are viewed as
    valuable assets to its operations. However, the Company believes
    that no one patent or group of patents, trademark or license is,
    in and of itself, essential to the Company such that its loss
    would materially affect the Company’s business as a whole.



Environmental
    Matters and Climate Change



The Company is subject to federal, state and local laws,
    regulations and ordinances that (i) govern activities or
    operations that may have adverse environmental effects, such as
    discharges to air and water as well as handling and disposal
    practices for solid and hazardous wastes, and (ii) impose
    liability for the costs of cleaning up and certain damages
    resulting from sites of past spills, disposals or other releases
    of hazardous substances. The Company believes that it currently
    conducts its operations and has operated its business in the
    past in substantial compliance with applicable environmental
    laws. From time to time, Company operations have resulted or may
    result in noncompliance with environmental laws or liability for
    cleanup pursuant to environmental laws. The Company does not
    currently anticipate any material adverse effect on its
    operations, financial condition or competitive position as a
    result of its efforts to comply with environmental laws.



The Company is sensitive to the growing global debate with
    respect to climate change. In the first quarter of 2009, the
    Company published its first sustainability report identifying
    the various actions and behaviors the Company has adopted
    concerning its commitment to both the environment and the
    broader topic of social responsibility. An internal
    sustainability working group was formed and is functioning to
    develop increasingly robust data with respect to the
    Company’s utilization of carbon producing substances. See
    Item 1A, Risk Factors — Effects of Climate
    Change, for more information on the potential significance of
    climate change legislation.





Available
    Information



The Company files or furnishes all required reports with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The public
    may read and copy any materials the Company files or furnishes
    with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at
    100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. The public
    may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference
    Room by calling the SEC at1-800-SEC-0330.



The Company is an electronic filer and the SEC maintains a
    website that contains reports, proxy and information statements
    and other information regarding issuers that file electronically
    with the SEC. The address of the SEC electronic filing website
    ishttp://www.sec.gov.The Company also makes available, free of charge on its website,
    its annual report onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,current reports onForm 8-Kand any amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably
    practicable after such material is electronically filed with or
    furnished to the SEC. The website address for Waters Corporation
    ishttp://www.waters.comand SEC filings can be found under the caption
    “Investors”.



Forward-Looking
    Statements



Certain of the statements in thisForm 10-Kand the documents incorporated herein, may contain
    forward-looking statements within the meaning of
    Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and
    Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
    amended (the “Exchange Act”), with respect to future
    results and events, including statements regarding, among other
    items, anticipated trends in the Company’s business;
    anticipated expenses, including interest expense and
    amortization expense; the impact of the Company’s various
    ongoing tax audits and litigation matters; the impact of the
    loss of intellectual property protection; the effect of new
    accounting pronouncements; use of the Company’s debt
    proceeds; the impact of regulatory compliance; the
    Company’s expected cash flow, borrowing capacity and debt
    refinancing; the Company’s contributions to defined benefit
    plans; the Company’s expectations regarding the payment of
    dividends; and the Company’s capital spending, sufficiency
    of capital and ability to fund other facility expansions to
    accommodate future sales growth.



Many of these statements appear, in particular, under the
    heading “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in
    Part II, Item 7 of thisForm 10-K.Statements that are not statements of historical fact may be
    deemed forward-looking statements. You can identify these
    forward-looking statements by the use of the words
    “believes”, “anticipates”,
    “plans”, “expects”, “may”,
    “will”, “would”, “intends”,
    “appears”, “estimates”,
    “projects”, “should” and similar
    expressions, whether in the negative or affirmative. These
    statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, many
    of which are outside the control of the Company, including, and
    without limitation:





•Current economic conditions and uncertainties; ability to access
    capital in volatile market conditions; changes in demand by the
    Company’s customers and various market sectors,
    particularly if they should reduce capital expenditures; the
    effect of mergers and acquisitions on customer demand; and
    ability to sustain and enhance service and consumable demand
    from the Company’s installed base of instruments.



•Negative industry trends; introduction of competing products by
    other companies and loss of market share; pressures on prices
    from customers or resulting from competition; regulatory,
    economic, and competitive obstacles to new product
    introductions; lack of acceptance of new products; and ability
    to obtain alternative sources for components and modules.



•Foreign exchange rate fluctuations that could adversely affect
    translation of the Company’s future financial operating
    results and condition.



•Increased regulatory burdens as the Company’s business
    evolves, especially with respect to the SEC, FDA and EPA, among
    others and regulatory, environmental and logistical obstacles
    affecting the distribution of the Company’s products and
    completion of purchase order documentation.



•Risks associated with lawsuits, particularly involving claims
    for infringement of patents and other intellectual property
    rights.



•The impact and costs incurred from changes in accounting
    principles and practices or tax rates (specifically, the
    increase in the Company’s 2011 statutory tax rate in
    Ireland from the 10% historical contractual tax rate





to 12.5%); shifts in taxable income in jurisdictions with
    different effective tax rates; and the outcome of and costs
    associated with ongoing and future tax examinations or changes
    in respective country legislation affecting the Company’s
    effective rates.



Certain of these and other factors are further described below
    in Item 1A, Risk Factors, of thisForm 10-K.Actual results or events could differ materially from the plans,
    intentions and expectations disclosed in the forward-looking
    statements, whether because of these factors or for other
    reasons. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the
    date of this annual report onForm 10-Kand are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary
    statements included in this report. Except as required by law,
    the Company does not assume any obligation to update any
    forward-looking statements.



