Item 1:Business

General

Waters Corporation (“Waters®” or the “Company”) is an analytical instrument manufacturer that primarily designs, manufactures, sells and services, through its Waters Division, high
performance liquid chromatography (“HPLC”), ultra performance liquid chromatography (“UPLC®”
and together with HPLC, referred to as “LC”) and mass spectrometry (“MS”) technology systems and support products, including chromatography columns, other consumable products and comprehensive post-warranty service plans. These
systems are complementary products that are frequently employed together (“LC-MS”) and sold as integrated instrument systems using a common software platform. Through its TA Division (“TA®”), the Company primarily designs, manufactures, sells and services thermal analysis, rheometry and calorimetry
instruments. The Company is also a developer and supplier of software-based products that interface with the Company’s instruments, as well as other manufacturers’ instruments, and are typically purchased by customers as part of the
instrument system.

The Company’s products are used by pharmaceutical, life science, biochemical, industrial, nutritional
safety, environmental, academic and governmental customers working in research and development, quality assurance and other laboratory applications. The Company’s LC and LC-MS instruments are utilized in this broad range of industries to
detect, identify, monitor and measure the chemical, physical and biological composition of materials, as well as to purify a full range of compounds. These instruments are used in drug discovery and development, including clinical trial testing, the
analysis of proteins in disease processes (known as “proteomics”), nutritional safety analysis and environmental testing. The Company’s thermal analysis, rheometry and calorimetry instruments are used in predicting the suitability of
fine chemicals, pharmaceuticals, water, polymers and viscous liquids for uses in various industrial, consumer goods and healthcare products, as well as for life science research.

Waters, organized as a Delaware corporation in 1991, is a holding company that owns all of the outstanding common
stock of Waters Technologies Corporation, its operating subsidiary. Waters became a publicly-traded company with its initial public offering (“IPO”) in November 1995. Since the IPO, the Company has added two significant and complementary
technologies to its range of products with the acquisitions of TA Instruments in May 1996 and Micromass Limited
(“Micromass®”) in September 1997.

Business Segments

The Company’s business activities, for which discrete financial
information is available, are regularly reviewed and evaluated by chief operating decision maker. As a result of this evaluation, the Company determined that it has two operating segments: Waters Division and TA Division. The Company operates in the
analytical instruments industry by designing, manufacturing, distributing and servicing instrument systems, columns and other chemistry consumables that can be integrated and used along with other analytical instruments. The Company’s two
operating segments, Waters Division and TA Division, have similar economic characteristics; product processes; products and services; types and classes of customers; methods of distribution and regulatory environments. Because of these similarities,
the two operating segments have been aggregated into one reporting segment for financial statement purposes.

Information
concerning revenues and long-lived assets attributable to each of the Company’s products, services and geographic areas is set forth in Note 15 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated herein by
reference.







Waters Division

High Performance and Ultra Performance Liquid Chromatography

HPLC is a standard
technique used to identify and analyze the constituent components of a variety of chemicals and other materials. The Company believes that HPLC’s performance capabilities enable it to separate and identify approximately 80% of all known
chemicals and materials. As a result, HPLC is used to analyze substances in a wide variety of industries for research and development purposes, quality control and process engineering applications.

The most significant end-use markets for HPLC are those served by the pharmaceutical and life science industries. In these markets, HPLC
is used extensively to identify new drugs, develop manufacturing methods and assure the potency and purity of new pharmaceuticals. HPLC is also used in a variety of other applications, such as analyses of foods and beverages for nutritional labeling
and compliance with safety regulations, the testing of water and air purity within the environmental testing industry, as well as applications in other industries, such as chemical and consumer products. HPLC is also used by universities, research
institutions and governmental agencies, such as the United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) and their international counterparts that mandate testing
requiring HPLC instrumentation.

Traditionally, a typical HPLC system has consisted of five basic components: solvent
delivery system, sample injector, separation column, detector and data acquisition unit. The solvent delivery system pumps solvents through the HPLC system, while the sample injector introduces samples into the solvent flow. The chromatography
column then separates the sample into its components for analysis by the detector, which measures the presence and amount of the constituents. The data acquisition unit, usually referred to as the instrument’s software or data system, then
records and stores the information from the detector.

®

®

TM

(“UPC


®”) with the release of the ACQUITY®UPC2®system. This new technology marries the unrealized potential of supercritical fluid chromatography (“SFC”) with the proven UPLC technology, using carbon
dioxide as the primary mobile phase. By varying mobile phase strength, pressure, temperature and stationary phase with UPC2, a user can separate, detect and quantify structural analogs, isomers, enantiomeric and diasteriomeric mixtures – all
compounds or samples that challenge today’s laboratories. In 2013, the Company introduced the ACQUITY®Advanced Polymer Chromatography®(“APC

TM

”) system. This system delivers improved polymer peak resolution, particularly for low molecular weight polymers
and oligomers, up to 20 times faster than traditional gel permeation chromatography. In 2013, the Company also introduced the ACQUITY®QDa

TM

Detector, which facilitates obtaining mass spectral measurements from chromatographic separations utilizing a compact and easy to operate detector module.

Waters manufactures LC instruments that are offered in configurations that allow for varying degrees of automation, from component
configured systems for academic teaching and research applications to fully







automated systems for regulated testing, and that have a variety of detection technologies, from ultra-violet (“UV”) absorbance to MS, optimized for certain analyses. The Company also
manufactures tailored LC systems for the analysis of biologics, as well as an LC detector utilizing evaporative light scattering technology to expand the usage of LC to compounds that are not amenable to UV absorbance detection.

The primary consumable products for LC are chromatography columns. These columns are packed with separation media used in the LC testing
process and are typically replaced at regular intervals. The chromatography column contains one of several types of packing material, typically stationary phase particles made from silica. As the sample flows through the column, it is separated into
its constituent components.

Waters HPLC columns can be used on Waters-branded and competitors’ LC
systems. The Company believes that it is one of the few suppliers in the world that processes silica, packs columns and distributes its own products. In doing so, the Company believes it can better ensure product consistency, a key attribute for its
customers in quality control laboratories, and can react quickly to new customer requirements. The Company believes that its ACQUITY UPLC lines of columns are used primarily on its ACQUITY UPLC instrument systems and, furthermore, that its ACQUITY
UPLC instruments primarily use ACQUITY UPLC columns. In 2013, the Company introduced the CORTECSTMfamily of 1.6 micron solid-core UPLC columns to further extend the application range and performance of its UPLC offerings.

The Company’s chemistry consumable products also include environmental and nutritional safety testing products. Environmental laboratories use these products for quality control and proficiency
testing and also purchase product support services required to help with their federal and state mandated accreditation requirements or with quality control over critical pharmaceutical analysis. In addition, the Company provides tests to identify
and quantify mycotoxins (biological contaminants) in various agricultural commodities. These test kits provide reliable, quantitative detection of particular mycotoxins through the choice of fluorimetry, HPLC or LC-MS.

Mass Spectrometry and Liquid Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry

MS is a powerful analytical technology that is used to identify unknown compounds, to quantify known materials and to elucidate the structural and chemical properties of molecules by measuring the masses
of individual molecules that have been converted into ions.

The Company believes it is a technology and market leader in the
development, manufacture, sale and distribution of MS instruments. These instruments are typically integrated and used along with other complementary analytical instruments and systems, such as LC, chemical electrophoresis, chemical electrophoresis
chromatography and gas chromatography. A wide variety of instrumental designs fall within the overall category of MS instrumentation, including devices that incorporate quadrupole, ion trap, time-of-flight (“Tof”), magnetic sector and ion
mobility technologies. Furthermore, these technologies are often used in tandem to maximize the efficacy of certain experiments.

Currently, the Company offers a wide range of MS instrument systems utilizing various combinations of quadrupole, Tof, ion mobility and magnetic sector designs. These instrument systems are used in drug
discovery and development, as well as for environmental, clinical and nutritional safety testing. The majority of mass spectrometers sold by the Company are designed to utilize an LC system as the sample introduction device. These products supply a
diverse market with a strong emphasis on the life science, pharmaceutical, biomedical, clinical, food and beverage and environmental market segments worldwide.

MS is an increasingly important detection technology for LC. The Company’s smaller-sized mass spectrometers, such as the single quadrupole detector (“SQD”) and the tandem quadrupole
detector (“TQD”), are often referred to as LC “detectors” and are typically sold as part of an LC system or as an LC system upgrade. In 2013, the Company introduced the ACQUITY QDa Detector, a compact and easy to operate mass
spectrometric module that further supports the broader usage of mass detection for routine LC applications. Larger quadrupole







systems, such as the Xevo®TQ and Xevo®TQ-S instruments, are used primarily for experiments performed for late-stage drug development, including clinical
trial testing. Quadrupole time-of-flight
(“Q-TofTM”) instruments, such as the
Company’s SYNAPT®G2-S, are often used to analyze the role of proteins in disease processes, an application
sometimes referred to as “proteomics”. In 2011, the Company introduced the SYNAPT®G2-S HDMS
instrument system. The SYNAPT G2-S incorporates both high sensitivity Waters StepWaveTMion transfer optics and Triwave®ion mobility technologies along
with a suite of new informatics tools to enhance qualitative and quantitative high resolution performance. In 2012, the Company introduced the Xevo®G2-S Q-TofTMand Xevo®G2-S Tof mass spectrometers, bringing StepWave ion
technology to its bench-top time-of-flight mass spectrometers. In 2013, the Company introduced the SYNAPT G2-Si, which combines the unique power of travelling wave (“T-WaveTM”) ion mobility separations with new data acquisition and informatics technologies, and collision cross-section
measurements.

LC and MS are typically embodied within an analytical system tailored for either a dedicated class of analyses
or as a general purpose analytical device. An increasing percentage of the Company’s customers are purchasing LC and MS components simultaneously and it has become common for LC and MS instrumentation to be used within the same laboratory and
operated by the same user. The descriptions of LC and MS above reflect the historical segmentation of these analytical technologies and the historical categorization of their respective practitioners. Increasingly in today’s instrument market,
this segmentation and categorization is becoming obsolete as a high percentage of instruments used in the laboratory embody both LC and MS technologies as part of a single device. In response to this development and to further promote the high
utilization of these hybrid instruments, the Company has organized its Waters Division to develop, manufacture, sell and service integrated LC-MS systems.

Based upon reports from independent marketing research firms and publicly-disclosed sales figures from competitors, the Company believes that it is one of the world’s largest manufacturers and
distributors of LC and LC-MS instrument systems, chromatography columns and other consumables and related services. The Company also believes that it has the leading combined LC and LC-MS market share in the United States, Europe and Asia (excluding
Japan), and believes it may have a market share position in Japan that ranks second to an established domestic supplier.

The Company has been a developer and supplier of software-based products that interface with the Company’s instruments, as well as other manufacturers’ instruments. The Company recently
introduced a new UNIFI®software platform. The UNIFI Scientific Information System is the culmination of a
multi-year effort to substantially bring all of Waters’ preexisting, disparate software systems under one operating system. UNIFI joins Waters’ suite of informatics products – Empower®, Chromatography Data Software,
MassLynx®Mass Spectrometry Software and NuGenesis®Scientific Data Management System, each of which is used daily to support innovations within world-leading institutions. UNIFI is the industry’s first
comprehensive software that seamlessly integrates UPLC chromatography, mass spectrometry, and informatics data workflows.

In
July 2012, the Company acquired Blue Reference, Inc. (“Blue Reference”), a U.S.-based developer and distributor of software products used for the real-time mining and analysis of multiple-application scientific databases, for $14 million
in cash. The Company has integrated the Blue Reference technology into software product platforms to further differentiate its offerings by providing customers with a more efficient scientific information assessment process, where there is an
ongoing need for immediacy and interactivity of multiple scientific databases.

In August 2013, the Company acquired Nonlinear
Dynamics Ltd. (“Nonlinear Dynamics”), a developer of proteomics and metabolomics software, for approximately $23 million in cash. Waters and Nonlinear Dynamics collaborated on the development of the Company’s TransOmics™
Informatics, a scalable solution for proteomics, metabolomics, and lipidomics analysis, which was introduced in 2012. The Company will integrate the Nonlinear Dynamics technology into current and future software product platforms.







Waters Division Service

Services provided by Waters enable customers to maximize technology productivity, support customer compliance activities and provide transparency into enterprise resource management efficiencies. The
customer benefits from improved budget control, data-driven technology adoption and accelerated workflow at a site or on a global perspective. The Company considers its service offerings to be highly differentiated from our competition, as evidenced
by the consistent increase in service revenues each year. Our principal competitors in the service market include PerkinElmer, Inc., Agilent Technologies, Inc., Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. and General Electric Company. These competitors can
provide services on Waters instruments to varying degrees and always present competitive risk.

The servicing and support of
instruments, software and accessories is an important source of revenue and represents over 25% of sales for the Waters Division. These revenues are derived primarily through the sale of support plans, demand services, spare parts, customer training
and performance validation services. Support plans typically involve scheduled instrument maintenance and an agreement to promptly repair a non-functioning instrument in return for a fee described in a contract that is priced according to the
configuration of the instrument.

TA Division

Thermal Analysis, Rheometry and Calorimetry

Thermal analysis measures the physical
characteristics of materials as a function of temperature. Changes in temperature affect several characteristics of materials, such as their physical state, weight, dimension and mechanical and electrical properties, which may be measured by one or
more thermal analysis techniques, including calorimetry. Consequently, thermal analysis techniques are widely used in the development, production and characterization of materials in various industries, such as plastics, chemicals, automobiles,
pharmaceuticals and electronics.

Rheometry instruments complement thermal analyzers in characterizing materials. Rheometry
characterizes the flow properties of materials and measures their viscosity, elasticity and deformation under different types of “loading” or other conditions. The information obtained under such conditions provides insight into a
material’s behavior during processing, packaging, transport, usage and storage.

Thermal analysis
and rheometry instruments are heavily used in material testing laboratories and, in many cases, provide information useful in predicting the suitability of fine chemicals, polymers and viscous liquids for various industrial, consumer goods and
healthcare products, as well as for life science research. As with systems offered through the Waters Division, a range of instrument configurations is available with increasing levels of sample handling and information processing automation. In
addition, systems and accompanying software packages can be tailored for specific applications. For example, the
Q-SeriesTMfamily of differential scanning calorimeters
includes a range of instruments, from basic dedicated analyzers to more expensive systems that can accommodate robotic sample handlers and a variety of sample cells and temperature control features for analyzing a broad range of materials. In 2011,
TA introduced the Discovery DSC, Discovery TGA and Discovery Hybrid Rheometer, which provide unmatched measurement performance in the fields of differential scanning calorimetry and rheometry.

In July 2011, the Company acquired the net assets of Anter Corporation (“Anter”), a manufacturer of thermal analyzers used to
measure thermal expansion and shrinkage, thermal conductivity and resistivity, thermal diffusivity and specific heat capacity of a wide range of materials, especially materials used in high temperature applications, for $11 million in cash. Anter
systems provide critical information to scientists that develop and characterize ceramics, metals and glasses for use in a wide range of industries, including electronics, energy and aerospace.







In January 2012, the Company acquired Baehr Thermoanalyse GmbH (“Baehr”), a German
manufacturer of a wide range of thermal analyzers, for $12 million in cash, including the assumption of $1 million of debt. Key products developed by Baehr include horizontal, optical and quenching dilatometer systems that measure thermal expansion
to high temperatures with high precision, high temperature viscometers, and high temperature TGA/DTA systems. Baehr systems provide critical information to researchers that develop materials for use in a wide range of industries, including
electronics, energy, automotive, and aerospace.

In July 2013, the Company acquired Scarabaeus Mess-und Prodktionstechnik GmbH
(“Scarabaeus”), a manufacturer of rheometers for the rubber and elastomer markets, for approximately $4 million in cash. Key products developed by Scarabaeus include a Mooney Viscometer, Moving Die Rheometer (MDR), Rubber Process Analyzer
(RPA) and automated density and hardness testers. The RPA includes many test features and analysis functions that are being used in the latest research and development efforts for rubber and materials technology.

In December 2013, the Company acquired Expert Systems Solutions S.r.l. (“ESS”), a manufacturer of advanced thermal analysis
instruments, for approximately $3 million in cash. ESS manufactures a variety of heating microscopes, optical dilatometers and optical fleximeters, with a particular focus on the ceramics industry.

In December 2013, the Company acquired the net assets of LaserComp Inc. (“LaserComp”), a manufacturer of thermal conductivity
measurement instruments, for approximately $12 million in cash. LaserComp’s FOX line of durable thermal conductivity test instruments is used by many of the world’s leading insulation manufacturers.

In January 2014, the Company acquired ULSP B.V. (“ULSP”), a manufacturer of solutions for ultra low temperature applications,
for approximately $3 million in cash. ULSP’s core business is the manufacturing and servicing of high quality low temperature coolers for thermal analysis and rheology applications.

TA Service

Similar to the Waters Division, the servicing and support of TA’s
instruments is an important source of revenue and represents approximately 25% of sales for the TA Division. TA sells, supports and services TA’s product offerings through its headquarters in New Castle, Delaware. TA operates independently from
the Waters Division, though most of its overseas offices are situated in Waters Division’s facilities to achieve operational efficiencies. TA has dedicated field sales and service operations. Service sales are primarily derived from the sale of
support plans, replacement parts and billed labor fees associated with the repair, maintenance and upgrade of installed systems.

Customers

The Company typically has a broad and diversified customer base that includes pharmaceutical accounts, other industrial accounts,
universities and governmental agencies. Purchase of the Company’s instrument systems is often dependent on its customers’ capital spending, or funding as in the cases of governmental, academic and research institutions, which often
fluctuate from year to year. The pharmaceutical segment represents the Company’s largest sector and includes multinational pharmaceutical companies, generic drug manufacturers, contract research organizations (CROs) and biotechnology companies.
The Company’s other industrial customers include chemical manufacturers, polymer manufacturers, food and beverage companies and environmental testing laboratories. The Company also sells to leading universities and governmental agencies
worldwide. The Company’s technical support staff works closely with its customers in developing and implementing applications that meet their full range of analytical requirements. During 2013, 52% of the Company’s sales were to
pharmaceutical accounts, 33% to other industrial accounts and 15% to governmental agencies and academic institutions.







The Company typically experiences an increase in sales in the fourth quarter, as a result of
purchasing habits for capital goods of many customers who tend to exhaust their spending budgets by calendar year end. The Company does not rely on any single customer for a material portion of its sales. During fiscal years 2013, 2012 and 2011, no
single customer accounted for more than 2% of the Company’s net sales.

Sales and Service

The Company has one of the largest direct sales and service organizations focused exclusively on the technologies offered by the Company. Across these
product technologies, using respective specialized sales and service forces, the Company serves its customer base with 93 sales offices throughout the world as of December 31, 2013 and approximately 3,000 field representatives in 2013, 2012 and
2011. This investment in sales and service personnel serves to maintain and expand the Company’s installed base of instruments. The Company’s sales representatives have direct responsibility for account relationships, while service
representatives work in the field to install instruments, train customers and minimize instrument downtime. In-house, technical support representatives work directly with customers, providing them assistance with applications and procedures on
Company products. The Company provides customers with comprehensive information through various corporate and regional internet websites and product literature, and also makes consumable products available through electronic ordering facilities and
a dedicated catalog.

Manufacturing and Distribution

The Company provides high product quality by overseeing each stage of the production of its instruments, columns and chemical reagents.

The Company currently assembles a portion of its LC instruments at its facility in Milford, Massachusetts, where it performs machining,
assembly and testing. The Milford facility maintains quality management and environmental management systems in accordance with the requirements of ISO 9001:2008, ISO 13485:2003 and ISO 14001:2004, and adheres to applicable regulatory requirements
(including the FDA Quality System Regulation and the European In-Vitro Diagnostic Directive). The Company outsources manufacturing of certain electronic components, such as computers, monitors and circuit boards, to outside vendors that can meet the
Company’s quality requirements. In addition, the Company outsources the manufacturing of certain LC instrument systems and components to well-established contract manufacturing firms in Singapore. The Company’s Singapore entity manages all
Asian outsourced manufacturing as well as the distribution of all products from Asia. The Company continues to pursue outsourcing opportunities as they may arise but believes it maintains adequate supply chain and manufacturing capabilities in the
event of disruption or natural disasters.

The Company manufactures certain SFC/SFE products in its facility in Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania. The Pittsburgh facility is aligned with the policies and procedures for product manufacturing and distribution as adhered to in the Milford, Massachusetts facility and is under the same structural leadership organization.

The Company primarily manufactures and distributes its LC columns at its facilities in Taunton, Massachusetts and
Wexford, Ireland, where it processes, sizes and treats silica and polymeric media that are packed into columns, solid phase extraction cartridges and bulk shipping containers. The Wexford facility also manufactures and distributes certain data,
instruments and software components for the Company’s LC, MS and TA product lines. The Company’s Taunton facility is certified to ISO 9001:2008. The Wexford facility is certified to ISO 9001:2008 and ISO 13485:2003. VICAM®manufactures antibody resin and magnetic beads that are packed into columns and kits in Milford, Massachusetts and
Nixa, Missouri. Environmental Resource Associates manufactures environmental proficiency kits in Golden, Colorado.

The
Company manufactures and distributes its MS products at its facilities in Cheshire, England, Manchester, England, Wilmslow, England and Wexford, Ireland. In early 2014, the Company completed the construction of its new facility in Wilmslow, England
and is in the process of consolidating and moving its Cheshire and Manchester facilities to this new location. Certain components or modules of the Company’s MS instruments are manufactured by long-standing outside contractors. Each stage of
this supply chain is closely







monitored by the Company to maintain high quality and performance standards. The instruments, components or modules are then returned to the Company’s facilities, where its engineers perform
final assembly, calibrations to customer specifications and quality control procedures. The Company’s MS facilities are certified to ISO 9001:2008 and ISO 13485:2003.

TA’s thermal analysis, rheometry and calorimetry products are manufactured and distributed at the Company’s New Castle, Delaware, Saugus, MA, Lindon, Utah, Huellhorst, Germany, Wetzlar, Germany
and Modena, Italy facilities. Similar to MS, elements of TA’s products are manufactured by outside contractors and are then returned to the Company’s facilities for final assembly, calibration and quality control. The Company’s New
Castle facility is certified to ISO 9001:2008 standards.

Raw Materials

The Company purchases a variety of raw materials, primarily consisting of high temperature alloy sheet metal and castings, forgings, pre-plated metals and electrical components from various vendors. The
materials used by the Company’s operations are generally available from a number of sources and in sufficient quantities to meet current requirements subject to normal lead times. The Company is subject to rules of the Securities and Exchange
Commission (“SEC”) under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, requiring disclosure as to whether certain materials (tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten), known as conflict minerals, which may be contained in the
Company’s products, are mined from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries. These rules are likely to impose additional costs and may introduce new risks related to the Company’s ability to verify the origin of any
conflict minerals contained in its products.

Research and Development

The Company maintains an active research and development program focused on the development and commercialization of products that both complement and update its existing product offering. The
Company’s research and development expenditures for 2013, 2012 and 2011 were $101 million, $96 million and $92 million, respectively. Nearly all of the Company’s current LC products are developed at the Company’s main
research and development center located in Milford, Massachusetts, with input and feedback from the Company’s extensive field organizations and customers. The majority of the Company’s MS products are developed at facilities in
England and most of the Company’s current materials characterization products are developed at the Company’s research and development center in New Castle, Delaware. At December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, there were 824, 777 and 741
employees, respectively, involved in the Company’s research and development efforts. The Company has increased research and development expenses from its continued commitment to invest significantly in new product development and existing
product enhancements, and as a result of acquisitions. Despite the Company’s active research and development programs, there can be no assurances that the Company’s product development and commercialization efforts will be successful or
that the products developed by the Company will be accepted by the marketplace.

Employees

The Company employed approximately 6,000, 5,900 and 5,700 employees at December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, with approximately 43% of the
Company’s employees located in the United States. The Company believes its employee relations are generally good. The Company’s employees are not unionized or affiliated with any internal or external labor organizations. The Company firmly
believes that its future success largely depends upon its continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees.

Competition

The analytical instrument systems, supplies and services market is highly competitive. The Company encounters competition from several
worldwide manufacturers and other companies in both domestic and foreign markets for each of its three primary technologies. The Company competes in its markets primarily on the basis of







product performance, reliability, service and, to a lesser extent, price. Competitors continuously introduce new products and have instrument businesses that are generally more diversified than
the Company’s business. Some competitors have greater financial resources and broader distribution than the Company’s.

In the markets served by the Waters Division, the Company’s principal competitors include: Agilent Technologies, Inc., Shimadzu Corporation, Bruker Corporation, Danaher Corporation and Thermo Fisher
Scientific Inc. In the markets served by the TA Division, the Company’s principal competitors include: PerkinElmer, Inc., Mettler-Toledo International Inc., NETZSCH-Geraetebau GmbH, Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., Malvern Instruments Ltd.,
Anton-Paar and General Electric Company.

The market for consumable LC products, including separation columns, is highly
competitive and generally more fragmented than the analytical instruments market. The Company encounters competition in the consumable columns market from chemical companies that produce column sorbents and small specialized companies that primarily
pack purchased sorbents into columns and subsequently package and distribute columns. The Company believes that it is one of the few suppliers that processes silica, packs columns and distributes its own products. The Company competes in this market
on the basis of reproducibility, reputation, performance and, to a lesser extent, price. The Company’s principal competitors for consumable products include: Phenomenex, Inc., Sigma Aldrich, Agilent Technologies, Inc., General Electric Company,
Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. and Merck and Co., Inc. The ACQUITY UPLC instrument is designed to offer a predictable level of performance when used with ACQUITY UPLC columns and the Company believes that the expansion of the ACQUITY UPLC instrument
base will enhance its chromatographic column business because of the high level of synergy between ACQUITY UPLC columns and the ACQUITY UPLC instruments.

Patents, Trademarks and Licenses

The Company owns a number of United States and foreign
patents and has patent applications pending in the United States and abroad. Certain technology and software has been acquired or is licensed from third parties. The Company also owns a number of trademarks. The Company’s patents,
trademarks and licenses are viewed as valuable assets to its operations. However, the Company believes that no one patent or group of patents, trademark or license is, in and of itself, essential to the Company such that its loss would materially
affect the Company’s business as a whole.

Environmental Matters and Climate Change

The Company is subject to federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances that (i) govern activities or operations that may have adverse
environmental effects, such as discharges to air and water as well as handling and disposal practices for solid and hazardous wastes, and (ii) impose liability for the costs of cleaning up and certain damages resulting from sites of past
spills, disposals or other releases of hazardous substances. The Company believes that it currently conducts its operations and has operated its business in the past in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws. From time to time,
Company operations have resulted or may result in noncompliance with environmental laws or liability for cleanup pursuant to environmental laws. The Company does not currently anticipate any material adverse effect on its operations, financial
condition or competitive position as a result of its efforts to comply with environmental laws.

The Company is sensitive to
the growing global debate with respect to climate change. An internal sustainability working group develops increasingly robust data with respect to the Company’s utilization of carbon producing substances in an effort to continuously reduce
the Company’s carbon footprint. In 2012, the Company published a sustainability report identifying the various actions and behaviors the Company has adopted concerning its commitment to both the environment and the broader topic of social
responsibility. See Item 1A, Risk Factors –The effects of climate change could harm the Company’s business, for more information on the potential significance of climate change legislation. See also Note 15 in the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for financial information about geographic areas.







Available Information

The Company files or furnishes all required reports with the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials the Company files or furnishes with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F
Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.

The Company is an electronic filer and the SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.
The address of the SEC electronic filing website ishttp://www.sec.gov. The Company also makes available, free of charge on its website, its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on
Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The website address for Waters Corporation ishttp://www.waters.comand SEC filings
can be found under the caption “Investors”.

Forward-Looking Statements

Many of these statements appear, in particular, under the heading “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of this
Form 10-K. Statements that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed forward-looking statements. You can identify these forward-looking statements by the use of the words “feels”, “believes”, “anticipates”,
“plans”, “expects”, “may”, “will”, “would”, “intends”, “suggests”, “appears”, “estimates”, “projects”, “should” and similar expressions,
whether in the negative or affirmative. These statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside the control of the Company, including, and without limitation:



•The risks inherent in succession planning, as the Company’s chief executive officer has announced his intention to retire by the end of 2015 and
the Company’s former chief financial officer has transitioned to a reduced workload and resigned as the Company’s chief financial officer as of February 1, 2014.



•Current global economic, sovereign and political conditions and uncertainties, particularly regarding the European debt crisis and the overall
stability of the Euro and its suitability as a single currency; the Company’s ability to access capital and maintain liquidity in volatile market conditions of customers; changes in timing and demand by the Company’s customers and various
market sectors, particularly if they should reduce capital expenditures or are unable to obtain funding, as in the cases of governmental, academic and research institutions; the effect of mergers and acquisitions on customer demand; and the
Company’s ability to sustain and enhance service.







•Negative industry trends; introduction of competing products by other companies and loss of market share; pressures on prices from customers or
resulting from competition; regulatory, economic and competitive obstacles to new product introductions; lack of acceptance of new products; expansion of our business in developing markets; spending by certain end-markets and ability to obtain
alternative sources for components and modules.



•Foreign exchange rate fluctuations that could adversely affect translation of the Company’s future sales, financial operating results and the
condition of its non-U.S. operations, especially when a currency weakens against the U.S. dollar.



•Increased regulatory burdens as the Company’s business evolves, especially with respect to the FDA and EPA, among others, as well as regulatory,
environmental and logistical obstacles affecting the distribution of the Company’s products, completion of purchase order documentation by our customers and ability of customers to obtain letters of credit or other financing alternatives.



•Risks associated with lawsuits, particularly involving claims for infringement of patents and other intellectual property rights.



•The impact and costs incurred from changes in accounting principles and practices or tax rates; shifts in taxable income in jurisdictions with
different effective tax rates; and the outcome of and costs associated with ongoing and future tax audit examinations or changes in respective country legislation affecting the Company’s effective rates.

Certain of these and other factors are further described below in Item 1A, Risk Factors, of this Form 10-K. Actual results or events
could differ materially from the plans, intentions and expectations disclosed in the forward-looking statements, whether because of these factors or for other reasons. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this annual report on
Form 10-K and are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements included in this report. The Company does not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements.



