Item 1:Business

General

Waters Corporation (“Waters®” or the “Company”) is an analytical instrument manufacturer that primarily designs, manufactures, sells and services, through its Waters Division, high
performance liquid chromatography (“HPLC”), ultra performance liquid chromatography (“UPLC®”
and together with HPLC, referred to as “LC”) and mass spectrometry (“MS”) technology systems and support products, including chromatography columns, other consumable products and comprehensive post-warranty service plans. These
systems are complementary products that are frequently employed together (“LC-MS”) and sold as integrated instrument systems using a common software platform. Through its TA Division (“TA®”), the Company primarily designs, manufactures, sells and services thermal analysis, rheometry and calorimetry
instruments. The Company is also a developer and supplier of software-based products that interface with the Company’s instruments, as well as other suppliers’ instruments, and are typically purchased by customers as part of the instrument
system.

The Company’s products are used by life science (including pharmaceutical), biochemical, industrial, nutritional
safety, environmental, academic and governmental customers working in research and development, quality assurance and other laboratory applications. The Company’s LC and LC-MS instruments are utilized in this broad range of industries to
detect, identify, monitor and measure the chemical, physical and biological composition of materials, and to purify a full range of compounds. These instruments are used in drug discovery and development, including clinical trial testing, the
analysis of proteins in disease processes (known as “proteomics”), nutritional safety analysis and environmental testing. LC-MS instruments combine a liquid phase sample introduction and separation system with mass spectrometric compound
identification and quantification. The Company’s thermal analysis, rheometry and calorimetry instruments are used in predicting the suitability and stability of fine chemicals, pharmaceuticals, water, polymers, metals and viscous liquids in
various industrial, consumer goods and healthcare products, as well as for life science research.

Waters, organized as a Delaware corporation in 1991, is a holding company that owns all of the outstanding common
stock of Waters Technologies Corporation, its operating subsidiary. Waters became a publicly-traded company with its initial public offering (“IPO”) in November 1995. Since the IPO, the Company has added two significant and complementary
technologies to its range of products with the acquisitions of TA Instruments in May 1996 and Micromass Limited
(“Micromass®”) in September 1997.

Business Segments

The Company’s business activities, for which discrete financial
information is available, are regularly reviewed and evaluated by the chief operating decision maker. As a result of this evaluation, the Company determined that it has two operating segments: Waters Division and TA Division. The Company operates in
the analytical instruments industry by designing, manufacturing, distributing and servicing instrument systems, columns and other chemistry consumables that can be integrated and used along with other analytical instruments. The Company’s two
operating segments, Waters Division and TA Division, have similar economic characteristics; product processes; products and services; types and classes of customers; methods of distribution and regulatory environments. Because of these similarities,
the two operating segments have been aggregated into one reporting segment for financial statement purposes.

Information
concerning revenues and long-lived assets attributable to each of the Company’s products, services and geographic areas is set forth in Note 15 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated herein by
reference.







Waters Division

High Performance and Ultra Performance Liquid Chromatography

HPLC is a standard
technique used to identify and analyze the constituent components of a variety of chemicals and other materials. The Company believes that HPLC’s performance capabilities enable it to separate and identify approximately 80% of all known
chemicals and materials. As a result, HPLC is used to analyze substances in a wide variety of industries for research and development purposes, quality control and process engineering applications.

The most significant end-use markets for HPLC are those served by life science industries (including pharmaceuticals). In these markets,
HPLC is used extensively to understand diseases, identify new drugs, develop manufacturing methods and assure the potency and purity of new pharmaceuticals. HPLC is also used in a variety of other applications, such as analyses of foods and
beverages for nutritional labeling and compliance with safety regulations, the testing of water and air purity within the environmental testing industry, as well as applications in other industries, such as chemical and consumer products. HPLC is
also used by universities, research institutions and governmental agencies, such as the United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) and their foreign
counterparts that mandate testing requiring HPLC instrumentation.

In 2004, Waters introduced a
novel technology that the Company describes as ultra performance liquid chromatography that utilizes a packing material with small, uniform diameter particles and a specialized instrument, the ACQUITY UPLC®, to accommodate the increased pressure and narrow chromatographic bands that are generated by these small particles.
By using the ACQUITY UPLC, researchers and analysts are able to achieve more comprehensive chemical separations and faster analysis times in comparison with many analyses performed by HPLC. In addition, in using ACQUITY UPLC, researchers have the
potential to extend the range of applications beyond that of HPLC, enabling them to uncover more levels of scientific information. While offering significant performance advantages, ACQUITY UPLC is also compatible with the Company’s software
products and the general operating protocols of HPLC. For these reasons, the Company’s customers and field sales and support organizations are well positioned to utilize this new technology and instrument. In 2012, the Company introduced
UltraPerformance Convergence Chromatography

TM

(“UPC2®”) with the release of the ACQUITY®UPC2®system. This new
technology marries the unrealized potential of supercritical fluid chromatography (“SFC”) with the proven UPLC technology, using carbon dioxide as the primary mobile phase. By varying mobile phase strength, pressure, temperature and
stationary phase with UPC


, a user can separate, detect
and quantify structural analogs, isomers, enantiomeric and diasteriomeric mixtures – all compounds or samples that challenge today’s laboratories. In 2013, the Company introduced the
ACQUITY®Advanced Polymer Chromatography®(“APC

TM

”) system. This system delivers improved polymer peak resolution, particularly for low molecular weight polymers and oligomers, up to 20 times faster than traditional gel permeation chromatography.
In 2013, the Company introduced the ACQUITY®QDa®Detector, a compact and easy to operate single quadrupole mass spectrometric module that further supports the broader usage of mass detectors in a form similar to
that of the broadly used optical detectors that are routinely used for LC applications. The control and data output of the QDa is compatible with Waters’ most commonly used instrument configurations and the QDa is uniquely positioned to offer
mass detection to the large and well established markets for HPLC and UPLC systems. In 2014, the Company introduced the ACQUITY
UPLC®M-Class instrument system. This system delivers the sensitivity to quantify and identify vanishingly small
concentrations of key molecules, particularly when used with mass spectrometric detection. The innovations incorporated into the ACQUITY UPLC M-Class system are led by its internal low-volume design and newly redesigned fluidics that minimize
dispersive and adsorptive losses during a chromatographic separation. In 2015, the Company introduced the
ACQUITY®Arc System and its enabling Arc Multi-flow
path

TM

technology, which bridges the gap between HPLC and
UPLC by emulating a variety of HPLC systems without altering the method’s gradient table and enabling improved chromatographic performance of methods by leveraging 2.5-2.7 micron particle column technologies.







Waters manufactures LC instruments that are offered in configurations that allow for varying
degrees of automation, from component configured systems for academic teaching and research applications to fully automated systems for regulated testing, and that have a variety of detection technologies, from ultra-violet (“UV”)
absorbance to MS, optimized for certain analyses. The Company also manufactures tailored LC systems for the analysis of biologics, as well as an LC detector utilizing evaporative light scattering technology to expand the usage of LC to compounds
that are not amenable to UV absorbance detection.

The primary consumable products for LC are chromatography columns. These
columns are packed with separation media used in the LC testing process and are typically replaced at regular intervals. The chromatography column contains one of several types of packing material, typically stationary phase particles made from
silica. As the sample permeates through the column, it is separated into its constituent components.

Waters HPLC columns can be used on Waters-branded and competitors’ LC systems. The Company believes that it is
one of a few suppliers in the world that processes silica, packs columns and distributes its own products. In doing so, the Company believes it can better ensure product consistency, a key attribute for its customers in quality control laboratories,
and can react quickly to new customer requirements. The Company believes that its ACQUITY UPLC lines of columns are used primarily on its ACQUITY UPLC instrument systems and, furthermore, that its ACQUITY UPLC instruments primarily use ACQUITY UPLC
columns. In 2013, the Company introduced the CORTECS®family of 1.6 micron solid-core silica-based UPLC columns
to further extend the application range and performance of its UPLC offerings. In 2014, the Company expanded its CORTECS family with a new line of 2.7 micron silica-based, solid-core particle columns for usage on UPLC, as well as HPLC systems. In
addition, the Company introduced size exclusion chromatography columns for the characterization of proteins and ACQUITY
UPC


columns for chiral and achiral separations. In 2015,
the Company introduced the Oasis®PRiME HLB cartridges, which process samples up to 40% faster and deliver
samples that are up to 70% cleaner with fewer LC-MS matrix effects than samples prepared using other extraction techniques. In addition, the ACQUITY UPLC®Glycoprotein BEH Amide columns were introduced in 2015 to help biopharmaceutical companies to better understand where glycan groups (bonded sugars) are located within
the therapeutic proteins they are developing and manufacturing.

The Company’s chemistry consumable
products also include environmental and nutritional safety testing products. Environmental laboratories use these products for quality control and proficiency testing and also purchase product support services required to help with their federal and
state mandated accreditation requirements or with quality control over critical pharmaceutical analysis. For example, the Company provides tests to identify and quantify mycotoxins (fungal biological contaminants) in various agricultural
commodities. These test kits provide reliable, quantitative detection of particular mycotoxins through the choice of fluorimetry, HPLC or LC-MS. In 2014, the Company introduced the Afla-V®AQUA test strips for detecting aflatoxins in grain and received USDA-GIPSA certification for its Afla-V®lateral flow strip tests for the quantitative analysis of total aflatoxins in corn.

Mass Spectrometry and Liquid Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry

MS is a powerful
analytical technology that is used to identify unknown compounds, to quantify known materials and to elucidate the structural and chemical properties of molecules by measuring the masses of molecules that have been converted into ions.

The Company believes it is a technology and market leader in the development, manufacture, sale and distribution of MS instruments. These
instruments are typically integrated and used along with other complementary analytical instruments and systems, such as LC, chemical electrophoresis, chemical electrophoresis chromatography and gas chromatography. A wide variety of instrumental
designs fall within the overall category of MS instrumentation, including devices that incorporate quadrupole, ion trap, time-of-flight (“Tof”), magnetic sector and ion mobility technologies. Furthermore, these technologies are often used
in tandem to maximize the speed and/or efficacy of certain experiments.







Currently, the Company offers a wide range of MS instrument systems utilizing various
combinations of quadrupole, Tof and ion mobility designs. These instrument systems are used in drug discovery and development, as well as for environmental, clinical and nutritional safety testing. The majority of mass spectrometers sold by the
Company are designed to utilize an LC system and a liquid compatible interface (such as an electrospray ionization source) as the sample introduction device. These products supply a diverse market with a strong emphasis on the life science,
pharmaceutical, biomedical, clinical, food and beverage and environmental market segments worldwide.

MS
is an increasingly important detection technology for LC. The Company’s smaller-sized mass spectrometers, such as the single quadrupole detector (“SQD”) and the tandem quadrupole detector (“TQD”), are often referred to as LC
“detectors” and are typically sold as part of an LC system or as an LC system upgrade. Larger quadrupole systems, such as the Xevo®TQ and Xevo®TQ-S
instruments, are used primarily for experiments performed for late-stage drug development, including clinical trial testing. Quadrupole time-of-flight (“Q-Tof

TM

”) instruments, such as the Company’s SYNAPT®G2-S, are often used to analyze the role of proteins in disease processes, an application sometimes referred to as “proteomics”. In 2013, the Company
introduced the SYNAPT®G2-Si, which combines the unique power of travelling wave (“T-Wave

TM

”) ion mobility separations with new data acquisition and
informatics technologies, and collision cross-section measurements. In 2014, the Company introduced the
ionKey/MS

TM

system, Xevo®G2-XS and Xevo®TQ-S micro. The ionKey/MS system physically integrates a UPLC separation into the mass spectrometer, producing a significant improvement in sensitivity with reduced
solvent and sample sizes. The Xevo G2-XS mass spectrometer combines the new XS Collision Cell with the signature technologies of Tof-MRM, StepWave

TM

and QuanTof

TM

. The Xevo TQ-S micro is a more compact, research-grade instrument designed to acquire sensitive, robust and dependable
data at accelerated rates of acquisition. In 2015, the Company introduced the GlycoWorks

TM

RapiFluor-MS

TM

N-Glycan Kit, which enables fast de-glycosylation and labeling, reduces sample preparation time and allows mass detection for characterization and development with enhanced sensitivity. In addition, the
Company introduced the Vion

TM

IMS Q-Tof Mass Spectrometer,
which is a bench-top tandem mass spectrometer featuring ion mobility and Rapid Evaporative Ionization Mass Spectrometry (“REIMS

TM

”) Research System with iKnife

TM

sampling to combine direct-from-sample ionization with high performance time-of-flight mass spectrometry.

In July 2014, the Company acquired the net assets of Medimass Research, Development and Service Kft. (“Medimass”), a developer
of mass spectrometry-related technologies with the potential to be used for a variety of applications, for $23 million in cash. In addition, the Company potentially has to pay additional contingent consideration, which had an estimated fair value of
$3 million as of the closing date. The net assets acquired consist primarily of the REIMS technology, including patent applications, software, databases and REIMS expertise. REIMS is an ambient pressure surface ionization technique that, when used
with mass spectrometry, can characterize the molecular topography of complex surfaces, such as cellular membranes.

In
November 2015, the Company acquired all of the outstanding stock of MPE Orbur Group Limited and its sole operating subsidiary, Midland Precision Equipment Company, Ltd. (“MPE”), a manufacturer of MS instrumentation components, for $12
million, net of cash acquired. MPE is a highly skilled manufacturer and former Waters supplier that produces critical components that support the Company’s MS instrument systems.

LC and MS are typically embodied within an analytical system tailored for either a dedicated class of analyses or as a general purpose
analytical device. An increasing percentage of the Company’s customers are purchasing LC and MS components simultaneously and it has become common for LC and MS instrumentation to be used within the same laboratory and operated by the same
user. The descriptions of LC and MS above reflect the historical segmentation of these analytical technologies and the historical categorization of their respective practitioners. Increasingly in today’s instrument market, this segmentation and
categorization is becoming obsolete as a high percentage of instruments used in the laboratory embody both LC and MS technologies as part of a single device. In response to this development and to further promote the high utilization of these hybrid
instruments, the Company has organized its Waters Division to develop, manufacture, sell and service integrated LC-MS systems.







Based upon reports from independent marketing research firms and publicly-disclosed sales
figures from competitors, the Company believes that it is one of the world’s largest manufacturers and distributors of LC and LC-MS instrument systems, chromatography columns and other consumables and related services. The Company also believes
that it has the leading combined LC and LC-MS market share in the United States, Europe and Asia (excluding Japan), and believes it may have a market share position in Japan that ranks second to an established domestic supplier.

The Company has been a developer and supplier of software-based products that interface with the Company’s
instruments, as well as other suppliers’ instruments. The Company’s newest software platform, UNIFI®,
is a scientific information system that is the culmination of a multi-year effort to substantially bring all of Waters’ preexisting, distinct software systems under one operating system. UNIFI joins Waters’ suite of informatics products
– Empower®Chromatography Data Software, MassLynx®Mass Spectrometry Software and
NuGenesis®Scientific Data Management System, each of which is used to support innovations within world-leading
institutions. UNIFI is the industry’s first comprehensive software that seamlessly integrates UPLC chromatography, mass spectrometry and informatics data workflows. In 2014, the Company introduced three new UNIFI-based instrument systems and
now offers a total of eight UNIFI-based solutions. In 2015, the Company’s introduction of the Vion IMS Q-Tof Mass Spectrometer marks the first Waters mass spectrometer to be fully supported on UNIFI.

In August 2013, the Company acquired Nonlinear Dynamics Ltd. (“Nonlinear Dynamics”), a developer of
proteomics and metabolomics software, for $23 million in cash. Waters and Nonlinear Dynamics collaborated on the development of the Company’s TransOmics™ Informatics, a scalable solution for proteomics, metabolomics, and lipidomics
analysis, which was introduced in 2012. In 2014, the Company introduced Progenesis®QI and Progenesis®QI for Proteomics.

Waters Division Service

Services provided by Waters enable customers to maximize
technology productivity, support customer compliance activities and provide transparency into enterprise resource management efficiencies. The customer benefits from improved budget control, data-driven technology adoption and accelerated workflow
at a site or on a global perspective. The Company considers its service offerings to be highly differentiated from our competition, as evidenced by a consistent increase in service revenues each year. Our principal competitors in the service market
include PerkinElmer, Inc., Agilent Technologies, Inc., Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. and General Electric Company. These competitors can provide services on Waters instruments to varying degrees and always present competitive risk.

The servicing and support of instruments, software and accessories is an important source of revenue and represents over 30% of sales for
the Waters Division. These revenues are derived primarily through the sale of support plans, demand services, spare parts, customer training and performance validation services. Support plans typically involve scheduled instrument maintenance and an
agreement to promptly repair a non-functioning instrument in return for a fee described in a contract that is priced according to the configuration of the instrument.

TA Division

Thermal Analysis, Rheometry and Calorimetry

Thermal analysis measures the physical characteristics of materials as a function of temperature. Changes in temperature affect several characteristics of
materials, such as their physical state, weight, dimension and mechanical and electrical properties, which may be measured by one or more thermal analysis techniques, including calorimetry. Consequently, thermal analysis techniques are widely used
in the development, production and characterization of materials in various industries, such as plastics, chemicals, automobiles, pharmaceuticals and electronics.







Rheometry instruments complement thermal analyzers in characterizing materials. Rheometry
characterizes the flow properties of materials and measures their viscosity, elasticity and deformation under different types of “loading” or other conditions. The information obtained under such conditions provides insight into a
material’s behavior during processing, packaging, transport, usage and storage.

Thermal analysis,
rheometry and calorimetry instruments are heavily used in material testing laboratories and, in many cases, provide information useful in predicting the suitability and stability of fine chemicals, pharmaceuticals, water, polymers, metals and
viscous liquids in various industrial, consumer goods and healthcare products, as well as for life science research. As with systems offered through the Waters Division, a range of instrument configurations is available with increasing levels of
sample handling and information processing automation. In addition, systems and accompanying software packages can be tailored for specific applications. For example, the Q-Series

TM

family of differential scanning calorimeters has included a range of instruments, from basic dedicated analyzers to
more expensive systems that can accommodate robotic sample handlers and a variety of sample cells and temperature control features for analyzing a broad range of materials. In 2011, TA introduced the Discovery DSC, Discovery TGA and Discovery Hybrid
Rheometer, which provide leading measurement performance in the fields of differential scanning calorimetry and rheometry. In 2015, TA introduced the TAM IV and TAM IV-48, which extend the operating temperature range (4°C to 150°C) with
long-term temperature stability for measuring processes. In 2015, TA also introduced the Affinity ITC and ITC Auto, which are designed for the most challenging life science laboratory environments that require high sensitivity, high productivity and
the most advanced isothermal titration calorimetry.

In July 2013, the Company acquired Scarabaeus Mess-und Prodktionstechnik
GmbH (“Scarabaeus”), a manufacturer of rheometers for the rubber and elastomer markets, for $4 million in cash. Key products developed by Scarabaeus include a Mooney Viscometer, Moving Die Rheometer (MDR), Rubber Process Analyzer (RPA) and
automated density and hardness testers. The RPA includes many test features and analysis functions that are being used in the latest research and development efforts for rubber and related materials technology.

In December 2013, the Company acquired Expert Systems Solutions S.r.l. (“ESS”), a manufacturer of advanced thermal analysis
instruments, for $3 million in cash. ESS manufactures a variety of heating microscopes, optical dilatometers and optical fleximeters, with a particular focus on the ceramics industry.

In December 2013, the Company acquired the net assets of LaserComp Inc. (“LaserComp”), a manufacturer of thermal conductivity
measurement instruments, for $12 million in cash. LaserComp’s FOX line of durable thermal conductivity test instruments is used by many of the world’s leading thermal insulation manufacturers.

In January 2014, the Company acquired ULSP B.V. (“ULSP”), a manufacturer of instrumentation components that enable ultra low
temperature generation, for $4 million in cash. ULSP’s core business is the manufacturing and servicing of high quality low temperature coolers for thermal analysis and rheology applications, and these products are important accessories for
many TA core instrument offerings. In 2014, TA introduced the new Air Chiller System, ACS-3, which is equipped with a three-stage cascading compressor design, enabling testing to temperatures as low as -100°C, a capability that the Company
believes competing systems do not possess.

In May 2015, the Company acquired the net assets of the
ElectroForce®business of the Bose Corporation (“ElectroForce”), a manufacturer of testing systems,
for $9 million in cash. ElectroForce’s core business is the manufacturing of dynamic mechanical testing systems used to characterize medical devices, biologic and engineered materials. The ElectroForce test instruments are based on unique motor
designs that are quiet, energy-efficient, scalable and deliver precise performance over a wide range of force and frequency.

TA
Division Service

Similar to the Waters Division, the servicing and support of TA’s instruments is an important source of revenue
and represents more than 25% of sales for the TA Division. TA sells, supports and services TA’s product







offerings through its headquarters in New Castle, Delaware. TA operates independently from the Waters Division, though many of its overseas offices are situated in Waters Division’s
facilities to achieve operational efficiencies. TA has dedicated field sales and service operations. Service sales are primarily derived from the sale of support plans, replacement parts and billed labor fees associated with the repair, maintenance
and upgrade of installed systems.

Customers

The Company typically has a broad and diversified customer base that includes pharmaceutical accounts, other industrial accounts, universities and governmental agencies. Purchase of the Company’s
instrument systems is often dependent on its customers’ capital spending, or funding as in the cases of governmental, academic and research institutions, which often fluctuate from year to year. The pharmaceutical segment represents the
Company’s largest sector and includes multinational pharmaceutical companies, generic drug manufacturers, contract research organizations (CROs) and biotechnology companies. The Company’s other industrial customers include chemical
manufacturers, polymer manufacturers, food and beverage companies and environmental testing laboratories. The Company also sells to universities and governmental agencies worldwide. The Company’s technical sales and support staff members work
closely with its customers in developing and implementing applications that meet their full range of analytical requirements. During 2015, 54% of the Company’s sales were to pharmaceutical accounts, 32% to other industrial accounts and 14% to
governmental agencies and academic institutions.

The Company typically experiences an increase in sales in the fourth
quarter, as a result of purchasing habits for capital goods of many customers who tend to exhaust their spending budgets by calendar year end. The Company does not rely on any single customer for a material portion of its sales. During fiscal years
2015, 2014 and 2013, no single customer accounted for more than 2% of the Company’s net sales.

Sales and Service

The Company has one of the largest direct sales and service organizations focused exclusively on the technologies offered by the Company. Across these
product technologies, using respective specialized sales and service workforces, the Company serves its customer base with 94 sales offices throughout the world as of December 31, 2015 and approximately 3,400, 3,100 and 3,000 field
representatives in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. This investment in sales and service personnel serves to maintain and expand the Company’s installed base of instruments. The Company’s sales representatives have direct responsibility
for account relationships, while service representatives work in the field to install instruments, train customers and minimize instrument downtime. In-house and field-based technical support representatives work directly with customers, providing
them assistance with applications and procedures on Company products. The Company provides customers with comprehensive information through various corporate and regional internet websites and product literature, and also makes consumable products
available through electronic ordering facilities and a dedicated catalog.

Manufacturing and Distribution

The Company provides high product quality by overseeing each stage of the production of its instruments, columns and chemical reagents.

The Company currently assembles a portion of its LC instruments at its facility in Milford, Massachusetts, where it performs machining,
assembly and testing. The Milford facility maintains quality management and environmental management systems in accordance with the requirements of ISO 9001:2008, ISO 13485:2003 and ISO 14001:2004, and adheres to applicable regulatory requirements
(including the FDA Quality System Regulation and the European In-Vitro Diagnostic Directive). The Company outsources manufacturing of certain electronic components, such as computers, monitors and circuit boards, to outside vendors that meet the







Company’s quality requirements. In addition, the Company outsources the manufacturing of certain LC instrument systems and components to well-established contract manufacturing firms in
Singapore. The Company’s Singapore entity manages all Asian outsourced manufacturing as well as the distribution of all products from Asia. The Company continues to pursue outsourcing opportunities as they may arise but believes it maintains
adequate supply chain and manufacturing capabilities in the event of disruption or natural disasters.

The Company
manufactures certain SFC/SFE products in its facility in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The Pittsburgh facility is aligned with the policies and procedures for product manufacturing and distribution as adhered to in the Milford, Massachusetts facility
and is under the same structural leadership organization.

The Company primarily manufactures and
distributes its LC columns at its facilities in Taunton, Massachusetts and Wexford, Ireland, where it processes, sizes and treats silica and polymeric media that are packed into columns, solid phase extraction cartridges and bulk shipping
containers. The Wexford facility also manufactures and distributes certain data, instruments and software components for the Company’s LC, MS and TA product lines. The Company’s Taunton facility is certified to ISO 9001:2008. The Wexford
facility is certified to ISO 9001:2008 and ISO 13485:2003. VICAM®manufactures antibody resin and magnetic beads
that are packed into columns and kits in Milford, Massachusetts and Nixa, Missouri. Environmental Resource Associates manufactures environmental proficiency kits in Golden, Colorado.

The Company manufactures and distributes its MS products at its facilities in Wilmslow, England and Wexford, Ireland. Certain components
or modules of the Company’s MS instruments are manufactured at its facility in Solihull, England and by long-standing outside contractors. Each stage of this supply chain is closely monitored by the Company to maintain high quality and
performance standards. The instruments, components or modules are then returned to the Company’s facilities, where its engineers perform final assembly, calibrations to customer specifications and quality control procedures. The Company’s
MS facilities are certified to ISO 9001:2008 and ISO 13485:2003.

TA’s thermal analysis, rheometry and calorimetry
products are manufactured and distributed at the Company’s New Castle, Delaware, Wakefield, Massachusetts, Eden Prairie, Minnesota, Lindon, Utah, Huellhorst, Germany, Wetzlar, Germany, Modena, Italy and Ede, Netherlands facilities. Similar to
MS, elements of TA’s products are manufactured by outside contractors and are then returned to the Company’s facilities for final assembly, calibration and quality control. The Company’s New Castle facility is certified to ISO
9001:2008 standards.

Raw Materials

The Company purchases a variety of raw materials, primarily consisting of high temperature alloy sheet metal and castings, forgings, pre-plated metals and electrical components from various vendors. The
materials used by the Company’s operations are generally available from a number of sources and in sufficient quantities to meet current requirements subject to normal lead times. The Company is subject to rules of the Securities and Exchange
Commission (“SEC”) under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, requiring disclosure as to whether certain materials (tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten), known as conflict minerals, which may be contained in the
Company’s products, are mined from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries. In 2014, the Company was not able to determine with certainty the country of origin of some of the conflict minerals in its manufactured products.
However, the Company does not have knowledge that any of its conflict minerals originated from the Democratic Republic of the Congo or adjoining countries. The Company is in the process of evaluating its 2015 supply chain, and the Company plans to
file its 2015 Form SD with the SEC in May 2016. The results of this and future evaluations may impose additional costs and may introduce new risks related to the Company’s ability to verify the origin of any conflict minerals contained in its
products.







Research and Development

The Company maintains an active research and development program focused on the development and commercialization of products that extend, complement and update its existing product offering. The
Company’s research and development expenditures for 2015, 2014 and 2013 were $119 million, $108 million and $101 million, respectively. In addition, in 2015 and 2014, the Company incurred charges of $4 million and
$15 million, respectively, for acquired in-process research and development related to the licensing of certain intellectual property relating to mass spectrometry technologies yet to be commercialized and for which there was no future
alternative use as of the acquisition date. These licensing arrangements are significantly related to new, biologically-focused applications, as well as other applications, and require the Company to make additional future payments of up to $12
million if certain milestones are achieved, as well as royalties on future net sales.

Nearly all of the Company’s LC
products have been developed at the Company’s main research and development center located in Milford, Massachusetts, with input and feedback from the Company’s extensive field organizations and customers. The majority of the
Company’s MS products are developed at facilities in England and most of the Company’s current materials characterization products are developed at the Company’s research and development center in New Castle, Delaware. At
December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, there were 955, 875 and 824 employees, respectively, involved in the Company’s research and development efforts. The Company has increased research and development expenses from its continued commitment to
invest significantly in new product development and existing product enhancements, and as a result of acquisitions. Despite the Company’s active research and development programs, there can be no assurance that the Company’s product
development and commercialization efforts will be successful or that the products developed by the Company will be accepted by the marketplace.

Employees

The Company employed
approximately 6,600, 6,200 and 6,000 employees at December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, with approximately 42% of the Company’s employees located in the United States. The Company believes its employee relations are generally
good. The Company’s employees are not unionized or affiliated with any internal or external labor organizations. The Company firmly believes that its future success largely depends upon its continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled
employees.

Competition

The
analytical instrument systems, supplies and services market is highly competitive. The Company encounters competition from several worldwide suppliers and other companies in both domestic and foreign markets for each of its three primary
technologies. The Company competes in its markets primarily on the basis of product performance, reliability, service and, to a lesser extent, price. Competitors continuously introduce new products and have instrument businesses that are generally
more diversified than the Company’s business. Some competitors have greater financial resources and broader distribution than the Company’s.

In the markets served by the Waters Division, the Company’s principal competitors include: Agilent Technologies, Inc., Shimadzu Corporation, Bruker Corporation, Danaher Corporation and Thermo Fisher
Scientific Inc. In the markets served by the TA Division, the Company’s principal competitors include: PerkinElmer, Inc., Mettler-Toledo International Inc., NETZSCH-Geraetebau GmbH, Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., Malvern Instruments Ltd. and
Anton-Paar GmbH.

The market for consumable LC products, including separation columns, is highly competitive and generally
more fragmented than the analytical instruments market. The Company encounters competition in the consumable columns market from chemical companies that produce column sorbents and small specialized companies that primarily pack purchased sorbents
into columns and subsequently package and distribute







columns. The Company believes that it is one of the few suppliers that processes silica, packs columns and distributes its own products. The Company competes in this market on the basis of
performance, reproducibility, reputation and, to a lesser extent, price. In recent years, the Company’s principal competitors for consumable products have included: Phenomenex, Inc., Sigma-Aldrich Corporation, Agilent Technologies, Inc.,
General Electric Company, Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. and Merck and Co., Inc. The ACQUITY UPLC instrument is designed to offer a predictable level of performance when used with ACQUITY UPLC columns and the Company believes that the expansion of
the ACQUITY UPLC instrument base will enhance its chromatographic column business because of the high level of synergy between ACQUITY UPLC columns and the ACQUITY UPLC instruments.

Patents, Trademarks and Licenses

The Company owns a number of United States and foreign
patents and has patent applications pending in the United States and abroad. Certain technology and software has been acquired or is licensed from third parties. The Company also owns a number of trademarks. The Company’s patents,
trademarks and licenses are viewed as valuable assets to its operations. However, the Company believes that no one patent or group of patents, trademark or license is, in and of itself, essential to the Company such that its loss would materially
affect the Company’s business as a whole.

Environmental Matters and Climate Change

The Company is subject to federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances that (i) govern activities or operations that may have adverse
environmental effects, such as discharges to air and water as well as handling and disposal practices for solid and hazardous wastes, and (ii) impose liability for the costs of cleaning up and certain damages resulting from sites of past
spills, disposals or other releases of hazardous substances. The Company believes that it currently conducts its operations and has operated its business in the past in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws. From time to time,
Company operations have resulted or may result in noncompliance with environmental laws or liability for cleanup pursuant to environmental laws. The Company does not currently anticipate any material adverse effect on its operations, financial
condition or competitive position as a result of its efforts to comply with environmental laws. In late 2015, the Company received notification from the EPA informing the Company of an assessment of a $0.4 million fine for EPA violations at its
Taunton, Massachusetts facility. The Company has appealed the fine and is currently working with the EPA to implement a remediation plan to correct the underlying issues. The Company believes that the fine and future capital expenditures needed to
remediate the issues, which are currently estimated to be less than $2 million, are not material to the Company.

The Company
is sensitive to the growing global debate with respect to climate change. An internal sustainability working group develops increasingly robust data with respect to the Company’s utilization of carbon producing substances in an effort to
continuously reduce the Company’s carbon footprint. In 2012, the Company published a sustainability report identifying the various actions and behaviors the Company has adopted concerning its commitment to both the environment and the broader
topic of social responsibility. See Item 1A, Risk Factors –The effects of climate change could harm the Company’s business, for more information on the potential significance of climate change legislation. See also Note 15 in
the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for financial information about geographic areas.

Available Information

The Company files or furnishes all required reports with the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials the Company files or furnishes with the SEC
at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.







The Company is an electronic filer and the SEC maintains a website that contains reports,
proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The address of the SEC electronic filing website ishttp://www.sec.gov. The Company also makes available, free of charge on its
website, its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished
to the SEC. The website address for Waters Corporation ishttp://www.waters.comand SEC filings can be found under the caption “Investors”.

Forward-Looking Statements

Many of these statements appear, in particular, under the heading “Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K. Statements that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed forward-looking statements. You can identify these forward-looking statements by
the use of the words “feels”, “believes”, “anticipates”, “plans”, “expects”, “may”, “will”, “would”, “intends”, “suggests”, “appears”,
“estimates”, “projects”, “should” and similar expressions, whether in the negative or affirmative. These statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside the control of the Company,
including, and without limitation:



•Foreign exchange rate fluctuations that could adversely affect translation of the Company’s future sales, financial operating results and the
condition of its non-U.S. operations, especially when a currency weakens against the U.S. dollar.



•Current global economic, sovereign and political conditions and uncertainties, particularly regarding the effect of the Chinese government’s
ongoing tightening of restrictions on procurement by government-funded customers; the Company’s ability to access capital and maintain liquidity in volatile market conditions of customers; changes in timing and demand by the Company’s
customers and various market sectors, particularly if they should reduce capital expenditures or are unable to obtain funding, as in the cases of governmental, academic and research institutions; the effect of mergers and acquisitions on customer
demand; and the Company’s ability to sustain and enhance service.



•Negative industry trends; changes in the competitive landscape as a result of changes in ownership, mergers and continued consolidation among the
Company’s competitors; introduction of competing







products by other companies and loss of market share; pressures on prices from customers or resulting from competition; regulatory, economic and competitive obstacles to new product
introductions; lack of acceptance of new products; expansion of our business in developing markets; spending by certain end-markets; ability to obtain alternative sources for components and modules; and the possibility that future sales of new
products related to acquisitions, which trigger contingent purchase payments, may exceed the Company’s expectations.



•Increased regulatory burdens as the Company’s business evolves, especially with respect to the FDA and EPA, among others, as well as regulatory,
environmental and logistical obstacles affecting the distribution of the Company’s products, completion of purchase order documentation by our customers and ability of customers to obtain letters of credit or other financing alternatives.



•Risks associated with lawsuits, particularly involving claims for infringement of patents and other intellectual property rights.



•The impact and costs incurred from changes in accounting principles and practices; the impact and costs of changes in statutory or contractual tax
rates; shifts in taxable income in jurisdictions with different effective tax rates; and the outcome of and costs associated with ongoing and future tax audit examinations or changes in respective country legislation affecting the Company’s
effective rates.

Certain of these and other factors are further described below in Item 1A, Risk
Factors, of this Form 10-K. Actual results or events could differ materially from the plans, intentions and expectations disclosed in the forward-looking statements, whether because of these factors or for other reasons. All forward-looking
statements speak only as of the date of this annual report on Form 10-K and are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements included in this report. The Company does not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking
statements.



