ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS

Investors should review carefully the following material risk factors and the other information contained in this report. The risks that the Ameren Companies face are not limited to those in this section. There may be further risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be material that may adversely affect the results of operations, financial position, and liquidity of the Ameren Companies.

REGULATORY AND LEGISLATIVE RISKS

We are subject to extensive regulation of our businesses, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.

We are subject to federal, state, and local regulation. This extensive regulatory framework, some of which is more specifically identified in the following risk factors, regulates, among other matters, the electric and natural gas utility industries; rate and cost structure of utilities; operation of nuclear energy centers; construction and operation of generation, transmission, and distribution facilities; acquisition, disposal, depreciation and amortization of assets and facilities; electric transmission system reliability; and wholesale and retail competition. In the planning and management of our operations, we must address the effects of existing and proposed laws and regulations and potential changes in the regulatory framework,



including initiatives by federal and state legislatures, RTOs, utility regulators, and taxing authorities. Significant changes in the nature of the regulation of our businesses could require changes to our business planning and management of our businesses and could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity. Failure to obtain adequate rates or regulatory approvals in a timely manner; failure to obtain necessary licenses or permits from regulatory authorities; the impact of new or modified laws, regulations, standards, interpretations, or other legal requirements; or increased compliance costs could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.

The electric and natural gas rates that we are allowed to charge are determined through regulatory proceedings, which are subject to intervention and appeal, and are also subject to legislative actions, which are largely outside of our control. Any events that prevent us from recovering our costs in a timely manner or from earning adequate returns on our investments could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.

The rates that we are allowed to charge for our utility services significantly influence our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.The electric and natural gas utility industry is highly regulated. The utility rates charged to customers are determined by governmental entities, including the MoPSC, the ICC, and the FERC. Decisions by these entities are influenced by many factors, including the cost of providing service, the prudency of expenditures, the quality of service, regulatory staff knowledge and experience, customer intervention, and economic conditions, as well as social and political views. Decisions made by these governmental entities regarding rates are largely outside of our control.We are exposed to regulatory lag and cost disallowances to varying degrees by jurisdiction, which, if unmitigated, could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity. Rate orders are also subject to appeal, which creates additional uncertainty as to the rates that we will ultimately be allowed to charge for our services. From time to time, our regulators may approve trackers, riders, or other mechanisms that allow electric or natural gas rates to be adjusted without a traditional rate proceeding. These mechanisms are not permanent and could be changed or terminated.

Ameren Missouri's electric and natural gas utility rates and Ameren Illinois' natural gas utility rates are typically established in regulatory proceedings that take up to 11 months to complete. Ameren Missouri's rates established in those proceedings are primarily based on historical costs and revenues. Ameren Illinois' natural gas rates established in those proceedings are based on estimated future costs and revenues. Thus the rates that we are allowed to charge for utility services may not match our actual costs at any given time.

Rates include an allowed rate of return on investments established by the regulator. Although rate regulation is premised on providing an opportunity to earn a reasonable rate of return on invested capital, there can be no assurance that the regulator will determine that our costs were prudently incurred or that the









regulatory process will result in rates that will produce full recovery of such costs or provide for an opportunity to earn a reasonable return on those investments.

In years when capital investments and operations costs rise or customer usage declines below those levels reflected in rates, we may not be able to earn the allowed return established by the regulator. This could result in the deferral or cancellation of planned capital investments, which could reduce the rate base investments on which we earn a rate of return. Additionally, increasing rates could result in regulatory or legislative actions, as well as competitive or political pressures, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.

As a result of its participation in the performance-based formula ratemaking process established pursuant to the IEIMA, Ameren Illinois’ return on equity for its electric distribution business is directly correlated to yields on United States Treasury bonds. Additionally, Ameren Illinois is required to achieve certain performance standards and capital spending levels. Failure to meet these requirements could adversely affect Ameren's and Ameren Illinois' results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.

Ameren Illinois is participating in the performance-based formula ratemaking process established pursuant to the IEIMA for its electric distribution business. The ICC annually reviews Ameren Illinois’ rate filings under the IEIMA for reasonableness and prudency. If the ICC were to conclude that Ameren Illinois’  costs were not prudently incurred, the ICC would disallow recovery of such costs.

The return on equity component of the formula rate is equal to the calendar year average of the monthly yields of 30-year United States Treasury bonds plus 580 basis points. Therefore, Ameren Illinois’ annual return on equity under the formula ratemaking process for its electric distribution business is directly correlated to the yields on such bonds, which are outside of Ameren Illinois’ control. A50basis point change in the average monthly yields of the 30-year United States Treasury bonds would result in an estimated$7 millionchange in Ameren's and Ameren Illinois' net income based on its 2017 projected rate base.

Ameren Illinois is also subject to performance standards. Failure to achieve the standards would result in a reduction in the company’s allowed return on equity calculated under the formula. The IEIMA provides for return on equity penalties totaling 34 basis points in each of 2017 through 2018 and 38 basis points in each year from 2019 through 2022 if the performance standards are not met.

Between 2012 and 2021, Ameren Illinois is required to invest a total of $625 million in capital projects to modernize its distribution system incremental to its average annual electric distribution service capital projects of $228 million for calendar years 2008 through 2010.If Ameren Illinois does not meet its investment commitments under IEIMA, Ameren Illinois would no longer be eligible to annually update its performance-based



formula rates under IEIMA.

When the IEIMA performance-based formula ratemaking process expires at the end of 2022 Ameren Illinois will be required to establish future rates through a traditional rate proceeding with the ICC, which might not result in rates that produce a full or timely recovery of costs or provide for an adequate return on investments.

We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations. Significant capital expenditures are required to achieve and to maintain compliance with these laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in the closing of facilities, alterations to the manner in which these facilities operate, increased operating costs, or exposure to fines and liabilities, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.

We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations enforced by federal, state, and local authorities. The development and operation of electric generation, transmission, and distribution facilities and natural gas storage, transmission, and distribution facilities, can trigger compliance with diverse environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations address emissions, discharges to water, water usage, impacts to air, land, and water, and chemical and waste handling. Complex and lengthy processes are required to obtain and renew approvals, permits, and licenses for new, existing or modified facilities. Additionally, the use and handling of various chemicals or hazardous materials require release prevention plans and emergency response procedures.

We are also subject to liability under environmental laws that address the remediation of environmental contamination of property currently or formerly owned by us or by our predecessors, as well as property contaminated by hazardous substances that we generated. Such properties include MGP sites and third-party sites, such as landfills. Additionally, private individuals may seek to enforce environmental laws and regulations against us. They could allege injury from exposure to hazardous materials, allege a failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations, seek to compel remediation of environmental contamination, or seek to recover damages resulting from that contamination.

The EPA has promulgated environmental regulations that have a significant impact on the electric utility industry. Over time, compliance with these regulations could be costly for Ameren Missouri, which operates coal-fired power plants. As of December 31, 2016, Ameren Missouri’s fossil-fueled energy centers represented 18% and 34% of Ameren’s and Ameren Missouri’s rate base, respectively. Regulations impacting the electric utility industry include the regulation of CO2emissions from existing power plants through the Clean Power Plan and from new power plants through the revised NSPS; the CSAPR, which requires further reductions of SO2emissions and NOxemissions from power plants; a regulation governing management and storage of CCR; the MATS, which requires reduction of emissions of









mercury, toxic metals, and acid gases from power plants; revised NSPS for particulate matter, SO2, and NOxemissions from new sources; effluent standards applicable to wastewater discharges from power plants; and regulations under the Clean Water Act that could require significant capital expenditures, such as modifications to water intake structures at Ameren Missouri’s energy centers. The EPA also periodically reviews and revises national ambient air quality standards, including those standards associated with emissions from power plants, such as particulate matter, ozone, SO2and NOx. Certain of these regulations are being or are likely to be challenged through litigation, so their ultimate implementation, as well as the timing of any such implementation, is uncertain. Although many details of future regulations are unknown, the individual or combined effects of recent environmental regulations could result in significant capital expenditures and increased operating costs for Ameren and Ameren Missouri.

Ameren is also subject to risks from changing or conflicting interpretations of existing laws and regulations. The EPA is engaged in an enforcement initiative to determine whether coal-fired power plants failed to comply with the requirements of the NSR and NSPS provisions under the Clean Air Act when the power plants implemented modifications.In January 2011, the Department of Justice, on behalf of the EPA, filed a complaint against Ameren Missouri in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri. The complaint, as amended in October 2013, alleged that in performing projects at its Rush Island coal-fired energy center in 2007 and 2010, Ameren Missouri violated provisions of the Clean Air Act and Missouri law. The litigation has been divided into two phases: liability and remedy. In January 2017, the district court issued a liability ruling that the projects violated provisions of the Clean Air Act and Missouri law. The case will now proceed to the second phase to determine the actions required to remedy the violations found in the liability phase of the litigation. The EPA previously withdrew all claims for penalties and fines.

The ultimate resolution of this matter could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations, financial position, and liquidity of Ameren and Ameren Missouri. Among other things and subject to economic and regulatory considerations, resolution of this matter could result in increased capital expenditures for the installation of pollution control equipment, as well as increased operations and maintenance expenses.

The Clean Power Plan sets forth CO2emissions standards applicable to existing power plants. The rule was stayed by the United States Supreme Court in February 2016, pending the outcome of various legal challenges.If upheld and implemented, the Clean Power Plan would require Missouri and Illinois to reduce CO2emissions from power plants within their states significantly below 2005 levels by 2030. The rule contains interim compliance periods commencing in 2022 that would require each state to demonstrate progress in achieving its CO2emissions reduction target. Ameren continues to evaluate the Clean Power Plan's potential impacts to its operations, including those related to electric system reliability, and to its level of investment in customer energy efficiency programs, renewable energy, and



other forms of generation. Significant uncertainty exists regarding the impact of the Clean Power Plan as its implementation will depend upon plans to be developed by the states. Numerous legal challenges are pending, which could result in the rule being declared invalid or the nature and timing of CO2emissions reductions being revised. All implementation requirements are deferred until such time as these legal challenges are concluded.Appeals are not expected to conclude prior to 2018.We cannot predict the outcome of such legal challenges or their impact on our results of operations, financial position, or liquidity. If the rule is ultimately upheld and not rescinded or altered significantly by the new federal administration, compliance measures could result in the closure or alteration of the operation of some of Ameren Missouri’s coal and natural-gas-fired energy centers, which could in turn result in increased operating costs and require Ameren Missouri to make unplanned or accelerated capital expenditures.

Following recent changes in the leadership of the federal government, there have been various legislative options proposed to reform the federal income tax code. Whether the federal income tax code will be reformed is currently unknown, but any such changes may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.

Since the 2016 presidential and congressional elections, there have been various legislative options proposed to reform the federal income tax code, including reducing the statutory federal corporate income tax rate; allowing a current tax deduction for all new capital investments; and eliminating the interest deduction as well as other modifications that would change the amount of income subject to income tax. Any federal









income tax reform would ultimately affect the rates we charge our customers. A reduction in the statutory federal income tax rate would result in a reduction of deferred tax assets and liabilities currently recorded. A lower federal statutory income tax rate may result in a significant one-time charge to our results of operations as a result of the revaluation of our deferred tax assets not attributable to our rate-regulated businesses. Additionally, a lower statutory federal income tax rate may result in a significant reduction in revenues and liquidity as a result of both the required return to customers of excess deferred tax liabilities previously funded by customers over some time period yet to be determined and the reduced collection of taxes in customer rates, each without an immediate reduction in our cash tax obligations. Also, changes that would ultimately result in lower taxable income in the future could prevent us from using all of our tax carryforward benefits before they expire. A current tax deduction for all new capital investments could reduce the level of our rate base growth from current expectations. Although the specific changes and the ultimate timing of federal income tax reform, if implemented at all, are currently unknown, federal income tax reform may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.

Customers’, legislators’, and regulators’ opinions of us are affected by many factors, including system reliability, implementation of our investment plans, protection of customer information, rates, and media coverage. To the extent that customers, legislators, or regulators have or develop a negative opinion of us, our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity could be adversely affected.

Service interruptions due to failures of equipment as a result of severe or destructive weather or other causes, and the ability of Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois to respond promptly to such failures, can affect customer satisfaction. In addition to system reliability issues, the success of modernization efforts, such as those being undertaken for Ameren Illinois’ electric and natural gas delivery systems, our ability to safeguard sensitive customer information, and other actions can affect customer satisfaction. The level of rates, the timing and magnitude of rate increases, and volatility of rates can also affect customer satisfaction. Customers', legislators', and regulators' opinions of us can also be affected by media coverage, including social media, which may include information, whether factual or not, that damages our brand and reputation.

If customers, legislators, or regulators have or develop a negative opinion of us and our utility services, this could result in increased regulatory oversight and could affect the returns on common equity we are allowed to earn. Additionally, negative opinions about us could make it more difficult for our utilities to achieve favorable legislative or regulatory outcomes. Negative opinions could also result in sales volume reductions or increased use of distributed generation by our customers. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.

We are subject to federal regulatory compliance and proceedings, which exposes us to the potential for



regulatory penalties and other sanctions.

The FERC can impose civil penalties of $1 million per violation per day for violation of its regulations, rules, and orders, including mandatory NERC reliability standards. As owners and operators of bulk power transmission systems and electric energy centers, we are subject to mandatory NERC reliability standards, including cybersecurity standards. Compliance with these mandatory reliability standards may subject us to higher operating costs and may result in increased capital expenditures. If we were found not to be in compliance with these mandatory reliability standards, FERC regulations, rules, and orders, we could incur substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity. The FERC also conducts audits and reviews of Ameren Missouri's, Ameren Illinois', and ATXI's accounting records to assess the accuracy of its formula ratemaking process, and it can require refunds to customers for previously billed amounts, with interest.

OPERATIONAL RISKS

The construction of and capital improvements to our electric and natural gas utility infrastructure involve substantial risks. These risks include escalating costs, unsatisfactory performance by the projects when completed, the inability to complete projects as scheduled, cost disallowances by regulators, and the inability to earn an adequate return on invested capital, any of which could result in higher costs and facility closures.

We expect to incur significant capital expenditures to maintain and improve our electric and natural gas utility infrastructure and to comply with existing environmental regulations. We estimate that we will invest up to$11.2 billion(Ameren Missouri – up to$4.2 billion; Ameren Illinois – up to$6.4 billion; ATXI – up to$0.6 billion) of capital expenditures from2017through2021. These estimates include allowance for equity funds used during construction. Investments in Ameren’s rate-regulated operations are expected to be recoverable from ratepayers, but they are subject to prudence reviews and are exposed to regulatory lag of varying degrees by jurisdiction.

Our ability to complete construction projects successfully within projected estimates is contingent upon many variables and subject to substantial risks. These variables include, but are not limited to, project management expertise and escalating costs for materials and labor. Delays in obtaining permits, shortages in materials and qualified labor, suppliers and contractors who do not perform as required under their contracts, changes in the scope and timing of projects, the inability to raise capital on reasonable terms, or other events beyond our control could affect the schedule, cost, and performance of these projects. There is a risk that a power plant may not be permitted to continue to operate if pollution control equipment is not installed by prescribed deadlines or does not perform as expected. Should any such pollution control equipment not be installed on time or not perform as expected, Ameren Missouri could be subject to additional costs and to the loss of its investment in the project or









facility. All of these project and construction risks could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.

Ameren and Ameren Illinois may not be able to execute their electric transmission investment plans or to realize the expected return on those investments.

Ameren, through ATXI and Ameren Illinois, is investing significant capital resources in electric transmission. These investments are based on the FERC's regulatory framework and a rate of return on common equity that is currently higher than that allowed by our state commissions. However, the FERC regulatory framework and rate of return are subject to changes, including changes as a result of third-party complaints and challenges at the FERC. The regulatory framework may be less favorable or the rate of return may be lower in the future. A pending complaint case was filed with the FERC in February 2015 that could reduce the allowed return on common equity and could require customer refunds. A 50 basis point reduction in the FERC-allowed return on common equity would reduce Ameren's and Ameren Illinois' earnings by an estimated$7 millionand$4 million, respectively, based on each company's 2017 projected rate base.

A significant portion of Ameren's electric transmission investments consists of three separate projects to be constructed by ATXI, which have been approved by MISO as multi-value projects. ATXI's total investment in the three projects is expected to be more than $1.6 billion. The last of these projects is expected to be completed in 2019; however, further delays in obtaining the assents for road crossings could delay the completion date of the Mark Twain project. A failure by ATXI to complete these three projects on time and within projected cost estimates could adversely affect Ameren's results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.

The FERC has issued orders, which are subject to ongoing litigation, eliminating the right of first refusal for an electric utility to construct within its service territory certain new transmission projects for which there will be regional cost sharing. If these orders are upheld by the courts, Ameren would need to compete to build certain future electric transmission projects in its subsidiaries' service territories. Such competition could limit Ameren's future transmission investment. Conversely, if such FERC orders are not upheld by the courts, the right of first refusal would be expected to be reinstated. In such event, Ameren may lose opportunities to construct electric transmission assets outside of its subsidiaries' service territories and outside of MISO.

Our electric generation, transmission, and distribution facilities are subject to operational risks that could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.

Our financial performance depends on the successful operation of electric generation, transmission, and distribution facilities. Operation of electric generation, transmission, and distribution facilities involves many risks, including:

•facility shutdowns due to operator error or a failure of



equipment or processes;

•longer-than-anticipated maintenance outages;

•aging infrastructure that may require significant expenditures to operate and maintain;

•disruptions in the delivery of fuel, failure of our fuel suppliers to provide adequate quantities or quality of fuel, or lack of adequate inventories of fuel, including ultra-low-sulfur coal used for Ameren Missouri’s compliance with environmental regulations;

•lack of adequate water required for cooling plant operations;

•labor disputes;

•inability to comply with regulatory or permit requirements, including those relating to environmental laws;

•disruptions in the delivery of electricity to our customers;

•handling, storage, and disposition of CCR;

•unusual or adverse weather conditions or other natural disasters, including severe storms, droughts, floods, tornadoes, earthquakes, solar flares, and electromagnetic pulses;

•accidents that might result in injury or loss of life, extensive property damage, or environmental damage;

•cybersecurity risks, including loss of operational control of Ameren Missouri's energy centers and our transmission and distribution systems and loss of data, such as customer data and account information through insider or outsider actions;

•failure of other operators' facilities and the effect of that failure on our electric system and customers;

•the occurrence of catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, acts of sabotage or terrorism, pandemic health events, or other similar occurrences;

•limitations on amounts of insurance available to cover losses that might arise in connection with operating our electric generation, transmission, and distribution facilities; and

•other unanticipated operations and maintenance expenses and liabilities.

Ameren Missouri’s ownership and operation of a nuclear energy center creates business, financial, and waste disposal risks.

Ameren Missouri’s ownership of the Callaway energy center subjects it to the risks associated with nuclear generation, including:

•potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from radiological releases associated with the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling, and disposal of radioactive materials;

•continued uncertainty regarding the federal government's plan to permanently store spent nuclear fuel and the risk of being required to provide for long-term storage of spent nuclear fuel at the Callaway energy center;

•limitations on the amounts and types of insurance available to cover losses that might arise in connection with the Callaway energy center or other United States nuclear facilities;

•uncertainties with respect to contingencies and retrospective premium assessments relating to claims at the Callaway









energy center or any other United States nuclear facilities;

•public and governmental concerns about the safety and adequacy of security at nuclear facilities;

•uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear facilities at the end of their licensed lives;

•limited availability of fuel supply and our reliance on licensed fuel assemblies that are fabricated by a single supplier;

•costly and extended outages for scheduled or unscheduled maintenance and refueling; and

•potential adverse effects of a natural disaster, acts of sabotage or terrorism, including cyber attack, or any accident leading to release of nuclear contamination.

The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety requirements for nuclear facilities. In the event of noncompliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines or to shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. Revised safety requirements promulgated from time to time by the NRC could necessitate substantial capital expenditures at nuclear facilities such as the Callaway energy center. In addition, if a serious nuclear incident were to occur, it could adversely affect Ameren's and Ameren Missouri’s results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. A major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation of any domestic nuclear unit and could also cause the NRC to impose additional conditions or requirements on the industry, which could increase costs and result in additional capital expenditures. NRC standards relating to seismic risk require Ameren Missouri to further evaluate the impact of an earthquake on its Callaway energy center due its proximity to a fault line, which could require the installation of additional capital equipment.

Our natural gas distribution and storage activities involve numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs that could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.

Inherent in our natural gas distribution and storage activities are a variety of hazards and operating risks, such as leaks, explosions, mechanical problems and cybersecurity risks, which could cause substantial financial losses. In addition, these hazards could result in serious injury, loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental impacts, and impairment of our operations, which in turn could lead us to incur substantial losses. The location of distribution mains and storage facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, business centers, industrial sites, and other public gathering places, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. A major domestic incident involving natural gas systems could lead to additional capital expenditures and increased regulation of natural gas utilities. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.

Significant portions of our electric generation, transmission, and distribution facilities and natural gas



transmission and distribution facilities are aging. This aging infrastructure may require additional maintenance expenditures or may require replacement, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.

Energy conservation, energy efficiency, distributed generation, energy storage, and other factors that reduce energy demand could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.

Requirements and incentives to reduce energy consumption have been proposed by regulatory agencies and introduced by legislatures. Conservation and energy efficiency programs are designed to reduce energy demand. Without a regulatory mechanism to ensure recovery, a decline in usage will result in an under-recovery of our revenue requirement. Ameren Missouri is exposed to declining usage losses from energy efficiency efforts not related to its MEEIA programs, as well as from distributed generation sources such as solar panels. In Illinois, the FEJA includes a provision, beginning in 2018, that will reduce Ameren Illinois' allowed return only on electric energy efficiency investments if certain energy savings targets are not achieved. Additionally, macroeconomic factors resulting in low economic growth or contraction within our service territories could reduce energy demand.

Technological advances could reduce or change customer electricity consumption. Ameren Missouri generates power at utility-scale energy centers to achieve economies of scale and to produce power at a competitive cost. Some distributed









generation technologies have become more cost-competitive, with decreasing costs expected in the future. The costs of these distributed generation technologies may decline over time to a level that is competitive with that of Ameren Missouri's energy centers. Additionally, technological advances related to energy storage may be coupled with distributed generation to reduce the demand for our electric utility services. Increased adoption of these technologies could decrease our revenues if customers cease to use our generation, transmission, and distribution services at current levels. Ameren Missouri might incur stranded costs, which ultimately might not be recovered through rates.

We are subject to employee work force factors that could adversely affect our operations.

Our businesses depend upon our ability to employ and retain key officers and other skilled professional and technical employees. A significant portion of our work force is nearing retirement, including many employees with specialized skills, such as maintaining and servicing our electric and natural gas infrastructure and operating our energy centers. We are also party to collective bargaining agreements that collectively represent about53%of Ameren’s total employees. Any work stoppage experienced in connection with negotiations of collective bargaining agreements could adversely affect our operations.

Our operations are subject to acts of terrorism, cyber attacks, and other intentionally disruptive acts.

Like other electric and natural gas utilities, our energy centers, fuel storage facilities, transmission and distribution facilities, and information systems may be affected by terrorist activities and other intentionally disruptive acts, including cyber attacks, which could disrupt our ability to produce or distribute our energy products. Within our industry, there have been attacks on energy infrastructure such as substations and related assets in the past, and there may be more attacks in the future. Any such incident could limit our ability to generate, purchase, or transmit power or natural gas and could have significant regional economic consequences. Any such disruption could result in a significant decrease in revenues, a significant increase in costs including those for repair, or adversely impact economic activity in our service territory which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.

Our industry has seen an increase in the number and sophistication of cyber attacks. A security breach at our physical assets or in our information systems could affect the reliability of the transmission and distribution system, disrupt electric generation, and/or subject us to financial harm associated with theft or inappropriate release of certain types of information, including sensitive customer and employee data. Many of our suppliers, vendors, contractors, and information technology providers have access to our systems that support our operations and maintain customer and employee data. A breach of these third-party systems could adversely affect our business as if it was a breach of our own system. If a significant breach occurred, our reputation could be adversely affected, customer confidence



could be diminished, or we could be subject to legal claims, any of which could result in a significant decrease in revenues or significant costs for remedying the impacts of such a breach. Our generation, transmission, and distribution systems are part of an interconnected system. Therefore, a disruption caused by a cyber incident at another utility, electric generator, RTO, or commodity supplier could also adversely affect our businesses. In addition, new regulations could require changes in our security measures and result in increased costs. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.

FINANCIAL, ECONOMIC, AND MARKET RISKS

Our businesses are dependent on our ability to access the capital markets successfully. We might not have access to sufficient capital in the amounts and at the times needed.

We rely on short-term and long-term debt as significant sources of liquidity and funding for capital requirements not satisfied by our operating cash flow, as well as to refinance long-term debt.

By the end of 2018, $803 million and $707 million of senior secured notes are scheduled to mature at Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois, respectively. Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois expect to refinance these senior secured notes. In addition, the Ameren Companies may refinance a portion of their outstanding short-term debt with long-term debt in 2017.

The inability to raise debt or equity capital on reasonable terms, or at all, could negatively affect our ability to maintain and to expand our businesses. Events beyond our control, such as a recession or extreme volatility in the debt, equity, or credit markets, might create uncertainty that could increase our cost of capital or impair or eliminate our ability to access the debt, equity, or credit markets, including our ability to draw on bank credit facilities. Any adverse change in our credit ratings could reduce access to capital and trigger collateral postings and prepayments. Such changes could also increase the cost of borrowing and the costs of fuel, power, and natural gas supply, among other things, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity. Certain Ameren subsidiaries, such as ATXI, rely on Ameren for access to capital. Circumstances that limit Ameren’s access to capital could impair its ability to provide those subsidiaries with needed capital.

Ameren’s holding company structure could limit its ability to pay common stock dividends and to service its debt obligations.

Ameren is a holding company; therefore, its primary assets are its investments in the common stock of its subsidiaries, including Ameren Missouri, Ameren Illinois, and ATXI. As a result, Ameren’s ability to pay dividends on its common stock depends on the earnings of its subsidiaries and the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise transfer funds to Ameren. Similarly, Ameren’s ability to service its debt obligations is dependent upon the earnings of its operating subsidiaries and the distribution of those earnings and other payments, including payments of principal and interest under intercompany indebtedness. The payment of dividends to Ameren by its









subsidiaries in turn depends on their results of operations and available cash and other items affecting retained earnings. Ameren’s subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any dividends or make any other distributions (except for payments required pursuant to the terms of intercompany borrowing arrangements and cash payments under the tax allocation agreement) to Ameren. Certain financing agreements, corporate organizational documents, and certain statutory and regulatory requirements may impose restrictions on the ability of Ameren Missouri, Ameren Illinois, and ATXI to transfer funds to Ameren in the form of cash dividends, loans, or advances.

Increasing costs associated with our defined benefit retirement and postretirement plans, health care plans, and other employee benefits could adversely affect our financial position and liquidity.

Ameren offers defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans covering substantially all of its union employees. Ameren offers defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all of its non-union employees and postretirement benefit plans covering non-union employees hired before October 2015. Assumptions related to future costs, returns on investments, interest rates, timing of employee retirements, and mortality, as well as other actuarial matters, have a significant impact on our customers' rates and our plan funding requirements. Ameren's total unfunded obligation under its pension and postretirement benefit plans was$774 millionas of December 31,2016. Ameren expects to fund its pension plans at a level equal to the greater of the pension cost or the legally required minimum contribution. Considering Ameren’s assumptions at December 31,2016, its investment performance in2016, and its pension funding policy, Ameren expects to make annual contributions of$50 millionto$70 millionin each of the next five years, with aggregate estimated contributions of$290 million. We expect Ameren Missouri’s and Ameren Illinois’ portions of the future funding requirements to be35%and55%, respectively. These amounts are estimates. They may change with actual investment performance, changes in interest rates, changes in our assumptions, changes in government regulations, and any voluntary contributions.

In addition to the costs of our retirement plans, the costs of providing health care benefits to our employees and retirees have increased in recent years. We believe that our employee benefit costs, including costs of health care plans for our employees and former employees, will continue to rise. The increasing costs and funding requirements associated with our defined benefit retirement plans, health care plans, and other employee benefits could increase our financing needs and otherwise adversely affect our financial position and liquidity.



