
10-K
10-K



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                            ------------------------

                                   FORM 10-K
                                ---------------

(MARK ONE)

[X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
    ACT OF 1934 (FEE REQUIRED)

FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED AUGUST 28, 1994

[ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (D) OF THE SECURITIES
    EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (NO FEE REQUIRED)
    FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM _________________ TO _________________ .

                        COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 0-020355
                            ------------------------

                               PRICE/COSTCO, INC.

             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                  DELAWARE                          33-0572969
      (State or other jurisdiction of            (I.R.S. Employer
       incorporation or organization)          Identification No.)

       10809 - 120TH AVENUE N.E., KIRKLAND, WASHINGTON 98033
        (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (206) 803-8100

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: None

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                          Common Stock $.01 Par Value
                            ------------------------

    Indicate  by check  mark whether  the registrant  (1) has  filed all reports
required to be filed by  Section 13 or 15(d) of  the Securities Exchange Act  of
1934  during  the preceding  12  months (or  for  such shorter  period  that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to  such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes _X_  No ___

    Indicate  by check mark if disclosure  of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's  knowledge, in definitive  proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]

    The  aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
registrant at October 31, 1994, was $2,936,443,000.

    The number of  shares outstanding  of the  registrant's common  stock as  of
October 31, 1994, was 217,824,520.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

    Portions  of  the  Company's  Proxy  Statement  for  the  Annual  Meeting of
Stockholders to be held on January  27, 1995 are incorporated by reference  into
Part III of this Form 10-K.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                               PRICE/COSTCO, INC.
      ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED AUGUST 28, 1994




                                     PART I

ITEM 1 -- BUSINESS

DESCRIPTION OF THE MERGER

    On  October 21, 1993,  the shareholders of both  The Price Company ("Price")
and Costco Wholesale Corporation  ("Costco") approved the  mergers of Price  and
Costco  with and into separate, wholly  owned subsidiaries of Price/Costco, Inc.
("PriceCostco" or  the  "Company").  The  mergers  are  hereinafter  called  the
"Merger."  PriceCostco was formed to effect  the Merger. Pursuant to the Merger,
Price and Costco each  became a wholly owned  subsidiary of PriceCostco. In  the
Merger,  shareholders of Price received 2.13  shares of PriceCostco common stock
for each share  of Price common  stock and shareholders  of Costco received  one
share of PriceCostco common stock for each share of Costco common stock.

    The   Merger  qualified  as  a  "pooling-of-interests"  for  accounting  and
financial reporting  purposes.  The pooling-of-interests  method  of  accounting
presents  as a  single interest two  or more common  shareholder interests which
were previously  independent.  The  pooling-of-interests  method  of  accounting
treats the combining companies as if they had been a single business entity from
inception.  Consequently, the historical financial  statements for periods prior
to the consummation of the Merger have been restated as though the companies had
been combined. The financial statements have  also been adjusted to conform  the
accounting policies and interim reporting periods of the separate companies.

    The  fees and expenses  related to the  Merger and to  the consolidation and
restructuring of the  combining companies  (approximately $120  million, or  $80
million  after  tax) were  expensed as  required under  the pooling-of-interests
accounting method and were reflected in the consolidated statement of income  of
PriceCostco  in the first quarter of fiscal 1994, the period in which the Merger
occurred. Such  fees and  expenses include  direct transaction  costs,  expenses
related  to  consolidating and  restructuring  certain functions,  costs  of the
closing of certain excess facilities and  sales of related properties, costs  of
severance  and relocation and write-offs  of certain redundant capitalized costs
and other assets (See "Notes to  Consolidated Financial Statements -- Note 2  --
Merger  of Price  and Costco" for  an analysis  of the provision  for merger and
restructuring).

GENERAL

    PriceCostco operates  cash  and carry  membership  warehouses based  on  the
concept  that  offering  members  very  low prices  on  a  limited  selection of
nationally branded  and selected  private  label products  in  a wide  range  of
merchandise  categories  will produce  rapid inventory  turnover and  high sales
volumes. This  rapid  inventory  turnover,  when  combined  with  the  operating
efficiencies  achieved by volume purchasing,  efficient distribution and reduced
handling of merchandise in no-frills, self-service warehouse facilities, enables
PriceCostco to  operate profitably  at significantly  lower gross  margins  than
traditional wholesalers, discount retailers and supermarkets.

    PriceCostco   buys   virtually  all   of   its  merchandise   directly  from
manufacturers for shipment either  directly to PriceCostco's selling  warehouses
or  to  a consolidation  point where  various  shipments are  combined so  as to
minimize freight and handling costs. As a result, PriceCostco eliminates many of
the costs associated  with multiple  step distribution  channels, which  include
purchasing  from  distributors  as  opposed  to  manufacturers,  use  of central
receiving, storing and  distributing warehouses  and storage  of merchandise  in
locations  off the sales floor.  By providing this more  cost effective means of
distributing goods,  PriceCostco  meets  the needs  of  business  customers  who
otherwise  would  pay a  premium for  small purchases  and for  the distribution
services of traditional wholesalers,  and who cannot  otherwise obtain the  full
range  of their product requirements from  any single source. In addition, these
business members  will  often  combine personal  shopping  with  their  business
purchases. Individuals shopping for their personal needs are primarily motivated
by  the  cost  savings  on  brand  name  merchandise.  PriceCostco's merchandise
selection is designed to appeal to  both the business and consumer  requirements
of  its members  by offering  a wide  range of  nationally branded  and selected
private label products, often  in case, carton  or multiple-pack quantities,  at
attractively low prices.


    Because  of its high sales volume  and rapid inventory turnover, PriceCostco
generally has the  opportunity to receive  cash from the  sale of a  substantial
portion of its inventory at mature warehouse operations before it is required to
pay  all its  merchandise vendors,  even though  PriceCostco takes  advantage of
early payment terms to obtain payment  discounts. As sales in a given  warehouse
increase  and inventory turnover becomes more rapid, a greater percentage of the
inventory is financed through payment terms  provided by vendors rather than  by
working capital.

    PriceCostco's typical warehouse format averages approximately 120,000 square
feet.  Floor plans are designed for economy and efficiency in the use of selling
space, in the handling of merchandise  and in the control of inventory.  Because
shoppers  are attracted principally  by the availability of  low prices on brand
name and  selected private  label goods,  PriceCostco's warehouses  need not  be
located on prime commercial real estate sites or have elaborate facilities.

    By  strictly controlling  the entrances and  exits of its  warehouses and by
limiting membership to selected groups and businesses, PriceCostco has been able
to limit inventory losses  to less than  one-half of one  percent of net  sales,
well below those of typical discount retail operations. Problems associated with
dishonored checks have also been insignificant, since individual memberships are
limited  primarily to  members of qualifying  groups, and  bank information from
business members  is verified  prior  to establishing  a check  purchase  limit.
Memberships  are invalidated  at the  point of sale  for those  members who have
issued dishonored checks to PriceCostco.

    PriceCostco's policy  is  generally  to limit  advertising  and  promotional
expenses  to new warehouse openings and occasional direct mail advertisements to
prospective new members. These practices  result in very low marketing  expenses
as  compared to typical discount retailers  and supermarkets. In connection with
new  warehouse  openings,  PriceCostco's  marketing  teams  personally   contact
businesses  in the area who are  potential wholesale members. These contacts are
supported by direct  mailings during  the period immediately  prior to  opening.
Potential  Gold Star (individual) members are contacted by direct mail generally
distributed through  credit unions,  employee  associations and  other  entities
representing  the individuals who are eligible for Gold Star membership. After a
membership base is established in an area, most new memberships result from word
of mouth  advertising,  follow-up contact  by  direct mail  distributed  through
regular  payroll or other organizational  communications to employee groups, and
ongoing direct solicitations of prospective wholesale members.

    PriceCostco's warehouses generally operate on a seven-day, 68-hour week, and
are open somewhat longer  during the holiday  season. Generally, warehouses  are
open  weekdays between 10:00 a.m. and 8:30 p.m. Because these hours of operation
are shorter than those  of the traditional discount  or grocery retailer,  labor
costs are lower relative to the volume of sales. Merchandise is generally stored
on  racks  above  the sales  floor  and  displayed on  pallets  containing large
quantities of  each  item, thereby  reducing  labor required  for  handling  and
stocking.  In  addition, sales  are processed  through an  efficient centralized
check-out facility. Items are  not individually price marked,  but are keyed  or
scanned  into  PriceCostco's electronic  cash registers  by an  identifying item
number,  thereby   allowing  price   changes  without   remarking   merchandise.
Substantially  all  manufacturers  provide  special,  larger  package  sizes and
merchandise pre-marked with the item numbers.

    PriceCostco's merchandising strategy is to provide the customer with a broad
range of high  quality merchandise at  prices consistently lower  than could  be
obtained through traditional wholesalers, discount retailers or supermarkets. An
important  element of  this strategy  is to carry  only those  products on which
PriceCostco can  provide its  members  significant cost  savings.  Consequently,
items  which  members  may  request  but which  cannot  be  purchased  at prices
sufficiently low enough  to pass along  meaningful cost savings  to members  are
often  not carried.  PriceCostco seeks to  limit specific items  in each product
line to fast  selling models,  sizes and colors  and therefore  carries only  an
average  of approximately 3,500 to 4,000 active stockkeeping units ("SKU's") per
warehouse as opposed to full-line discount retailers which normally stock 40,000
to 60,000  SKU's or  more.  These practices  are consistent  with  PriceCostco's
membership  policies of satisfying both the business and personal shopping needs
of its  wholesale  members,  thereby  encouraging  high  volume  shopping.  Many
consumable


products  are offered for sale in case, carton or multiple-pack quantities only.
Appliances, equipment  and  tools  often  feature  commercial  and  professional
models.  PriceCostco's  policy  is to  accept  returns of  merchandise  within a
reasonable time after purchase.

    The following table indicates the approximate percentage of sales  accounted
for by each major category of items sold by PriceCostco during fiscal 1994, 1993
and 1992:



    PriceCostco  has direct buying relationships with many producers of national
brand name merchandise.  No significant  portion of merchandise  is obtained  by
PriceCostco  from  any one  of  these or  other  suppliers. PriceCostco  has not
experienced any difficulty  in obtaining sufficient  quantities of  merchandise,
and  believes  that if  one  or more  of its  current  sources of  supply became
unavailable, it would be able to obtain alternative sources without experiencing
a substantial  disruption of  its  business. Also,  PriceCostco purchases  on  a
competitive  cost  basis, stocking  different  national brand  name  or selected
private label merchandise of the same  product, as long as quality and  customer
demand are comparable.

    PriceCostco is incorporated in the State of Delaware, and reports on a 52/53
week  fiscal year, consisting of  13 four-week periods and  ending on the Sunday
nearest the end of August. The first, second and third quarters consist of three
periods each, and the fourth quarter consists of four periods (five weeks in the
thirteenth period in a  53-week year). There is  no material seasonal impact  on
PriceCostco's operations, except an increased level of sales and earnings during
the Christmas holiday season.

MEMBERSHIP POLICY

    PriceCostco's  membership format  is designed to  reinforce customer loyalty
and also to provide a continuing  source of membership fee revenue.  PriceCostco
has two primary types of members: Business and Gold Star (individual members).

    Businesses,  including  individuals with  a  business license,  retail sales
license or other evidence  of business existence,  may become Business  members.
PriceCostco  promotes Business membership through  its merchandise selection and
its membership  marketing programs.  Business members  generally pay  an  annual
membership fee of $35 for the primary membership card with additional membership
cards available for an annual fee of from $10 to $15.

    Individual  memberships  are available  to employees  of federal,  state and
local   governments,   financial   institutions,   corporations,   utility   and
transportation companies, public and private educational institutions, and other
selected  organizations. Individual  members generally pay  an annual membership
fee of $35 which includes a second membership card.

    As of August 28,  1994, PriceCostco had  approximately 3.4 million  Business
memberships  and approximately  6.4 million  Gold Star  memberships. Members can
utilize their memberships at any Price Club or Costco Wholesale location.


LABOR

    As of August 28, 1994, PriceCostco had approximately 47,000 employees, about
50% of which were  part time. Substantially all  of Price's hourly employees  in
California,  Connecticut, Maryland, Massachusetts, New  Jersey, New York and one
Price  Club  warehouse  in  Virginia   are  represented  by  the   International
Brotherhood  of Teamsters. Nearly all other employees are non-union. PriceCostco
considers its employee relations to be good.

COMPETITION

    The  Company  operates  in  the  rapidly  changing  and  highly  competitive
merchandising  industry.  When  Price pioneered  the  membership  warehouse club
concept in 1976, the dominant companies selling comparable lines of  merchandise
were  department stores, grocery stores and traditional wholesalers. Since then,
new merchandising concepts  and aggressive  marketing techniques have  led to  a
more intense and focused competitive environment. Wal-Mart and Kmart have become
the  largest retailers in the United States and have recently expanded into food
merchandising. Target  has  also emerged  as  a significant  retail  competitor.
Approximately  800 warehouse clubs  exist across the  U.S. and Canada, including
the 221 warehouses operated  by the Company, and  every major metropolitan  area
has  some, if not several, club operations.  Low cost operators selling a single
category or  narrow range  of merchandise,  such as  Home Depot,  Office  Depot,
Petsmart,  Toys-R-Us, Circuit City  and Barnes & Noble  Books, have gained major
market share in their  respective categories. New  forms of retailing  involving
modern  technology are boosting sales in stores such as The Sharper Image, while
home shopping is becoming increasingly popular. Likewise, in the food  business,
a  competitor like Smart &  Final, which operates in  Arizona and California, is
capturing an increasingly greater share of the institutional food business  from
wholesale  operators and others;  and many supermarkets now  offer food lines in
bulk sizes  and at  prices comparable  to  those offered  by the  Company.  This
factor,  among others, has  caused comparable warehouse  sales to decline during
fiscal 1994 resulting  in lower  average sales  and earnings  per location  (see
"Item  7  -- Management's  Discussion and  Analysis  of Financial  Condition and
Results of Operations").

REGULATION

    Certain state laws  require that the  Company apply minimum  markups to  its
selling  prices  for  specific goods,  such  as tobacco  products  and alcoholic
beverages, and  prohibit  the  sale  of specific  goods,  such  as  tobacco  and
alcoholic  beverages, at different prices in one location. While compliance with
such laws  may  cause the  Company  to charge  somewhat  higher prices  than  it
otherwise  would charge, other mass merchandisers are also typically governed by
the same restrictions, and the Company  believes that compliance with such  laws
does not have a material adverse effect on its operations.

    It  is  the policy  of  the Company  to  sell at  lower  than manufacturers'
suggested retail prices. Some manufacturers attempt to maintain the resale price
of their products by refusing to sell to the Company or to other purchasers that
do not adhere to suggested retail prices. To date, the Company believes that  it
has not been materially affected by its inability to purchase directly from such
manufacturers.  Both federal and state legislation is proposed from time to time
which, if enacted,  would restrict the  Company's ability to  purchase goods  or
extend the application of laws enabling the establishment of minimum prices. The
Company  cannot predict  the effect  on its  business of  the enactment  of such
federal or state legislation.

DESCRIPTION OF THE EXCHANGE TRANSACTION

    On July 28, 1994, PriceCostco entered into an Agreement of Transfer and Plan
of Exchange (as  amended and  restated, the "Transfer  and Exchange  Agreement")
with  Price  Enterprises, Inc.,  ("Price Enterprises").  Price Enterprises  is a
Delaware corporation and an  indirect, wholly owned  subsidiary of the  Company.
The  transactions  contemplated  by  the  Transfer  and  Exchange  Agreement are
hereinafter referred to as the "Exchange Transaction."

    Pursuant to  the Transfer  and Exchange  Agreement and  upon the  terms  and
subject  to  the conditions  set forth  in  an Offering  Circular/Prospectus and
related Letter of Transmittal (which will  be mailed to stock holders of  record
of    the    Company's   common    stock),   the    Company   will    offer   to


exchange one share of common stock of Price Enterprises for each share of common
stock of the Company, up to a maximum of 27 million shares of Price  Enterprises
common  stock (constituting all  of the outstanding  shares of Price Enterprises
common stock) (the "Exchange Offer"). The Company currently anticipates that the
Exchange Offer  will  be  commenced  prior  to the  end  of  November  1994.  In
connection  therewith,  the  Offering  Circular/Prospectus  and  the  Letter  of
Transmittal, which will  describe the  Exchange Transaction in  detail, will  be
mailed  to such holders. If more than  27 million shares of the Company's common
stock are validly tendered and not withdrawn in the Exchange Offer prior to  the
expiration thereof, then, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth
in such Offering Circular/Prospectus and such related Letter of Transmittal, the
Company  will accept  27 million shares  for exchange  on a pro  rata basis, and
shares of Price Enterprises common stock will be exchanged therefor.

    If the number of  shares of the Company's  common stock validly tendered  in
the  Exchange Offer by holders  of the Company's common  stock is less than 21.6
million, the Company will accept such  validly tendered shares for exchange  and
will  distribute the remaining shares of Price Enterprises common stock pro rata
to the Company's stockholders. If the  number of shares of the Company's  common
stock  validly tendered in the Exchange Offer  is greater than 21.6 million, but
less than 27 million, the Company  will accept such validly tendered shares  for
exchange  and will, at its option, either (i) distribute the remaining shares of
Price Enterprises common stock  pro rata to the  Company's stockholders or  (ii)
sell  such remaining  shares to Price  Enterprises in exchange  for a promissory
note.

    Pursuant to the Transfer and Exchange Agreement, as of August 28, 1994,  the
Company  caused  to be  transferred,  or, in  certain  cases, will  cause  to be
transferred, to Price Enterprises certain assets, including the following:

        (a) certain  commercial  real  estate  specified  in  the  Transfer  and
    Exchange  Agreement  that was  not integral  to the  Company's merchandising
    operations (the "Commercial Properties");

        (b)  real  estate  comprising  four  of  the  Company's  warehouse  club
    facilities  (which are adjacent to  existing Commercial Properties) that are
    being leased back  to the Company  effective August 29,  1994 at  collective
    annual rentals of approximately $8.6 million;

        (c)  commercial real estate known as 4455 and 4649 Morena Boulevard, San
    Diego, California;

        (d) 51% of  the outstanding capital  stock of each  of Price Global  and
    Price Quest (as defined and described below);

        (e)  a note in the principal amount of $41 million made by Atlas Hotels,
    Inc., secured  by  hotel  and  convention  center  property  in  San  Diego,
    California ("Atlas Note"); and

        (f)  notes receivable with an aggregate  book value of approximately $32
    million, which were  originally made and  delivered by various  governmental
    agencies  in  connection  with  the  financing  and  development  of certain
    warehouse club and adjacent real estate sites.

    The Company  and  Price Enterprises  have  caused  to be  formed  a  limited
liability  company, Mexico Clubs,  L.L.C. ("Mexico Clubs")  of which the Company
and Price Enterprises own 49% and  51% interests, respectively. The Company  has
caused  to  be  formed  two corporations,  Price  Global  Trading,  Inc. ("Price
Global") and Price Quest, Inc. ("Price Quest" which, together with Mexico  Clubs
comprise the "Subsidiary Corporations". The Company has caused to be transferred
and delivered to:

        (a)  Mexico  Clubs: (i)  all shares  of capital  stock of  Price Venture
    Mexico owned,  directly  or  indirectly,  by the  Company;  (ii)  all  other
    noncurrent  assets of the Company  and its subsidiaries specifically related
    to the  conduct  of business  in  Mexico;  and (iii)  certain  other  assets
    (collectively,  the  "Mexico  Assets");  provided,  however,  that  the term
    "Mexico Assets" does not include (A) the


    Agreement between  Price, Price  Venture Mexico  and Controladora  Comercial
    Mexicana,  S.A. de  C.V. to  form a Corporate  Joint Venture  dated June 21,
    1991, (B) any  right, title or  interest in  or to the  names "Price  Club,"
    "Price Club Costco" or "PriceCostco" and (C) any computer software.

        (b)  Price Global: (i) the  right to develop a  Club Business in certain
    international areas specified  in the Transfer  and Exchange Agreement  (the
    "Specified  Geographical Areas"); (ii)  all shares of  capital stock of Club
    Merchandising, Inc. owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company; (iii) all
    right, title and interest to, or,  in certain cases, a long-term license  to
    use,  the names "Price Club," "Price Club Costco" and "Price Costco" in each
    of the Specified Geographical Areas (other than Mexico); and (iv) all  other
    noncurrent  assets of  the Company  and its  subsidiaries (other  than those
    included in Club Merchandising, Inc.) specifically related to the conduct of
    business  in   the   Specified   Geographical   Areas   (collectively,   the
    "International Assets"); and

        (c)  Price Quest: (i) all of the noncurrent assets of the Company or any
    of its subsidiaries specifically related to the business and operations then
    conducted by the Company through  its Quest interactive electronic  shopping
    business,  together with Price Club Travel,  Price Club Realty and the Price
    Club automobile  advertising/referral business;  (ii) all  right, title  and
    interest,  if any,  of the  Company or  any of  its subsidiaries  to, or, in
    certain cases, a long-term license to use, the names "Price Club Quest"  and
    "Quest"; and (iii) certain other assets (collectively, the "Quest Assets").

    As  used  herein,  the  term "Club  Business"  refers  to  any merchandising
activity utilizing 70,000  square feet or  more in a  single location  operating
with membership and selling food and non-food items through a central check-out.

    Each  of Price Global and Price Quest  issued 100 shares of its common stock
to Price, which constitutes  all of the outstanding  capital stock of each  such
Subsidiary  Corporation.  As  of  August  28, 1994,  the  Company  caused  to be
transferred to Price  Enterprises 51  shares of common  stock of  each of  Price
Global  and Price  Quest, representing 51%  of the outstanding  capital stock of
each such Subsidiary Corporation.

    As part of the Exchange Transaction, the Company and Price, on the one hand,
and Price Enterprises  and each of  the Subsidiary Corporations,  on the  other,
have   entered  into  Operating  Agreements  to  clarify  the  ongoing  business
relationship between the Company and the respective Subsidiary Corporations. The
Company and  Price,  on  the  one hand,  have  also  entered  into  Stockholders
Agreements  with Price Enterprises and each of  Price Global and Price Quest, on
the other, to clarify  certain rights and obligations  of the Company and  Price
Enterprises as stockholders of Price Global and Price Quest.

    Price  and Price Enterprises  have entered into  a Limited Liability Company
Agreement with  respect  to  Mexico  Clubs  which  sets  forth  the  rights  and
obligations  of  each  of  Price  and  Price  Enterprises  with  respect  to its
membership interest in Mexico Clubs.

    Also in  connection with  the Exchange  Transaction, the  Company and  Price
Enterprises  entered into an  unsecured revolving credit  agreement, dated as of
August 28, 1994  (the "Advance Agreement"),  pursuant to which  the Company  has
agreed  to advance to Price Enterprises up  to a maximum principal amount of $85
million (reduced by an amount equal to the net proceeds from the sale of any  of
the Commercial Properties between August 28, 1994 and the date of the closing of
the  Exchange Transaction  (the "Closing  Date")) from  time to  time during the
period from August 28, 1994  until six months following  the earlier of (A)  the
Closing Date and (B) the date on which Price Enterprises stock is distributed to
stockholders  of the Company.  The interest rate under  the Advance Agreement is
the weighted average commercial paper rate  on borrowings by the Company  during
each  four-week period  (including, without  limitation, amortization  of lender
commitment fees and other  costs associated with the  backup line of credit  and
all  miscellaneous costs and fees), or  if commercial paper is unavailable under
the Company's  commercial paper  program, the  bank rate  on borrowings  by  the
Company  pursuant  to its  working capital  credit facility  (including, without
limitation, amortization of  lender commitment fees  and other costs  associated
with such credit facility and all miscellaneous costs and fees).


    Pursuant  to the Transfer and Exchange  Agreement, upon the earlier to occur
of the Closing Date and the date  that shares of Price Enterprises common  stock
are  distributed to  holders of  the Company's common  stock, the  Bylaws of the
Company will be amended to delete the corporate governance provisions that  were
enacted  as part  of the Merger  to require that  the Board of  Directors of the
Company and certain committees of the Board  be comprised of an equal number  of
Price  Designees and Costco  Designees (as such  terms are hereinafter defined).
The form of  such Bylaws,  as amended,  is filed as  an Exhibit  to this  Annual
Report  on Form  10-K. In  addition, at  the Closing  Date, without  any further
action on behalf of the Company or Price Enterprises, the resignations of all of
the Price  Designees from  the Board  of Directors  of the  Company, other  than
Richard  M. Libenson and Duane Nelles  (which resignations were submitted to the
Board of Directors  of the  Company on July  28, 1994),  will become  effective.
Pursuant  to the Transfer and Exchange Agreement, unless removed for cause, each
of Messrs. Libenson  and Nelles shall  serve on  the Board of  Directors of  the
Company  until the earlier of (i) the  date two years following the Closing Date
and (ii) such time  as Sol Price  and Robert Price and  their affiliates in  the
aggregate  cease to beneficially own at  least two million shares of PriceCostco
Common Stock (including any such  shares owned by charitable trusts  established
by either of them).

    As  used in the Bylaws of the Company, "Price Designees" means those persons
specified by Price as initial members of  the Board of Directors of the  Company
as   of  the  effective  time  of  the  Merger,  or  their  direct  or  indirect
replacements. The  current  Price Designees  are  J. Paul  Kinloch,  Richard  M.
Libenson,  Mitchell G. Lynn, Duane Nelles (who  was elected to the Board on July
28, 1994 following the  resignation of Joseph K.  Kornwasser), Paul A.  Peterson
and  Robert E. Price. As  used in the Bylaws  of the Company, "Costco Designees"
means those  persons specified  by Costco  as initial  members of  the Board  of
Directors of the Company as of the effective time of the Merger, or their direct
or  indirect replacements. The current Costco  Designees are Jeffrey H. Brotman,
Daniel Bernard, Richard D. DiCerchio, Hamilton E. James, John W. Meisenbach  and
James D. Sinegal.

FUTURE OPERATIONS
    Expansion  plans for the United States and  Canada during fiscal 1995 are to
open 30-35 new warehouse clubs. The  Company also expects to continue  expansion
of its international operations. The Company opened two warehouses in the United
Kingdom  through a 60%-owned  subsidiary, with a  third location due  to open in
June 1995. In  October 1994,  under a  licensing agreement  with PriceCostco,  a
Price   Club  opened  in  Seoul,  Korea.   Other  markets  are  being  assessed,
particularly in the Pacific  Rim. As a result  of the Exchange Transaction,  the
Company's 50% ownership interest in the Mexican joint venture was transferred to
Mexico  Clubs in which the Company owns a  49% interest. See "Part I -- Business
- -- Description of the Exchange Transaction." As of August 28, 1994, there were 8
Price Clubs operating in  Mexico through such joint  venture. As of October  31,
1994,  there were 10 Price Clubs operating  in Mexico through such joint venture
with one more scheduled to open prior to December 31, 1994.

    While there can be no assurance  that current expectations will be  realized
and  plans are subject to change upon further review, it is management's current
intention to spend an  aggregate of approximately $600  million to $700  million
during  fiscal 1995: for real estate, building and equipment for warehouse clubs
and related operations (including remodels and expansions) in the United  States
and  Canada; for international expansion, including additional investment in the
United Kingdom and other potential ventures; and for activities such as business
delivery and ancillary business operations.

    While the  availability  of  capital  resources  cannot  be  predicted  with
certainty  and is dependent upon a  number of factors, including factors outside
of the Company's control, management believes that the Company's earnings,  cash
flow,  and financing  capacity should  be adequate  to fund  ongoing operations,
proposed expansion and other planned development efforts.

    As a result of the Exchange Transaction, the Company will own a 49% interest
in each of the Mexico Assets, the International Assets and the Quest Assets. See
"Description of the Exchange Transaction" above.


ITEM 2 -- PROPERTIES

WAREHOUSE PROPERTIES

    At August 28,  1994, PriceCostco operated  warehouse clubs in  21 states,  7
Canadian  provinces and  the United Kingdom  under the "Price  Club" and "Costco
Wholesale" names. The following is a  summary of owned and leased warehouses  by
state and province:

                              NUMBER OF WAREHOUSES






    The following schedule shows warehouse openings (net of warehouse  closings)
by region for the past five fiscal years and expected openings (net of closings)
through December 31, 1994:



    The  Company's  home  offices  and  headquarters  are  located  in Kirkland,
Washington and  San Diego,  California. Following  consumation of  the  Exchange
Transaction,  the Company will no longer maintain a home office and headquarters
in San Diego,  California. Additionally, the  Company maintains regional  buying
and  administrative offices, operates regional  cross-docking facilities for the
consolidation and  distribution  of  certain shipments  to  the  warehouses  and
operates  various  processing  and  packaging  facilities  to  support ancillary
businesses.

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS -- NON-CLUB REAL ESTATE SEGMENT

    As a result  of the  Exchange Transaction, the  Company's business  consists
primarily  of its warehouse club operations in the United States, Canada and the
United Kingdom, and the Company has  ceased to have any significant real  estate
activities that are not directly related to its warehouse club business.

ITEM 3 -- LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

    On  April 6, 1992, Price  was served with a  complaint in an action entitled
FECHT ET  AL. V.  THE  PRICE COMPANY  ET AL.,  Case  No. 92-497,  United  States
District  Court, Southern District of California (the "Court"). Subsequently, on
April 22, 1992, Price was served with  a first amended complaint in the  action.
The  case was dismissed without prejudice by the Court on September 21, 1992, on
the grounds  the plaintiffs  had  failed to  state  a sufficient  claim  against
defendants.

    Subsequently,  plaintiffs  filed a  Second Amended  Complaint which,  in the
opinion of the Company's  counsel, alleged substantially the  same facts as  the
prior  complaint. The case was dismissed with prejudice by the Court on March 9,
1993, on grounds the plaintiffs had  failed to state a sufficient claim  against
defendants.  Plaintiffs  have filed  an  Appeal in  the  Ninth Circuit  Court of
Appeals, which was argued on October 4, 1994. The Company is currently  awaiting
a Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals decision. If the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals
renders a decision that is adverse to the Company, the Company will continue its
vigorous  defense of the  suit. The Company  does not believe  that the ultimate
outcome of such litigation will have a material adverse effect on the  Company's
financial position or results of operations.


    The  Company  is  involved from  time  to  time in  claims,  proceedings and
litigation arising from its  business and property  ownership. The Company  does
not  believe that any such  claim, proceeding or litigation,  either alone or in
the aggregate, will have  a material adverse effect  on the Company's  financial
position or results of operations.

ITEM 4 -- SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

    The Company's annual meeting is scheduled for 10:00 a.m. on January 27, 1995
at  the Bellevue  Inn in Bellevue,  Washington. Matters  to be voted  on will be
included in the Company's  proxy statement to be  filed with the Securities  and
Exchange Commission and distributed to stockholders prior to the meeting.

ITEM 4A -- EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    The  following is a list  of the names, ages  and positions of the executive
officers of the registrant.



    Robert E. Price has been the Chairman of the Board of PriceCostco since  the
Merger,  although he has tendered his resignation effective as of the earlier of
(i) the Closing  Date and (ii)  the date  on which shares  of Price  Enterprises
common stock are distributed to stockholders of PriceCostco (see "Description of
the  Exchange Transaction").  He was Chief  Executive Officer and  a director of
Price since 1976, and was Chairman of the Board of Price since January 1989. Mr.
Price was President of Price from 1976 until December 1990.

    James D.  Sinegal has  been the  President, Chief  Executive Officer  and  a
director  of PriceCostco since the Merger.  He was President and Chief Operating
Officer of Costco since its inception and was elected Chief Executive Officer in
August 1988. Mr.  Sinegal is  a co-founder  of Costco  and a  director of  Price
Enterprises.

    Jeffrey  H.  Brotman is  a native  of the  Pacific Northwest  and is  a 1967
graduate of the University  of Washington Law School.  Mr. Brotman has been  the
Vice  Chairman of the Board of PriceCostco since  the Merger. He is a founder of
Costco and a number of other specialty retail chains. Mr. Brotman is a  director
of Seafirst Bank; Carrefour, U.S.; Starbucks Corp.; The Sweet Factory and Garden
Botanika.

    Mitchell  G. Lynn served  as Senior Executive  Vice President of PriceCostco
from the Merger until mid July 1994 and has been a director of PriceCostco since
the Merger, although he has tendered his resignation effective as of the earlier
of (i) the Closing Date and (ii)  the date on which shares of Price  Enterprises
common stock are distributed to stockholders of PriceCostco (see "Description of
the


Exchange Transaction"). He has been President of Price since December 1990 and a
director  of Price since January 1991,  although he has tendered his resignation
as an officer  and director  of Price  effective as of  the earlier  of (i)  the
Closing Date and (ii) the date on which shares of Price Enterprises common stock
are  distributed  to  stockholders  of PriceCostco.  Mr.  Lynn  joined  Price as
Controller in September 1979  and became a Vice  President in 1984. From  August
1989  to December  1990 Mr. Lynn  was an  Executive Vice President  of Price and
President of Price Club Industries, a division of Price.

    Richard D. DiCerchio  has been  Executive Vice  President --  Merchandising,
Distribution,  Construction and Marketing  of PriceCostco since  the Merger and,
until mid August 1994 also served  as Executive Vice President, Chief  Operating
Officer  -- Northern Division. He was elected Chief Operating Officer -- Western
Region of Costco  in August 1992  and was elected  Executive Vice President  and
Director  of Costco in April  1986. From June 1985 to  April 1986, he was Senior
Vice President, Merchandising  of Costco.  He joined Costco  as Vice  President,
Operations in May 1983.

    Richard  A. Galanti  has been Executive  Vice President  and Chief Financial
Officer of PriceCostco  since the Merger.  He was Senior  Vice President,  Chief
Financial  Officer and  Treasurer of  Costco since  January 1985,  having joined
Costco as Vice President -- Finance in  March 1985. From 1978 to February  1984,
Mr.  Galanti  was  an Associate  with  Donaldson, Lufkin  &  Jenrette Securities
Corporation.

    Franz E. Lazarus has been Executive Vice President, Chief Operating  Officer
- --  Northern Division of PriceCostco since August 1994 and had previously served
as Executive Vice President, Chief  Operating Officer -- Eastern Division  since
the  Merger. He was  named Executive Vice President,  Chief Operating Officer --
East Coast Operations  of Costco in  August 1992. Mr.  Lazarus joined Costco  in
November 1983 and has held various positions prior to his current position.

    David B. Loge has been an Executive Vice President -- PriceCostco Industries
since  August 1994. Mr. Loge joined Price as a Director of Price Club Industries
in March 1989 and  became Vice President  of Price and  President of Price  Club
Industries in December 1990. Prior to joining Price, he served as Vice President
of Operations of Sundale Beverage in Belmont, California.

    Edward  B. Maron has been Executive  Vice President, Chief Operating Officer
- -- Canadian Division of  PriceCostco since the Merger.  He had been Senior  Vice
President,  Canadian Division  of Costco  since April  1990. He  previously held
various management positions since joining Costco in June 1985.

    Joseph P. Portera has been Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer
- -- Eastern  Division of  Price Costco  since August,  1994. He  was Senior  Vice
President-Operations,  Northern California  Region from October,  1993 to August
1994.  From  August  1991  to  October   1993  he  was  Senior  Vice   President
Merchandising  -- Non  Foods of  Costco, and  held various  management positions
since joining Costco in April 1984.

    Steven A. Velazquez  was Executive  Vice President --  Quest of  PriceCostco
from  the Merger through early November  1994, overseeing the development of the
Quest  business.  He  is  currently   an  Executive  Vice  President  of   Price
Enterprises.  He joined Price as a buyer  in July 1981, became Vice President in
February 1989, and  became Executive  Vice President of  Merchandising in  April
1990.  Prior to joining Price, Mr. Velazquez was a buyer for Safeway Stores, San
Diego Division.

    Theodore  Wallace  was   Executive  Vice  President   --  International   of
PriceCostco   from   the  Merger   through   early  November   1994,  overseeing
international expansion into the Pacific rim and other markets. He is  currently
an  Executive  Vice  President  of  Price  Enterprises.  Mr.  Wallace  became an
Executive Vice President of Price in 1984 and, from 1988 until Fall 1992, he was
Chief Operating Officer (East Coast) of Price.  He was a director of Price  from
October  1988  to  October 1993.  He  joined  Price as  a  warehouse  manager in
September 1977 and was its Vice President of Operations from 1983 to 1988.

    Dennis R. Zook has been Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer --
Southern Division  of  PriceCostco  since  the Merger.  He  was  Executive  Vice
President  of Price since February 1989. Mr.  Zook became Vice President of West
Coast Operations  of Price  in October  1988.  He joined  Price as  a  warehouse
manager in October 1982.


                                    PART II

ITEM 5 -- MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

    In  the Merger,  which occurred  on October 21,  1993, each  share of common
stock, par value $.10 per share,  of Price ("Price Common Stock") was  exchanged
for  2.13 shares of PriceCostco Common Stock and each share of common stock, par
value $.0033 per share, of Costco ("Costco Common Stock") was exchanged for  one
share of PriceCostco Common Stock.

    Prior to October 21, 1993, Price Common Stock was quoted on The Nasdaq Stock
Market's  National Market  under the symbol  "PCLB" and Costco  Common Stock was
quoted on The  Nasdaq Stock Market's  National Market under  the symbol  "COST."
Trading  in PriceCostco Common Stock commenced  on October 22, 1993. PriceCostco
Common Stock is quoted  on The Nasdaq Stock  Market's National Market under  the
symbol "PCCW."

    The  following table sets forth the high and low sales prices of PriceCostco
Common Stock for the period October 22, 1993 through October 31, 1994, and Price
Common Stock and Costco Common Stock  for the periods indicated. The  quotations
are as reported in published financial sources.



    All  Costco common  share data  has been  adjusted to  reflect a two-for-one
stock split effected  April 30, 1991  and a three-for-two  stock split  effected
March 6, 1992. All Price common share data has been adjusted to reflect the 2.13
exchange ratio in the Merger.

    On  October 31, 1994, the last reported sales price per share of PriceCostco
Common Stock was  $15.75. On  October 31,  1994, the  Company had  approximately
13,811 stockholders of record.


                                DIVIDEND POLICY

    PriceCostco  does  not pay  regular dividends  and  does not  anticipate the
declaration of a cash dividend in the forseeable future. Under its two revolving
credit agreements, PriceCostco is  generally permitted to  pay dividends in  any
fiscal year up to an amount equal to 50% of its consolidated net income for that
fiscal year.

ITEM 6 -- SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

                     SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA

    The following tables set forth selected financial and operating data for the
ten  fiscal years in  the period ended  August 28, 1994  for PriceCostco, giving
effect to the  Merger using  the pooling-of-interests method  of accounting  and
treating  the non-club  real estate  segment as  a discontinued  operation. This
selected financial and operating data should be read in conjunction with "Item 7
- -- Management's Discussion and  Analysis of Financial  Condition and Results  of
Operations,"  consolidated financial statements of  PriceCostco for fiscal 1994.
As  discussed  in   "Notes  To  Consolidated   Financial  Statements,"   certain
adjustments  and reclassifications have been made  to conform the two companies'
accounting practices.


                               PRICE/COSTCO, INC.
                      SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA
                 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)



                               PRICE/COSTCO, INC.
                      SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA
          (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT WAREHOUSE AND PER SHARE DATA)



ITEM 7 -- MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
          RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

COMPARISON OF FISCAL 1994 (52 WEEKS) AND FISCAL 1993 (52 WEEKS):
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT EARNINGS PER SHARE)

    Net operating results for fiscal 1994 reflect a net loss of $112,368 or $.51
per  share (fully diluted), as compared to fiscal 1993 net income of $223,247 or
$1.00 per share  (fully diluted).  This loss includes  the previously  announced
provision  for merger  and restructuring costs  of $120,000  pre-tax ($80,000 or
$.36 per share  after tax) related  to the  Merger. The Merger  was approved  by
Price  and Costco  shareholders on  October 21, 1993.  The fiscal  1994 net loss
includes a $40,766 or $.19 per share loss from discontinued operations, compared
to income of $20,404 or $.08 per share in fiscal 1993. The fiscal 1994 loss from
discontinued operations includes a provision of $80,500 pre-tax ($47,500 or $.22
per share after tax) arising from a change in accounting estimates caused by the
Exchange Transaction. In addition, the fiscal 1994 net loss includes a charge of
$182,500, or $.83 per  share, reflecting the estimated  loss on disposal of  the
discontinued non-club real estate operations.

    CONTINUING OPERATIONS

    Income  from continuing operations for fiscal  1994 was $110,898 or $.51 per
share, compared to income from continuing operations for fiscal 1993 of $202,843
or $.92  per share.  Excluding  the $120,000  pre-tax merger  and  restructuring
charge,  income  from  continuing operations  for  fiscal 1994  would  have been
$190,898 or $.87 per share.

    Net sales increased 6.6% to $16,160,911  in fiscal 1994 from $15,154,685  in
fiscal  1993. This  increase was  due to:  (i) first  year sales  at the  29 new
warehouses opened during fiscal 1994, which  increase was partially offset by  8
warehouses  closed during fiscal 1994 that were in operation during fiscal 1993;
and (ii) increased sales at thirty-seven warehouses that were opened in 1993 and
that were  in operation  for the  entire 1994  fiscal year,  which increase  was
partially  offset by  lower sales at  existing locations opened  prior to fiscal
1993. Changes in prices did not materially impact sales levels.

    Comparable sales, that is sales in warehouses open for at least a year, were
a negative 3% annual rate  in fiscal 1994 -- similar  to the negative 3%  annual
rate during fiscal 1993. The negative rate of comparable sales was attributed to
several factors, including the following: the effect of sales cannibalization by
opening  additional  warehouses in  existing  markets; increased  competition in
several markets; deflation in several  merchandise categories; a generally  poor
economic environment, especially in California; and a weak Canadian dollar where
the  Company  derived  16%  and  15%  of net  sales  in  fiscal  1994  and 1993,
respectively.

    Membership fees and other revenue increased 3.4% from $309,129, or 2.04%  of
net  sales, in fiscal  1993 to $319,732, or  1.98% of net  sales in fiscal 1994.
This increase reflects membership signups at the twenty-nine new warehouses  and
the partial year effect of membership fee increases implemented in January 1994.
As  anticipated, the  Company experienced  a decline  in membership  renewals at
existing warehouses due to overlapping memberships and offering Price and Costco
members reciprocal member  privileges effective November  1, 1993. The  negative
impact of the reciprocal member privileges on membership fee revenue is expected
to be a less significant factor after November 1994.

    Gross  margin (defined as net sales  minus merchandise costs) increased 6.7%
from $1,403,532, or 9.26% of net sales in fiscal 1993 to $1,498,020, or 9.27% of
net sales  in fiscal  1994.  The gross  margin  figures reflect  accounting  for
merchandise  inventory costs on the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method. For fiscal
1994 there  was a  $2,600 LIFO  benefit or  $.01 per  share (fully  diluted)  to
increase  income after  tax due to  the use of  the LIFO method  compared to the
first-in, first-out (FIFO)  method. This compares  to a $5,350  LIFO benefit  or
$.01 per share (fully diluted) in fiscal 1993.

    Selling,  general  and administrative  expenses as  a  percent of  net sales
increased from 8.67% during fiscal 1993 to 8.82% during fiscal 1994,  reflecting
a  combination  of comparable  unit  sales decreases  in  the 200  warehouses in
operation  during   both  fiscal   periods;  higher   expense  ratios   at   the


29   units  opened  during  fiscal  1994   (newer  units  generally  operate  at
significantly lower annual sales volumes than mature units and, therefore, incur
higher expense ratios than mature units); and higher expense factors  associated
with certain ancillary operations.

    Preopening expenses totaled $24,564 or 0.15% of net sales during fiscal 1994
and  $28,172 or 0.19% of  net sales during fiscal  1993. During fiscal 1994, the
Company opened 29 new  warehouses compared to opening  37 new warehouses  during
fiscal 1993.

    The  Company recorded  a pre-tax  provision for  warehouse closing  costs of
$7,500 or $.02 per  share on an after-tax  basis (fully diluted). The  provision
includes  $5,750  (pre-tax)  related  to  settlement  of  a  lease  dispute  and
additional closing costs related to warehouse  clubs closed in prior years,  and
$1,750  (pre-tax) related to the estimated closing costs of six warehouses which
were or will be replaced by new  warehouses by December 31, 1994. This  compares
to $5,000 (pre-tax) or .01 per share in fiscal 1993.

    Interest  expense totaled $46,116 in fiscal 1993 and $50,472 in fiscal 1994.
In both fiscal years interest expense was  incurred as a result of the  interest
on  the convertible  subordinated debentures and  interest on  borrowings on the
Company's bank lines and commercial paper programs.

    Interest income and  other totaled $17,750  in fiscal 1993,  and $13,888  in
fiscal  1994.  This  decrease  was primarily  due  to  lower  average investment
balances and lower interest rates.

    The effective income tax rate (excluding the merger and restructuring charge
and loss on disposal of the discontinued operations) on earnings in fiscal  1994
was  41.0%, compared to 39.7% in the  prior year. The Company's effective income
tax rate increased  due to a  higher federal statutory  rate implemented in  the
Company's  fourth quarter of fiscal 1993 and by changes in the impact of foreign
operations on the effective tax rate.

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

    The loss on discontinued real  estate operations (net of operating  expenses
and taxes) includes the results of income producing properties, gains on sale of
property,  interest income and  a provision of $90,200  pre-tax of which $80,500
pre-tax ($47,500  after  tax or  or  $.22 per  share)  relates to  a  change  in
calculating  estimated losses for assets which are considered to be economically
impaired. This change in accounting estimates  results from the spin-off of  the
real  estate  segment  assets  into Price  Enterprises,  and  Price Enterprises'
decision to  pursue business  plans and  operating strategies  as a  stand-alone
entity  which are  significantly different than  the strategies  of the Company.
Specifically,  Price  Enterprises'  management  believes  that  as  a   separate
operating business it will not have the same access to capital as the Company or
generate internal funds from operations to the same extent as the Company.

    PriceCostco's  accounting policies with respect  to estimating the amount of
impairments on individual real  estate properties and  related assets such  that
impairment  losses if the  carrying amount of  the asset could  not be recovered
from estimated future  cash flows  on an undiscounted  basis. Price  Enterprises
management  believes that in view  of its strategies with  respect to the number
and nature of properties  that would be selected  for potential disposition,  it
would  be more appropriate to estimate impairment losses based on fair values of
the real estate properties  as determined by  appraisals and/or a  risk-adjusted
discounted cash flow approach. In determining impairment losses, individual real
estate  assets were  reduced to estimated  fair value, if  lower than historical
cost. For those assets which have an estimated fair value in excess of cost, the
asset continues to  be recorded  at cost. The  impairment losses  recorded as  a
result  of this change in accounting estimates reduced the book basis of certain
of the real estate and related assets.

    The loss on disposal of the discontinued real estate operations of  $182,500
or  $.83 per share, reflected  in the fourth quarter  of fiscal 1994, relates to
the transfer of the Company's  commercial real estate operations, together  with
certain  other assets, to Price Enterprises as part of the Exchange Transaction.
For a  description of  the Exchange  Transaction,  see "Part  I --  Business  --
Description of


the  Exchange Transaction."  The estimated loss  on disposal  is a non-recurring
special charge calculated as the difference between the aggregate book value  of
the  net assets being spun-off of $579,000  and the estimated market value of 27
million shares  of  Price  Enterprises  common stock  of  $411,750  plus  direct
transaction costs of approximately $15,250. The Exchange Transaction is expected
to  close before the end of the calendar  year, at which time the estimated loss
on disposal will be adjusted  to actual. For a  more detailed discussion of  the
estimated  loss on disposal and  the factors that will  affect the amount of any
adjustment to the loss after  the Transaction is completed,  see Note 3 --  Spin
off of Price Enterprises, Inc. and Discontinued Operations.

COMPARISON OF FISCAL 1993 (52 WEEKS) AND FISCAL 1992 (52 WEEKS):
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT EARNINGS PER SHARE)

    Net  income during fiscal 1993 decreased 8%  to $223,247, or $1.00 per share
(fully diluted), as compared to fiscal 1992 net income of $242,407 or $1.06  per
share (fully diluted).

    CONTINUING OPERATIONS

    Income  from continuing operations for fiscal  1993 was $202,843 or $.92 per
share, compared to fiscal 1992 income from continuing operations of $223,022  or
$.98 per share.

    Net  sales increased 10%  to $15,154,685 in fiscal  1993 from $13,820,380 in
fiscal 1992. This increase was due to: (i) first year sales at the  thirty-seven
new warehouses opened during fiscal 1993; and (ii) increased sales at thirty-one
warehouses  that were opened in  1992 and that were  in operation for the entire
fiscal year, which  increase was  partially offset  by lower  sales at  existing
locations  opened prior  to fiscal  1992. Changes  in prices  did not materially
affect sales levels.

    Comparable sales, that  is sales  in warehouses open  for at  least a  year,
trended  downward in fiscal 1993 -- from a positive 6% annual rate during fiscal
1992, to a negative  3% annual rate  during fiscal 1993.  The declining rate  of
comparable sales was attributed to several factors, including the following: the
effect  of sales  cannibalization by  opening additional  warehouses in existing
markets;  increased  competition  in  several  markets;  deflation  in   several
merchandise  categories; a  generally poor  economic environment,  especially in
California; and a weak Canadian dollar where the Company derived 15% and 14%  of
net sales in fiscal 1993 and 1992, respectively.

    Membership  fees and other revenue increased  12% from $276,998, or 2.00% of
net sales, in fiscal  1992 to $309,129,  or 2.04% of net  sales in fiscal  1993.
This   increase  reflects  a  continued   strong  membership  base  at  existing
warehouses, membership signups at the thirty-seven new warehouses and annualized
effect of  membership fee  increases in  certain markets  implemented in  fiscal
1992.

    Gross  margin (defined as  net sales minus  merchandise costs) increased 12%
from $1,254,917, or 9.08% of net sales in fiscal 1992 to $1,403,532, or 9.26% of
net sales in fiscal 1993. The increased gross margin reflects improved shrinkage
control  and  improved  buying  and  distribution  techniques  afforded  by  the
Company's  increased sales  volume, as  well as  increased levels  of sales from
ancillary businesses (pharmacy,  one-hour photo,  print shop,  optical and  food
services),  which carry  a higher  than average  gross margin.  The gross margin
figures reflect  accounting  for merchandise  inventory  costs on  the  last-in,
first-out (LIFO) method. For fiscal 1993 there was a $5,350 LIFO benefit or $.01
per  share (fully diluted)  to increase income after  tax due to  the use of the
LIFO method compared to the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. This compares  to
a $300 LIFO provision in fiscal 1992.

    Selling,  general  and administrative  expenses as  a  percent of  net sales
increased from 8.17% during fiscal 1992 to 8.67% during fiscal 1993,  reflecting
a  combination  of comparable  unit  sales decreases  in  the 170  warehouses in
operation during both  fiscal periods;  higher expense  ratios at  the 37  units
opened  during fiscal 1993 (newer units generally operate at significantly lower
annual sales  volumes than  mature units  and, therefore,  incur higher  expense
ratios  than mature units);  and higher expense  factors associated with certain
ancillary operations.


    Preopening expenses totaled $25,595 or 0.19% of net sales during fiscal 1992
and $28,172 or 0.19% of  net sales during fiscal  1993. During fiscal 1993,  the
Company  opened 37 new  warehouses. The Company opened  31 new warehouses during
fiscal 1992.

    During fiscal 1993,  the Company  announced and closed  four warehouses  and
completed  the closing  and relocation of  three warehouses  announced in fiscal
1992. The costs associated with closing the four warehouses announced in  fiscal
1993  will be approximately $5,000, or $.01  per share (fully diluted), and this
amount was  recognized as  anticipated  warehouse closing  costs in  the  fourth
quarter of fiscal 1993. This compares to $2,000 in fiscal 1992, when the Company
announced  the closing of two warehouses,  relocated one warehouse and announced
the planned relocation of another warehouse.

    Interest expense totaled $35,525 in fiscal 1992 and $46,116 in fiscal  1993.
In  fiscal 1992 interest expense was incurred as a result of the interest on the
convertible subordinated debentures and interest on borrowings on the  Company's
bank lines. Fiscal 1993 includes a full year of interest expense on the $300,000
5  3/4% convertible subordinated debentures which  accounted for the increase in
interest expense compared to fiscal 1992.

    Interest income and  other totaled $28,958  in fiscal 1992,  and $17,750  in
fiscal  1993.  This  decrease  was primarily  due  to  lower  average investment
balances and lower interest rates.

    The effective income tax rate on earnings in fiscal 1993 was 39.7%, compared
to 39.5% the prior year. The  Company's effective income tax rate increased  due
to  a higher federal statutory rate  implemented in the Company's fourth quarter
of 1993 offset by changes in state and foreign effective rates.

    DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

    Discontinued real estate  operations (net of  operating expenses and  taxes)
includes the results of income producing properties as well as gains (losses) on
sales  of  property. Income  from discontinued  real  estate operations,  net of
income taxes, increased 5%  from $19,385 or  $0.08 per share  in fiscal 1992  to
$20,404  or $0.08  per share in  fiscal 1993. The  increase primarily represents
nonrecurring gains recognized on sale of properties of $21,500 in fiscal 1993 as
compared to $15,600 in fiscal 1992.

    RECENT SALES RESULTS

    PriceCostco's net sales  for the  eight-week period ended  October 23,  1994
were  approximately $2,520,000 an increase  of 11% from approximately $2,280,000
for the same eight-week  period of the prior  fiscal year. Comparable  warehouse
sales  (sales in warehouses open  for at least a  year) increased by one percent
during the eight-week period.

                        LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

    PriceCostco's primary requirement for capital is the financing of the  land,
building  and  equipment costs  for  new warehouses  plus  the costs  of initial
warehouse operations  and working  capital  requirements. PriceCostco  does  not
expect  to make significant  investments in non-club real  estate in the future.
Additional  capital  will  be  required  for  international  expansion   through
investments in foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures.

    In  fiscal 1994, cash  provided from operations  was approximately $248,000.
These funds,  combined  with  beginning  fiscal  year  balances  of  cash,  cash
equivalents   and  short-term  investments,  along  with  borrowings  under  the
Company's commercial paper program were  used to finance additions to  property,
equipment  for  warehouse  clubs  and related  operations  of  $475,000  and net
inventory investment (merchandise inventories less accounts payable) of  $66,000
and  other  investing  activities  related  primarily  to  non-club  real estate
investments and investments  in foreign joint  ventures, which together  totaled
$125,000.

    Expansion  plans for the United States and  Canada during fiscal 1995 are to
open 30-35 new warehouse clubs. The  Company also expects to continue  expansion
of its international operations.


The  Company opened  two warehouses  in the  United Kingdom  through a 60%-owned
subsidiary, with a third location  due to open in  June, 1995. In October  1994,
under  a licensing  agreement with  PriceCostco, a  Price Club  opened in Seoul,
Korea. Other markets are being assessed,  particularly in the Pacific Rim. As  a
result  of the Exchange Transaction, the Company's 50% ownership interest in the
Mexican joint venture was transferred to Mexico Clubs in which the Company  owns
a  49%  interest.  See  "Part  I --  Business  --  Description  of  the Exchange
Transaction." As  of August  28, 1994,  there were  8 Price  Clubs operating  in
Mexico  through such joint venture.  As of October 31,  1994, there are 10 Price
Clubs operating in Mexico through such joint venture with one more scheduled  to
open prior to December 31, 1994.

    While  there can be no assurance  that current expectations will be realized
and plans are subject to change upon further review, it is management's  current
intention  to spend  an aggregate of  approximately $500,000  to $600,000 during
fiscal 1995  in the  United States  and Canada  for real  estate,  construction,
remodeling  and  equipment  for  warehouse  clubs  and  related  operations; and
approximately $50,000  to $100,000  for international  expansion, including  the
United Kingdom and other potential ventures. These expenditures will be financed
with  a combination  of cash  provided from  operations, the  use of  cash, cash
equivalents and  short-term investments,  which totaled  $63,000 at  August  28,
1994;  short-term borrowings under revolving credit facilities and/or commercial
paper facilities; issuance  of long-term  debt; and other  financing sources  as
required.

    The  Company has a domestic multiple option loan facility with a group of 14
banks which provides for borrowings of up to $500,000 or for standby support for
a $500,000 commercial paper program. Of this amount, $250,000 expires on January
30, 1995, and $250,000 expires  on January 30, 1998.  The interest rate on  bank
borrowings is based on LIBOR or rates bid at auction by the participating banks.
At  August 28,  1994, in the  amount outstanding under  the Company's commercial
paper program was $149,340. The Company expects to renew the $250,000 portion of
the loan facility expiring on January 30, 1995, at substantially the same terms.

    In addition, the  Company's wholly-owned Canadian  subsidiary has a  $65,800
line  of credit with a group of three Canadian banks of which $29,200 expires on
December 1, 1994 (the short-term portion) and $36,600 expires in various amounts
through  December  1,  1996  (the  long-term  portion).  The  interest  rate  on
borrowings  is based  on the  prime rate or  the "Bankers'  Acceptance" rate. At
August 28, 1994, no amounts were  outstanding under these programs. The  Company
expects  to renew the $29,200 short-term portion  of the line of credit expiring
on December 1, 1994, at substantially the same terms.

    The Company has  separate letter  of credit facilities  (for commercial  and
standby  letters of  credit), totaling  approximately $193,000.  The outstanding
commitments  under  these  facilities  at  August  28,  1994  was  approximately
$118,000,  including  approximately  $53,000  in  standby  letters  for workers'
compensation requirements.

    Due to rapid inventory turnover,  the Company's operations provide a  higher
level  of supplier trade  payables than generally encountered  in other forms of
retailing. When combined  with other current  liabilities, the resulting  amount
typically  approaches the current  assets needed to  operate the business (e.g.,
merchandise inventories,  accounts  receivable  and other  current  assets).  At
August  28, 1994, the  working capital (deficit)  totaled ($113,000) compared to
working capital of $127,000 at August 29, 1993. This change is primarily related
to a reduction in cash and cash equivalents of $67,000, a decrease in short-term
investments and restricted cash of $81,000  and an increase in notes payable  of
$126,000  offset by other increases  of $34,000, as working  capital was used to
finance expansion and merger expenses during fiscal 1994.

    In fiscal  1992, cash  provided from  operations was  $296,000. These  funds
combined with proceeds from issuance of $300,000 5 3/4% convertible subordinated
debentures  in May  1992 and approximately  $144,000 generated from  the sale of
certain  properties   were   used  to   finance   additions  to   property   and


equipment  for  warehouse  clubs  and  related  operations  of  $533,000;  other
investing activities related primarily to non-club real estate development,  and
investment in foreign joint ventures, which together totaled $83,000.

ITEM 8 -- FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

    The following financial statements of PriceCostco are as follows:



ITEM 9 -- CHANGE IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
          FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

    None.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10 -- DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    For  information with respect  to the executive  officers of the Registrant,
see Item 4A -- "Executive  Officers of the Registrant" at  the end of Part I  of
this  report. The information required by this Item concerning the Directors and
nominees for Director  of the  Company is  incorporated herein  by reference  to
PriceCostco's Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders, to be held
on January 27, 1995, to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A.

ITEM 11 -- EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

    The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to
PriceCostco's Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders, to be held
on January 27, 1995, to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A.

ITEM 12 -- SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

    The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to
PriceCostco's  Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held
on January 27, 1995, to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A.

ITEM 13 -- CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

    The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to
PriceCostco's Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders, to be held
on January 27, 1995, to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A.


                                    PART IV

ITEM 14 -- EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

    (a) Documents filed as part of this report are as follows:

1.  Financial Statements:

    See listing of Financial Statements included as a part of this Form 10-K  on
    Item 8 of Part II.

2.  Financial Statements Schedules:



    (b) Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 5, 1994.

3.  Exhibits

    The  following exhibits are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K
or are incorporated  herein by reference.  Where an exhibit  is incorporated  by
reference, the number which follows the description of the exhibit indicates the
document  to which  cross reference is  made (see  page 22 for  listing of cross
reference documents).










                                   SIGNATURES

    Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934,  the registrant has duly caused this report  to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

November 16, 1994

                                                    PRICE/COSTCO, INC.

                                                       (Registrant)

                                          By       /s/ RICHARD A. GALANTI

                                          --------------------------------------
                                                     Richard A. Galanti
                                                  EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT
                                                AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

    Pursuant to the requirements  of the Securities Exchange  Act of 1934,  this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.








                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To Price/Costco, Inc.:

    We   have   audited  the   accompanying   consolidated  balance   sheets  of
Price/Costco, Inc. (a Delaware corporation) and subsidiaries (PriceCostco) as of
August 28, 1994 and August 29,  1993, and the related statements of  operations,
stockholders'  equity and  cash flows for  the 52-week periods  ended August 28,
1994, August 29, 1993  and August 30, 1992.  These financial statements are  the
responsibility  of PriceCostco's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

    We did  not  audit  the  financial  statements  of  The  Price  Company  and
subsidiaries  (Price),  which  statements reflect  total  assets of  52%  of the
consolidated totals as of August 29, 1993  and total revenues of 51% and 53%  of
the consolidated totals for the 52-week periods ended August 29, 1993 and August
30,  1992, respectively. Those  statements were audited  by other auditors whose
report thereon  has been  furnished  to us  and  our opinion  expressed  herein,
insofar  as it relates to the amounts included for Price, is based solely on the
report of the other auditors.

    We conducted  our  audits in  accordance  with generally  accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence  supporting
the  amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles used  and  significant estimates  made  by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

    In our opinion, the financial  statements referred to above present  fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of PriceCostco as of August 28,
1994  and August 29, 1993, and the results  of its operations and its cash flows
for the 52-week periods ended  August 28, 1994, August  29, 1993 and August  30,
1992 in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

                                          Arthur Andersen LLP

Seattle, Washington
November 14, 1994


                               PRICE/COSTCO, INC.
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)
                                     ASSETS



      The accompanying notes are an integral part of these balance sheets.


                               PRICE/COSTCO, INC.
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)



        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.


                               PRICE/COSTCO, INC.
                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
  FOR THE 52 WEEKS ENDED AUGUST 28, 1994, AUGUST 29, 1993, AND AUGUST 30, 1992
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)



        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.


                               PRICE/COSTCO, INC.
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)



        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.


                               PRICE/COSTCO, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 1 -- SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

    BASIS OF PRESENTATION

    The  consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Price/Costco,
Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries (PriceCostco or the Company).
PriceCostco is  a holding  company which  operates primarily  through its  major
subsidiaries,  The Price Company and  subsidiaries (Price), and Costco Wholesale
Corporation and subsidiaries  (Costco). As  described more  fully in  Note 2  --
Merger  of  Price and  Costco,  on October  21,  1993, Price  and  Costco became
wholly-owned subsidiaries of PriceCostco.

    As described more fully  in "Note 3 --  Spin-off of Price Enterprises,  Inc.
and  Discontinued Operations" the  Company has treated the  spin-off of its real
estate operations as  discontinued operations  in the fourth  quarter of  fiscal
1994.

    The  Company's investment  in the  Mexico joint  venture and  in real estate
joint ventures that  are less than  majority owned are  accounted for under  the
equity method.

    BUSINESS

    The  Company has  operated in  two reporting  business segments,  a cash and
carry merchandising operation and as of July 1994 has discontinued its  non-club
real  estate operations. The Company  reports on a 52/53  week basis and ends on
the Sunday nearest August 31st.  Fiscal years 1994, 1993  and 1992 were each  52
weeks.

    CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

    The  Company  considers all  investments in  highly liquid  debt instruments
maturing within 90 days  when purchased as cash  equivalents unless amounts  are
held in escrow for future property purchases or restricted by agreements.

    SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS AND RESTRICTED CASH

    Short-term  investments include  highly liquid investments  in United States
and Canadian government obligations, along with other investment vehicles,  some
of  which have maturities of  three months or less at  the time of purchase. The
Company's policy  is to  classify these  investments as  short-term  investments
rather  than cash equivalents if  they are acquired and  disposed of through its
investment trading account, held for future property purchases, or restricted by
agreement.

    MERCHANDISE INVENTORIES

    Merchandise inventories  are  valued at  the  lower  of cost  or  market  as
determined  primarily by the  retail inventory method, and  are stated using the
last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for  U.S. merchandise inventories. The  Company
believes  the LIFO method more fairly presents the results of operations by more
closely matching  current  costs  with  current  revenues.  If  all  merchandise
inventories  had  been  valued  using  the  first-in,  first-out  (FIFO) method,
inventories would  have been  higher by  $6,650 at  August 28,  1994, $9,250  at
August 29, 1993 and $14,600 at August 30, 1992.




                               PRICE/COSTCO, INC.
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 1 -- SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
    The  Company  provides  for  estimated  inventory  losses  between  physical
inventory counts on the basis of a standard percentage of sales. This  provision
is adjusted periodically to reflect the actual shrinkage results of the physical
inventory  counts which generally occur in the second and fourth quarters of the
Company's fiscal year.

    When required in  the normal  course of  business, the  Company enters  into
agreements securing vendor interests in inventories.

    RECEIVABLES

    Current  receivables  consist  of  vendor  rebates  and  other miscellaneous
amounts due to the Company,  and are net of  allowance for doubtful accounts  of
$3,045 at August 28, 1994 and $1,567 at August 29, 1993.

    PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

    Property  and equipment  are stated  at cost.  Depreciation and amortization
expenses are computed  using the  straight-line method  for financial  reporting
purposes  and by accelerated methods for tax purposes. Buildings are depreciated
over twenty-five to  thirty-five years; equipment  and fixtures are  depreciated
over  three  to  ten  years;  and land  rights  and  leasehold  improvements are
amortized over the initial term of the lease.

    Interest costs incurred  on property and  equipment during the  construction
period  are capitalized.  The amount  of interest  costs capitalized  related to
continuing operations was approximately $7,170 in fiscal 1994, $9,483 in  fiscal
1993 and $8,487 in fiscal 1992.

    GOODWILL

    Goodwill  included in  other assets totaled  $38,761 at August  28, 1994 and
$41,725 at August 29, 1993 resulted from certain previous business combinations.
Goodwill is being amortized over 5  to 40 years using the straight-line  method.
Accumulated  amortization was $5,986 at August 28, 1994 and $5,575 at August 29,
1993.

    NET INCOME PER COMMON AND COMMON EQUIVALENT SHARE

    The calculation of  net income per  common and common  equivalent share  for
each  period presented prior to the Merger  reflects the issuance of 2.13 shares
of PriceCostco Common Stock for  each share of Price  Common Stock used in  such
calculation  and one share of PriceCostco Common  Stock for each share of Costco
Common  Stock  used  in  such  calculation.  For  fiscal  1993  and  1992,  this
calculation  eliminates interest  expense, net  of income  taxes, on  the 5 1/2%
convertible subordinated debentures (primary and  fully diluted) and the 6  3/4%
convertible  subordinated  debentures  (fully diluted  only),  and  includes the
additional shares issuable upon conversion of these debentures. For fiscal 1994,
the 6 3/4% and 5 1/2% convertible subordinated debentures were not dilutive  for
either  primary or fully diluted purposes. For all periods presented, the 5 3/4%
convertible subordinated  debentures were  not dilutive  for either  primary  or
fully  diluted  purposes.  The  weighted average  number  of  common  and common
equivalent shares outstanding for primary  and fully diluted share  calculations
for fiscal 1994, 1993 and 1992 were as follows (in thousands):




                               PRICE/COSTCO, INC.
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 1 -- SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
    PREOPENING EXPENSES

    Preopening  expenses related to  new warehouses, regional  offices and other
startup operations are expensed as incurred.

    MEMBERSHIP FEES

    Membership  fee   revenue  represents   annual  membership   fees  paid   by
substantially  all  of  the  Company's  members.  In  accordance  with  industry
practice, annual membership fees are recognized as income when received.

    FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION

    The accumulated  foreign  currency  translation  relates  to  the  Company's
consolidated  foreign operations  and its  investment in  the Price  Club Mexico
joint venture and is  determined by application of  the current rate method  and
included  in  the  determination  of consolidated  stockholders'  equity  at the
respective balance sheet dates.

    INCOME TAXES

    The Company accounts for income taxes  under the provisions of Statement  of
Financial  Accounting Standards (SFAS)  No. 109, "Accounting  for Income Taxes."
That standard requires companies to account for deferred income taxes using  the
asset and liability method.

    RECLASSIFICATIONS

    Certain reclassifications of expenses between merchandise costs and selling,
general  and  administrative  expenses  have  been  reflected  in  the financial
statements in order to conform the presentations of the combined entities.

NOTE 2 -- MERGER OF PRICE AND COSTCO
    On October 21, 1993, the shareholders of both Price and Costco approved  the
mergers  of  Price and  Costco into  subsidiaries  of PriceCostco  (the Merger).
Pursuant to the  Merger, Price  and Costco became  subsidiaries of  PriceCostco.
Shareholders  of Price received 2.13 shares of PriceCostco common stock for each
share of Price  common stock and  shareholders of Costco  received one share  of
PriceCostco common stock for each share of Costco.

    The   Merger  qualified  as  a  "pooling-of-interests"  for  accounting  and
financial reporting purposes. The  pooling-of-interests method of accounting  is
intended  to  present  as  a  single interest  two  or  more  common shareholder
interests  which  were  previously  independent.  Consequently,  the  historical
financial  statements for periods  prior to the  consummation of the combination
were restated as though the companies had been combined. The restated  financial
statements  were adjusted  to conform  the accounting  policies of  the separate
companies.

    All fees and  expenses related to  the Merger and  to the consolidation  and
restructuring  of the  combined companies  were expensed  as required  under the
pooling-of-interests accounting method. In the first quarter of fiscal 1994, the
Company recorded  a provision  for merger  and restructuring  costs of  $120,000
pre-tax ($80,000 after tax) related to the Merger.


                               PRICE/COSTCO, INC.
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 2 -- MERGER OF PRICE AND COSTCO (CONTINUED)
        Components  of  the  $120,000  provision  for  merger  and restructuring
    expenses, including  amounts  expended  in Fiscal  1994  and  the  remaining
    accrual  related to completing the merger and restructuring effort at August
    28, 1994, are as follows:




                               PRICE/COSTCO, INC.
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 2 -- MERGER OF PRICE AND COSTCO (CONTINUED)
    The following summarizes amounts reported by  Price and Costco prior to  the
Merger for fiscal 1994, 1993 and 1992.



NOTE 3 -- SPIN-OFF OF PRICE ENTERPRISES, INC. AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

SPIN-OFF OF PRICE ENTERPRISES, INC.

    On July 28, 1994, PriceCostco entered into an Agreement of Transfer and Plan
of Exchange (as amended and restated, the Transfer and Exchange Agreement)  with
Price  Enterprises, Inc. (Price Enterprises).  Price Enterprises is an indirect,
wholly-owned subsidiary of  PriceCostco, formed in  July 1994. The  transactions
contemplated  by the Transfer  and Exchange Agreement are  referred to herein as
the "Exchange Transaction."

    Pursuant to the Transfer and  Exchange Agreement, PriceCostco will offer  to
exchange  one  share  of  Price  Enterprises  Common  Stock  for  each  share of
PriceCostco Common  Stock,  up  to a  maximum  of  27 million  shares  of  Price
Enterprises Common Stock (the Exchange Offer). If more than 27 million shares of
PriceCostco  Common Stock are validly tendered and not withdrawn in the Exchange
Offer prior to the expiration thereof,  then PriceCostco will accept 27  million
shares  on a pro rata basis and shares of Price Enterprises Common Stock will be
exchanged therefor. If the number of shares of PriceCostco Common Stock  validly
tendered  in the Exchange Offer  by holders of PriceCostco  Common Stock is less
than 21.6  million, PriceCostco  will accept  such validly  tendered shares  for
exchange  and will distribute  the remaining shares  of Price Enterprises Common
Stock pro rata to PriceCostco


                               PRICE/COSTCO, INC.
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 3 -- SPIN-OFF OF PRICE ENTERPRISES, INC. AND DISCONTINUED
OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)
stockholders. If  the  number of  shares  of PriceCostco  Common  Stock  validly
tendered in the Exchange Offer by holders of PriceCostco Common Stock is greater
than  21.6  million, but  less  than 27  million,  PriceCostco will  accept such
validly tendered  shares  for exchange  and  will,  at its  option,  either  (i)
distribute  the remaining shares  of Price Enterprises Common  Stock pro rata to
PriceCostco stockholders or (ii) sell such remaining shares to Price Enterprises
in exchange for a promissory note.

    The following real estate related assets have been or will be transferred to
Price Enterprises:

    - Substantially all of the real estate properties which historically  formed
      the non-club real estate segment of PriceCostco.

    - Four  existing Price  Club warehouses  ("Warehouse Properties")  which are
      adjacent to  existing  non-club real  estate  properties which  are  being
      leased   back  to  PriceCostco  effective  August  29,  1994,  at  initial
      collective annual rentals of approximately $8,600.

    - Notes receivable from various municipalities and agencies ("City Notes").

    - Note receivable in the principal amount  of $41,000 made by Atlas  Hotels,
      Inc.,  secured by  a hotel and  convention center property  located in San
      Diego, California ("Atlas Note").

    In addition, PriceCostco agreed to transfer to Price Enterprises 51% of  the
outstanding  capital stock of two newly formed, wholly owned subsidiaries of the
Company: Price Quest, Inc. (Price Quest)  and Price Global Trading, Inc.  (Price
Global),   Price  and  Price  Enterprises  also   own  49%  and  51%  interests,
respectively, in  Mexico  Clubs, L.L.C.,  a  limited liability  company  (Mexico
Clubs,  which together with Price Quest and Price Global comprise the Subsidiary
Corporations).

    Mexico Clubs will own the Company's 50% interest in Price Club de Mexico and
affiliates  (Price  Club  Mexico),  a  50-50  joint  venture  with  Controladora
Comercial  Mexicana S.A. de C.V., which  develops, owns and operates Price Clubs
in Mexico. The investment in Price Club Mexico is accounted for under the equity
method. At August 28, 1994, eight Price  Clubs were in operation in Mexico.  The
Company owns a 49% interest in Mexico Clubs.

    Price  Quest  will  continue  to operate  the  Quest  interactive electronic
shopping  business  of  PriceCostco.  The  Quest  business  includes  electronic
shopping  through kiosks located  in certain PriceCostco  club warehouses; Price
Club Travel,  which  offers discount  airline  tickets and  travel  packages  to
PriceCostco  members; Price  Club Realty, a  real estate  brokerage business for
PriceCostco members; and the Price Club automobile referral/advertising program,
which publishes  advertisements  for  automobile dealers  who  provide  discount
purchasing   programs  to  PriceCostco  members   in  the  vicinity  of  certain
PriceCostco warehouse clubs. The Company owns 49% of the capital stock of  Price
Quest.

    Price   Global  has  the  rights  to  develop  club  businesses  in  certain
geographical areas specified  in the  Transfer and Exchange  Agreement and  owns
100%  of the  outstanding shares  of Club  Merchandising, Inc.  (CMI), which was
acquired by the Company in March 1992. The Company owns 49% of the capital stock
of Price Global.

    For purposes  of governing  the ongoing  relationships between  PriceCostco,
Price  Enterprises, and the  Subsidiary Corporations, PriceCostco  and Price, on
the one hand,  and Price  Enterprises and  the Subsidiary  Corporations, on  the
other, have entered into operating agreements. PriceCostco and Price, on the one
hand,  and Price Enterprises  and each of  Price Global and  Price Quest, on the
other, have entered into stockholders  agreements to clarify certain rights  and
obligation  of PriceCostco and Price Enterprises as stockholders of Price Global
and Price Quest. Price and Price Enterprises have


                               PRICE/COSTCO, INC.
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 3 -- SPIN-OFF OF PRICE ENTERPRISES, INC. AND DISCONTINUED
OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)
entered into a Limited Liability Company Agreement with respect to Mexico  Clubs
that  sets  forth  the  rights  and  obligations  of  each  of  Price  and Price
Enterprises with respect to its membership interest in Mexico Clubs. PriceCostco
and Price Enterprises have entered into an unsecured revolving credit  agreement
under  which PriceCostco has agreed to advance Price Enterprises up to a maximum
principal amount of $85 million  (reduced by the net  proceeds from the sale  of
certain commercial properties).

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

    Historically,  the Company has treated non-club real estate investments as a
separate reportable business  segment. The primary  assets generating  operating
income  for the segment have been non-club real estate properties, consisting of
property owned  directly  and  property  owned  by  real  estate  joint  venture
partnerships  in which the Company has a controlling interest. Real estate joint
ventures relate to real estate partnerships  that are less than majority  owned.
In fiscal 1994, the Atlas Note was purchased and the related interest income has
been included in the non-club real estate segment.

    Additionally,  the Warehouse Properties, and City Notes transferred to Price
Enterprises as of August 28,  1994 have been included in  the net assets of  the
discontinued  operations  as of  August 28,  1994  and August  29, 1993,  in the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets. However, the operating expenses of the
Warehouse Properties and  the interest income  on the City  Notes have not  been
included in the real estate segment operating results because historically these
amounts have been included as part of merchandising operations and other income.
The  operating results and net assets of the Subsidiary Corporations transferred
to Price Enterprises are included in continuing operations because they were not
related to the discontinued real estate operations.

    DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS -- NET ASSETS

    Net assets related to  discontinued real estate operations  as shown on  the
consolidated  balance sheets at August  28, 1994 and August  29, 1993 consist of
the following:




                               PRICE/COSTCO, INC.
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 3 -- SPIN-OFF OF PRICE ENTERPRISES, INC. AND DISCONTINUED
OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)
    INCOME (LOSS) FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

    Components of  net income  (loss) from  discontinued operations  for  fiscal
1994, 1993 and 1992 were as follows:



    PROVISION FOR ASSET IMPAIRMENTS

    The  loss on  discontinued real  estate operations  includes a  provision of
$90,200 of which $80,500 ($47,500 after tax) relates to a change in  calculating
estimated  losses for  assets which  are economically  impaired. This  change in
accounting estimates results from the spin-off of the real estate segment assets
into Price Enterprises and Price Enterprises' decision to pursue business  plans
and  operating  strategies  as  a  stand-alone  entity  which  are significantly
different than  the  previous  strategies of  the  Company.  Price  Enterprises'
management  believes that as a separate operating  business it will not have the
same access to capital as the Company or generate internal funds from operations
to the same extent as the Company.

    PriceCostco's accounting policies with respect  to estimating the amount  of
impairments  on individual real  estate properties and  related assets were such
that impairment losses  would be recorded  if the carrying  amount of the  asset
could  not  be recovered  from estimated  future cash  flows on  an undiscounted
basis. Price Enterprises'  management believes  that in view  of its  strategies
with  respect to the number and nature  of properties that would be selected for
disposition, it would be more appropriate to estimate impairment losses based on
fair values of the real estate  properties as determined by appraisals and/or  a
risk-adjusted  discounted cash flow approach.  In determining impairment losses,
individual real estate  assets were reduced  to estimated fair  value, if  lower
than  historical cost. For  those assets which  have an estimated  fair value in
excess of  cost, the  asset continues  to be  recorded at  cost. The  impairment
losses  recorded as a result of this  change in accounting estimates reduced the
book basis of certain of the real estate and related assets.

    Under the previous policy, PriceCostco  and Price Enterprise had  determined
that  a provision  for asset  impairments of  approximately $9,700  was required
relating to four properties which were  under contract or in final  negotiations
for sale.

    GAINS ON SALE OF NON-CLUB REAL ESTATE PROPERTIES

    During  fiscal 1994, the  Company entered into a  transaction with The Price
REIT, Inc. (REIT). On October 1, 1993, the Company sold a single shopping center
and adjacent Price Club (which is being leased back to the Company) for $28,200.
The Company recorded a $4,210 pre-tax gain in connection with this sale.


                               PRICE/COSTCO, INC.
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 3 -- SPIN-OFF OF PRICE ENTERPRISES, INC. AND DISCONTINUED
OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)
    During fiscal 1993, the Company entered into two transactions with the REIT:

        (a) On December 18, 1992, the Company sold a former Price Club  property
    for  $14,350. The  Company recorded a  pre-tax gain of  $6,710 in connection
    with this sale.

        (b) On August  12, 1993,  the Company  sold three  shopping centers  and
    adjacent  Price Clubs (which are  being leased back to  the Company) and its
    49.6% interest in  a joint  venture which  owns five  shopping centers,  for
    which the Company received proceeds of approximately $117,000 and recognized
    a $14,320 pre-tax gain.

    During fiscal 1992, the Company entered into two transactions with the REIT:

        (a)  On December 1, 1991  the Company entered into  a sale and leaseback
    transaction, under which four Price Clubs were sold to the REIT for  $26,700
    and  leased back for annual rentals of $2,470, increasing $27 each year. The
    master lease has an  initial term of 15  years with seven five-year  renewal
    options.  Additionally, the Company  sold a 50.4%  interest in five shopping
    centers, four  of which  are adjacent  to the  Price Clubs  involved in  the
    sale-leaseback.  The Company agreed, for  a specified period, to subordinate
    its portion of the operational cash flow  of the joint venture to allow  the
    REIT  shareholders to receive a specified return on their investment (9% the
    first year, increasing to 9.5% in year five). The Company recorded a  pretax
    gain of $4,400 in connection with this sale.

        (b)  On April 29,  1992, the Company  sold two shopping  centers and one
    Price Club adjacent to  one of the shopping  centers for $62,500. The  Price
    Club  is  being  leased back  from  the  REIT for  annual  rentals  of $370,
    increasing $4 per year, with an initial term of 15 years and seven five-year
    renewal  options.  The  Company  recorded  a  pre-tax  gain  of  $11,200  in
    connection with this sale.

    For the real estate transactions referred to above, no gains were recognized
for  the portion of  the sales involving  Price Club warehouses  which are being
leased back.

    ESTIMATED LOSS ON DISPOSAL AND SUBSEQUENT ADJUSTMENT

    In the fourth quarter of fiscal 1994, the Company recorded an estimated loss
on disposal of its discontinued operations (the non-club real estate segment) as
a result  of  entering into  the  Transfer  and Exchange  Agreement.  While  the
Exchange  Transaction is not  expected to be completed  until December 1994, the
Company determined that the Exchange Transaction will, in all likelihood, result
in a  significant loss  for financial  reporting purposes  and that  there is  a
reasonable  basis  for  estimating  the  loss.  The  actual  loss  for financial
reporting purposes will  be determined  following consummation  of the  Exchange
Transaction.  Such loss will be  the product of: (a)  the difference between the
book value  per  share  of  the assets  transferred  to  Price  Enterprises  (at
historical cost), and the fair market value per share; and (b) the actual number
of  shares exchanged. The loss also includes  the direct expenses related to the
Exchange Transaction. For purposes of recording such estimated loss, the Company
assumed that (i) the Exchange Offer would be fully subscribed, (ii) a per  share
price  of Price Enterprises Common  Stock of $15.25 (the  closing sales price of
PriceCostco Common Stock  on October  24, 1994)  and (iii)  direct expenses  and
other costs related to the Exchange Transaction of approximately $15,250.


                               PRICE/COSTCO, INC.
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 3 -- SPIN-OFF OF PRICE ENTERPRISES, INC. AND DISCONTINUED
OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)
    The following table explains how the estimated loss was computed:



    The book value of the assets transferred to Price Enterprises (approximately
$21  per  share of  Price  Enterprises stock),  reflects  a provision  for asset
impairments of $80,500 recorded as a change in accounting estimate in the fourth
quarter of fiscal 1994.

    The approximate $6 per share difference between the $21 book value per share
of Price Enterprises  and the assumed  per share price  of Price Enterprises  is
attributable  to a combination of factors.  These factors include an expectation
that Price  Enterprises' stock  may trade  at  a discount  from its  book  value
(although  the prices at which shares of  Price Enterprises will trade cannot be
predicted).

    In making its determination to approve the Exchange Transaction, one of  the
factors  considered by  the Board  of Directors  of the  Company was  a range of
illustrative high and low per share values for Price Enterprises and the implied
per share premium  in the Exchange  Offer based on  such illustrative values  as
compared  to the per share price of PriceCostco common stock at July 14, 1994 of
$14.75 (assuming 27 million shares of Price Enterprises common stock outstanding
and a  one-for-one  exchange  ratio).  While  believing  that  some  premium  to
tendering  stockholders is  included in  the exchange  ratio, the  Board did not
quantify any  such premium,  recognizing that  it could  not quantify  any  such
premium  since the range of  prices at which Price  Enterprises Common Stock may
trade cannot be predicted. If any such premium could be objectively measured, it
would be accounted for as  a cost of the treasury  shares to be acquired by  the
Company.  Since any premium cannot be objectively measured, the Company believes
that it is appropriate in  the circumstances to include  any premium as part  of
the  estimated  loss  on  the  disposal of  the  non-club  real  estate segment,
recognizing that  the  amount of  the  loss is  subject  to revision  after  the
Exchange Offer closes.

    As  indicated above,  the estimated  loss was  determined assuming  that the
Exchange Offer  would be  fully  subscribed. Any  subsequent adjustment  to  the
estimated  loss will be  affected by the  extent to which  the Exchange Offer is
subscribed. If the  Exchange Offer is  at least 80%  subscribed and  PriceCostco
elects to sell the unsubscribed shares to Price Enterprises for a note, the loss
on  the  Transaction  will be  the  same as  if  it were  fully  subscribed. Any
unsubscribed shares distributed to stockholders  pro rata will be excluded  from
the  loss determination and  accounted for as  a dividend. The  dividend will be
measured by the book value per share of Price Enterprises shares distributed and
will be is  charged directly to  retained earnings. Furthermore,  to the  extent
that  the  Price  Enterprises' fair  market  value  per share  differs  from the
estimated share price used above, the  per share difference times the number  of
shares exchanged will be reclassified from the loss on disposal reflected in the
income  statement  and included  in the  cost of  the Company's  treasury shares
acquired. In measuring the actual loss on the Exchange Transaction,  PriceCostco
expects  to measure the fair  market value of Price  Enterprises' stock based on
the average closing sales price of Price Enterprises Common Stock during the  20
trading  days commencing on the  sixth trading day following  the closing of the
Exchange Offer. However, other factors may also need to be considered in  making
the final determination.


                               PRICE/COSTCO, INC.
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 3 -- SPIN-OFF OF PRICE ENTERPRISES, INC. AND DISCONTINUED
OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)
    If  the Exchange Offer is at least 80% subscribed and PriceCostco decides to
sell the unsubscribed shares  to Price Enterprises in  exchange for a note,  the
loss  on  the Transaction  will  be the  same as  if  it were  fully subscribed.
Otherwise, the actual loss  will be reduced by  approximately $6 per share.  The
actual  loss determination  will also  be affected by  the fair  market price of
Price Enterprises stock. The fair market  value of Price Enterprises stock  will
be  used to measure the cost per share of each PriceCostco share acquired in the
Exchange Offer. For each dollar per share difference in Price Enterprises' stock
value from  the $15.25  amount used  for purposes  of estimating  the loss,  the
actual  loss will change by one dollar for every share exchanged. An increase in
Price Enterprises' stock  value would  reduce the amount  of the  loss, while  a
decrease in Price Enterprises' stock value would cause the loss to be greater.

    Determination  of the  actual loss will  not affect  PriceCostco's pro forma
balance sheet, because any change in the  amount of the loss on disposal, as  it
is  ultimately measured,  will result in  an offsetting  change in stockholders'
equity, either as  dividends, as an  adjustment to the  cost of treasury  shares
being acquired, or both.

    UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED INFORMATION

    The  following unaudited pro forma condensed balance sheet of PriceCostco as
of August 28, 1994 reflects the unaudited pro forma adjustments of the  Exchange
Transaction  as if it had occurred on August 28, 1994 regardless of the ultimate
treatment of the estimated loss on disposal as discussed above:



    Pro  forma net  income from continuing  operations was reduced  by $2,580 or
$.01 per  share  for  the net  effect  of  assets transferred  in  the  Exchange
Transaction  which were  not accounted for  as part  of discontinued operations.
This net effect was caused by  rent expense on the Warehouse Properties,  income
on the City Notes, and equity in earnings of Price Club Mexico, which was offset
by the losses on certain merchandising operations.


                               PRICE/COSTCO, INC.
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 4 -- DEBT

    BANK LINES OF CREDIT

    The  company has a domestic multiple option loan facility with a group of 14
banks which provides for borrowings of up to $500,000 or for standby support for
a $500,000 commercial paper program. Of this amount, $250,000 expires on January
30, 1995, and $250,000 expires  on January 30, 1998.  The interest rate on  bank
borrowings is based on LIBOR or rates bid at auction by the participating banks.
Notes  payable at August 28, 1994, in  the accompanying balance sheet consist of
amounts outstanding under  the Company's commercial  paper program. The  Company
expects  to renew the $250,000 portion of  the loan facility expiring on January
30, 1995, at substantially the same terms.

    In addition, the  Company's wholly-owned Canadian  subsidiary has a  $65,800
line  of credit with a group of three Canadian banks of which $29,200 expires on
December 1, 1994 (the short-term portion) and $36,600 expires in various amounts
through  December  1,  1996  (the  long-term  portion).  The  interest  rate  on
borrowings  is based  on the  prime rate or  the "Bankers'  Acceptance" rate. At
August 28, 1994, no amounts were  outstanding under these programs. The  Company
expects  to renew the $29,200 short-term portion  of the line of credit expiring
on December 1, 1994, at substantially the same terms.

    The Company has  separate letter  of credit facilities  (for commercial  and
standby  letters of  credit), totaling  approximately $193,000.  The outstanding
commitments under  these  facilities  at  August  28,  1994  were  approximately
$118,000  including  approximately  $53,000  in  standby  letters  for  workers'
compensation requirements.

    LONG-TERM DEBT

    Long-term debt at August 28, 1994 and August 29, 1993 consists of:



    Effective upon consummation of the  Merger, PriceCostco became a  co-obligor
under each of the convertible subordinated debentures originally issued by Price
and  Costco.  These  debentures  are  convertible  into  shares  of PriceCostco.
Conversion rates of  Price subordinated  debentures have been  adjusted for  the
exchange ratio pursuant to the Merger.

    During  the fourth quarter  of fiscal 1992, Costco  completed an offering of
$300,000  5  3/4%  convertible  subordinated  debentures  due  2002,  which  are
convertible  at any  time prior  to maturity,  unless previously  redeemed, into
shares of PriceCostco common  stock at a conversion  price of $41.25 per  share,
subject  to adjustment in certain events.  Interest on the debentures is payable
semiannually on  November 15  and May  15.  Commencing on  June 1,  1995,  these
debentures  are redeemable at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, at
certain redemption prices.

    In fiscal  1991,  Price  issued $287,500  6  3/4%  convertible  subordinated
debentures, which are convertible into shares of PriceCostco common stock at any
time on or before March 1, 2001, unless


                               PRICE/COSTCO, INC.
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 4 -- DEBT (CONTINUED)
previously  redeemed,  at a  conversion price  of $22.54  per share,  subject to
adjustment in certain events. The 6  3/4% debentures are unsecured and  interest
is  payable  semiannually  on  March  1  and  September  1.  The  debentures are
redeemable at  the  option  of  the  Company after  March  1,  1994  at  certain
redemption  prices.  On  November  4,  1993  notice  was  given  to  the  6 3/4%
convertible debenture holders that  their option to  redeem the debentures,  for
cash  equal to  the principal amount  plus accrued  interest, in the  event of a
change of control  of Price was  effective as a  result of the  Merger and  that
holders  had  until December  6, 1993  to  exercise such  options. Approximately
$2,421 of debentures were purchased at  their face value subsequent to  November
21, 1993.

    PriceCostco  also has outstanding 5 1/2% convertible subordinated debentures
are convertible into shares of PriceCostco common stock at a conversion price of
$23.77 per share, subject to adjustment in certain events. The 5 1/2% debentures
provide for  payments to  an annual  sinking fund  in the  amount of  5% of  the
original principal amount ($10,000), commencing February 28, 1998, calculated to
retire  70% of the principal  amount prior to maturity.  During fiscal 1990, the
Company repurchased  $20,597 of  the debentures  for a  total cost  of  $17,507,
resulting  in a gain of approximately $2,900 and will apply this purchase to the
initial sinking  fund payments.  The debentures  are unsecured  and interest  is
payable semiannually on February 28 and August 31.

    Due  to the Exchange Offer, the possibility exists for a downward adjustment
in the conversion price of each  of the debentures. Such adjustment could  occur
in  the event that (i) less than 21.6 million shares of PriceCostco common stock
are validly  tendered in  the Exchange  Offer and  the Company  distributes  the
remaining  Price Enterprises shares pro rata  to all PriceCostco stockholders or
(ii) at least 21.6 million shares of PriceCostco common stock, but less than  27
million  shares, are validly tendered, and the Company elects to make a pro rata
distribution of the remaining shares to all PriceCostco stockholders.

    At August  28, 1994,  the fair  values of  the 5  3/4%, 6  3/4% and  5  1/2%
convertible  subordinated  debentures,  based  on  current  market  quotes, were
approximately $255,000, $278,000 and $154,000 respectively. Early retirement  of
these debentures would result in the Company paying a call premium.

    Maturities  of  long-term  debt  during  the  next  five  fiscal  years  and
thereafter are as follows:



NOTE 5 -- LEASES
    The Company leases land and/or warehouse buildings at 47 warehouses open  at
August  28,  1994 and  certain other  office  and distribution  facilities under
operating leases with remaining terms ranging  from 2 to 30 years. These  leases
generally  contain one or  more of the  following options which  the Company can
exercise at the end of  the initial lease term: (a)  renewal of the lease for  a
defined number of years at the then fair market rental rate; (b) purchase of the
property  at the then fair market value; (c) right of first refusal in the event
of a third  party purchase  offer. Certain  leases provide  for periodic  rental
increases  based on the price  indices and some of  the leases provide for rents
based on the greater of minimum  guaranteed amounts or sales volume.  Contingent
rents have not


                               PRICE/COSTCO, INC.
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 5 -- LEASES (CONTINUED)
been  material. Additionally, the Company  leases certain equipment and fixtures
under short-term operating leases which permit the Company to either renew for a
series of one-year terms or  to purchase the equipment  at the then fair  market
value.

    Aggregate rental expense for fiscal 1994, 1993 and 1992 was $44,900, $38,700
and  $33,680, respectively. Future  minimum payments (including  annual rents on
the four Warehouse Properties discussed in  Note 3) during the next five  fiscal
years  and thereafter  under noncancelable  leases with  terms in  excess of one
year, at August 28, 1994, were as follows:



NOTE 6 -- STOCK OPTIONS AND WARRANTS
    Prior to  the  Merger,  Price  and  Costco  adopted  various  incentive  and
non-qualified  stock  option  plans  which  allowed  certain  key  employees and
directors  to  purchase  or  be  granted  common  stock  of  Price  and   Costco
(collectively  the Old Stock  Option Plans). Options were  granted for a maximum
term of ten  years, and  were exercisable as  they vest.  Options granted  under
these  plans generally vest ratably  over five to nine  years. Subsequent to the
Merger, new grants  of options are  not being  made under the  Old Stock  Option
Plans.

    Stock  option  transactions  relating  to the  Old  Stock  Option  Plans are
summarized below:




                               PRICE/COSTCO, INC.
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 6 -- STOCK OPTIONS AND WARRANTS (CONTINUED)
    The PriceCostco 1993  Combined Stock Grant  and Stock Option  Plan (the  New
Stock  Option Plan) provides for the issuance of  up to 10 million shares of the
Company's common  stock pursuant  to the  exercise  of stock  options or  up  to
1,666,666  through stock grants. Stock option and grant transactions relating to
the New Stock Option Plan are summarized below:



    In 1986 and 1987,  Price granted warrants to  purchase a total of  1,065,000
shares  of common  stock at  $17.37 per  share to  a joint  venture partner. The
warrants granted  in 1987  vested  over a  five year  period  from the  date  of
issuance  and are  exercisable up to  eight years  and one month  from the grant
date. A total of 532,500 warrants have been exercised.

NOTE 7 -- RETIREMENT PLANS
    The Company has a defined contribution retirement plan for all United States
employees  of  Price   except  California  union   employees  on  whose   behalf
contributions  are made  to the  Western Conference  of Teamsters  Pension Trust
Fund. Contributions to such retirement plan totaled $11,018, $10,665 and  $9,375
for  fiscal 1994,  1993 and 1992,  respectively. Contributions  to the Teamsters
Pension Trust Fund were $11,293, $11,588  and $11,196 for fiscal 1994, 1993  and
1992,  respectively. During fiscal  1992, a 401(k) Plan  was established for all
Price employees eligible  for the retirement  plan. The Company  matches 50%  of
eligible  employee  contributions  up  to  a  maximum  Company  contribution per
employee per year. Contributions to the 401(k) Plan were $971, $752 and $650  in
fiscal 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively. The Company has a defined contribution
plan  for  Canadian  Price  employees  and  contributes  a  percentage  of  each
employee's salary. Contributions were $1,884, $1,640 and $1,331 in fiscal  1994,
1993 and 1992, respectively.

    The  Company has  a 401(k)  retirement plan  for the  benefit of  all Costco
employees. After one year of service, an employee is eligible to participate  in
this  plan.  Employee contributions  are matched  10% by  the Company  until the
employee has  completed  five years  of  service,  at which  time  the  matching
contribution  increases to 25%. Contributions were  $2,677, $1,964 and $1,515 in
fiscal 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.


                               PRICE/COSTCO, INC.
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 8 -- INCOME TAXES
    The provisions for income taxes from continuing operations for fiscal  1994,
1993 and 1992 are as follows:



    A  reconciliation between the statutory tax rate and the effective rate from
continuing operations for fiscal 1994, 1993 and 1992 is as follows:



    The components  of  the  deferred  tax assets  and  liabilities  related  to
continuing operations are as follows:




                               PRICE/COSTCO, INC.
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 8 -- INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED)
    The  net deferred  tax liabilities  at August 28,  1994 and  August 29, 1993
include current deferred income tax assets of $54,717 and $34,901, respectively,
and  non-current  deferred  income  tax  liabilities  of  $65,679  and  $51,540,
respectively.

NOTE 9 -- COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

    On  April 6, 1992, Price  was served with a  complaint in an action entitled
FECHT ET  AL. V.  THE  PRICE COMPANY  ET AL.,  Case  No. 92-497,  United  States
District  Court, Southern  District of  California (the  Court). Subsequently on
April 22, 1992, Price was served with  a first amended complaint in the  action.
The  case was dismissed without prejudice by the Court on September 21, 1992, on
the grounds  the plaintiffs  had  failed to  state  a sufficient  claim  against
defendants.  Subsequently, plaintiffs filed a Second Amended Complaint which, in
the opinion of  Price's counsel,  alleged substantially  the same  facts as  the
prior  complaint. The case was dismissed with prejudice by the Court on March 9,
1993, on grounds the plaintiffs had  failed to state a sufficient claim  against
defendants.  Plaintiffs have filed a Notice of Appeal in the Ninth Circuit Court
of Appeals,  which was  argued on  October  4, 1994.  The Company  is  currently
awaiting  a Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals  decision. If the Ninth Circuit Court
of Appeals  renders a  decision that  is  adverse to  the Company,  the  Company
intends  to vigorously defend  the suit. The  Company does not  believe that the
ultimate outcome of such litigation will  have a material adverse effect on  the
Company's financial position or results of operations.

    The  Company  is  involved from  time  to  time in  claims,  proceedings and
litigation arising from its  business and property  ownership. The Company  does
not  believe that any such  claim, proceeding or litigation,  either alone or in
the aggregate, will have  a material adverse effect  on the Company's  financial
position or results of operations.

NOTE 10 -- RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
    Joseph  Kornwasser,  a director  of PriceCostco  until July  28, 1994,  is a
general partner  and  has a  two-thirds  ownership interest  in  Kornwasser  and
Friedman  Shopping Center Properties (K & F). K  & F was a partner with Price in
two partnerships. As of August 28, 1994, Price's total capital contributions  to
the  partnerships were  $83,000. Aggregate  cumulative distributions  from these
partnerships were $14,300  at August  28, 1994. Price  had also  entered into  a
Development  Agreement  with  K  &  F for  the  development  of  four additional
properties. As of August 28, 1994, Price's total capital expenditures for  these
properties   were  $58,000.   Aggregate  cumulative   distributions  from  these
properties were $4,500 at August 28,  1994. Both partnership agreements and  the
Development  Agreement provided  for a  preferred return  to Price  on a varying
scale from 9% to 10% on its invested capital after which operating cash flows or
profits are distributed 75% to Price and 25%  to K & F. On August 12, 1993,  Mr.
Kornwasser  became Chief  Executive Officer  and director  of the  REIT. On that
date, the REIT  also obtained the  right to acquire  certain of the  partnership
interests  of K & F  described above. On August  28, 1994, the Company purchased
both K  &  F's interests  in  the two  partnerships  and its  rights  under  the
Development Agreement for a total of $2.5 million.


                               PRICE/COSTCO, INC.
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 11 -- GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION
    The  following  table  indicates  the  relative  amounts  of  total revenue,
operating income and  identifiable assets  for the Company  during fiscal  1994,
1993 and 1992:


NOTE 12 -- QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)
    The  tables on the next two pages reflect the unaudited quarterly results of
operations for fiscal 1994 and 1993.

    All information has  been restated for  discontinued real estate  operations
and  various  reclassifications have  been made  to  conform Price  and Costco's
classification of  merchandise costs  and  selling, general  and  administrative
expenses. Shares used in the earnings per share calculation fluctuate by quarter
depending   primarily  upon  whether  convertible  subordinated  debentures  are
dilutive during the respective period.


                               PRICE/COSTCO, INC.
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)




                               PRICE/COSTCO, INC.
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)




                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To Price/Costco, Inc.:

    We have audited, in accordance  with generally accepted auditing  standards,
the  financial  statements included  in  Price/Costco, Inc.'s  annual  report to
stockholders included in  this Form  10-K, and  have issued  our report  thereon
dated  November 14, 1994. As  noted in our report  to the accompanying financial
statements, The  Price Company  and subsidiaries  (Price) have  been audited  by
other  auditors whose report  thereon has been  forwarded to us  and our opinion
expressed herein,  insofar  as  it  relates  to  the  amounts  included  in  the
accompanying  schedules  related to  Price for  fiscal 1993  and 1992,  is based
solely on the report of the other  auditors. Our audit was made for the  purpose
of  forming an opinion  on those statements  taken as a  whole. The schedules of
Price/Costco, Inc. listed  in Part  IV, Item 14  are presented  for purposes  of
complying  with the Securities and Exchange  Commission's rules and are not part
of the basic financial  statements. These schedules have  been subjected to  the
auditing  procedures applied in the audit of the basic financial statements and,
in our  opinion,  fairly state  in  all  material respects  the  financial  data
required  to be set forth therein in  relation to the basic financial statements
taken as a whole.

                                          Arthur Andersen LLP

Seattle, Washington
November 14, 1994


                                   SCHEDULE I

                               PRICE/COSTCO, INC.
                    MARKETABLE SECURITIES--OTHER INVESTMENTS
   FOR THE PERIODS ENDED AUGUST 28, 1994, AUGUST 29, 1993 AND AUGUST 30, 1992
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)




                                  SCHEDULE II

                               PRICE/COSTCO, INC.

                    AMOUNTS RECEIVABLE FROM RELATED PARTIES
 FOR THE 52-WEEK PERIODS ENDED AUGUST 28, 1994, AUGUST 29, 1993 AND AUGUST 30,
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)




                                   SCHEDULE V

                               PRICE/COSTCO, INC.

                         PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
 FOR THE 52-WEEK PERIODS ENDED AUGUST 28, 1994, AUGUST 29, 1993 AND AUGUST 30,
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)






                                  SCHEDULE VI
                               PRICE/COSTCO, INC.
              ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION, DEPLETION AND AMORTIZATION
                        OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
 FOR THE 52-WEEK PERIODS ENDED AUGUST 28, 1994, AUGUST 29, 1993 AND AUGUST 30,
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)






                                  SCHEDULE IX
                               PRICE/COSTCO, INC.
                             SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS
 FOR THE 52-WEEK PERIODS ENDED AUGUST 28, 1994, AUGUST 29, 1993 AND AUGUST 30,
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)




                                 EXHIBIT INDEX





