
10-K
10-K




                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                  FORM 10-K
(Mark one)
[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
     ACT OF 1934

                   FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 1999

                                      OR

[ ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

            For the transition period from __________ to __________

                        Commission File Number 0-12699

                               ACTIVISION, INC.
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

             DELAWARE                                 94-2606438
      (State or other jurisdiction of     (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
      incorporation or organization)

   3100 OCEAN PARK BLVD., SANTA MONICA, CA                 90405
  (Address of principal executive offices)               (Zip Code)

      REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: (310) 255-2000

       SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT: None

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:
                  Common Stock, par value $.000001 per share
                  ------------------------------------------
                              (Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X   No
                                      -----  -----

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ]

The aggregate market value of the Common Stock of the registrant held by
non-affiliates of the registrant on June 25, 1999 was $295,741,675.

The number of shares of the registrant's Common Stock outstanding as of June 25,
1999 was 22,982,248.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Portions of the registrant's definitive Proxy Statement, to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal
year covered by this Form 10-K, with respect to the 1999 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders, are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Annual Report.




                                      INDEX





                                     PART I


Item 1.  BUSINESS

         (a)      GENERAL

                  Activision, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, "Activision"
         or the "Company") is a leading international publisher, developer and
         distributor of interactive entertainment and leisure products. The
         Company was incorporated in California in 1979. In December 1992, the
         Company reincorporated in Delaware.

                  The Company's products span a wide range of genres (including
         action, adventure, strategy and simulation) and target markets
         (including game enthusiasts, value buyers and children). In addition to
         its genre and market diversity, the Company publishes, develops and
         distributes products for a variety of game platforms, including
         personal computers ("PCs"), the Sony Playstation console system and the
         Nintendo 64 console system.

                  The Company completed the acquisition of Raven Software
         Corporation ("Raven") on July 13, 1997, NBG EDV Handels- und Verlags
         GmbH ("NBG") on November 26, 1997, S.B.F. Services, Limited dba Head
         Games Publishing ("Head Games") on June 30, 1998, and CD Contact
         Data GmbH ("CD Contact") on September 29, 1998. Each of the above
         transactions originally had been accounted for by the Company as an
         immaterial pooling of interests. The financial results for each such
         acquired company and related cash flows had therefore been included
         in the reported operations of the Company beginning only on the date
         of acquisition. Based on a reevaluation of these transactions,
         including the results of operations of each entity, statements by
         the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on materiality of
         pooling transactions and requirements to evaluate the impact on each
         line item in the financial statements and the impact on the
         Company's trends, the Company has restated all financial information
         reported in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for all periods prior to
         the consummation of each transaction to include the financial
         position, results of operations and cash flows of such acquired
         companies.

         (b)     FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS

                  The Company has two reportable segments: publishing
         CD-based and cartridge based interactive entertainment and leisure
         software; and distributing interactive entertainment and leisure
         products. Publishing relates to the development (both internally and
         externally), marketing and sale of products owned or controlled by
         the Company, either directly or through its affiliate label program.
         Distribution refers to the sale by the Company's European
         distribution subsidiaries of other publishers' software and related
         products to the marketplace. See the Consolidated Financial
         Statements and Notes thereto included in Item 8 of this Annual
         Report on Form 10-K for certain financial information required by
         Item 1.

         (c)      NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

         FACTORS AFFECTING FUTURE PERFORMANCE

                  In connection with the Private Securities Litigation Reform
         Act of 1995 (the "Litigation Reform Act"), the Company is hereby
         disclosing certain cautionary information to be used in connection with
         written materials (including this Annual Report on Form 10-K) and oral
         statements made by or on behalf of its employees and representatives
         that may contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the
         Litigation Reform Act. Such statements consist of any statement other
         than a recitation of historical fact and can be identified by the use
         of forward-looking terminology such as "may," "expect," "anticipate,"
         "estimate" or "continue" or the negative thereof or other variations
         thereon or comparable terminology. The listener or reader is cautioned
         that all forward-looking statements are necessarily speculative and
         there are numerous risks and uncertainties that could cause actual
         events or results to differ materially from those referred to in such
         forward-looking statements. The discussion below highlights some of the
         more important risks identified by management, but should not be
         assumed to be the only factors that could affect future performance.
         The reader or listener is cautioned that the Company does not have a
         policy of updating or revising forward-looking statements and thus he
         or she should not assume that silence by management over time means
         that actual events are bearing out as estimated in such forward-looking
         statements.

                  FLUCTUATIONS IN QUARTERLY RESULTS; FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS
         UNCERTAIN; SEASONALITY. The Company's quarterly operating results have
         varied significantly in the past and will likely vary significantly in
         the future depending on numerous factors, several of which are not
         under the Company's control. Such factors include, but are not limited
         to, demand for products published or distributed by the Company, the
         size and rate of growth of the interactive entertainment and leisure
         markets, development and promotional expenses relating to the
         introduction of new products, changes in computing platforms, product
         returns, the timing of orders from major customers, delays in shipment,
         the level of price competition, the timing of





         product introductions by the Company and its competitors, product
         life cycles, product defects and other quality problems, the level
         of the Company's international revenues, and personnel changes.
         Products are generally shipped as orders are received, and
         consequently, the Company operates with little or no backlog. Net
         revenues in any quarter are, therefore, substantially dependent on
         orders booked and shipped in that quarter.

                  The Company's expenses are based in part on the Company's
         product development and marketing budgets. Many of the costs incurred
         by the Company to produce and sell its products are expensed as such
         costs are incurred, which often is before a product is released. In
         addition, a significant portion of the Company's expenses are fixed. As
         the Company increases its production and sales activities, current
         expenses will increase and, if sales from previously released products
         are below expectations, net income is likely to be disproportionately
         affected.

                  Due to all of the foregoing, revenues and operating results
         for any future quarter are not predictable with any significant degree
         of accuracy. Accordingly, the Company believes that period-to-period
         comparisons of its operating results are not necessarily meaningful and
         should not be relied upon as indications of future performance.

                  The Company's business has experienced and is expected to
         continue to experience significant seasonality, in part due to consumer
         buying patterns. Net revenues typically are significantly higher during
         the fourth calendar quarter, primarily due to the increased demand for
         consumer software during the year-end holiday buying season. Net
         revenues and net income in other quarters are generally lower and vary
         significantly as a result of new product introductions and other
         factors. For example, the Company's net revenues in its last five
         quarters were $68.1 million for the quarter ended March 31, 1998, $61.5
         million for the quarter ended June 30, 1998, $66.2 million for the
         quarter ended September 30, 1998, $193.5 million for the quarter ended
         December 31, 1998 and $115.2 million for the quarter ended March 31,
         1999. The Company's net income (loss) for the last five quarters was
         $689,000 for the quarter ended March 31, 1998, $(3.7) million for the
         quarter ended June 30, 1998, $(2.2) million for the quarter ended
         September 30, 1998, $16.0 million for the quarter ended December 31,
         1998 and $5.2 million for the quarter ended March 31, 1999. The Company
         expects its net revenues and operating results to continue to reflect
         significant seasonality.

                  DEPENDENCE ON NEW PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT; PRODUCT DELAYS. The
         Company's future success depends in part on the timely introduction of
         successful new products to replace declining revenues from older
         products. If, for any reason, revenues from new products were to fail
         to replace declining revenues from older products, the Company's
         business, operating results and financial condition would be materially
         and adversely affected. In addition, the Company believes that the
         competitive factors in the marketplace for premium-priced interactive
         products create the need for higher quality, distinctive products that
         incorporate increasingly sophisticated effects and the need to support
         product releases with increased marketing, resulting in higher
         development, acquisition and marketing costs. The lack of market
         acceptance or significant delay in the introduction of, or the presence
         of a defect in, one or more premium-priced products could have a
         material adverse effect on the Company's business, operating results
         and financial condition, particularly in view of the seasonality of the
         Company's business. Further, because a large portion of a product's
         revenue generally is associated with initial shipments, the delay of a
         product introduction expected near the end of a fiscal quarter may have
         a material adverse effect on operating results for that quarter.

                  The Company has, in the past, experienced significant delays
         in the introduction of certain new products. The timing and success of
         interactive entertainment products remain unpredictable due to the
         complexity of product development, including the uncertainty associated
         with technological developments. Although the Company has implemented
         substantial development controls, there likely will be delays in
         developing and introducing new products in the future. There can be no
         assurance that new products will be introduced on schedule, or at all,
         or that they will achieve market acceptance or generate significant
         revenues.

                  RELIANCE ON THIRD PARTY DEVELOPERS AND INDEPENDENT
         CONTRACTORS. The percentage of products published by the Company that
         are developed by independent third party developers has increased over
         the last several fiscal years. From time to time, the Company also
         utilizes independent contractors for certain aspects of product
         development and production. The Company has less control over the
         scheduling and the quality of work by independent contractors and third
         party developers than that of its own employees. A delay in the work
         performed by independent contractors and third party developers or poor
         quality of such work may result in product delays. Although the Company
         intends to continue to rely in part on products that are developed
         primarily by its own employees, the Company's ability to grow its
         business and its future operating results will depend, in significant
         part, on the Company's continued ability to maintain relationships with
         skilled independent contractors and third party developers. There can
         be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain such
         relationships.




                  UNCERTAINTY OF MARKET ACCEPTANCE; SHORT PRODUCT LIFE CYCLES.
         The market for interactive entertainment and leisure systems and
         interactive software has been characterized by shifts in consumer
         preferences and short product life cycles. Consumer preferences for
         entertainment and leisure software products are difficult to predict
         and few products achieve sustained market acceptance. There can be no
         assurance that new products introduced by the Company will achieve any
         significant degree of market acceptance, that such acceptance will be
         sustained for any significant period, or that product life cycles will
         be sufficient to permit the Company to recoup development, marketing
         and other associated costs. In addition, if market acceptance is not
         achieved, the Company could be forced to accept substantial product
         returns to maintain its relationships with retailers and its access to
         distribution channels. Failure of new products to achieve or sustain
         market acceptance or product returns in excess of the Company's
         expectations would have a material adverse effect on the Company's
         business, operating results and financial condition.

                  PRODUCT CONCENTRATION; DEPENDENCE ON HIT PRODUCTS. The Company
         derives a significant portion of its revenues from a relatively small
         number of products released each year, and many of these products have
         substantial production or acquisition costs and marketing budgets.
         During fiscal 1998, one product accounted for approximately 10.2% of
         the Company's consolidated net revenues. All other products were
         individually less than 10% of the Company's consolidated net revenues.
         During fiscal 1999, no single product accounted for greater than 10% of
         the Company's consolidated net revenues. However, the Company
         anticipates that a limited number of products will continue to produce
         a disproportionate amount of revenues. Due to this dependence on a
         limited number of products, the failure of one or more of these
         products to achieve anticipated results may have a material adverse
         effect on the Company's business, operating results and financial
         results.

                  The Company's strategy also includes as a key component
         publishing titles that have franchise value, such that sequels,
         enhancements and add-on products can be released over time, thereby
         extending the life of the property in the market. While the focus on
         franchise properties, if successful, results in extending product life
         cycles, it also results in the Company depending on a limited number of
         titles for its revenues. There can be no assurance that the Company's
         existing franchise titles can continue to be exploited as successfully
         as in the past. In addition, new products that the Company believes
         will have potential value as franchise properties may not achieve
         market acceptance and therefore may not be a basis for future releases.

                  INDUSTRY COMPETITION; COMPETITION FOR SHELF SPACE. The
         interactive entertainment and leisure industries are intensely
         competitive. Competition in these industries is principally based on
         product quality and features, the compatibility of products with
         popular platforms, company or product line brand name recognition,
         access to distribution channels, marketing effectiveness, reliability
         and ease of use, price and technical support. Significant financial
         resources also have become a competitive factor in these industries,
         principally due to the substantial cost of product development and
         marketing that is required to support best-selling titles. In addition,
         competitors with broad product lines and popular titles typically have
         greater leverage with distributors and other customers who may be
         willing to promote titles with less consumer appeal in return for
         access to such competitor's most popular titles.

                  The Company's competitors range from small companies with
         limited resources to large companies with substantially greater
         financial, technical and marketing resources than those of the Company.
         The Company's competitors currently include Electronic Arts, LucasArts,
         Microsoft, Sega, Nintendo, Sony, Havas, Infogrames, Hasbro, GT
         Interactive and Eidos, among many others.

                  As competition increases, significant price competition,
         increased production costs and reduced profit margins may result.
         Prolonged price competition or reduced demand would have a material
         adverse effect on the Company's business, operating results and
         financial condition. There can be no assurance that the Company will be
         able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or
         that competitive pressures faced by the Company will not have a
         material adverse effect on its business, operating results and
         financial condition.

                  Retailers typically have a limited amount of shelf space, and
         there is intense competition among entertainment and leisure software
         producers for adequate levels of shelf space and promotional support
         from retailers. As the number of interactive entertainment and leisure
         products increase, the competition for shelf space has intensified,
         resulting in greater leverage for retailers and distributors in
         negotiating terms of sale, including price discounts and product return
         policies. The Company's products constitute a relatively small
         percentage of a retailer's sales volume, and there can be no assurance
         that retailers will continue to purchase the Company's products or
         promote the Company's products with adequate levels of shelf space and
         promotional support.

                  DEPENDENCE ON DISTRIBUTORS AND RETAILERS; RISK OF CUSTOMER
         BUSINESS FAILURE; PRODUCT Returns. Certain mass market retailers have
         established exclusive buying relationships under which such retailers
         will buy consumer software only from one intermediary. In such
         instances, the price or other terms on which the Company sells to such
         retailers may be adversely effected by the terms imposed by such
         intermediary, or the Company may be unable to sell to such retailers on
         terms which the Company deems acceptable. The loss




         of, or significant reduction in sales attributable to, any of the
         Company's principal distributors or retailers could materially
         adversely effect the Company's business, operating results and
         financial condition.

                  Retailers in the computer industry have from time to time
         experienced significant fluctuations in their businesses and there have
         been a number of business failures among these entities. The insolvency
         or business failure of any significant retailer or other wholesale
         purchaser of the Company's products could have a material adverse
         effect on the Company's business, operating results and financial
         condition. Sales are typically made on credit, with terms that vary
         depending upon the customer and the nature of the product. The Company
         does not hold collateral to secure payment. Although the Company has
         obtained insolvency risk insurance to protect against any bankruptcy,
         insolvency, or liquidation that may occur to its customers, such
         insurance contains a significant deductible as well as a co-payment
         obligation, and the policy does not cover all instances of non-payment.
         In addition, the Company maintains a reserve for uncollectible
         receivables that it believes to be adequate, but the actual reserve
         which is maintained may not be sufficient in every circumstance. As a
         result of the foregoing, a payment default by a significant customer
         could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business,
         operating results and financial condition.

                  The Company also is exposed to the risk of product returns
         from retailers and other wholesale purchasers. Although the Company
         provides reserves for returns that it believes are adequate, and
         although the Company's agreements with certain of its customers place
         certain limits on product returns, the Company could be forced to
         accept substantial product returns to maintain its relationships with
         retailers and its access to distribution channels. Product returns that
         exceed the Company's reserves could have a material adverse effect on
         the Company's business, operating results and financial condition.

                  CHANGES IN TECHNOLOGY AND INDUSTRY STANDARDS. The consumer
         software industry is undergoing rapid changes, including evolving
         industry standards, frequent new platform introductions and changes in
         consumer requirements and preferences. The introduction of new
         technologies, including new console systems such as Sega's Dreamcast
         and Sony's PlayStation 2, technologies that support multi-player games,
         and new media formats such as on-line delivery and digital video disks
         ("DVD"), could render the Company's previously released products
         obsolete or unmarketable. The development cycle for products utilizing
         new operating and console systems, microprocessors or formats may be
         significantly longer than the Company's current development cycle for
         products on existing operating systems, microprocessors and formats and
         may require the Company to invest resources in products that may not
         become profitable. There can be no assurance that the mix of the
         Company's future product offerings will keep pace with technological
         changes or satisfy evolving consumer preferences, or that the Company
         will be successful in developing and marketing products for any future
         operating system or format. Failure to develop and introduce new
         products and product enhancements in a timely fashion could result in
         significant product returns and inventory obsolescence and could have a
         material adverse effect on the Company's business, operating results
         and financial condition.

                  RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH LEVERAGE.  As of March 31, 1999, the
         Company had outstanding $60,000,000 of subordinated convertible notes
         due 2005.  In June 1999, the Company obtained a term loan and
         revolving credit facility composed of $25 million of term loans and
         up to $100 million of revolving credit loans and letters of credit.
         The proceeds of the term loan, which is due in June 2002, were used
         to complete the acquisition of Expert Software, Inc. and to pay
         expenses associated with the acquisition and the financing
         transaction.  The revolving credit facility will be used for working
         capital and general corporate purposes.

                  The term loan and the revolving credit facility are secured
         by a pledge of substantially all of the asset of the Company and of
         its US subsidiaries.  The facility contains various financial and
         other covenants that the Company and its subsidiaries must comply
         with.  If the Company were to default under the terms of the credit
         facility, either as a result of a failure to pay principal or
         interest when due or as a result of a breach of a financial or other
         covenant, the lenders could stop providing funds and letters of
         credit to the Company and could declare an event of default and
         foreclose on the collateral.  This could also result in an
         acceleration of the subordinated notes.  A default by the Company
         under the revolving credit and term loan facility would materially
         adversely effect the Company's business and could result in the
         Company declaring bankruptcy.

                  YEAR 2000. Like many other software companies, the year 2000
         computer issue creates risk for the Company. If internal computer and
         embedded systems do not correctly recognize date information when the
         year changes to 2000, there could be an adverse impact on the Company's
         operations. The Company has initiated a comprehensive plan to prepare
         its internal computer and embedded systems for the year 2000 and is
         currently implementing changes to alleviate year 2000 incapabilities.
         As part of such plan, the Company has purchased software programs that
         have been independently developed by third parties which will test year
         2000 compliance for the majority of the Company's systems.

                  All of the entertainment and leisure software products
         currently being shipped by the Company have been tested for year 2000
         compliance and have passed these tests. In addition, all products
         currently in development are being tested as part of the normal quality
         assurance testing process and are scheduled to be released fully year
         2000 compliant. The year 2000 computer issue could, however, still
         affect the ability of consumers to use the PC products sold by the
         Company. For example, if the computer system on which a consumer uses
         the Company's products is not year 2000 compliant, such noncompliance
         could affect the consumer's ability to use the products.

                  The Company has developed ontingency plans to address the most
         material areas of exposure to the Company, such as adding network
         operating systems to back-up the Company's current network server and
         developing back-up plans for telecommunications with external offices
         and customers. In addition, the Company has put in place a staffing
         plan to handle orders manually should there be a failure of electronic
         data interchange connections with its customers and suppliers.
         Management believes that the items mentioned above constitute the
         greatest risk of exposure to the Company and that the plans developed
         by the Company will be adequate for handling these items.

                  The Company also has contacted critical suppliers of products
         and services to determine that the suppliers' operations and the
         products and services they provide are year 2000 compliant. To assist
         suppliers (particularly trading partners using electronic data
         interchange) in evaluating their year 2000 issues, the Company has
         developed a questionnaire designed to asses the ability of each
         supplier to address year 2000




         incompatibilities. All critical suppliers and trading partners of
         the Company have responded to the questionnaire and confirmed the
         expectation that they will continue providing services and products
         through the change to 2000.

                  Year 2000 compliance testing on substantially all of the
         Company's critical systems have been completed, and corresponding
         changes are anticipated to be made by July 1999. The costs incurred by
         the Company to date related to this testing and modification process
         are less than $100,000. The Company expects that the total cost of its
         year 2000 compliance plan will not exceed $200,000. The total estimated
         cost does not include potential costs related to any systems used by
         the Company's customers, any third party claims, or the costs incurred
         by the Company when it replaces internal software and hardware in the
         normal course of its business. The overall cost of the Company's year
         2000 compliance plan is a minor portion of the Company's total
         information technology budget and is not expected to materially delay
         the implementation of any other unrelated projects that are planned to
         be undertaken by the Company. In some instances, the installation
         schedule of new software and hardware in the normal course of business
         has been accelerated to afford a solution to year 2000 compatibility
         issues. The total cost estimate for the Company's year 2000 compliance
         plan is based on management's current assessment of the projects
         comprising the plan and is subject to change as the projects progress.

                  Based on currently available information, management does not
         believe that the year 2000 issues discussed above related to the
         Company's internal systems or its products sold to customers will have
         a material adverse impact on the Company's financial condition or
         results of operations; however, the specific extent to which the
         Company may be affected by such matters is not certain. In addition,
         there can be no assurance that the failure by a supplier or another
         third party to ensure year 2000 compatibility would not have a material
         adverse effect on the Company.

                  EURO CONVERSION. On January 1, 1999, eleven of the fifteen
         member countries of the European Union adopted the "euro" as their
         common currency. The sovereign currencies of the participating
         countries are scheduled to remain legal tender as denominations of the
         euro between January 1, 1999 and January 1, 2002. Beginning January 1,
         2002, the participating countries will issue new euro-denominated bills
         and coins for use in cash transactions. No later than July 1, 2002, the
         participating countries will withdraw all bills and coins denominated
         in the sovereign currencies, so that the sovereign currencies no longer
         will be legal tender for any transactions, making conversion to the
         euro complete. The Company has performed an internal analysis of the
         possible implications of the euro conversion on the Company's business
         and financial condition, and has determined that the impact of the
         conversion will be immaterial to its overall operations. The Company's
         wholly owned subsidiaries operating in participating countries
         represented 24.1% and 22.1% of the Company's consolidated net revenues
         for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

                  LIMITED PROTECTION OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND PROPRIETARY
         RIGHTS; RISK OF LITIGATION. The Company holds copyrights on the
         products, manuals, advertising and other materials owned by it and
         maintains trademark rights in the Company name, the ACTIVISION logo,
         and the names of the products owned by the Company. The Company regards
         its software as proprietary and relies primarily on a combination of
         trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, employee and third-party
         nondisclosure agreements, and other methods to protect its proprietary
         rights. Unauthorized copying is common within the software industry,
         and if a significant amount of unauthorized copying of the Company's
         products were to occur, the Company's business, operating results and
         financial condition could be adversely effected. There can be no
         assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims
         against the Company in the future with respect to current or future
         products. As is common in the industry, from time to time the Company
         receives notices from third parties claiming infringement of
         intellectual property rights of such parties. The Company investigates
         these claims and responds as it deems appropriate. Any claims or
         litigation, with or without merit, could be costly and could result in
         a diversion of management's attention, which could have a material
         adverse effect on the Company's business, operating results and
         financial condition. Adverse determinations in such claims or
         litigation could also have a material adverse effect on the Company's
         business, operating results and financial condition.

                  Policing unauthorized use of the Company's products is
         difficult, and while the Company is unable to determine the extent to
         which piracy of its software products exists, software piracy can be
         expected to be a persistent problem. In selling its products, the
         Company relies primarily on "shrink wrap" licenses that are not signed
         by licensees and, therefore, may be unenforceable under the laws of
         certain jurisdictions. Further, the Company enters into transactions in
         countries where intellectual property laws are not well developed or
         are poorly enforced. Legal protections of the Company's rights may be
         ineffective in such countries.

                  DEPENDENCE ON KEY PERSONNEL. The Company's success depends to
         a significant extent on the performance and continued service of its
         senior management and certain key employees. Competition for highly
         skilled employees with technical, management, marketing, sales, product
         development and other specialized training is intense, and there can be
         no assurance that the Company will be successful in attracting and
         retaining such personnel. Specifically, the Company may experience
         increased costs in order




         to attract and retain skilled employees. Although the Company enters
         into term employment agreements with most of its skilled employees
         and management personnel, there can be no assurance that such
         employees will not leave the Company or compete against the Company.
         The Company's failure to attract or retain qualified employees could
         have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, operating
         results and financial condition.

                  RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS: CURRENCY
         FLUCTUATIONS. International sales and licensing accounted for 65%, 71%
         and 66% of the Company's total revenues in the fiscal years 1997, 1998
         and 1999, respectively. The Company intends to continue to expand its
         direct and indirect sales, marketing and localization activities
         worldwide. This expansion will require significant management time and
         attention and financial resources in order to develop adequate
         international sales and support channels. There can be no assurance,
         however, that the Company will be able to maintain or increase
         international market demand for its products. International sales are
         subject to inherent risks, including the impact of possible
         recessionary environments in economies outside the United States, the
         costs of transferring and localizing products for foreign markets,
         longer receivable collection periods and greater difficulty in accounts
         receivable collection, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements,
         difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations, and
         political and economic instability. There can be no assurance that the
         Company will be able to sustain or increase international revenues or
         that the foregoing factors will not have a material adverse effect on
         the Company's future international revenues and, consequently, on the
         Company's business, operating results and financial condition. The
         Company currently does not engage in currency hedging activities.
         Although exposure to currency fluctuations to date has been
         insignificant, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may in the
         future have a material adverse impact on revenues from international
         sales and licensing and thus the Company's business, operating results
         and financial condition.

                  RISK OF DEFECTS. Products such as those offered by the Company
         frequently contain errors or defects. Despite extensive product
         testing, in the past the Company has released products with defects and
         has discovered errors in certain of its product offerings after their
         introduction. In particular, the PC hardware environment is
         characterized by a wide variety of non-standard peripherals (such as
         sound cards and graphics cards) and configurations that make
         pre-release testing for programming or compatibility errors very
         difficult and time-consuming. Despite testing by the Company, new
         products or releases may contain errors after commencement of
         commercial shipments, resulting in a loss of or delay in market
         acceptance, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's
         business, operating results and financial condition.

                  RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH ACQUISITIONS. The Company is in the
         process of integrating the operations of its recently acquired
         subsidiaries, Head Games, CD Contact and Expert Software, Inc.
         ("Expert") with its previously existing operations. This process, as
         well as the process of managing two significant new operations,
         requires substantial management time and effort and diverts the
         attention of management from other matters. In addition, there is a
         risk of loss of key employees, customers and vendors of the recently
         acquired operations as well as existing operations as this process is
         implemented. The Company may not be successful in integrating these
         operations.

                  Consistent with the Company's strategy of enhancing its
         distribution and product development capabilities, the Company intends
         to continue to pursue acquisitions of companies, intellectual property
         rights and other assets that can be purchased or licensed on acceptable
         terms and which the Company believes can be operated or exploited
         profitably. Some of these transactions could be material in size and
         scope. While the Company will continually be searching for appropriate
         acquisition opportunities, the Company may not be successful in
         identifying suitable acquisitions. If any potential acquisition
         opportunities are identified, the Company may not be able to consummate
         such acquisitions and if any such acquisition does occur, it may not be
         successful in enhancing the Company's business or be accretive to the
         Company's earnings. As the interactive entertainment and leisure
         businesses continue to consolidate, the Company faces significant
         competition in seeking acquisitions and may in the future face
         increased competition for acquisition opportunities. This may inhibit
         the Company's ability to complete suitable transactions. Future
         acquisitions could also divert substantial management time, could
         result in short term reductions in earnings or special transaction or
         other charges and may be difficult to integrate with existing
         operations or assets.

                  The Company may, in the future, issue additional shares of
         common stock in connection with one or more acquisitions, which may
         dilute its existing shareholders. The Company's shareholders will not
         have an opportunity, with respect to most of its future acquisitions,
         to review the financial statements of the entity being acquired or to
         evaluate the benefits of the intellectual property rights being
         purchased or licensed, or to vote on the acquisitions.

                  RISK OF DISTRIBUTION COMPANIES' VENDOR DEFECTIONS; VENDOR
         CONCENTRATION. The Company's CD Contact subsidiary and CenterSoft
         subsidiary perform software distribution services in the Benelux
         territory and in the United Kingdom, respectively, and, via export, in
         other European territories for a variety of entertainment software
         publishers, many of which are competitors of the Company. These
         services are




         generally performed under limited term contracts, some of which
         provide for cancellation in the event of a change of control. While
         the Company expects to use reasonable efforts to retain these
         vendors, the Company may not be successful in this regard. The
         cancellation or non-renewal of one or more of these contracts could
         have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, operating
         results and financial condition. Three of CD Contact's vendors
         accounted for 50%, 11% and 11%, respectively, of CD Contact's net
         revenues in fiscal year 1999. The net revenues from these vendors
         represents 6%, 1% and 1%, respectively, of consolidated net revenues
         of the Company. Two of CentreSoft's vendors accounted for 30% and
         11%, respectively, of CentreSoft's net revenues in fiscal year 1999.
         The net revenues from these vendors represented 11% and 4%,
         respectively, of consolidated net revenues of the Company. All other
         vendors contributed less than 10% individually to the respective
         subsidiary's net revenues.

         STRATEGY

                  The Company's objective is to be a worldwide leader in the
         development, publishing and distribution of quality interactive
         entertainment and leisure products that deliver, at each point of the
         value spectrum, a highly satisfying experience. The Company's strategy
         includes the following elements:

                  CREATE AND MAINTAIN A BALANCED AND DIVERSIFIED PORTFOLIO OF
         OPERATIONS. The Company has assembled a large diversified portfolio of
         development, publishing and distribution operations and relationships
         which are complementary and, at the same time, reduce the Company's
         risk of concentration on any one developer, brand, platform, customer
         or market. The Company has focused historically on the development and
         publishing of premium games which provide the most sophisticated game
         play and entertainment experience at the top price point. While the
         Company will continue to take advantage of its expertise in this area,
         it has recently diversified its business operations and product and
         audience mix, and plans on continuing such diversification in the
         future. For example, the Company acquired several separate companies in
         the last two years in order to establish the distribution business.
         Additionally, the Company believes that its recent acquisition of
         Expert Software Inc., along with the Company's acquisition in June 1998
         of Head Games, positions the Company as a leading publisher of "value"
         products for the PC, which are characterized by less sophisticated game
         play and lower price points. Further, the Company publishes and
         distributes titles that run on a variety of platforms (PC, Sony
         PlayStation and Nintendo 64). This diversification significantly
         reduces the risk of downturn or underperformance in any of the
         Company's individual operations.

                  CREATE AND MAINTAIN STRONG BRANDS. The Company focuses its
         development and publishing activities principally on titles that are,
         or have the potential to become, franchise properties with sustainable
         consumer appeal and brand recognition. These titles can thereby serve
         as the basis for sequels, prequels, mission packs and other add-ons and
         related new titles that can be released over an extended period of
         time. The Company believes that the publishing and distribution of
         products based in large part on franchise properties enhances revenue
         predictability and the probability of high unit volume sales and
         operating profits. In addition, the Company has entered into a series
         of strategic partnerships with the owners of intellectual property
         pursuant to which the Company has acquired the rights to publish titles
         based on franchises such as STAR TREK, various Disney films such as TOY
         STORY 2, A BUG'S LIFE and TARZAN, and SPIDERMAN.

                  FOCUS ON ON-TIME DELIVERY. The success of the Company's
         publishing business is dependent, in significant part, on its ability
         to develop games that will generate high unit volume sales that can be
         completed in accordance with planned budgets and schedules. In order to
         increase its ability to achieve this objective, the Company's
         publishing units have implemented a formal control process for the
         development of the Company's products. This process includes three key
         elements: (i) in-depth reviews are conducted for each project at five
         intervals during the development process by a team that includes
         several of the Company's highest ranking operating managers; (ii) each
         project is led by a small team which is heavily incentivized to deliver
         a high-quality product, on-schedule and within budget; and (iii)
         day-to-day progress is monitored by a dedicated process manager in
         order to insure that issues, if any, are promptly identified and
         addressed in a timely manner.

                  LEVERAGE INFRASTRUCTURE AND ORGANIZATION. The Company is
         continually striving to reduce its risk and increase its operating
         leverage and efficiency through the variabilization of expenses. For
         example, the Company has significantly increased its product making
         capabilities by allocating a larger portion of its product development
         investments to experienced independent development companies. These
         companies generally are small firms focused on a particular product
         type, run and owned by individuals willing to take development risk by
         accepting payments based on the completion of fixed performance
         milestones in exchange for a royalty on the revenue stream of the game
         after the Company recoups its development costs. The Company has also
         broadly instituted objective-based reward programs that provide
         incentives to management and staff to produce results that meet the
         Company's financial objectives.

                  GROW THROUGH CONTINUED STRATEGIC ACQUISITIONS. The interactive
         entertainment and leisure industries are consolidating, and the Company
         believes that success in these industries will be driven in part





         by the ability to take advantage of scale. Specifically, smaller
         companies are more capital constrained, enjoy less predictability of
         revenues and cashflow, lack product diversity and must spread fixed
         costs over a smaller revenue base. Several industry leaders are
         emerging that combine the entrepreneurial and creative spirit of the
         industries with professional management, the ability to access the
         capital markets and the ability to maintain favorable relationships
         with strategic developers, property owners, and retailers. Through
         seven completed acquisitions since 1997, the Company believes that
         it has successfully diversified its operations, its channels of
         distribution and its library of titles and has emerged as one of the
         industry's leaders.

         PRODUCTS

                  The Company currently is best known for its action, adventure,
         strategy and simulation products, although the Company also distributes
         products in other categories such as sports, leisure and role playing.
         The Company may in the future expand its product offerings into new
         categories.

                  The Company's current and upcoming releases are based on a
         combination of characters, worlds and concepts derived from the
         Company's extensive library of titles, original characters and concepts
         owned and created by the Company, and intellectual property or other
         character or story rights licensed from third parties. In publishing
         products based on licensed intellectual property rights, the Company
         generally seeks to capitalize on the name recognition, marketing
         efforts and goodwill associated with the underlying property.

                  In the past year, the Company has entered into a series of
         long term or multi-product agreements with the owners of intellectual
         property that is well known throughout the world. In addition to the
         strategic relationships established by the Company with Disney
         Interactive for several animated film properties and with Viacom
         Consumer Products for STAR TREK, the Company also has entered into an
         exclusive distribution agreement with LucasArts Entertainment which
         gives the Company the right during the term of the agreement to
         distribute all past and future LucasArts PC and PlayStation products in
         the United Kingdom and over 40 other international countries, including
         titles based on STAR WARS: EPISODE ONE and INDIANA JONES.

                  In addition to its own internally developed products, the
         Company publishes and distributes software products for other
         independent developers and publishers such as id Software, Nihilistic
         Software, Ritual Entertainment and Kalisto Entertainment. As the
         Company seeks to associate the "ACTIVISION" mark only with the highest
         quality interactive entertainment products, the Company attempts to be
         selective in acquiring publishing and distribution rights from third
         party developers. Such products typically are marketed under the
         Company's name as well as the name of the original developer. The
         Company believes that these efforts enable the Company to leverage its
         investment in worldwide sales and marketing and add a new source of
         products while balancing the risks inherent in internal product
         development and production. This activity also allows the Company to
         enter new product genres more quickly and provide consumers with a
         wider variety of products.

                  In addition, during the last year, the Company entered the
         "value priced" software publishing business through its acquisition
         of Head Games Publishing in June 1998 and of Expert Software Inc. in
         June 1999. Products published by the Company in this category are
         generally developed by third parties, often under contract with the
         Company, and are marketed under the Head Games and Expert Software
         names.

         PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AND SUPPORT

                  The Company uses both internal and external resources to
         develop products. The Company also acquires rights to products through
         publishing and distribution arrangements with other interactive
         entertainment and leisure companies.

         INTERNAL DEVELOPMENT

                  The Company's internal development and production groups are
         located at the Company's headquarters in Santa Monica, California and
         at the Company's Raven Software subsidiary located in Madison,
         Wisconsin.

                  Activision internally develops and produces titles using a
         model in which a core group of creative, production and technical
         professionals on staff at the Company, in cooperation with the
         Company's marketing and finance departments, have overall
         responsibility for the entire development and production process and
         for the supervision and coordination of internal and external
         resources. This team assembles the necessary creative elements to
         complete a title, using where appropriate outside programmers, artists,
         animators, musicians and songwriters, sound effects and special effects
         experts, and sound and video studios. The Company believes that this
         model allows the Company to supplement internal expertise with top
         quality external resources on an as needed basis.

                  The Company has adopted and implemented a rigorous procedure
         for the selection, development, production and quality assurance of its
         internally produced entertainment software titles. The process involves
         one or more pre-development, development and production phases, each of
         which includes a number of specific performance milestones. This
         procedure is designed to enable the Company to manage and control
         production and development budgets and timetables, to identify and
         address production and




         technical issues at the earliest opportunity, and to coordinate
         marketing and quality control strategies throughout the production
         and development phases, all in an environment that fosters
         creativity. Checks and balances are intended to be provided through
         the structured interaction of the project team with the Company's
         creative, technical, marketing and quality assurance/customer
         support personnel, as well as the legal, accounting and finance
         departments.

         EXTERNAL DEVELOPMENT

                  The Company licenses or acquires software products from
         independent developers for publishing or distribution by the Company.
         Acquired titles generally are marketed under the Company's name as well
         as the name of the original developer. The agreements with developers
         provide the Company with exclusive publishing or distribution rights
         for a specific period of time for specified platforms and territories.
         These agreements often grant to the Company the right to publish or
         distribute sequels, enhancements and add-ons to the product originally
         being developed and produced by the developer. In consideration for its
         services, the developer receives a royalty based on sales of the
         product that it has developed. Typically, the developer also receives a
         nonrefundable advance which is recoupable by the Company from the
         royalties otherwise required to be paid to the developer. The royalty
         generally is paid in stages, with the payment of each stage tied to the
         completion of a detailed performance milestone.

                  The Company acquires titles from developers during various
         phases of the development and production processes for such titles. To
         the extent the Company acquires rights early in the development
         process, the Company generally will cause the independent developer to
         comply with the requirements of the pre-development, development and
         production processes applicable to titles internally produced by
         Activision. The Company will assign a game producer to each title who
         will serve as the principal liaison to the independent developer and
         help insure that performance milestones are timely met. The Company
         generally has the right to cease making payments to an independent
         developer if the developer fails to complete its performance milestones
         in a timely fashion.

                  The Company may make, from time to time, an investment and
         hold a minority equity interest in the third party developer in order
         to create a closer relationship between the Company and the developer.
         In this regard, the Company recently acquired a minority equity
         interest in each of Pandemic Studios, Savage Entertainment and
         Hammerhead Studios in connection with several new entertainment
         software products to be developed by each of these developers for the
         Company. There can be no assurance that the Company will realize long
         term benefits from any of these investments or that it will continue to
         carry such investments at its current value.

         PRODUCT SUPPORT

                  The Company provides various forms of product support to both
         its internally and externally developed titles. The Company's quality
         assurance personnel are involved throughout the development and
         production processes for each title published by the Company. All such
         products are subjected to extensive testing before release in order to
         insure compatibility with the widest possible array of hardware
         configurations and to minimize the number of bugs and other defects
         found in the products. To support its products after release, the
         Company provides on-line support to its customers on a 24-hour basis as
         well as operator help lines during regular business hours. The customer
         support group tracks customer inquiries and this data is used to help
         improve the development and production processes.

         PUBLISHING AND DISTRIBUTION ACTIVITIES

         MARKETING

                  The Company's marketing efforts include on-line activities
         (such as the creation of World Wide Web pages to promote specific
         Company titles), public relations, print and broadcast advertising,
         coordinated in-store and industry promotions including merchandising
         and point of purchase displays, participation in cooperative
         advertising programs, direct response vehicles, and product sampling
         through demonstration software distributed through the Internet or on
         compact discs. In addition, the Company's products contain software
         that enables customers to "electronically register" their purchases
         with the Company via modem. Through this process, the Company captures
         electronic mail addresses for its customers as well as a variety of
         additional market research data.

                  The Company believes that certain of its franchise properties
         have loyal and devoted audiences who purchase the Company's sequels as
         a result of dedication to the property and satisfaction from previous
         product purchases. Marketing of these sequels is therefore directed
         both toward the established market as well as broader audiences. In
         marketing titles based on licensed properties, the Company believes
         that it derives marketing synergies and related benefits from the
         marketing and promotional activities of the property owners. In
         marketing titles owned by third party developers, the Company believes
         that it derives




         marketing synergies and related benefits from the previously
         established reputation of the properties owned by the developer.

         SALES AND DISTRIBUTION

                  DOMESTIC SALES AND DISTRIBUTION. The Company's products are
         available for sale or rental in thousands of retail outlets
         domestically. The Company's domestic customers include Best Buy,
         CompUSA, Computer City, Electronic Boutique, Babbages, WalMart,
         K-Mart, Target and Toys "R" Us. During fiscal 1999, no single
         domestic customer accounted for more than 10% of consolidated net
         revenues.

                  In the United States, the Company's products are sold
         primarily on a direct basis to major computer and software retailing
         organizations, mass market retailers, consumer electronic stores and
         discount warehouses and mail order companies. The Company believes that
         a direct relationship with retail accounts results in more effective
         inventory management, merchandising and communications than would be
         possible through indirect relationships. The Company has implemented
         electronic data interchange ("EDI") linkage with many of its retailers
         to facilitate the placing and shipment of orders. The Company seeks to
         continue to increase the number of retail outlets reached directly
         through its internal sales force. To a lesser extent, the Company sells
         its products through wholesale distributors, such as Ingram Micro and
         Merisel.

                  INTERNATIONAL SALES AND DISTRIBUTION. The Company conducts its
         international publishing and distribution activities through offices in
         the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Australia and Japan. The Company
         seeks to maximize its worldwide revenues and profits by releasing high
         quality foreign language localizations concurrently with the English
         language releases, whenever practicable, and by continuing to expand
         the number of direct selling relationships it maintains with key
         retailers in major territories.

                   In November 1997, the Company commenced its European
         distribution operations through the acquisitions of NBG in Germany and
         CentreSoft in the United Kingdom. CentreSoft is Sony's exclusive
         distributor of PlayStation products to the independent channel in the
         United Kingdom and employs approximately 150 people, including one of
         the largest entertainment software sales and marketing organizations in
         that country. In September 1998, the Company acquired CD Contact, a
         company specializing in the localization and marketing of entertainment
         software products in the Benelux territories. The assets and personnel
         of CD Contact currently are being combined with the Company's other
         distribution operations to form the core of Activision's international
         distribution operations and a base for further expansion into European
         territories. The Company will emphasize the expansion of CentreSoft's,
         NBG's and CD Contact's channel relations and intends to leverage the
         management expertise of these companies into other territories.

                  AFFILIATE LABELS. In addition to its own products, the Company
         distributes interactive entertainment products that are developed and
         marketed by other third party publishers through its "affiliate label"
         programs. The distribution of other publishers' products allows the
         Company to maximize the efficiencies of its sales force and provides
         the Company with the ability to better insure adequate shelf presence
         at retail stores for all of the products that it distributes. It also
         mitigates the risk associated with a particular title or titles
         published by Activision failing to achieve expectations. Services
         provided by the Company under its affiliate label program include order
         solicitation, in-store marketing, logistics and order fulfillment, and
         sales channel management.

                  The Company's affiliate label partners include LucasArts, as
         described above, Psygnosis, with respect to all of its PC and
         PlayStation products in North America, and Fox Interactive, with
         respect to all Fox Sports branded interactive products in Europe,
         Africa and Asia, excluding Japan.

                  OEM SALES AND DISTRIBUTION. The Company seeks to enhance the
         distribution of its products through licensing arrangements with
         original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). Under these arrangements,
         one or more of the Company's titles are "bundled" with hardware or
         peripheral devices sold and distributed by the OEM so that the
         purchaser of the hardware or device obtains the Company's software as
         part of the purchase or on a discounted basis. Although it is customary
         for the Company to receive a lower per unit price on sales through OEM
         bundle arrangements, the OEM customer makes a high unit volume
         commitment to the Company with little associated marketing costs. In
         addition, the Company from time to time receives substantial advance
         payments from the OEM customer. The Company also believes that such
         arrangements can substantially expand the distribution of its titles to
         a broader audience. Recent OEM partners include Diamond Multimedia,
         Gateway, Philips, Epson and Toshiba.





         LICENSING AND MERCHANDISING

                  The Company believes that a number of its products have the
         potential to be exploited in ancillary markets and media, such as
         product merchandising and traditional entertainment media. The Company
         seeks opportunities for the exploitation of these ancillary rights
         directly and through third party agents. Potential opportunities
         include the publication of strategy guides for selected titles, the
         adaptation of titles into comic books, novels, television series or
         motion pictures, and the licensing of product merchandising rights. The
         Company believes that these types of licensing activities can provide
         additional sources of revenue and increase the visibility of the title,
         thereby leading to additional unit sales and greater potential for
         additional sequels. There can be no assurance that the Company will be
         successful in exploiting its properties in ancillary markets or media.

                  Similarly, the Company believes that there are opportunities
         for further exploitation of its titles through the Internet, on-line
         services such as America Online and the Microsoft Network, and through
         recently created on-line gaming services such as Heat and WON. The
         Company has established "900" telephone numbers as hint lines for
         certain of its titles, and has realized revenues from the calls made to
         these numbers. The Company also is actively exploring the establishment
         of on-line game playing opportunities, on-line hint sites, and Internet
         services as a method for realizing additional revenues from its
         products. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful
         in exploiting these opportunities.

         HARDWARE LICENSES

                  The Company's console products currently are being developed
         or published primarily for the Sony PlayStation and Nintendo 64. In
         order to maintain general access to the console systems marketplace,
         the Company has obtained licenses for the PlayStation, Nintendo 64,
         Nintendo Game Boy and other console systems. Each license allows the
         Company to create one or more products for the applicable system,
         subject to certain approval rights as to quality which are reserved by
         each licensor. Each license also requires that the Company pay the
         licensor a per unit license fee from product sales.

                  In contrast, the Company currently is not required to obtain
         any license for the development and production of PC-CD products.
         Accordingly, the Company's per unit manufacturing cost for PC-CD
         products is less than the per unit manufacturing cost for console
         products.

         MANUFACTURING

                  The Company prepares a set of master program copies,
         documentation and packaging materials for its products for each
         respective hardware platform on which the product will be released.
         Except with respect to products for use on the Sony and Nintendo
         systems, the Company's disk duplication, packaging, printing,
         manufacturing, warehousing, assembly and shipping are performed by
         third party subcontractors.

                  In the case of products for the Sony and Nintendo systems, in
         order to maintain protection over their hardware technologies, such
         hardware producers generally specify and/or control the manufacturing
         and assembly of finished products. The Company delivers the master
         materials to the licensor or its approved replicator which then
         manufactures finished goods and delivers them to the Company for
         distribution under the Company's label. At the time the Company's
         product unit orders are filled by the manufacturer, the Company becomes
         responsible for the costs of manufacturing and the applicable per unit
         royalty on such units, even if the units do not ultimately sell.

                  To date, the Company has not experienced any material
         difficulties or delays in the manufacture and assembly of its products
         or material returns due to product defects.

         COMPETITION

                  The interactive entertainment and leisure industries are
         intensely competitive and are in the process of substantial
         consolidation. The availability of significant financial resources has
         become a major competitive factor in these industries primarily as a
         result of the increasing development, acquisition, production and
         marketing budgets required to publish quality titles. In addition,
         competitors with large product lines and popular titles typically have
         greater leverage with distributors and other customers who may be
         willing to promote titles with less consumer appeal in return for
         access to such competitor's most popular titles. See "Factors Affecting
         Future Performance".

                  The Company seeks to compete by publishing high quality titles
         and by supporting these titles with substantial marketing efforts; by
         focusing on properties with sustainable consumer appeal; by working to
         strengthen its relationships with retailers and other resellers and
         otherwise expanding its channels of distribution; and by pursuing
         opportunities for strategic acquisitions. See "Strategy."




         EMPLOYEES

                  As of March 31, 1999, the Company had 634 employees, including
         207 in product development, 71 in North American publishing, 55 in
         corporate finance, operations and administration, 67 in international
         publishing, and 234 in European distribution activities.

                  As of March 31, 1999, approximately 120 of the Company's
         full-time employees were subject to term employment agreements with the
         Company. These agreements commit such employees to employment terms of
         between one and three years from the commencement of their respective
         agreements. Most of the employees subject to such agreements are senior
         executives of the Company or members of the product development, sales
         or marketing divisions. These individuals perform services to the
         Company as executives, directors, producers, associate producers,
         computer programmers, game designers, sales directors and marketing
         product managers. The execution by the Company of employment agreements
         with such employees, in the Company's experience, significantly reduces
         the Company's turnover during the development and production of its
         entertainment software products and allows the Company to plan more
         effectively for future development activities.

                  None of the Company's employees are subject to a collective
         bargaining agreement, and the Company has experienced no labor-related
         work stoppages.


         (d)      FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS
                  AND EXPORT SALES

                  See Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
         Condition and Results of Operations" and Note 6 of Notes to
         Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8.

Item 2.  PROPERTIES

                  The Company's principal corporate, administrative, and product
         development offices are located in approximately 98,000 square feet of
         leased space in a building located at 3100 Ocean Park Boulevard, Santa
         Monica, California 90405. The following is a listing of the principal
         offices maintained by the Company at June 25, 1999:


Item 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

                  The Company is party to routine claims and suits brought
         against it in the ordinary course of business including disputes
         arising over the ownership of intellectual property rights and
         collection matters. In the opinion of management, the outcome of such
         routine claims will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's
         business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.

Item 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

         Not applicable.




                                     PART II

 Item 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

                  The Company's Common Stock is quoted on the NASDAQ National
         Market under the symbol "ATVI."

                  The following table sets forth for the periods indicated the
         high and low reported closing sale prices for the Company's Common
         Stock.


                  On June 25, 1999, the reported last sales price for the Common
         Stock was $13.69. As of March 31, 1999, the Company had approximately
         5,000 stockholders of record, excluding banks, brokers and depository
         companies that are the stockholders of record for the account of
         beneficial owners.

                  The Company paid no cash dividends in 1999 and does not intend
         to pay any cash dividends at any time in the foreseeable future. The
         Company expects that earnings will be retained for the continued growth
         and development of the Company's business. Future dividends, if any,
         will depend upon the Company's earnings, financial condition, cash
         requirements, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by the
         Company's Board of Directors.

                  In July 1998, the Company granted warrants to purchase 250,000
         shares of the Company's common stock to Disney Enterprises, Inc.
         ("Disney") in connection with a license agreement between the Company
         and Disney's affiliate, Disney Interactive. The warrants have an
         exercise price of $12.70 per share, vest in full on July 2, 1999 and
         expire on July 2, 2008.

                  In September 1998, the Company granted warrants to purchase
         750,000 shares of the Company's common stock to Viacom Consumer
         Products, Inc. ("Viacom") in connection with a license agreement.
         500,000 of the warrants have an exercise price of $10.27 per share,
         vest ratably over five years, beginning on the date of issuance, and
         expire on September 16, 2008. The warrant to purchase the remaining
         250,000 shares also expires on September 16, 2008. These 250,000
         warrants are exercisable ratably over five years beginning September
         16, 2003 and have an exercise price equal to the average closing price
         of the Company's common stock on the NASDAQ National Market for the
         thirty days immediately preceding September 16, 2003.

                  In June 1998, the Company issued a total of 1,000,000
         shares of the Company's common stock in connection with the
         acquisition of Head Games. The Company also granted options to
         purchase 295,000 shares of common stock to certain employees and
         consultants and at the time of the acquisition.

                  In September 1998, the Company issued a total of 1,900,000
         shares of the Company's common stock in connection with the acquisition
         of CD Contact.

                  On March 23, 1999, options to purchase 1,000,000 shares of
         the Company's common stock were granted to each of Robert A.
         Kotick, the Company's Co-Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and
         Brian G. Kelly, the Company's Co-Chairman. The options were granted
         in connection with employment agreements between the Company and
         each of Mr. Kotick and Mr. Kelly, dated January 12, 1999. The
         options vest in five equal



         annual installments beginning on the date of issuance, have an
         exercise price of $10.50 per share, and expire on January 12, 2009.

                  None of the shares, warrants, options or shares into which
         the warrants or options are exercisable were registered under the
         Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), by reason
         of the exemption under Section 4(2) of the Securities Act. The
         Company subsequently registered the shares, as well as the shares
         issuable to the former shareholders of Head Games upon the exercise
         of options, issued in connection with the Head Games and CD Contact
         transactions for resale by the holders thereof.



Item 6.  SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA

              The following table summarizes certain selected consolidated
         financial data, which should be read in conjunction with the Company's
         Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto and with
         Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
         of Operations included elsewhere herein. Selected Consolidated
         Financial Data as of and for each the fiscal years in the four year
         period ended March 31, 1998 have been retroactively restated to reflect
         the effect of pooling of interests transactions as discussed in Item 1
         of this Report. The selected consolidated financial data presented
         below as of and for each of the fiscal years in the five-year period
         ended March 31, 1999 are derived from the audited consolidated
         financial statements of the Company. The Consolidated Balance Sheets as
         of March 31, 1999 and 1998 and the Consolidated Statements of
         Operations and Statements of Cash Flows for each of the fiscal years in
         the three-year period ended March 31, 1999, and the report thereon, are
         included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.





(1)  The Company has presented basic and diluted net income (loss) per share for
     all periods in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
     No. 128 "Earnings per Share."

(2)  EBITDA represents income (loss) before interest, income taxes, depreciation
     and amortization. The Company believes that EBITDA provides useful
     information regarding the Company's ability to service its debt; however,
     EBITDA does not represent cash flow from operations as defined by generally
     accepted accounting principles and should not be considered a substitute
     for net income, as an indicator of the Company's operating performance or
     cash flow, as a measure of liquidity.





Item 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS

         THE FOLLOWING DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS CONTAINS FORWARD LOOKING
STATEMENTS REGARDING FUTURE EVENTS OR THE FUTURE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OF THE
COMPANY THAT INVOLVE CERTAIN RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES DISCUSSED IN THIS
CURRENT REPORT ON FORM 10-K UNDER "FACTORS AFFECTING FUTURE PERFORMANCE."
ACTUAL EVENTS OR THE ACTUAL FUTURE RESULTS OF THE COMPANY MAY DIFFER
MATERIALLY FROM ANY FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENT DUE TO SUCH RISKS AND
UNCERTAINTIES.

OVERVIEW

         The Company is a leading international publisher, developer and
distributor of interactive entertainment and leisure products. The Company
currently focuses its publishing, development and distribution efforts on
products designed for personal computers ("PCs") as well as the Sony
PlayStation and the Nintendo 64 console systems. The Company's products span
a wide range of genres and target markets.

         Activision distributes its products worldwide through its direct
sales forces, through its distribution subsidiaries, and through its third
party distributors and licensees. In addition, in September 1998 the Company
acquired CD Contact, significantly increasing its European distribution
capabilities.

         The Company's financial information as of and for the year ended
March 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, have been restated to reflect the effect of
pooling of interests transactions as discussed in Item 1 of this Report.

         The Company recognizes revenue from the sale of its products upon
shipment. Subject to certain limitations, the Company permits customers to
obtain exchanges and returns within certain specified periods and provides
price protection on certain unsold merchandise. Revenues from product sales
are reflected after deducting the estimated allowance for returns and price
protection. With respect to license agreements which provide customers the
right to multiple copies in exchange for guaranteed amounts, revenue is
recognized upon delivery of the product master or the first copy. Per copy
royalties on sales which exceed the guarantee are recognized as earned. The
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Statement of Position 97-2,
"Software Revenue Recognition" ("SOP 97-2"), provides guidance on applying
generally accepted accounting principles in recognizing revenue on software
transactions. SOP 97-2 was effective for all transactions entered into
subsequent to March 31, 1998. The Company has adopted SOP 97-2 and such
adoption did not have a material impact on the Company's financial position,
results of operations or liquidity. Effective December 15, 1998, the American
Institute of Certified Public Accountants Statement of Position 98-9,
"Modification of SOP 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition with Respect to
Certain Transactions" ("SOP 98-9"), was issued and is effective for
transactions entered into after March 15, 1999. SOP 98-9 deals with the
determination of vendor specific objective evidence of fair value in multiple
element arrangements such as maintenance agreements sold in conjunction with
software packages. The Company does not believe this will have a material
impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations or
liquidity.

         Cost of sales-product costs represents the cost to purchase,
manufacture and distribute PC and console product units. Manufacturers of the
Company's PC software are located worldwide and are readily available.
Console CDs and cartridges are manufactured by the respective video game
console manufacturers, Sony, Nintendo and Sega, who often require significant
lead time to fulfill the Company's orders.

         Cost of sales-royalties and software amortization represents amounts
due developers, product owners and other royalty participants as a result of
product sales, as well as amortization of capitalized software development
costs. The costs incurred by the Company to develop products are accounted
for in accordance with accounting standards which provide for the
capitalization of certain software development costs once technological
feasibility is established and such costs are determined to be recoverable.
Various contracts are maintained with developers, product owners or other
royalty participants which state a royalty rate, territory and term of
agreement, among other items. Upon a product's release, prepaid royalties and
license fees are charged to royalty expense based on the contractual royalty
rate. The capitalized software costs are then amortized to cost of
sales-royalties and software amortization on a straight-line basis over the
estimated product life commencing upon product release or on the ratio of
current revenues to total projected revenues, whichever amortization amount
is greater.

         For products that have been released, management evaluates the
future recoverability of prepaid royalties and capitalized software costs on
a quarterly basis. Prior to a product's release, the Company expenses, as
part of product development costs, capitalized costs when, in management's
estimate, such amounts are not recoverable. The following criteria is used to
evaluate recoverability: historical performance of comparable products; the
commercial acceptance of prior products released on a given game engine;
orders for the product prior to its release; estimated performance of a
sequel product based on the performance of the product on which the sequel is
based; and actual development costs of a product as compared to the Company's
budgeted amount.




         The following table sets forth certain consolidated statements of
operations data for the periods indicated as a percentage of total net
revenues and also breaks down net revenues by territory, platform and channel:






RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - FISCAL YEARS ENDED MARCH 31, 1998 AND 1999

NET REVENUES

         Net revenues for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1999 increased
39.9%, from $312.1 million to $436.5 million, over the prior year. The United
States and international net revenues increased 66.5%, from $89.9 million to
$149.7 million, and 29.1%, from $222.1 million to $286.8 million,
respectively, over the prior year. The increase in overall net revenues was
composed of a 103.3% increase in console net revenues, from $131.9 million to
$268.2 million, and a 6.6% decrease in PC net revenues, from $180.2 million
to $168.3 million, respectively, over the prior year.

         Publishing net revenues for the year ended March 31, 1999 increased
54.7%, from $132.8 million to $205.5 million, over the prior year. Distribution
net revenues for the year ended March 31, 1999 increased 28.9%, from
$179.2 million to $231.0 million, over the prior year. These increases were
primarily attributable to the increases in publishing and distribution
console net revenues.

         Publishing console net revenues for the year ended March 31, 1999
increased 324.3%, from $26.3 million to $111.6 million, over the prior year.
This increase was primarily attributable to the initial release of Tenchu
(PlayStation), Apocalypse (PlayStation), Vigilante 8 (PlayStation and N64),
Asteroids (PlayStation), Nightmare Creatures (PlayStation and N64) and
Activision Classics (PlayStation). Publishing PC net revenues for the year
ended March 31, 1999 decreased 11.8%, from $106.5 million to $93.9 million,
over the prior year. This decrease was primarily due to the release of Quake II
(Windows 95) in the prior year. Publishing PC initial releases during the
year ended March 31, 1999 included Civilization: Call to Power, Cabela's Big
Game Hunter, Cabela's Big Game Hunter 2, Asteroids and Sin.

         Distribution console net revenues increased 48.3%, from $105.6 million
to $156.6 million, over the prior year. This increase was primarily
attributable to an increase in the number of products released for
PlayStation and Nintendo N64 and an increase in the Playstation and N64
hardware installed base. Distribution PC net revenues increased 1.1%, from
$73.6 million to $74.4 million, over the prior year. Distribution PC net
revenues remained relatively constant during this period as the number of new
PC titles released by the publishers utilizing the Company's distribution
services in each year were approximately the same.

         Net OEM, licensing, on-line and other revenues for the fiscal year
ended March 31, 1999 decreased 24.3% to $19.0 million from $25 million in the
prior year. This decrease was due to the release of fewer PC titles during
the fiscal year that were compatible with OEM customers' products.

COSTS AND EXPENSES

         Cost of sales - product costs represented 59.6% and 56.5% of net
revenues for the years ended March 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively. The
increase in cost of sales - product costs as a percentage of net revenues was
due to the increase in the sales mix related to console products. Console
products have a higher per unit product cost than PC products.

         Cost of sales - royalties and software amortization expense
represented 8.7% and 9.6% of net revenues for the years ended March 31, 1999
and 1998, respectively. The decrease in cost of sales - royalties and
software amortization expense as a percentage of net revenues was due to
changes in the Company's product mix, with an increase in products with lower
royalty obligations as compared to the prior year.

         Product development expenses for the year ended March 31, 1999
decreased 21.9% from the prior year, from $27.4 million to $21.4 million. The
decrease in the amount of product development expenses for the year ended
March 31, 1999 was primarily due to an increase in capitalizable development
costs relating to sequel products being developed on proven engine
technologies which have been capitalized in accordance with Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 86, "Accounting for the Costs of
Computer Software to be Sold, Leased, or otherwise Marketed".

         As a percentage of net revenues, total product creation costs
(i.e., royalties and software amortization expenses plus product development
expenses) for the year ended March 31, 1999, decreased to 13.6% from 18.4% in
the prior year. This decrease was attributable to decrease in the effective
royalty rate, as discussed above, and an increase in development costs
capitalized under SFAS 86, also as discussed above.




         Sales and marketing expenses for the year ended March 31, 1999
increased 39.2% from the same period last year, from $47.7 million to
$66.4 million. As a percentage of net revenues, sales and marketing expenses
decreased slightly from 15.3% to 15.2%. The increase in the amount of sales
and marketing expenses for the year ended March 31, 1999 was primarily due to
a significant increase in television advertising and an increase in the
number of products released during the current year. However, as a percentage
of net revenues, such expenses have remained relatively constant.

         General and administrative expense for the year ended March 31, 1999
increased 15.8% from the same period last year, from $18.4 million to
$21.3 million. As a percentage of net revenues, general and administrative
expenses decreased from 5.9% to 4.9%. The period over period increase in the
amount of general and administrative expenses primarily was due to an
increase in worldwide administrative support needs and headcount related
expenses. The decrease as a percentage of net revenues relates primarily to
efficiencies gained in controlling fixed costs and the increase in net
revenues.

OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)

         Interest expense, net of interest income, increased to $3.0 million
for the year ended March 31, 1999, from $1.1 million for the year ended
March 31, 1998. This increase primarily was the result of interest costs
associated with the Company's convertible subordinated notes issued in
December 1997 and short term borrowings under bank line of credit agreements
which had a greater average outstanding balance in the fiscal year ended
March 31, 1999.

PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES

         The income tax provision of $9.0 million for the year ended March 31,
1999, reflects the Company's effective income tax rate of approximately 37%.
The realization of deferred tax assets primarily is dependent on the
generation of future taxable income. Management believes that it is more
likely than not that the company will generate taxable income sufficient to
realize the benefit of deferred tax assets recognized.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - FISCAL YEARS ENDED MARCH 31, 1997 AND 1998

NET REVENUES

         Net revenues for the year ended March 31, 1998 increased 65.0%, from
$189.2 million to $312.1 million over the prior year. Net revenues in the
United States and internationally increased 36.8%, from $65.7 million to
$89.9 million and 79.8%, from $123.5 million to $222.1 million, respectively,
over the prior year. The increase in overall net revenues was comprised of a
92.6% increase in console net revenues, from $68.5 million to $131.9 million,
and a 49.2% increase in PC net revenues, from $120.8 million to $180.2
million, respectively, over the prior year.

         Publishing net revenues for the year ended March 31, 1998 increased
50.9%, from $88.0 million to $132.8 million, over the prior year.
Distribution net revenues for the year ended March 31, 1998 increased 77.1%,
from $101.2 million to $179.2 million, over the prior year. These increases
primarily were attributable to the increases in publishing PC net revenues
and distribution console net revenues.

         Publishing console net revenues for the year ended March 31, 1998
increased 44.5%, from $18.2 million to $26.3 million, over the prior year.
This increase primarily was attributable to the initial release of Pitfall 3D
(PlayStation), Nightmare Creatures (PlayStation) and Car and Driver's Grand
Tour Racing (PlayStation.) Publishing PC net revenues for the year ended
March 31, 1998 increased 52.6%, from $69.8 million to $106.5 million, over
the prior year. This increase was primarily due to the release of Quake II
(Windows 95), Dark Reign: The Future of War (Windows 95), Hexen II (Windows
95), Battlezone (Windows 95) and Heavy Gear (Windows 95).

         Distribution console net revenues increased 109.9%, from $50.3 million
to $105.6 million, over the prior year. This increase was primarily
attributable to an increase in the number of products released for PlayStation
and N64 and an increase in the PlayStation and N64 hardware installed base.
Distribution PC net revenues increased 44.6%, from $50.9 million to
$73.6 million, over the prior year. Additionally, distribution net revenues
increased over the prior fiscal year due to the fact that CentreSoft, which
began operations in June 1996, contributed only ten months of revenue for the
year ended March 31, 1997, as opposed to twelve months for the year ended
March 31, 1998.




         Net OEM, licensing, on-line and other revenue, increased 19.5% to
$25.1 million from $21.0 million over the prior year. This increase was due
to an increase in the number of titles made available during the year to
OEMs, including enhanced 3-D versions of various products.

COSTS AND EXPENSES

         Cost of sales - product costs represented 56.5% and 54.5% of net
revenues for the years ended March 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively. The
increase in cost of sales - product costs as a percentage of net revenues was
due to the increase in the sales mix of console net revenues versus PC net
revenues.

         Cost of sales - royalties and software amortization expense
represented 9.6% and 6.9% of net revenues for the years ended March 31, 1998
and 1997, respectively. The increase in cost of sales - royalties and
software amortization expense as a percentage of net revenues was due to
changes in the Company's product mix and primarily was due to royalties
related to Quake II.

         Product development expenses for the year ended March 31, 1998
increased 33.7% from the prior year, from $20.5 million to $27.4 million. As
a percentage of net revenues, product development expenses decreased from
10.8% to 8.8%. The increase in the amount of product development expenses for
the year ended March 31, 1998 was primarily due to the increased number of
new products in development and the increased costs associated with the
enhanced content and new technologies incorporated into such products. In
addition, product development expense as a percentage of net revenues
decreased primarily as a result of an increase in net revenues and an
increase in costs capitalized in accordance with SFAS No. 86.

         As a percentage of net revenues, total product creation costs
(i.e., royalties and software amortization expense plus product development
expense) for the year ended March 31, 1998, increased to 18.4% from 17.7% in
the prior year. This increase was attributable to increase in the effective
royalty rate, as discussed above.

         Sales and marketing expenses for the year ended March 31, 1998
increased 52.9% from the period year, from $31.2 million to $47.7 million. As
a percentage of net revenues, sales and marketing expenses decreased slightly
from 16.5% to 15.3%. The increase in the amount of sales and marketing
expenses for the year ended March 31, 1998 was primarily due to increased
marketing and promotional activities necessary to release new titles in an
increasingly competitive environment and the Company's expansion of it's
European sales and marketing infrastructure. However, as a percentage of net
revenues, such expense has remained fairly consistent.

         General and administrative expense for the year ended March 31, 1998
increased 121.7% from the same period last year, from $8.3 million to
$18.4 million. As a percentage of net revenues, general and administrative
expenses increased from 4.4% to 5.9%. The period over period increase in the
amount and as a percentage of net revenues of general and administrative
expenses for the year ended March 31, 1998 primarily was due to an increase
in worldwide administrative support needs and headcount related expenses.

OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)

         Interest expense, net of interest income, increased to $1.1 million
for the year ended March 31, 1998, from net interest income of $81,000 for
the year ended March 31, 1997. This increase primarily was the result of
interest costs associated with the Company's convertible subordinated notes
issued in December 1997 and short term borrowings under bank line of credit
agreements.

PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES

         The income tax provision of $3.2 million for the year ended March 31,
1998, reflects the Company's estimated effective income tax rate of
approximately 38.6%. The realization of deferred tax assets primarily is
dependent on the generation of future taxable income. Management believes
that it is more likely than not that the company will generate taxable income
sufficient to realize the benefit of deferred tax assets recognized.

QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS

         The Company's quarterly operating results have in the past varied
significantly and will likely vary significantly in the future, depending on
numerous factors, several of which are not under the Company's control. See
Item 1. Business - "Certain Cautionary Information." Accordingly, the Company
believes that period-to-period comparisons of its operating results are not
necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future
performance.






         The following table is a comparative breakdown of the Company's
quarterly results for the immediately preceding eight quarters (amounts in
thousands, except per share data):



LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

         The Company's cash and cash equivalents decreased $41.4 million,
from $74.2 million at March 31, 1998 to $32.8 million at March 31, 1999.
Approximately $18.1 million in cash and cash equivalents was provided by
operating activities during the year ended March 31, 1999 versus $31.1
million provided by operating activities in fiscal 1998. This change was
primarily attributable to the increases during the year ended March 31, 1999
in accounts receivable, other current assets, inventories, and a decrease in
accounts payable resulting from the Company's overall growth during the
fiscal year ended March 31, 1999 partially offset by an increase in accrued
expenses.

         Cash and cash equivalents used in investing activities was
approximately $64.3 million during the year ended March 31, 1999 versus $43.3
million used in investing activities during the year ended March 31, 1998.
The increase in cash used in investing activities was due to the significant
increase in prepaid royalties and capitalized software costs incurred by the
Company as a result of its execution of new license agreements granting the
Company long term rights to the intellectual property of third parties, as
well as the acquisition of publishing or distribution rights to products
being developed by third parties. Capital expenditures totaled approximately
$3.8 million for the year ended March 31, 1999 versus $9.3 million in the
prior year. The decrease in capital expenditures was due to the cost relating
to the Company moving its Los Angeles office to a new facility in Santa
Monica, California in the prior year.

         Cash and cash equivalents provided by financing activities totaled
$7.2 million for the year ended March 31, 1999 versus $62.9 million in the
prior year. The decrease was due to the issuance of $60 million of
convertible subordinated debt in December 1997.

         In connection with the Company's purchases of N64 hardware and
software cartridges for distribution in North America and Europe, Nintendo
requires the Company to provide irrevocable letters of credit prior to
accepting purchase orders from the Company for the purchase of these
cartridges. Furthermore, Nintendo maintains a policy of not accepting returns
of N64 hardware and software cartridges. Because of these and other factors,
the carrying of an inventory of N64 hardware and software cartridges entails
significant capital and risk.

         As of March 31, 1999, the Company had a $40.0 million revolving
credit and letter of credit facility (the "Prior Facility") with a group of
banks. The Prior Facility currently provides the Company with the ability to
borrow funds and issue letters of credit against eligible accounts receivable
up to $40.0 million. The Prior Facility was scheduled to expire in October
2001. As of March 31, 1999, the Company had $22.4 million in letters of
credit outstanding and no borrowings against the Prior Facility (there were
no outstanding letters of credit or borrowings against the Prior Facility in
the fiscal year ended March 31, 1998). In addition, the Company had a
$2 million line of credit agreement (the "Asset Line") with a bank that expired
in September 1998. Approximately $1.1 million and $1.2 million was
outstanding on this line as of March 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

         In June 1999, the Company replaced the Prior Facility with a
$125 million revolving credit facility and term loan (the "New Facility")
with a new group of banks that provides the Company with the ability to
borrow up to $100 million and issue letters of credit up to $80 million
against eligible accounts receivable and inventory. (See Note 13, "Subsequent
Events" in the footnotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.) The
$25 million term loan portion of the New Facility was used to acquire Expert
and pay costs related to such acquisition and the securing of the New
Facility. The term loan has a three year term with principal amortization on
a straight line quarterly basis beginning December 31, 1999 and a borrowing
rate of the banks' base rate (which is generally equivalent to the published
prime rate) plus 2.0%, or the LIBOR rate 3.0%. The revolving portion of the
New Facility has a borrowing rate of the banks' base rate plus 1.75% or the
LIBOR rate of 2.75%. The Company pays a commitment fee of 1/2% based on the
unused portion of the line.

         In addition, the Company's CentreSoft subsidiary has a revolving
credit facility (the "UK Facility") with its bank in the United Kingdom for
approximately $11.2 million. The UK Facility can be used for working capital
requirements and expires in June 2000. The Company had no borrowings
outstanding against the UK facility as of March 31, 1999. In the Netherlands,
the Company's CD Contact subsidiary has a credit facility ("the Netherlands
Facility") with a bank that permits borrowings against eligible accounts
receivable and inventory up to approximately $25 million. Borrowings under
the Netherlands Facility are due on demand and totaled $6.0 as of March 31,
1999. Letters of credit outstanding under the Netherlands Facility totaled
$6.9 million as of March 31, 1999.

         The Company will use its working capital ($141.3 million at March 31,
1999), as well as the proceeds available from the New Facility, the UK
Facility and the Netherlands Facility, to finance the Company's operational





requirements for at least the next twelve months, including acquisitions of
inventory and equipment, the funding of development, production, marketing
and selling of new products, the acquisition of Expert, and the acquisition
of intellectual property rights for future products from third parties.

         The Company's management currently believes that inflation has not
had a material impact on continuing operations.

YEAR 2000

         Like many other software companies, the year 2000 computer issue
creates risk for the Company. If internal computer and embedded systems do
not correctly recognize date information when the year changes to 2000, there
could be an adverse impact on the Company's operations. The Company has
initiated a comprehensive plan to prepare its internal computer and embedded
systems for the year 2000 and is currently implementing changes to alleviate
any year 2000 incapabilities. As part of such plan, the Company has purchased
software programs that have been independently developed by third parties
which will test year 2000 compliance for the majority of the Company's
systems.

         All of the entertainment and leisure software products currently
being shipped by the Company have been tested for year 2000 compliance and
have passed these tests. In addition, all such products currently in
development are being tested as part of the normal quality assurance testing
process and are scheduled to be released fully year 2000 compliant.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the year 2000 computer issue could still
affect the ability of consumers to use the PC products sold by the Company.
For example, if the computer system on which a consumer uses the Company's
products is not year 2000 compliant, such noncompliance could affect the
consumer's ability to use such products.

         Contingency plans currently have been developed to address the most
material areas of exposure to the Company, such as adding network operating
systems to back-up the Company's current network server and developing
back-up plans for telecommunications with external offices and customers. In
addition, a staffing plan has been developed to manually handle orders should
there be a failure of electronic data interchange connections with its
customers and suppliers. Management believes that the items mentioned above
constitute the greatest risk of exposure to the Company and that the plans
developed by the Company will be adequate for handling these items.

         The Company has contacted critical suppliers of products and
services to determine that the suppliers' operations and the products and
services they provide are year 2000 compliant. To assist suppliers
(particularly trading partners using electronic data interchange) in
evaluating their year 2000 issues, the Company has developed a questionnaire
which indicates the ability of each supplier to address year 2000
incompatibilities. All critical suppliers and trading partners of the Company
have responded to the questionnaire and confirmed the expectation that they
will continue providing services and products through the change to 2000.

         Year 2000 compliance testing on substantially all of the Company's
critical systems have been completed, and corresponding changes are expected
to be made by July 1999. The costs incurred by the Company to date related to
this testing and modification process are less than $100,000. The Company
expects that the total cost of its year 2000 compliance plan will not exceed
$200,000. The total estimated cost does not include potential costs related
to any systems used by the Company's customers, any third party claims, or
the costs incurred by the Company when it replaces internal software and
hardware in the normal course of its business. The overall cost of the
Company's year 2000 compliance plan is a minor portion of the Company's total
information technology budget and is not expected to materially delay the
implementation of any other unrelated projects that are planned to be
undertaken by the Company. In some instances, the installation schedule of
new software and hardware in the normal course of business has been
accelerated to also afford a solution to year 2000 compatibility issues. The
total cost estimate for the Company's year 2000 compliance plan is based on
management's current assessment of the projects comprising the plan and is
subject to change as the projects progress.

         Based on currently available information, management does not
believe that the year 2000 issues discussed above related to the Company's
internal systems or its products sold to customers will have a material
adverse impact on the Company's financial condition or results of operations;
however, the specific extent to which the Company may be affected by such
matters is not certain. In addition, there can be no assurance that the
failure by a supplier or another third party to ensure year 2000
compatibility would not have a material adverse effect on the Company.

EURO CONVERSION

         On January 1, 1999, eleven of the fifteen member countries of the
European Union adopted the "euro" as their common currency. The sovereign
currencies of the participating countries are scheduled to remain legal
tender as denominations of the euro between January 1, 1999 and January 1,
2002. Beginning January 1, 2002, the participating countries will issue new
euro-denominated bills and coins for use in cash transactions. No later than
July 1, 2002, the participating countries will withdraw all bills and coins
denominated in the sovereign currencies, so that the sovereign currencies no
longer will be legal tender for any transactions, making conversion to the
euro complete. The Company has performed an internal analysis of the possible
implications of the euro conversion on the





Company's business and financial condition, and has determined that the
impact of the conversion will be immaterial to its overall operations. The
Company's wholly owned subsidiaries operating in participating countries
represented 24.1% and 22.1% of the Company's consolidated net revenues for
the years ended March 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

     SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities," is effective for all fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2000.
SFAS No. 133 establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative
instruments and for hedging activities. It requires that an entity recognize
all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the statement of financial
position and measure those instruments at fair value. The Company does not
currently participate in hedging activities or own derivative instruments but
plans to adopt SFAS No. 133 beginning April 1, 2001.




Item 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

         The Company transacts business in many different foreign currencies
and may be exposed to financial market risk resulting from fluctuations in
foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the British Pound sterling. The
volatility of the pound (and all other applicable currencies) will be
monitored frequently throughout the coming year and the Company may use
hedging programs, currency forward contracts, currency options and/or other
derivative financial instruments commonly utilized to reduce financial market
risks.

         In June 1999, the Company obtained a $125 million revolving credit
facility and term loan (the "New Facility") with a group of banks. The
interest rate applied to any debt outstanding under the New Facility is based
on the published prime rate or LIBOR rate and is, therefore subject to a
certain amount of risk arising from fluctuations in these rates.




Item 8.  CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA



          All other schedules of the Registrant are omitted because of the
          absence of conditions under which they are required or because the
          required information is included elsewhere in the financial statements
          or in the notes thereto.





                                   PART III

Item 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

         The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to
         the sections of the Company's definitive Proxy Statement for its 1999
         Annual Meeting of Shareholders, entitled "Election of Directors" and
         "Executive Officers and Key Employees" to be filed with the Securities
         and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal
         year covered by this Form 10-K.

Item 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

         The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to
         the sections of the Company's definitive Proxy Statement for its 1999
         Annual Meeting of Shareholders, entitled "Executive Compensation" and
         "Indebtedness of Management" to be filed with the Securities and
         Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year
         covered by this Form 10-K.

Item 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

         The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to
         the sections of the Company's definitive Proxy Statement for its 1999
         Annual Meeting of Shareholders, entitled "Security Ownership of Certain
         Beneficial Owners and Management" to be filed with the Securities and
         Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year
         covered by this Form 10-K.

Item 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

         The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to
         the sections of the Company's definitive Proxy Statement for its 1999
         Annual Meeting of Shareholders, entitled "Certain Relationships and
         Related Transactions" to be filed with the Securities and Exchange
         Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by
         this Form 10-K.





                                     PART IV

Item 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K


          (a)  1.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  See Item 8. - Consolidated Financial
                   Statements and Supplementary Data Index for Financial
                   Statements and Schedule on page 25 herein.

               2.  FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE  The following financial
                   statement schedule of Activision, Inc. for the years ended
                   March 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 is filed as part of this report
                   and should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated
                   Financial Statements of Activision, Inc.

                   Schedule II -- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves

                   Other financial statement schedules are omitted because the
                   information called for is not required or is shown either in
                   the Consolidated Financial Statements or the notes thereto.

               3.  EXHIBITS REQUIRED BY ITEM 601 OF REGULATION S-K

          

          (b)  1.  Reports on Form 8-K. The following reports on Form 8-K have
                   been filed by the Company during the last quarter of the
                   fiscal year ended March 31, 1999:

                   1.1      Form 8-K dated March 10, 1999, containing items 5
                            and 7.




                                  SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date: June 28, 1999

ACTIVISION, INC.

By:   /s/  ROBERT A. KOTICK
   ---------------------------
        (Robert A. Kotick)
             Chairman


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.







                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT


The Board of Directors and Shareholders:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of ACTIVISION, INC.
and subsidiaries as of March 31, 1999 and 1998 and the related consolidated
statements of operations, changes in shareholders' equity and cash flows for
each of the years in the three-year period ended March 31, 1999. In connection
with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, we also have audited
financial statement schedule II for each of the years in the three-year period
ended March 31, 1999. These consolidated financial statements and financial
statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of ACTIVISION, INC. and
subsidiaries as of March 31, 1999 and 1998, and the results of their operations
and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended March
31, 1999, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. Also in
our opinion, the related financial statement schedule for each of the years in
the three-year period ended March 31, 1999, when considered in relation to the
basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in
all material respects, the information set forth therein.

KPMG LLP


Los Angeles, California
May 3, 1999


                                      F-1


PART I.  FINANCIAL INFORMATION.
Item I.  Financial Statements.

                        ACTIVISION, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

                        (In thousands except share data)


        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
                             financial statements.


                                      F-2


                        ACTIVISION, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                      (in thousands except per share data)




        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
                             financial statements.

                                      F-3






  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                   statements.


                                       F-4



                        ACTIVISION, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

                                 (in thousands)




        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
                             financial statements.


                                     F-5



                        ACTIVISION, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.     SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

       BUSINESS

       Activision, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, "Activision" or the
       "Company") is a leading international publisher, developer and
       distributor of interactive entertainment and leisure products. The
       Company was incorporated in California in 1979. In December 1992, the
       Company reincorporated in Delaware.

       The Company's products span a wide range of genres (including action,
       adventure, strategy and simulation) and target markets (including game
       enthusiasts, value buyers and children). In addition to its genre and
       market diversity, the Company publishes, develops and distributes
       products for a variety of game platforms, including personal computers
       ("PCs"), the Sony Playstation console system and the Nintendo 64 console
       system.

       PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION

       The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Activision,
       Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (the
       "Company"). All intercompany accounts and transactions have been
       eliminated in consolidation.

       BASIS OF PRESENTATION

       These consolidated financial statements have been retroactively restated
       to reflect the pooling of interests of the Company with Raven Software
       Corporation ("Raven"), NBG EDV Handels- und Verlags GmbH ("NBG"), S.B.F.
       Services, Limited dba Head Games Publishing ("Head Games") and CD Contact
       Data GmbH ("CD Contact"). Each of the above transactions originally had
       been accounted for by the Company as an immaterial pooling of interests.
       The financial results for each such acquired company and related cash
       flows had therefore been included in the reported operations of the
       Company beginning on the date of acquisition. Based on a reevaluation of
       these transactions, including the results of operations of each entity,
       statements by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("the SEC") on
       materiality of pooling transactions and requirements to evaluate the
       impact on each line item in the financial statements and the impact on
       the Company's trends, the Company has restated all financial information
       reported in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for all periods prior to the
       consummation of each transaction to include the financial position,
       results of operations and cash flows of such acquired companies.

       CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

       Cash and cash equivalents include cash and short-term investments with
       original maturities of not more than 90 days.

       CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK

       Financial instruments which potentially subject the Company to
       concentration of credit risk consist principally of temporary cash
       investments and accounts receivable. The Company places its temporary
       cash investments with financial institutions. At various times during the
       fiscal years ended March 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, the Company had
       deposits in excess of the $100,000 Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
       ("FDIC") limit at these financial institutions. At March 31, 1999, the
       Company had approximately $3.9 million invested in short-term commercial
       paper and short-term United States government backed securities. The
       Company's customer base includes retail outlets and distributors
       including consumer electronics and computer specialty stores, discount
       chains, video rental stores and toy stores in the United States and
       countries worldwide. The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of
       its customers and maintains allowances for potential credit losses. The
       Company generally does not require collateral or other security from its
       customers.

       FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

       The fair values of the Company's cash and cash equivalents, accounts
       receivable, accounts payable, and accrued liabilities approximate their
       carrying values due to the relatively short maturities of these
       instruments. Trade receivables are primarily due from retailers and
       original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs").


                                     F-6


       PREPAID ROYALTIES AND CAPITALIZED SOFTWARE COSTS

       Prepaid royalties include payments made to independent software
       developers under development agreements and license fees paid to
       intellectual property rights holders for use of their trademarks or
       copyrights. Intellectual property rights which have alternative future
       uses are capitalized. Capitalized software costs represent costs incurred
       for development that are not recoupable against future royalties.

       The Company accounts for prepaid royalties relating to development
       agreements and capitalized software costs in accordance with Statement of
       Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 86, "Accounting for the Costs
       of Computer Software to be Sold, Leased, or Otherwise Marketed". Software
       development costs and prepaid royalties are capitalized once
       technological feasibility is established. Technological feasibility is
       evaluated on a product by product basis. For products where proven game
       engine technology exists, this may occur early in the development cycle.
       Software development costs are expensed if and when they are deemed
       unrecoverable. Amounts related to software development which are not
       capitalized are charged immediately to product development expense.

       The following criteria is used to evaluate recoverability of software
       development costs: historical performance of comparable products; the
       commercial acceptance of prior products released on a given game engine;
       orders for the product prior to its release; estimated performance of a
       sequel product based on the performance of the product on which the
       sequel is based; and actual development costs of a product as compared to
       the Company's budgeted amount.

       Capitalized software development costs are amortized to cost of sales -
       royalties and software amortization on a straight-line basis over the
       estimated product life (generally one year or less) commencing upon
       product release, or on the ratio of current revenues to total projected
       revenues, whichever amortization amount is greater. Prepaid royalties are
       amortized to cost of sales - royalties and software amortization
       commencing upon the product release at the contractual royalty rate based
       on actual net product sales, or on the ratio of current revenues to total
       projected revenues, whichever amortization amount is greater. For
       products that have been released, management evaluates the future
       recoverability of capitalized amounts on a quarterly basis.

       As of March 31, 1999, prepaid royalties and unamortized capitalized
       software costs totaled $37.1 million (including $6.9 million classified
       as non-current) and $8.8 million, respectively. As of March 31, 1998,
       prepaid royalties and unamortized capitalized software costs totaled
       $10.7 million and $1.7 million, respectively. At March 31, 1998, all
       prepaid royalties and unamortized capitalized software costs were
       classified as current. Amortization of prepaid royalties and capitalized
       software costs was $27.1 million, $29.2 million and $9.0 million for the
       years ended March 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. Write-offs of
       prepaid royalties and capitalized software costs prior to product release
       were $2.4 million, $363,000 and $588,000 for the years ended March 31,
       1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

       INVENTORIES

       Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or
       market.

       REVENUE RECOGNITION

       The American Institute of Certified Public Accountant's (the "AICPA")
       Statement of Position 97-2 "Software Revenue Recognition" (SOP 97-2) was
       effective for all transactions entered into subsequent to March 31, 1998.
       The adoption of SOP 97-2 did not have a material impact on the Company's
       financial position, results of operations or liquidity.

       Product Sales: The Company recognizes revenue from the sale of its
       products upon shipment. Subject to certain limitations, the Company
       permits customers to obtain exchanges or return products within certain
       specified periods, and provides price protection on certain unsold
       merchandise. Management of the Company has the ability to estimate the
       amount of future exchanges, returns, and price protections. Revenue from
       product sales is reflected net of the allowance for returns and price
       protection.

       Software Licenses: For those license agreements which provide the
       customers the right to multiple copies in exchange for guaranteed
       amounts, revenue is recognized at delivery of the product master or the
       first copy. Per copy royalties on sales which exceed the guarantee are
       recognized as earned.

       ADVERTISING EXPENSES

       The Company expenses advertising and the related costs as incurred.
       Advertising expenses for the years ended March 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997
       were approximately $15,572,000 $6,336,000 and $3,285,000, respectively,
       and are included in sales and marketing expense in the consolidated
       statements of operations.


                                     F-7


       EXCESS PURCHASE PRICE OVER IDENTIFIABLE ASSETS ACQUIRED, NET AND
       LONG-LIVED ASSETS

       The excess cost over net assets acquired is being amortized on a
       straight-line basis over a 20 year period. As of March 31, 1999 and 1998,
       accumulated amortization amounted to $9,069,000 and $7,904,000,
       respectively. The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 121,
       "Accounting for Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Long-Lived Assets to
       Be Disposed Of," on April 1, 1996. This Statement requires that
       long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangibles be reviewed for
       impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
       carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of
       assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying
       amount of the asset to undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated
       by the asset. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the
       impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the
       carrying amount exceeds the fair value of the assets. Adoption of this
       Statement did not have a material impact on the Company's financial
       position, results of operations, or liquidity.

       INTEREST INCOME (EXPENSE)

       Interest income (expense), net is comprised of (amounts in thousands):


       INCOME TAXES

       The Company accounts for income taxes using Statement of Financial
       Accounting Standards No. 109 (SFAS No. 109), "Accounting for Income
       Taxes." Under SFAS No. 109, income taxes are accounted for under the
       asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
       recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences
       between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and
       liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and tax
       credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured
       using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years
       in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or
       settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in
       tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the
       enactment date.

       FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION

       The Company's foreign subsidiaries maintain their accounting records in
       their local currency. The currencies are then converted to United States
       dollars and the effect of the foreign currency translation is reflected
       as a component of shareholders' equity in accordance with Statement of
       Financial Accounting Standards No. 52, "Foreign Currency Translation."

       ESTIMATES

       The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
       accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
       assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at
       the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues
       and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ
       from those estimates.

       STOCK BASED COMPENSATION

       Prior to April 1, 1996, the Company accounted for its stock option plan
       in accordance with the provisions of Accounting Principles Board ("APB")
       Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and related
       interpretations. As such, compensation expense would be recorded on the
       date of the grant only if the current market price of the underlying
       stock exceeded the exercise price. On April 1, 1996 the Company adopted
       SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, which permits
       entities to recognize as expense over the vesting period the fair value
       of all stock-based awards on the date of the grant. Alternatively, SFAS
       No. 123 also allows entities to continue to apply the provisions of APB
       Opinion No. 25 and provide pro forma net income and pro forma earnings
       per share disclosures for employee stock option grants made in 1995 and
       future years as if the fair-value-based method defined in SFAS No. 123
       had been applied. The Company has elected to continue to apply the
       provisions of APB No. 25 and provide the pro forma disclosure provisions
       of SFAS No. 123.


                                      F-8


       RECLASSIFICATIONS

       Certain amounts in the consolidated financial statements have been
       reclassified to conform with the current year's presentation.

2.     ACQUISITIONS

       1999 TRANSACTIONS

       As stated below, the acquisition of Head Games and CD Contact were
       originally treated as immaterial poolings of interest. However,
       after reviewing the results of operations of the entities, including
       the materiality and impact on the the Company's trends, the Company
       has restated the financial statements for all periods prior to the
       closing of each respective transaction.

       ACQUISITION OF HEAD GAMES

       On June 30, 1998, the Company acquired Head Games in exchange for
       1,000,000 shares of the Company's common stock. The acquisition of Head
       Games was initially accounted for as an immaterial pooling of interests;
       accordingly, periods prior to April 1, 1998 were not retroactively
       restated for this transaction. However with this Annual Report on Form
       10-K, all prior periods have been retroactively restated to reflect the
       effect of the Head Games acquisition in all periods presented.

       ACQUISITION OF CD CONTACT

       On September 29, 1998, the Company acquired CD Contact in exchange for
       1,900,000 shares of the Company's common stock. In addition, $9.1 million
       in outstanding debt was acquired in connection with the CD Contact
       acquisition. The debt is evidenced by notes payable which are due on
       demand and bear interest at approximately 8% per annum. The acquisition
       of CD Contact was initially accounted for as an immaterial pooling of
       interests; accordingly, periods prior to July 1, 1998 were not
       retroactively restated for this transaction. However with this Annual
       Report on Form 10-K, all prior periods have been retroactively restated
       to reflect the effect of the CD Contact acquisition in all periods
       presented.

       The following table represents the results of operations of the
       previously separate companies for the period before the combination was
       consummated that are included in the current combined net income of the
       Company:



       Results for Head Games from July 1, 1998, subsequent to its acquisition
       by the Company and for CD Contact from October 1, 1998, subsequent to
       its acquisition by the Company, are included in the Activision year ended
       March 31, 1999 column above.

       1998 TRANSACTIONS

       As discussed below, the acquisitions of NBG and Raven were originally
       accounted for as immaterial poolings of interest. However, based on
       statements by the SEC regarding materiality and the requirement to
       evaluate the impact on each line item of the Company's financial
       statement and the impact on the Company's trends, the Company has
       restated the financial statements for periods prior to the closing of
       each respective transaction.

       ACQUISITION OF NBG

       On November 26, 1997, the Company acquired NBG in exchange for 281,206
       shares of the Company's common stock. The acquisition of NBG was
       initially accounted for as an immaterial pooling of interests;
       accordingly, periods prior to October 1, 1997 were not retroactively
       restated for this transaction. However, with this Annual Report on Form
       10-K, all prior periods have been retroactively restated to reflect the
       effect of the NBG acquisition in all periods presented.

       ACQUISITION OF RAVEN SOFTWARE CORPORATION

       On August 26, 1997, the Company acquired Raven in exchange for 1,040,000
       shares of the Company's common stock. The acquisition of Raven was
       initially accounted for as an immaterial pooling of interests;
       accordingly, periods prior to April 1, 1997 were not retroactively
       restated for this transaction. However, with this Annual Report on Form
       10-K, all prior periods have been retroactively restated to reflect the
       effect of the Raven acquisition in all periods presented.




                                      F-9



       Acquisition of Centresoft

       On November 26, 1997, the Company acquired Centresoft in exchange for
       2,787,043 shares and 50,325 options to acquire shares of the Company's
       common stock. The acquisition of Centresoft was accounted for in
       accordance with the pooling of interests method of accounting and
       accordingly, the Company's consolidated financial statements were
       retroactively adjusted as if Centresoft and the Company had operated
       as one since June 28, 1996 (inception of Centresoft).

3.     INVENTORIES

       Inventories at March 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 are stated net of an
       adjustment to net realizable value of approximately $1,493,000, $828,000
       and $471,000, respectively. The provisions to adjust inventories to net
       realizable value for the years ended March 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 were
       approximately $828,000, $1,082,000 and $478,000, respectively.
       Inventories, net of reserves, consisted of (amounts in thousands):


4.     PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

       Property and equipment are recorded at cost. Depreciation and
       amortization are provided using the straight-line method over the shorter
       of the estimated useful lives or the lease term: buildings, 30 years;
       computer equipment, office furniture and other equipment, 3 years;
       leasehold improvements, through the life of the lease. Property and
       equipment, stated at cost, was as follows (amounts in thousands):


       Depreciation expense for the years ended March 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997
       was $4,903,000, $3,753,000 and $2,662,000, respectively.


                                      F-10


5.     ACCRUED EXPENSES

       Accrued expenses were as follows (amounts in thousands):



6.     OPERATIONS BY REPORTABLE SEGMENTS AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA

              The Company adopted SFAS No. 131, "Disclosure about Segments of an
       Enterprise and Related Information," as of April 1, 1998. SFAS No. 131
       establishes standards for reporting information about an enterprise's
       operating segments and related disclosures about its products, geographic
       areas and major customers.

              The Company publishes, develops and distributes interactive
       entertainment and leisure products for a variety of game platforms,
       including PCs, the Sony PlayStation console system and the Nintendo 64
       console system. Based on its organizational structure, the Company
       operates in two reportable segments: publishing and distribution.

              The Company's publishing segment develops and publishes titles
       both internally through the studios owned by the Company and externally,
       through third party developers. In the United States, the Company's
       products are sold primarily on a direct basis to major computer and
       software retailing organizations, mass market retailers, consumer
       electronic stores, discount warehouses and mail order companies. The
       Company conducts its international publishing activities through offices
       in the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Australia and Japan. The
       Company's products are sold internationally on a direct to retail basis,
       through third party distribution and licensing arrangements, and through
       the Company's owned distribution subsidiaries located in the United
       Kingdom, the Benelux territories and Germany.

              The Company's distribution segment, located in the United Kingdom,
       the Benelux territories and Germany, distributes interactive
       entertainment software and hardware and provides logistical services for
       a variety of publishers and manufacturers. A small percentage of
       distribution sales is derived from Activision-published titles.

              The President and Chief Operating Officer allocates resources to
       each of these segments using information on their respective revenues
       and operating profits before interest and taxes. The President and Chief
       Operating Officer has been identified as the Chief Operating Decision
       Maker as defined by SFAS No. 131.

              The President and Chief Operating Officer does not evaluate
       individual segments based on assets or depreciation.

              The accounting policies of these segments are the same as those
       described in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. Revenue
       derived from sales between segments is eliminated in consolidation.

              Information on the reportable segments for the three years ended
       March 31, 1999 is as follows:




                                      F-11







       Operating expenses in the Corporate column consist entirely of
       amortization of goodwill resulting from the Company's merger with the
       Disc Company Inc., on April 1, 1992.


       Geographic information for the three years ended March 31, 1999 is based
       on the location of the selling entity. Revenues from external customers
       by geographic region were as follows:




       Revenues by platform were as follows:




                                      F-12



7.     COMPUTATION OF NET INCOME PER SHARE

       The following table sets forth the computations of basic and diluted net
       income per share:



       Options to purchase 2,188,175, 1,978,000 and 2,838,000 shares of common
       stock were outstanding for the years ended March 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997,
       respectively, but were not included in the calculations of diluted net
       income per share because their effect would be antidilutive. Convertible
       subordinated notes and convertible preferred stock were not included in
       the calculations of diluted net income per share because their effect
       would be antidilutive.


                                      F-13



8.     INCOME TAXES

       Domestic and foreign income (loss) before income taxes and details of the
       income tax provision (benefit) are as follows (amounts in thousands):



       The items accounting for the difference between income taxes computed at
       the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate and the income tax provision
       for each of the years are as follows:




                                      F-14



       The components of the net deferred tax asset and liability were as
follows (amounts in thousands):



       In accordance with Statement of Position 90-7, "Financial Reporting by
       Entities in Reorganization Under the Bankruptcy Code," issued by the
       AICPA, benefits from loss carryforwards arising prior to the Company's
       reorganization are recorded as additional paid-in capital. During the
       year ended March 31, 1999, $2.4 million of such benefit was recognized
       through a reduction in the valuation allowance. The reduction in the
       valuation allowance during the years ended March 31, 1999 was determined
       based on the Company's assessment of the realizability of its deferred
       tax assets, which assessment was based on recent operating history, and
       the Company's expectation that operations will continue to generate
       taxable income, as well as other factors. Realization of the deferred tax
       assets is dependent upon the continued generation of sufficient taxable
       income prior to expiration of tax credits and loss carryforwards.
       Although realization is not assured, management believes it is more
       likely than not that the deferred tax asset of $8.7 million will be
       realized. The amount of deferred tax assets considered realizable,
       however, could be reduced in the future if estimates of future taxable
       income are reduced.

       The Company's available net operating loss carryforward for federal tax
       reporting purposes approximates $31.0 million and is subject to certain
       limitations as defined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code.
       The net operating loss carryforwards expire from 2006 to 2013. The
       Company has tax credit carryforwards of $4.6 million and $2.2 million for
       federal and state purposes, respectively, which expire from 2006 to 2013.

9.     COMMITMENTS, CONTINGENCIES AND DEBT

       BANK LINE OF CREDIT

       As of March 31, 1999, the Company had a $40.0 million revolving credit
       and letter of credit facility (the "Prior Facility") with a group of
       banks. The Prior Facility currently provides the Company with the
       ability to borrow funds and issue letters of credit against eligible
       accounts receivable up to $40.0 million. The Prior Facility was
       scheduled to expire in October 2001. As of March 31, 1999 the Company
       had $22.4 million in letters of credit outstanding and no borrowings
       against the Prior Facility (there were no outstanding letters of
       credit or borrowings against the Prior Facility in the fiscal year
       ended March 31, 1998). In addition, the Company had a $2 million line
       of credit agreement (the "Asset Line") with a bank that expired in
       September 1998. Approximately $1.1 million and $1.2 million was
       outstanding on this line as of March 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

       In addition, the Company's CentreSoft subsidiary has a revolving credit
       facility (the "UK Facility") with its bank in the United Kingdom for
       approximately $11.2 million. The UK Facility can be used for working
       capital requirements and expires in June 2000. The Company had no
       borrowings outstanding against the UK facility as of March 31, 1999. In
       the Netherlands, the Company's CD Contact subsidiary has a credit
       facility ("the Netherlands Facility") with a bank that permits borrowings
       against eligible accounts receivable and inventory up to approximately
       $25 million. Borrowings under the Netherlands Facility are due on demand
       and totaled $6.0 as of March 31, 1999. Letters of credit outstanding
       under the Netherlands facility totaled $6.9 million as of March 31, 1999.


                                      F-15


       PRIVATE PLACEMENT OF CONVERTIBLE SUBORDINATED NOTES

       In December 1997, the Company completed the private placement of $60.0
       million principal amount of 6 3/4% convertible subordinated notes due
       2005 (the "Notes"). The Notes are convertible, in whole or in part, at
       the option of the holder at any time after December 22, 1997 (the date of
       original issuance) and prior to the close of business on the business day
       immediately preceding the maturity date, unless previously redeemed or
       repurchased, into common stock, $.000001 par value, of the Company, at a
       conversion price of $18.875 per share, (equivalent to a conversion rate
       of 52.9801 shares per $1,000 principal amount of Notes), subject to
       adjustment in certain circumstances. The Notes are redeemable, in whole
       or in part, at the option of the Company at any time on or after January
       10, 2001, subject to premiums through December 31, 2003.

       LEASE OBLIGATIONS

       The Company leases certain of its facilities under non-cancelable
       operating lease agreements. Total future minimum lease commitments as of
       March 31, 1999 are as follows (amounts in thousands):



       Rent expense for the years ended March 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 was
       approximately $3,900,000, $3,219,000 and $2,279,000, respectively.

       LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

       The Company is party to routine claims and suits brought against it in
       the ordinary course of business, including disputes arising over the
       ownership of intellectual property rights and collection matters. In the
       opinion of management, the outcome of such routine claims will not have a
       material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition,
       results of operations or liquidity.

10.    STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY AND COMPENSATION PLANS

       OPTION PLANS

       The Company has two stock option plans for the benefit of officers,
       employees, consultants and others.

       The Activision 1991 Stock Option and Stock Award Plan, as amended, (the
       "1991 Plan") permits the granting of non-qualified stock options,
       incentive stock options ("ISOs"), stock appreciation rights ("SARs"),
       restricted stock awards, deferred stock awards and other
       Common-Stock-based awards. The total number of shares of Common Stock
       available for distribution under the 1991 Plan is 7,666,667. The 1991
       Plan requires available shares to consist in whole or in part of
       authorized and unissued shares for treasury shares. There were 156,500
       shares remaining available for grant under the 1991 Plan as of March 31,
       1999.

       On September 23, 1998, the stockholders of the Company approved the
       Activision 1998 Incentive Plan (the "1998 Plan"). The 1998 Plan permits
       the granting of non-qualified stock options, ISOs, restricted stock
       awards, deferred stock awards and other common stock-based awards to
       officers, employees, consultants and others. The total number of shares
       of Common Stock available for distribution under the 1998 Plan is
       3,000,000. The 1998 Plan requires available shares to consist in whole or
       in part of authorized and unissued shares or treasury shares. There were
       1,087,435 remaining shares available for grant under the Incentive Plan
       as of March 31, 1999.

       The exercise price for stock options issued under the 1991 Plan and 1998
       Plan (collectively, the "Plans") is determined at the discretion of the
       Board of Directors (or the Compensation Committee of the Board of
       Directors), and for ISOs, is not to be less than the fair market value of
       the Company's common stock at the date of grant, or in the case of
       non-qualified options, must exceed or be equal to 85% of fair market
       value at date of grant. Options typically become exercisable in equal
       installments over a period not to exceed five years and must be exercised
       within 10 years of date of grant. Historically, stock options have been
       granted with exercise prices equal to or greater than the fair market
       value at the date of grant.


                                      F-16



       Activity of the Plans during the last three fiscal years was as follows
       (amounts in thousands, except weighted average exercise price amounts):



       The range of exercise prices for options outstanding as of March 31, 1999
       was $.75 to $17.75. The range of exercise prices for options is wide due
       to increases and decreases in the Company's stock price over the period
       of the grants. For the year ended March 31, 1999, 3,320,000 options were
       granted at an exercise price equal to the fair market value on the date
       of grant and 218,000 options were granted at an exercise price greater
       than fair market value on the date of grant.

       The following tables summarize information about stock options
       outstanding as of March 31, 1999:



       These options will expire if not exercised at specific dates ranging from
       January 2000 to April 2009. Prices for options exercised during the three
       year period ended March 31, 1999 ranged from $.75 to $15.75.

       EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN

       The Company has an employee stock purchase plan for all eligible
       employees (the "Purchase Plan"). Under the Purchase Plan, shares of the
       Company's common stock may be purchased at six-month intervals at 85% of
       the lower of the fair market value on the first or last day of each
       six-month period (the "Offering Period"). Employees may purchase shares
       having a value not exceeding 10% of their gross compensation during an
       Offering Period. Employees purchased 42,093 shares at a price of $9.24
       per share and 45,868 shares at a price of $8.92 per share during the
       Purchase Plan's offering period ended September 30, 1998 and March 31,
       1999, respectively. As of March 31, 1999, 29,939 shares were reserved for
       future issuance under the Purchase Plan.

       EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT PLAN

       The Company has a retirement plan covering substantially all of its
       eligible employees. The retirement plan is qualified in accordance with
       Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Under the plan, employees
       may defer up to 15% of their pre-tax salary, but not more than statutory
       limits. The Company contributes 5% of each dollar contributed by a
       participant. The Company's matching contributions to the plan were
       $40,000, $40,000 and $25,000 during the years ended March 31, 1999, 1998
       and 1997, respectively.

       DIRECTOR WARRANT PLAN

       The Director Warrant Plan, which expired on December 19, 1996, provided
       for the automatic granting of warrants ("Director Warrants") to purchase
       16,667 shares of the Common Stock to each director of the Company who was
       not an officer or employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
       Director Warrants granted under the Director

                                    F-17



       Warrant Plan vest 25% on the first anniversary of the date of grant,
       and 12.5% each six months thereafter. The expiration of the Plan had
       no effect on the outstanding Warrants. As of March 31, 1999, there
       were no shares of Common Stock available for distribution under the
       Director Warrant Plan.

       Director Warrant activity was as follows (amounts in thousands, except
       weighted average exercise price amounts):



       The range of exercise prices for Director Warrants outstanding as of
       March 31, 1999 was $.75 to 8.50. The range of exercise prices for
       Director Warrants is wide due to increases and decreases in the Company's
       stock price over the period of the grants. As of March 31, 1999, 33,300
       of the outstanding and vested Director Warrants have a weighted average
       remaining contractual life of 2.78 years and a weighted average exercise
       price of $.75; 20,000 of the outstanding and vested Director Warrants
       have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 5.82 years and a
       weighted average exercise price of $6.50; and 20,000 of the outstanding
       and vested Director Warrants have a weighted average remaining
       contractual life of 5.82 years and a weighted average exercise price of
       $8.50.

       OTHER OPTIONS AND WARRANTS

       On March 23, 1999, 1,000,000 options to purchase common stock were issued
       to each of Robert A. Kotick, the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive
       Officer, and Brian G. Kelly, the Company's Co-Chairman. The options were
       granted in connection with employment agreements between the Company and
       each of Mr. Kotick and Mr. Kelly dated January 12, 1999. The options
       vest in five equal annual installments beginning on the date of issuance,
       have an exercise price of $10.50 per share, and expire on January 12,
       2009.

       On December 11, 1998, the Company granted options to purchase 80,000
       shares of the Company's common stock to four of its outside directors.
       The options have an exercise price of $11.50, vest in five equal
       annual installments beginning a year from the date of issuance, and
       expire on December 11, 2008.

       On June 4, 1998, the Company granted options to purchase 60,000 shares
       of the Company's common stock to four of its outside directors. The
       options have an exercise price of $9.50, vest in two equal annual
       installments beginning a year from the date of issuance, and expire on
       June 4, 2008.

       During the fiscal year ended March 31, 1998, the Company issued warrants
       to purchase 40,000 shares of the Company's common stock, with a weighted
       average exercise price of $12.88 to two of its outside directors in
       connection with their election to the Board. Such warrants have vesting
       terms identical to the Directors Warrants and expire within 10 years. As
       of March 31, 1999, 19,338 of such warrants were vested and exercisable.

       During the fiscal year ended March 31, 1999, the Company issued the
       following warrants to purchase 1,000,000 shares of common stock in
       connection with software license agreements:



       (a) Exercise price is equal to the average closing price of the Company's
           common stock on the NASDAQ National Market for the thirty trading
           days preceding September 16, 2003.

       The fair value of the warrants was determined using the Black-Scholes
       pricing model, assuming a risk-free rate of 4.77%, a volatility factor
       of .66 and expected terms as noted in the above table. In accordance
       with the Financial Accounting Standards Board's Emerging Issues Task
       Force Issue No. 96-18 "Accounting for Equity Instruments that are
       Issued To Other Than Employees for Acquiring or in Connection With
       Selling Goods or Services" (EITF 96-18), the Company measures the fair
       value of the securities on the measurement date. The measurement date
       is the earlier of the date on which the other party's performance is
       completed or the date of a performance commitment, as defined. The
       fair value of each warrant is capitalized and amortized to royalty
       expense when the related product is released and the related revenue
       is recognized. During 1999, $387,620 was amortized and included in
       royalty expense relating to warrants. No amortization was recognized
       in 1998.

       PRO FORMA INFORMATION

       The Company has elected to follow APB Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for
       Stock Issued to Employees," in accounting for its employee stock options.
       Under APB No. 25, if the exercise price of the Company's employee stock
       options equals the market price of the underlying stock on the date of
       grant, no compensation expense is recognized in the Company's financial
       statements.

                                    F-18



       Pro forma information regarding net income (loss) and net income (loss)
       per share is required by SFAS No. 123. This information is required to be
       determined as if the Company had accounted for its employee stock options
       (including shares issued under the Purchase Plan and Director Warrant
       Plan, collectively called "options") granted during fiscal 1999, 1998 and
       1997 under the fair value method of that statement. The fair value of
       options granted in the years ended March 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 reported
       below has been estimated at the date of grant using a Black-Scholes
       option pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions:



       The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use in
       estimating the fair value of traded options that have no vesting
       restrictions and are fully transferable. In addition, option valuation
       models require the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the
       expected stock price volatility. Because the Company's options have
       characteristics significantly different from those of traded options, and
       because changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect
       the fair value estimate, in the opinion of management, the existing
       models do not necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the fair
       value of its options. The weighted average estimated fair value of Plan
       shares granted during the years ended March 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 was
       $11.12, $13.47 and $12.72 per share, respectively. The weighted average
       estimated fair value of Employee Stock Purchase Plan shares granted
       during the year ended March 31, 1999 and 1998 were $2.85 and $2.65,
       respectively. No Director Warrants were granted during the year ended
       March 31, 1999.

       For purposes of pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value of the
       options is amortized to expense over the options' vesting period. The
       Company's pro forma information follows (amounts in thousands except for
       net income (loss) per share information):



       The effects on pro forma disclosures of applying SFAS No. 123 are not
       likely to be representative of the effects on pro forma disclosures of
       future years. Because SFAS No. 123 is applicable only to options granted
       during fiscal 1996 through 1999, the pro forma effect will not be fully
       reflected until the fiscal year ended March 31, 2000.

                                    F-19




11.    SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION

       Non-cash activities and supplemental cash flow information for the fiscal
       years ended March 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 is as follows (amounts in
       thousands):



                                    F-20


12.  QUARTERLY FINANCIAL AND MARKET INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)



13.    SUBSEQUENT EVENTS -- UNAUDITED

       BANK LINE OF CREDIT

       On June 22, 1999, the Company replaced the Prior Facility with a $125
       million revolving credit facility and term loan (the "New Facility") with
       a new group of banks that provides the Company with the ability to borrow
       up to $100 million and issue letters of credit up to $80 million against
       eligible accounts receivable and inventory. The $25 million term loan
       portion of the New Facility was used to acquire Expert and pay costs
       related to such acquisition and the securing of the new facility. The
       term loan has a three year term with principal amortization on a straight
       line quarterly basis beginning December 31, 1999 and a borrowing rate of
       the banks' base rate (which is generally equivalent to the published
       prime rate) plus 2.0%, or the LIBOR rate plus 3.0%. The revolving portion
       of the New Facility has a borrowing rate of the banks' base rate plus
       1.75%, or the LIBOR rate plus 2.75%. The Company pays a commitment fee of
       1/2% based on the unused portion of the line.

       ACQUISITION OF EXPERT SOFTWARE

       On March 3, 1999, the Company announced that it had entered into a merger
       agreement with Expert Software ("Expert"), a developer and distributor
       and value-line interactive leisure products, for $2.65 per share of
       outstanding Expert common stock, or total consideration of approximately
       $20.4 million. On June 21, 1999, Expert's shareholders approved the
       merger at a special meeting of shareholders and on June 22, 1999, the
       merger was consummated. Proceeds from the term loan portion of the New
       Facility were used to pay the merger consideration. The acquisition of
       Expert will be accounted for using the purchase method of accounting.


                                     F-21


                                                                     SCHEDULE II

                       ACTIVISION, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES
                            (amounts in thousands)



(A)  Actual write-offs of uncollectible accounts receivable or sales returns and
     price protection.
(B)  Actual write-offs of obsolete inventory, scrap and reduction in carrying
     value of certain portions of inventory.


                                     F-22


                                 EXHIBIT INDEX

ITEM 14(a).  EXHIBITS.



(b)    REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.  The following reports on Form 8-K have been filed
       by the Company during the last quarter of the fiscal year ended March 31,
       1999:

       1.1    Form 8-K dated March 10, 1999, containing items 5 and 7.


                                     F-24

