
10-K405
10-K405




                         SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                               WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                     FORM 10-K
(Mark one)
[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
     ACT OF 1934

                      FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 1998

                                         OR

[ ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

              For the transition period from __________ to __________

                           Commission File Number 0-12699

                                  ACTIVISION, INC.
               (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                DELAWARE                               94-2606438
     (State or other jurisdiction of       (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
     incorporation or organization)

      3100 OCEAN PARK BLVD., SANTA MONICA, CA             90405
     (Address of principal executive offices)           (Zip Code)

        REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE:  (310) 255-2000

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:  None

            SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:
                     COMMON STOCK, PAR VALUE $.000001 PER SHARE
                                  (Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes  X     No
                                       ---       ---

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form  10-K.  [ X ]

The aggregate market value of the Common Stock of the registrant held by
non-affiliates of the registrant on June 12, 1998 was $178,766,095.

The number of shares of the registrant's Common Stock outstanding as of June 
12, 1998 was 19,016,775.

                        DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Portions of the registrant's definitive Proxy Statement, to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal
year covered by this Form 10-K, with respect to the 1998 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders, are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Annual Report.





                                        INDEX

                                                                       Page No.
                                                                       --------
PART I.

     Item 1.   Business   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      3

     Item 2.   Properties   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     13

     Item 3.   Legal Proceedings  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     13

     Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders  . .     13

PART II.

     Item 5.   Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related 
                 Stockholder Matters. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     14

     Item 6.   Selected Consolidated Financial Data   . . . . . . . . .     16

     Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial 
                 Condition and Results of Operations. . . . . . . . . .     17

     Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market
                 Risk . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     23

     Item 8.   Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary
                 Data   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     24

     Item 9.   Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants on 
                 Accounting and Financial Disclosure. . . . . . . . . .     24

PART III.

     Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant   . .     25

     Item 11.  Executive Compensation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     25

     Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
                 Management   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     25

     Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions   . . . .     25

PART IV.

     Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on
                 Form 8-K   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     26

SIGNATURES  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     28




                                       PART I


Item 1.   BUSINESS

          (a)  GENERAL

               Activision, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, the "Company")
          is a leading international publisher, developer and distributor of
          interactive entertainment software. The Company was incorporated in
          California in 1979.  In December 1992, the Company reincorporated in
          Delaware.

               The Company currently focuses its development, publishing and
          distribution efforts on products designed for personal computers
          ("PCs"), the Sony PlayStation console system and the Nintendo 64
          console system.  In selecting titles for acquisition or development,
          the Company currently pursues a combination of internally and
          externally developed titles, products based on proven technology and
          those based on newer technology, and PC and console products.

               Financial information as of and for the year ended March 31, 1997
          and for the six month period ended September 30, 1997, have been 
          restated to reflect the acquisition of Combined Distribution 
          (Holdings) Limited, ("CentreSoft") accounted for as a pooling of 
          interests.  See Note 2: "Acquisitions," in Notes to Consolidated 
          Financial Statements.

          (b)  FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS

               The Company operates in one industry: publishing and distributing
          CD-based and cartridge based entertainment software.  See the
          Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in Item 8
          of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for certain financial information
          required by Item 1.

          (c)  NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

          FACTORS AFFECTING FUTURE PERFORMANCE

               In connection with the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act
          of 1995 (the "Litigation Reform Act"), the Company is hereby
          disclosing certain cautionary information to be used in connection
          with written materials (including this Annual Report on Form 10-K) and
          oral statements made by or on behalf of its employees and
          representatives that may contain "forward-looking statements" within
          the meaning of the Litigation Reform Act.  Such statements consist of
          any statement other than a recitation of historical fact and can be
          identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "may,"
          "expect," "anticipate," "estimate" or "continue" or the negative
          thereof or other variations thereon or comparable terminology.  The
          listener or reader is cautioned that all forward-looking statements
          are necessarily speculative and there are numerous risks and
          uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ
          materially from those referred to in such forward-looking statements.
          The discussion below highlights some of the more important risks
          identified by management, but should not be assumed to be the only
          factors that could affect future performance.  The reader or listener
          is cautioned that the Company does not have a policy of updating or
          revising forward-looking statements and thus he or she should not
          assume that silence by management over time means that actual events
          are bearing out as estimated in such forward-looking statements.

               FLUCTUATIONS IN QUARTERLY RESULTS; FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS
          UNCERTAIN; SEASONALITY.  The Company's quarterly operating results
          have varied significantly in the past and will likely vary
          significantly in the future depending on numerous factors, several of
          which are not under the Company's control.  Such factors include, but
          are not limited to, demand for the Company's products and those of its
          competitors, the size and rate of growth of the interactive
          entertainment software market, development and promotional expenses
          relating to the introduction of new products, changes in computing
          platforms, product returns, the timing of orders from major customers,
          delays in shipment, the level of price competition, the timing of
          product introduction by the Company and its competitors, product life
          cycles, software defects and other product quality problems, the level
          of the Company's international revenues, and personnel changes.
          Products are generally shipped as orders are received, and
          consequently, the Company operates with little or no backlog.  Net
          revenues in any quarter are, therefore, substantially dependent on
          orders booked and shipped in that quarter.

               The Company's expenses are based in part on the Company's product
          development and marketing budgets.  Many of the costs incurred by 
          the Company to produce and sell its products are expensed as such 
          costs are incurred, which is often long before a product is released.
          In addition, a large portion of the Company's expenses are fixed.  As 
          the Company increases its production and sales activities, current 
          expenses will increase and, if sales from previously released products
          are below expectations, net income is likely to be disproportionately 
          affected.  See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
          included in Item 8.




               Due to all of the foregoing, revenues and operating results for
          any future quarter are not predictable with any significant degree of
          accuracy.  Accordingly, the Company believes that period-to-period
          comparisons of its operating results are not necessarily meaningful
          and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance.

               The Company's business has experienced and is expected to
          continue to experience significant seasonality, in part due to
          consumer buying patterns.  Net revenues typically are significantly
          higher during the fourth calendar quarter, due primarily to the
          increased demand for consumer software during the year-end holiday
          buying season.  Net revenues and net income in other quarters are
          generally lower and vary significantly as a result of new product
          introductions and other factors.  For example, the Company's net
          revenues in its last five quarters were $57.6 million for the quarter
          ended March 31, 1997, $26.5 million for the quarter ended June 30,
          1997, $53.0 million for the quarter ended September 30, 1997, $122.1
          million for the quarter ended December 31, 1997 and $58.2 million for
          the quarter ended March 31, 1998.  The Company's net income (loss) for
          the last five quarters were $5.1 million for the quarter ended March
          31, 1997, $(5.4) million for the quarter ended June 30, 1997, $1.8
          million for the quarter ended September 30, 1997, $9.3 million for the
          quarter ended December 31, 1997 and $126,000 for the quarter ended
          March 31, 1998.  The Company expects its net revenues and operating
          results to continue to reflect significant seasonality.

               DEPENDENCE ON NEW PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT; PRODUCT DELAYS.  The
          Company's future success depends in part on the timely introduction of
          successful new products to replace declining revenues from older
          products.  If, for any reason, revenues from new products were to fail
          to replace declining revenues from older products, the Company's
          business, operating results and financial condition would be
          materially and adversely affected.  In addition, the Company believes
          that the competitive factors in the interactive entertainment software
          marketplace create the need for higher quality, distinctive products
          that incorporate increasingly sophisticated effects and the need to
          support product releases with increased marketing, resulting in higher
          development, acquisition and marketing costs.  The lack of market
          acceptance or significant delay in the introduction of, or the
          presence of a defect in, one or more products could have a material
          adverse effect on the Company's business, operating results and
          financial condition, particularly in view of the seasonality of the
          Company's business.  Further, because a large portion of a product's
          revenue generally is associated with initial shipments, the delay of a
          product introduction expected near the end of a fiscal quarter may
          have a material adverse effect on operating results for that quarter.

               The Company has, in the past, experienced significant delays in
          the introduction of certain new products.  The timing and success of
          interactive entertainment products remain unpredictable due to the
          complexity of product development, including the uncertainty
          associated with technological developments.  Although the Company has
          implemented substantial development controls, there likely will be
          delays in developing and introducing new products in the future.
          There can be no assurance that new products will be introduced on
          schedule, or at all, or that they will achieve market acceptance or
          generate significant revenues.

               RELIANCE ON THIRD PARTY DEVELOPERS AND INDEPENDENT CONTRACTORS.
          The percentage of products published by the Company that are developed
          by independent third party developers has increased over the last
          several fiscal years.  From time to time, the Company also utilizes
          independent contractors for certain aspects of product development and
          production.  The Company has less control over the scheduling and the
          quality of work by independent contractors and third party developers
          than that of its own employees.  A delay in the work performed by
          independent contractors and third party developers or poor quality of
          such work may result in product delays.  Although the Company intends
          to continue to rely in part on products that are developed primarily
          by its own employees, the Company's ability to grow its business and
          its future operating results will depend, in significant part, on the
          Company's continued ability to maintain relationships with skilled
          independent contractors and third party developers.  There can be no
          assurance that the Company will be able to maintain such
          relationships.

               UNCERTAINTY OF MARKET ACCEPTANCE; SHORT PRODUCT LIFE CYCLES.  The
          market for entertainment systems and software has been characterized
          by shifts in consumer preferences and short product life cycles.
          Consumer preferences for entertainment software products are difficult
          to predict and few entertainment software products achieve sustained
          market acceptance.  There can be no assurance that new products
          introduced by the Company will achieve any significant degree of
          market acceptance, that such acceptance will be sustained for any
          significant period, or that product life cycles will be sufficient to
          permit the Company to recoup development, marketing and other
          associated costs.  In addition, if market acceptance is not achieved,
          the Company could be forced to accept substantial product returns to
          maintain its relationships with retailers and its access to
          distribution channels.  Failure of new products to achieve or sustain
          market acceptance or product returns in excess of the Company's
          expectations would have a material adverse effect on the Company's
          business, operating results and financial condition.




               PRODUCT CONCENTRATION; DEPENDENCE ON HIT PRODUCTS.  A key aspect
          of the Company's strategy is to focus its development and acquisition
          efforts on selected, high quality entertainment software products. The
          Company derives a significant portion of its revenues from a
          relatively small number of high quality entertainment software
          products released each year, and many of these products have
          substantial production or acquisition costs and marketing budgets.
          During fiscal 1997, two titles accounted for approximately 23% and
          16%, respectively, of the Company's consolidated net revenues.  During
          fiscal 1998, one other title accounted for approximately 12% of the
          Company's consolidated net revenues.  The Company anticipates that a
          limited number of products will continue to produce a disproportionate
          amount of revenues.  Due to this dependence on a limited number of
          products, the failure of one or more of the Company's principal new
          releases to achieve anticipated results may have a material adverse
          effect on the Company's business, operating results and financial
          results.

               The Company's strategy also includes as a key component
          developing and releasing products that have franchise value, such that
          sequels, enhancements and add-on products can be released over time,
          thereby extending the life of the property in the market.  While the
          focus on franchise properties, if successful, results in extending
          product life cycles, it also results in the Company depending on a
          limited number of titles for its revenues.  There can be no assurance
          that the Company's existing franchise titles can continue to be
          exploited as successfully as in the past.  In addition, new products
          that the Company believes will have potential value as franchise
          properties may not achieve market acceptance and therefore may not be
          a basis for future releases.

               INDUSTRY COMPETITION; COMPETITION FOR SHELF SPACE.  The
          interactive entertainment software industry is intensely competitive.
          Competition in the industry is principally based on product quality
          and features, the compatibility of products with popular platforms,
          company or product line brand name recognition, access to distribution
          channels, marketing effectiveness, reliability and ease of use, price
          and technical support.  Significant financial resources also have
          become a competitive factor in the entertainment software industry,
          principally due to the substantial cost of product development and
          marketing that is required to support best-selling titles.  In
          addition, competitors with broad product lines and popular titles
          typically have greater leverage with distributors and other customers
          who may be willing to promote titles with less consumer appeal in
          return for access to such competitor's most popular titles.

               The Company's competitors range from small companies with limited
          resources to large companies with substantially greater financial,
          technical and marketing resources than those of the Company.  The
          Company's competitors currently include Electronic Arts, LucasArts,
          Microsoft, Sega, Nintendo, Sony, GT Interactive,  Broderbund,
          Interplay, Virgin, Cendant and Eidos, among many others.

               As competition increases, significant price competition,
          increased production costs and reduced profit margins may result.
          Prolonged price competition or reduced demand would have a material
          adverse effect on the Company's business, operating results and
          financial condition.  There can be no assurance that the Company will
          be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors
          or that competitive pressures faced by the Company will not have a
          material adverse effect on its business, operating results and
          financial condition.

               Retailers typically have a limited amount of shelf space, and
          there is intense competition among entertainment software producers
          for adequate levels of shelf space and promotional support from
          retailers.  As the number of entertainment software products increase,
          the competition for shelf space has intensified, resulting in greater
          leverage for retailers and distributors in negotiating terms of sale,
          including price discounts and product return policies.  The Company's
          products constitute a relatively small percentage of a retailer's
          sales volume, and there can be no assurance that retailers will
          continue to purchase the Company's products or promote the Company's
          products with adequate levels of shelf space and promotional support.

               DEPENDENCE ON DISTRIBUTORS AND RETAILERS; RISK OF CUSTOMER
          BUSINESS FAILURE; PRODUCT RETURNS.  Certain mass market retailers have
          established exclusive buying relationships under which such retailers
          will buy consumer software only from one intermediary.  In such
          instances, the price or other terms on which the Company sells to such
          retailers may be adversely effected by the terms imposed by such
          intermediary, or the Company may be unable to sell to such retailers
          on terms which the Company deems acceptable.  The loss of, or
          significant reduction in sales attributable to, any of the Company's
          principal distributors or retailers could materially adversely effect
          the Company's business, operating results and financial condition.

               Retailers in the computer industry have from time to time
          experienced significant fluctuations in their businesses and there
          have been a number of business failures among these entities.  The
          insolvency or business failure of any significant retailer or other
          wholesale purchaser of the Company's products could have a material
          adverse effect on the Company's business, operating results and
          financial condition.  Sales are typically made on credit, with terms
          that vary depending upon the customer and the nature of the product.
          The Company does not hold collateral to secure payment.  Although the
          Company has obtained insolvency risk insurance to protect against any
          bankruptcy, insolvency, or liquidation that may occur to its
          customers, such insurance contains a significant deductible as well as
          a co-payment obligation, and the




          policy does not cover all instances of non-payment.  In addition, the
          Company maintains a reserve for uncollectible receivables that it
          believes to be adequate, but the actual reserve which is maintained
          may not be sufficient in every circumstance.  As a result of the
          foregoing, a payment default by a significant customer could have a
          material adverse effect on the Company's business, operating results
          and financial condition.

               The Company also is exposed to the risk of product returns from
          retailers and other wholesale purchasers.  Although the Company
          provides reserves for returns that it believes are adequate, and
          although the Company's agreements with certain of its customers place
          certain limits on product returns, the Company could be forced to
          accept substantial product returns to maintain its relationships with
          retailers and its access to distribution channels.  Product returns
          that exceed the Company's reserves could have a material adverse
          effect on the Company's business, operating results and financial
          condition.

               CHANGES IN TECHNOLOGY AND INDUSTRY STANDARDS.  The consumer
          software industry is undergoing rapid changes, including evolving
          industry standards, frequent new platform introductions and changes in
          consumer requirements and preferences.  The introduction of new
          technologies, including operating systems such as Microsoft's Windows
          98, technologies that support multi-player games, and new media
          formats such as on-line delivery and digital video disks ("DVD"),
          could render the Company's previously released products obsolete or
          unmarketable.  The development cycle for products utilizing new
          operating systems, microprocessors or formats may be significantly
          longer than the Company's current development cycle for products on
          existing operating systems, microprocessors and formats and may
          require the Company to invest resources in products that may not
          become profitable.  There can be no assurance that the mix of the
          Company's future product offerings will keep pace with technological
          changes or satisfy evolving consumer preferences, or that the Company
          will be successful in developing and marketing products for any future
          operating system or format.  Failure to develop and introduce new
          products and product enhancements in a timely fashion could result in
          significant product returns and inventory obsolescence and could have
          a material adverse effect on the Company's business, operating results
          and financial condition.

               Like many other software companies, the year 2000 computer issue
          creates risk for the Company.  If internal systems do not correctly
          recognize date information when the year changes to 2000, there could
          be an adverse impact on the Company's operations.  The Company has
          initiated a comprehensive plan to prepare its computer systems for the
          year 2000 and is currently implementing changes to alleviate any year
          2000 incapability.  The Company is also contacting critical suppliers
          of product and service to determine that the supplier's operations and
          the products and services they provide are year 2000 capable.  There
          can be no assurance that another company's failure to ensure year 2000
          capability would not have an adverse effect on the Company.

               LIMITED PROTECTION OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND PROPRIETARY
          RIGHTS; RISK OF LITIGATION.  The Company holds copyrights on its
          products, manuals, advertising and other materials and maintains
          trademark rights in the Company name, the ACTIVISION logo, and the
          names of products owned by the Company.  The Company regards its
          software as proprietary and relies primarily on a combination of
          trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, employee and third-party
          nondisclosure agreements, and other methods to protect its proprietary
          rights.  Unauthorized copying is common within the software industry,
          and if a significant amount of unauthorized copying of the Company's
          products were to occur, the Company's business, operating results and
          financial condition could be adversely effected.  There can be no
          assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims
          against the Company in the future with respect to current or future
          products.  As is common in the industry, from time to time the Company
          receives notices from third parties claiming infringement of
          intellectual property rights of such parties.  The Company
          investigates these claims and responds as it deems appropriate.  Any
          claims or litigation, with or without merit, could be costly and could
          result in a diversion of management's attention, which could have a
          material adverse effect on the Company's business, operating results
          and financial condition.  Adverse determinations in such claims or
          litigation could also have a material adverse effect on the Company's
          business, operating results and financial condition.

               Policing unauthorized use of the Company's products is difficult,
          and while the Company is unable to determine the extent to which
          piracy of its software products exists, software piracy can be
          expected to be a persistent problem.  In selling its products, the
          Company relies primarily on "shrink wrap" licenses that are not signed
          by licensees and, therefore, may be unenforceable under the laws of
          certain jurisdictions.  Further, the Company enters into transactions
          in countries where intellectual property laws are not well developed
          or are poorly enforced.  Legal protections of the Company's rights may
          be ineffective in such countries.

               DEPENDENCE ON KEY PERSONNEL.  The Company's success depends to a
          significant extent on the performance and continued service of its
          senior management and certain key employees.  Competition for highly
          skilled employees with technical, management, marketing, sales,
          product development and other specialized training is intense, and
          there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in
          attracting and retaining such personnel.  Specifically, the Company
          may experience increased costs in order to attract and retain skilled
          employees.  Although the Company enters into term employment
          agreements with many of its skilled employees and certain other key
          personnel, there can be no assurance that such




          employees will not leave the Company or compete against the Company.
          The Company's failure to attract or retain qualified employees could
          have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, operating
          results and financial condition.

               RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS:  CURRENCY
          FLUCTUATIONS.  International sales and licensing accounted for 23%,
          58% and 67% of the Company's total revenues in the fiscal years 1996,
          1997 and 1998, respectively.  The Company intends to continue to
          expand its direct and indirect sales, marketing and localization
          activities worldwide.  Such expansion will require significant
          management time and attention and financial resources in order to
          develop adequate international sales and support channels.  There can
          be no assurance, however, that the Company will be able to maintain or
          increase international market demand for its products.  International
          sales are subject to inherent risks, including the impact of possible
          recessionary environments in economies outside the United States, the
          costs of transferring and localizing products for foreign markets,
          longer receivable collection periods and greater difficulty in
          accounts receivable collection, unexpected changes in regulatory
          requirements, difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign
          operations, and political and economic instability.  There can be no
          assurance that the Company will be able to sustain or increase
          international revenues or that the foregoing factors will not have a
          material adverse effect on the Company's future international revenues
          and, consequently, on the Company's business, operating results and
          financial condition.  The Company currently does not engage in
          currency hedging activities.  Although exposure to currency
          fluctuations to date has been insignificant, there can be no assurance
          that fluctuations in currency exchange rates in the future will not
          have a material adverse impact on revenues from international sales
          and licensing and thus the Company's business, operating results and
          financial condition.

               RISK OF SOFTWARE DEFECTS.  Software products such as those
          offered by the Company frequently contain errors or defects.  Despite
          extensive product testing, in the past the Company has released
          products with defects and has discovered software errors in certain of
          its product offerings after their introduction.  In particular, the PC
          hardware environment is characterized by a wide variety of
          non-standard peripherals (such as sound cards and graphics cards) and
          configurations that make pre-release testing for programming or
          compatibility errors very difficult and time-consuming.  There can be
          no assurance that, despite testing by the Company, errors will not be
          found in new products or releases after commencement of commercial
          shipments, resulting in a loss of or delay in market acceptance, which
          could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business,
          operating results and financial condition.

               RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH ACQUISITIONS.  The Company intends to
          integrate the operations of its recently acquired CentreSoft and NBG
          EDV Handels und Verlags GmbH ("NBG") subsidiaries with its previously
          existing European operations.  This process, as well as the process of
          managing two significant new international operations, will require
          substantial management time and effort and could divert the attention
          of management from other matters. In addition, there is a risk of loss
          of key employees, customers and vendors of the recently acquired
          operations as well as existing operations as this process is
          implemented.  There is no assurance that the Company will be
          successful in integrating these operations or that, if the operations
          are combined, that there will not be adverse effects on its business.

               Consistent with its strategy to enhance distribution and product
          development capabilities, the Company intends to continue to pursue
          acquisitions of companies and intellectual property rights and other
          assets that can be purchased or licensed on acceptable terms and which
          the Company believes can be operated or exploited profitably.  Some of
          these transactions could be material in size and scope.  While the
          Company will continually be searching for appropriate acquisition
          opportunities, there can be no assurance that the Company will be
          successful in identifying suitable acquisitions.  If any potential
          acquisition opportunities are identified, there can be no assurance
          that the Company will consummate such acquisitions or if any such
          acquisition does occur, that it will be successful in enhancing the
          Company's business or be accretive to the Company's earnings.  As the
          entertainment software business continues to consolidate, the Company
          faces significant competition in seeking acquisitions and may in the
          future face increased competition for acquisition opportunities, which
          may inhibit its ability to complete suitable transactions.  Future
          acquisitions could also divert substantial management time, could
          result in short term reductions in earnings or special transaction or
          other charges and may be difficult to integrate with existing
          operations or assets.

               The Company may, in the future, issue additional shares of Common
          Stock in connection with one or more acquisitions, which may dilute
          its shareholders.  Additionally, with respect to most of its future
          acquisitions, the Company's shareholders may not have an opportunity
          to review the financial statements of the entity being acquired or to
          evaluate the benefits of the intellectual property rights being
          purchased or licensed, or to vote on such acquisitions.

               RISK OF CENTRESOFT VENDOR DEFECTIONS; VENDOR CONCENTRATION.  The
          Company's recently acquired CentreSoft subsidiary performs software
          distribution services in the United Kingdom and, via export, in other
          European territories for a variety of entertainment software
          publishers, many of which are competitors of the Company.  These
          services are generally performed under limited term contracts, some of
          which




          provide for cancellation in the event of a change of control.  While
          the Company expects to use reasonable efforts to retain these vendors,
          there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in this
          regard.  The cancellation or non-renewal of one or more of these
          contracts could have a material adverse effect on the Company's
          business, operating results and financial condition.  Three of
          CentreSoft's vendors accounted for 38%, 12% and 11%, respectively, of
          CentreSoft's net revenues in fiscal year 1998.  The net revenues from
          these vendors represents 18%, 6% and 5%, respectively, of consolidated
          net revenues of the Company.



          STRATEGY

               The Company's objective is to be a worldwide leader in the
          publishing and development of exceptional and innovative interactive
          entertainment software that appeals to existing and new audiences and
          incorporates sophisticated graphics, sound and video, and compelling
          story lines and game experiences.  The Company's strategy includes the
          following elements:

               PUBLISH HIGH QUALITY TITLES.  The Company seeks to differentiate
          its titles through the highest quality production values and superior
          game play, supported by comprehensive trade and consumer marketing
          programs coordinated with product releases.  Accordingly, the Company
          must support the development, production, acquisition and marketing of
          its titles with the resources necessary to create best selling
          products.  In order to reduce the financial risks associated with the
          higher development and marketing budgets required to support this
          strategy, the Company pursues a combination of internally and
          externally developed titles; between products based on proven
          technology and newer technology; and between PC and console products.

               FOCUS ON FRANCHISE PROPERTIES.   The Company focuses its
          publishing and developing activities principally on titles that are,
          or have the potential to become, franchise properties with sustainable
          consumer appeal and brand recognition.  These titles can thereby serve
          as the basis for sequels, prequels, mission packs and other add-ons
          and related new titles that can be released over an extended period of
          time. The Company believes that the publishing and distribution of
          products based in large part on franchise properties will enhance
          revenue predictability.  The Company currently is publishing products
          based on several franchise properties, including QUAKE, HEXEN, ZORK,
          PITFALL and SHANGHAI.  The Company also has rights  to several other
          properties that it believes will have franchise value, including HEAVY
          GEAR, DARK REIGN, BATTLEZONE, HERETIC, NIGHTMARE CREATURES, ASTEROIDS
          and JACK NICKLAUS GOLF.

               EXPAND DIRECT DISTRIBUTION CAPABILITIES. In North America, the
          Company's products are sold primarily on a direct basis to major
          computer and software retailing organizations, consumer electronic
          stores and discount warehouses.  In international territories, the
          Company's products are sold both direct to retail and through third
          party distribution and licensing arrangements.  In order to maximize
          the revenues to be generated by each of its products, the Company is
          expanding its worldwide direct distribution capabilities.  The Company
          believes that a dedicated internal sales force and direct distribution
          to retailers provide significant competitive advantages, including the
          ability to compete more effectively for shelf space, to create
          additional point-of-sale promotional opportunities, to more properly
          manage inventory levels, and to increase margins by eliminating third
          party distributors.  Consistent with this strategy, the Company has
          concluded several acquisitions in recent months in an effort to
          bolster its direct distribution capabilities in international markets.

               CONTINUE TO GROW ORIGINAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURERS ("OEM")
          REVENUES.  The Company also generates significant revenue throughout
          the world as a result of arrangements with OEMs, in which the
          Company's titles are sold together with hardware or peripheral devices
          manufactured by the OEM.  The Company believes that OEM bundle
          arrangements expand the distribution of its titles to a broader and
          more diverse audience, and it intends to continue aggressively
          pursuing these arrangements.

               ENHANCE PRODUCT FLOW.  In order to expand the Company's library
          of titles, intellectual property rights and talent base, the Company
          is actively engaged in the exploration of acquisition opportunities in
          the software development business.  Consistent with this strategy, in
          August 1997 the Company acquired Raven Software Corporation ("Raven"),
          an entertainment software developer based in Madison, Wisconsin, that
          has created numerous best selling titles, including HERETIC, HEXEN:
          BEYOND HERETIC and HEXEN II.  In addition, in order to create a closer
          relationship with independent developers, the Company from time to
          time makes investments and acquires minority equity interests in
          independent developers at the same time as it acquires publishing
          rights to the developers' products.

          PRODUCTS

               The Company currently is  best known for its action, adventure
          and action/simulation products, although the Company recently has
          expanded the line of products it distributes into new categories such
          as role playing, strategy, flight simulation and racing.  The Company
          expects to continue such expansion efforts into new product
          categories.




               Several of the Company's current and upcoming releases are based
          on characters, worlds and concepts derived from the Company's
          extensive library of titles.  For example, the Company is now or will
          soon be publishing new titles that are based on original best selling
          titles such as PITFALL!, SHANGHAI, HERETIC and HEXEN.  Other new
          Company titles are based on original characters and concepts owned and
          created by the Company.  In addition to developing its own characters
          and concepts, the Company selectively licenses intellectual property
          or other character or story rights from third parties for the purpose
          of publishing titles based on such rights.  For example, the Company
          recently obtained a long term license to be the exclusive publisher of
          interactive entertainment software products based on the HEAVY GEAR
          role playing games created by an independent board game creator.
          Activision's HEAVY GEAR products are intended to replace the
          BATTLETECH/MECHWARRIOR 2 product line which was developed and
          published by the Company under a license.  The Company also recently
          obtained long-term rights to publish interactive entertainment
          software products based on the ASTEROIDS and BATTLEZONE video games.
          In addition, the Company has obtained licenses to properties that
          previously have been marketed and sold in other entertainment media
          such as magazines, comic books and card or board games.  These
          properties include X-Men, Soldier of Fortune, Legend of the Five Rings
          and Vampire.  In publishing products based on licensed intellectual
          property rights, the Company generally seeks to capitalize on the name
          recognition, marketing efforts and goodwill associated with the
          underlying property.

               In addition to its own internally developed products, the Company
          publishes and distributes software products for other independent
          developers and publishers such as id Software, Ritual Entertainment,
          Parsoft Interactive, Kalisto Entertainment and Nihilistic Software.
          As the Company seeks to associate the "ACTIVISION" mark only with the
          highest quality interactive entertainment products, the Company
          attempts to be selective in acquiring publishing and distribution
          rights from third party developers.  Such products typically are
          marketed under the Company's name as well as the name of the original
          developer.  The Company believes that these efforts enable the Company
          to leverage its investment in worldwide sales and marketing and add a
          new source of products while balancing the risks inherent in internal
          product development and production.  This activity also allows the
          Company to enter new product genres more quickly and provide consumers
          with a wider variety of products.

          PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AND ACQUISITION

               The Company uses both internal and external resources to develop
          products.  The Company also acquires rights to products through
          publishing and distribution arrangements and the acquisition of other
          software companies.

          ACTIVISION STUDIOS

               Activision Studios, the Company's development and production
          group is located at the Company's headquarters in Santa Monica,
          California.  Activision Studios' creative development and production
          staff selects and develops new products, adapts existing products for
          additional hardware platforms and peripheral devices, and manages the
          external development of certain products or their components by
          independent contractors.

               Activision Studios develops and produces titles using a model in
          which a core group of creative, production and technical professionals
          on staff at the Company, in cooperation with the Company's marketing
          and finance departments, have overall responsibility for the entire
          development and production process and for the supervision and
          coordination of internal and external resources.  Each project team is
          led by a game producer and game director and includes one or more
          associate producers, game designers, production coordinators and a
          quality assurance manager, all of whom are on the Company's staff.
          This team assembles the necessary creative elements to complete a
          title, using where appropriate outside programmers, artists,
          animators, musicians and songwriters, sound effects and special
          effects experts, and sound and video studios. The Company believes
          that this model allows the Company to supplement internal expertise
          with top quality external resources on an as needed basis.

               The Company has adopted and implemented a rigorous procedure for
          the selection, development, production and quality assurance of its
          internally produced entertainment software titles.  The process
          involves one or more pre-development, development and production
          phases, each of which includes a number of specific performance
          milestones.  This procedure is designed to enable the Company to
          manage and control production and development budgets and timetables,
          to identify and address production and technical issues at the
          earliest opportunity, and to coordinate marketing and quality control
          strategies throughout the production and development phases, all in an
          environment that fosters creativity.  Checks and balances are intended
          to be provided through the structured interaction of the project team
          with the Company's creative, technical, marketing and quality
          assurance/customer support personnel, as well as the legal, accounting
          and finance departments.






          ACTIVISION EXTERNAL STUDIOS

               The Company's External Studios division licenses or acquires
          certain software products from independent developers for publishing
          or distribution by the Company.  Through its acquisition of Raven, the
          division also develops and produces products that are owned directly
          by the Company.  Acquired titles are marketed under the Company's name
          as well as the name of the original developer.  The agreements with
          affiliated developers provide the Company with exclusive publishing
          and distribution rights for a specific period of time for specified
          platforms and territories.  These agreements often grant to the
          Company the right to publish sequels, enhancements and add-ons to the
          product originally being developed and produced by the developer.  In
          consideration for its services, the developer receives a royalty based
          on sales of the product that it has developed.  Typically, the
          developer also receives a nonrefundable advance which is recoupable by
          the Company from the royalties otherwise required to be paid to the
          developer.  The royalty generally is paid in stages, with the payment
          of each stage tied to the completion of a detailed performance
          milestone.

               The Company acquires titles from affiliated developers during
          various phases of the development and production processes for such
          titles.  To the extent the Company acquires rights early in the
          development process, the Company generally will cause the independent
          developer to comply with the requirements of the pre-development,
          development and production processes applicable to titles internally
          produced by Activision Studios.  The External Studios division
          generally will assign a game producer to each title who will serve as
          the principal liaison to the independent developer and help insure
          that performance milestones are timely met.  The Company generally has
          the right to cease making payments to an independent developer if such
          developer fails to complete its performance milestones in a timely 
          fashion.

               In connection with its acquisition of product publishing and
          distribution, the Company may make an investment and hold a minority
          equity interest in the third party developer in order to create a
          closer relationship between the Company and the developer.  In this
          regard, the Company recently acquired a minority equity interest in
          each of Redline Games and Pandemic Studios in connection with several
          new entertainment software products to be developed by each of such
          developers for the Company.  There can be no assurance that the
          Company will realize long term benefits from either of these
          investments or that it will continue to carry such investments at its
          current value.

          PRODUCT  SUPPORT

               The Company provides various forms of product support to both its
          internally and externally developed titles.  The Company's quality
          assurance personnel are involved throughout the development and
          production processes for each title published by the Company.  All
          such products are subjected to extensive testing before release in
          order to insure compatibility with the widest possible array of
          hardware configurations and to minimize the number of bugs and other
          defects found in the products.  To support its products after release,
          the Company provides on-line support to its customers on a 24-hour
          basis as well as operator help lines during regular business hours.
          The customer support group tracks customer inquiries and this data is
          used to help improve the development and production processes.

          PUBLISHING AND DISTRIBUTION ACTIVITIES

          MARKETING

               The Company's marketing efforts include on-line activities (such
          as the creation of World Wide Web pages to promote specific Company
          titles), public relations, print and broadcast advertising,
          coordinated in-store and industry promotions including merchandising
          and point of purchase displays, participation in cooperative
          advertising programs, direct response vehicles, and product sampling
          through demonstration software distributed through the Internet or on
          compact discs.  In addition, the Company's products contain software
          that enables customers to "electronically register" their purchases
          with the Company via modem.  Through this process, the Company
          captures electronic mail addresses for its customers as well as a
          variety of additional market research data.

               The Company believes that certain of its franchise properties
          (such as the PITFALL! and SHANGHAI series) have loyal and devoted
          audiences who purchase the Company's sequels as a result of dedication
          to the property and satisfaction from previous product purchases.
          Marketing of these sequels is therefore directed both toward the
          established market as well as broader audiences.  In marketing titles
          based on licensed properties, the Company believes that it derives
          marketing synergies and related benefits from the marketing and
          promotional activities of the property owners.  In marketing
          affiliated label titles, the Company believes that it derives
          marketing synergies and related benefits from the previously
          established reputation of the independent developer and the properties
          owned by it.




          SALES AND DISTRIBUTION

               DOMESTIC SALES AND DISTRIBUTION.  The Company's products are
          available for sale or rental in thousands of retail outlets
          domestically ranging from consumer electronics and computer specialty
          stores to department stores, discount chains, video rental stores and
          toy stores.  The Company's customers in these categories include Best
          Buy, CompUSA, Computer City, Electronic Boutique, Babbages, WalMart,
          K-Mart, Target and Toys "R" Us.  During fiscal 1998, no single
          customer accounted for more than 10% of consolidated net revenues. In
          North America, the Company's products are sold primarily on a direct
          basis to major computer and software retailing organizations, consumer
          electronic stores and discount warehouses and mail order companies.
          The Company believes that a direct relationship with retail accounts
          results in more effective inventory management, merchandising and
          communications than would be possible through indirect relationships.
          The Company has implemented electronic data interchange ("EDI")
          linkage with many of its retailers to facilitate the placing and
          shipment of orders.  The Company seeks to continue to increase the
          number of retail outlets reached directly through its internal sales
          force.  To a lesser extent, the Company sells its products through
          wholesale distributors, such as Ingram Micro, Handelman and Merisel.

               INTERNATIONAL SALES AND DISTRIBUTION. The Company conducts its
          international publishing activities through offices in England,
          Germany, France, Australia and Japan, as well as through a Latin
          American sales office located in Miami, Florida.  The Company seeks to
          maximize its worldwide revenues and profits by releasing high quality
          foreign language localizations concurrently with the English language
          releases, whenever practicable, and by continuing to expand the number
          of direct selling relationships it maintains with key retailers in
          major territories.

               In June 1997, the Company acquired Take Us! Marketing &
          Consulting GmbH, a German company specializing in the localization and
          marketing of entertainment software products in German-speaking
          territories.  In November 1997, the Company acquired NBG, an
          independent publisher, wholesaler and distributor of entertainment
          software in Germany.

               Also in November 1997, the Company acquired CentreSoft, a leading
          independent distributor of entertainment software in the United
          Kingdom, and Sony's exclusive distributor of Playstation products to
          the independent retail channel in that country.  The company employs
          approximately 150 people, including one of the largest entertainment
          software sales and marketing organizations in the United Kingdom.

               The assets and personnel of CentreSoft and NBG are currently
          being combined to form the core of Activision's international
          distribution operations and a base for further expansion into European
          territories.  The Company will emphasize the expansion of CentreSoft's
          and NBG's outstanding channel relations, and it intends to leverage
          its management expertise into other territories.

               OEM SALES AND DISTRIBUTION.  The Company seeks to enhance the
          distribution of its products through licensing arrangements with
          original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs").  Under these arrangements,
          one or more of the Company's titles are "bundled" with hardware or
          peripheral devices sold and distributed by the OEM so that the
          purchaser of the hardware or device obtains the Company's software as
          part of the purchase or on a discounted basis.  Although it is
          customary for the Company to receive a lower per unit price on sales
          through OEM bundle arrangements, the OEM customer makes a high unit
          volume commitment to the Company with little associated marketing
          costs.  In addition, the Company from time to time receives
          substantial advance payments from the OEM customer.  The Company also
          believes that such arrangements can substantially expand the
          distribution of its titles to a broader audience.  Recent OEM partners
          include Microsoft, IBM, Sony, Apple and Toshiba.

          LICENSING AND MERCHANDISING

               The Company believes that a number of its products have the
          potential to be exploited in ancillary markets and media, such as
          product merchandising and traditional entertainment media.  The
          Company seeks opportunities for the exploitation of these ancillary
          rights directly and through third party agents.  Potential
          opportunities include the publication of strategy guides for selected
          titles, the adaptation of titles into comic books, novels, television
          series or motion pictures, and the licensing of product merchandising
          rights.  The Company believes that these types of licensing activities
          can provide additional sources of revenue and increase the visibility
          of the title, thereby leading to additional unit sales and greater
          potential for additional sequels.  There can be no assurance that the
          Company will be successful in exploiting its properties in ancillary
          markets or media.

               Similarly, the Company believes that there are opportunities for
          further exploitation of its titles through the Internet, on-line
          services such as America Online and the Microsoft Network, and through
          recently created on-line gaming services such as Heat and MPath. The
          Company has established "900" telephone numbers as hint lines for
          certain of its titles, and has realized revenues from the calls made
          to these numbers.  The Company also is actively exploring the
          establishment of on-line game playing opportunities,




          on-line hint sites, and Internet services as a method for realizing
          additional revenues from its products.  There can be no assurance that
          the Company will be successful in exploiting these opportunities.

          HARDWARE LICENSES

               The Company's console products currently are being developed or
          published for the Sony PlayStation and Nintendo 64. In order to
          maintain general access to the console systems marketplace, the
          Company has obtained licenses for the PlayStation, Nintendo 64,
          Nintendo Game Boy and other console systems.  Each license allows the
          Company to create one or more products for the applicable system,
          subject to certain approval rights as to quality which are reserved by
          each licensor.  Each license also requires that the Company pay the
          licensor a per unit license fee from product sales.

               In contrast, the Company currently is not required to obtain any
          license for the development and production of PC-CD products.
          Accordingly, the Company's per unit manufacturing cost for PC-CD
          products is less than the per unit manufacturing cost for console
          products.

          MANUFACTURING

               The Company prepares a set of master program copies,
          documentation and packaging materials for its products for each
          respective hardware platform on which the product will be released.
          Except with respect to products for use on the Sony and Nintendo
          systems, the Company's disk duplication, packaging, printing,
          manufacturing, warehousing, assembly and shipping are performed by
          third party subcontractors.

               In the case of products for the Sony and Nintendo systems, in
          order to maintain protection over their hardware technologies, such
          hardware producers generally specify and/or control the manufacturing
          and assembly of finished products.  The Company delivers the master
          materials to the licensor or its approved replicator which then
          manufactures finished goods and delivers them to the Company for
          distribution under the Company's label.  At the time the Company's
          product unit orders are filled by the manufacturer, the Company
          becomes responsible for the costs of manufacturing and the applicable
          per unit royalty on such units, even if the units do not ultimately
          sell.

               To date, the Company has not experienced any material
          difficulties or delays in the manufacture and assembly of its products
          or material returns due to product defects.

          COMPETITION

               The interactive entertainment industry is intensely competitive
          and is in the process of substantial consolidation.  The availability
          of significant financial resources has become a major competitive
          factor in the industry, primarily as a result of the increasing
          development, acquisition, production and marketing budgets required to
          publish quality titles.  In addition, competitors with large product
          lines and popular titles typically have greater leverage with
          distributors and other customers who may be willing to promote titles
          with less consumer appeal in return for access to such competitor's
          most popular titles.  See "Risk Factors - Industry Competition;
          Competition for Shelf Space."

               The Company seeks to compete by publishing high quality titles
          and by supporting these titles with substantial marketing efforts; by
          focusing on properties with sustainable consumer appeal; by working to
          strengthen its relationships with retailers and other resellers and
          otherwise expanding its channels of distribution; and by pursuing
          opportunities for strategic acquisitions.   See " - Strategy."

          EMPLOYEES

               As of March 31, 1998, the Company had 667 employees, including
          237 in Activision Studios, 65 in Activision External Studios, 58 in 
          North American publishing, 74 in corporate finance, operations and 
          administration, 33 in international publishing, and 200 employed in 
          European distribution activities.

               As of March 31, 1998, 98 of the Company's full-time employees
          were subject to term employment agreements with the Company.  These
          agreements commit such employees to employment terms of between one
          and three years from the commencement of their respective agreements.
          Most of the employees subject to such agreements are senior executives
          of the Company or members of Activision Studios, Activision External
          Studios or the Company's sales or marketing divisions.  Such
          individuals perform services to the Company as executives, directors,
          producers, associate producers, computer programmers, game designers,
          sales directors and marketing product managers.  The execution by the
          Company of employment agreements with such employees, in the Company's
          experience, significantly reduces the Company's turnover during the
          development and production of its entertainment software products and
          allows the Company to plan more effectively for future development
          activities.




               None of the Company's employees are subject to a collective
          bargaining agreement, and the Company has experienced no labor-related
          work stoppages.

          (d)  FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS AND
          EXPORT SALES

               See Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
          Condition and Results of Operations" and Note 8 of Notes to
          Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8.

Item 2.   PROPERTIES

               The Company's principal corporate, administrative, and product
          development offices are located in approximately 98,000 square feet of
          leased space in a building located at 3100 Ocean Park Boulevard, Santa
          Monica, California 90405.  The lease in Santa Monica commenced on May
          1, 1997.  Prior to such date, the Company's principal corporate,
          administrative and product development offices were located in
          approximately 57,000 square feet of leased space located in Los
          Angeles, California.  The following is a listing of the principal
          offices maintained by the Company at June 1, 1998:

          
          

Item 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

               The Company is party to routine claims and suits brought against
          it in the ordinary course of business including disputes arising over
          the ownership of intellectual property rights and  collection matters.
          In the opinion of management, the outcome of such routine claims will
          not have a material adverse effect on the Company's business,
          financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.

Item 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

          Not applicable.




                                       PART II

Item 5.   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

          The Company's Common Stock is quoted on the NASDAQ National Market
     under the symbol "ATVI."

          The following table sets forth for the periods indicated the high and
     low reported closing sale prices for the Company's Common Stock.



          On June 12, 1998, the reported last sales price for the Common Stock
     was $10.13.  As of March 31, 1998, the Company had approximately 5,000
     stockholders of record, excluding banks, brokers and depository companies
     that are the stockholders of record for the account of beneficial owners.

          The Company's wholly owned subsidiary, CentreSoft, paid cash dividends
     of $130,000 during fiscal 1997, and $1.3 million in dividends during 1998.
     All of these dividends were paid by CentreSoft prior to its acquisition by
     the Company.  The Company does not intend to pay any further cash dividends
     at any time in the foreseeable future.  The Company expects that earnings
     will be retained for the continued growth and development of the Company's
     business.  Future dividends, if any, will depend upon the Company's
     earnings, financial condition, cash requirements, future prospects and
     other factors deemed relevant by the Company's Board of Directors.

          During the period from December 11, 1995 to December 14, 1995, the
     Company purchased in open market transactions 500,000 of its shares of
     common stock, at prices ranging from $10.25 to $10.875, aggregating
     approximately $5.3 million.  These purchases were made pursuant to the
     Company's announced share repurchase program.  The company may from time to
     time in the future make additional open market purchases of its common
     stock.

          During the fiscal year ended March 31, 1998, the Company granted
     warrants to purchase 300,000 shares of Common Stock to id Software in
     connection with software license agreements.  150,000 of the warrants have
     an exercise price of $10.38 per share, are immediately exercisable, and
     expire on May 20, 2007.  The remaining 150,000 warrants have an exercise
     price of $10.50, are immediately exercisable, and expire March 31, 2008.

          Neither the warrants, nor the shares of common stock for which they
     are exercisable were registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as
     amended (the "Securities Act"), by reason of Section 4(2) of the Securities
     Act.  The Company's subsequently registered such shares for resale by id
     Software.

          In November 1997, the Company issued a total of 3,068,249 shares of
     Common Stock in connection with the acquisition of CentreSoft and NBG.  The
     shares were not registered under the Securities Act on issuance by reason
     of the exemption under Section 4(2) of the Securities Act.  The Company has
     subsequently registered such shares under the Securities Act for resale by
     the former shareholders of CentreSoft and NBG.




          In December 1997, the Company completed the private placement of $60.0
     million principal amount of 6 3/4% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2005
     (the "Notes").  The Notes are convertible, in whole or in part, at an
     option of the holder at any time after December 22, 1997 (the date of
     original issuance) and prior to the close of business on the business day
     immediately preceding the maturity date, unless previously redeemed or
     repurchased, into common stock, $.000001 par value, of the Company, at a
     conversion price of $18.875 per share, (equivalent to a conversion rate of
     52.9801 shares per $1,000 principal amount of Notes), subject to adjustment
     in certain circumstances.  The Notes are redeemable, in whole or in part,
     at the option of the Company at any time on or after January 10, 2001,
     subject to premiums through December 31, 2003.  Issuance costs totaled 
     $2.1 million.




Item 6.   SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA

          The following table summarizes certain selected consolidated financial
     data, which should be read in conjunction with the Company's Consolidated
     Financial Statements and Notes thereto and with Management's Discussion and
     Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included
     elsewhere herein.  The selected consolidated financial data presented below
     as of and for each of the  fiscal years in the five-year period ended March
     31, 1998 are derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of
     the Company.  The Consolidated Balance Sheets as of March 31, 1998 and 1997
     and the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Statements of Cash Flows
     for each of the fiscal years in the three-year period ended March 31, 1998,
     and the report thereon, are included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.


                        (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)





     (1)  The Company has presented basic and diluted net income (loss) per
          share for all periods in accordance with Statement of Financial
          Accounting Standards No. 128 "Earnings per Share."
     (2)  EBITDA represents income (loss) before interest, income taxes,
          depreciation and amortization.  The Company believes that EBITDA
          provides useful information regarding the Company's ability to service
          its debt; however, EBITDA does not represent cash flow from operations
          as defined by generally accepted accounting principles and should not
          be considered a substitute for net income, as an indicator of the
          Company's operating performance or cash flow, as a measure of
          liquidity.
     (3)  Selected Consolidated Financial Data as of and for the year ended
          March 31, 1997 has been restated to reflect the acquisition of
          CentreSoft.  In addition, weighted average shares outstanding have
          been restated for periods prior to April 1, 1996 to reflect shares
          issued in pooling transactions.  See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated
          Financial Statements.
     (4)  Reflects the Company's 1-for-3 reverse stock split effective October
          20, 1993.  Accordingly, previously reported net income (loss) per
          common share has been retroactively restated.




Item 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     THE FOLLOWING DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS CONTAINS FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
REGARDING FUTURE EVENTS OR THE FUTURE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OF THE COMPANY THAT
INVOLVE CERTAIN RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES DISCUSSED IN THIS CURRENT REPORT ON FORM
10-K  UNDER "FACTORS AFFECTING FUTURE PERFORMANCE."  ACTUAL EVENTS OR THE ACTUAL
FUTURE RESULTS OF THE COMPANY MAY DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM ANY FORWARD LOOKING
STATEMENT DUE TO SUCH RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES.

OVERVIEW

     The Company is a leading international publisher, developer and distributor
of interactive entertainment software.  The Company currently focuses its
publishing, development and distribution efforts on products designed for PCs as
well as the Sony PlayStation and the Nintendo 64 console systems. In selecting
titles for acquisition or development, the Company pursues a combination of
internally and externally developed titles, products based on proven technology
and those based on newer technology, and PC and console products.

     Activision distributes its products worldwide through its direct sales
force and through third party distributors and licensees.  In addition, in
November 1997 the Company acquired CentreSoft and NBG, significantly increasing
its worldwide distribution.  Financial information as of and for the year ended
March 31, 1997 has been restated to reflect the CentreSoft acquisition as a
pooling of interests.

     The Company recognizes revenue from the sale of its products upon 
shipment. Subject to certain limitations, the Company permits customers to 
obtain exchanges and return products within certain specified periods and 
provides price protection on certain unsold merchandise.  Revenue from 
product sales is reflected after deducting the allowance for returns and 
price protection.  With respect to license agreements which provide customers 
the right to multiple copies in exchange for guaranteed amounts, revenue is 
recognized upon delivery of the product master or the first copy.  Per copy 
royalties on sales which exceed the guarantee are recognized as earned.  The 
AICPA's Statement of Position 97-2 ("SOP 97-2"),  "Software Revenue 
Recognition" provides guidance on applying generally accepted accounting 
principles in recognizing revenue on software transactions.  SOP 97-2 will be 
effective for all transactions entered into subsequent to March 31, 1998.  
The Company is currently in compliance with SOP 97-2 requirements.

     Cost of goods sold related to console, PC and OEM net revenues represents
the manufacturing and related costs of computer software and console games.
Manufacturers of the Company's computer software are located worldwide and are
readily available.  Console CDs and cartridges are manufactured by the
respective video game console manufacturers, Sony and Nintendo, who often
require significant lead time to fulfill the Company's orders.  Also included in
cost of goods sold is the royalty expense related to amounts due developers,
product owners and other royalty participants as a result of product sales and
amortization of capitalized software costs.  Various contracts are maintained
with developers, product  owners or other royalty participants which state a
royalty rate, territory and term of agreement, among other items.  Upon a
product's release, prepaid royalties and license fees are charged to cost of
goods sold based on the contractual royalty rate.

     Product development costs are accounted for in accordance with accounting
standards which provide for the capitalization of certain software development
costs once technological feasibility is established.  The capitalized costs are
then amortized to cost of goods sold on a straight-line basis over the estimated
product life or on the ratio of current revenues to total projected revenues,
whichever amortization amount is greater.

     For products that have been released, management evaluates the future
recoverability of prepaid royalties and capitalized software costs on a
quarterly basis.  Prior to a product's release, the Company expenses, as part of
product development costs, capitalized costs when, in management's estimate,
such amounts are not recoverable.  Management primarily uses the following
criteria in evaluating recoverability:  historical performance of comparable
products; the commercial acceptance of prior products released on a given game
engine; estimated performance of a sequel product based on the performance of
the product on which the sequel is based; and actual development costs of a
product as compared to the Company's budgeted amount.

     As a result of the acquisition of CentreSoft by CentreSoft's management in
June 1996 and the commencement of CentreSoft's operations at that time, results
of operations for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1997 versus the fiscal year
ended March 31, 1996 are not indicative of the comparative results for the 
Company combined with CentreSoft for the two periods.




     The following table sets forth certain consolidated statements of
operations data for the periods indicated as a percentage of total net revenues
and also breaks down net revenues by territory, platform and channel:


 




RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - FISCAL YEARS ENDED MARCH 31, 1997 AND 1998

NET REVENUES

     Net revenues for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1998 increased  68.1% from
$154.6 million to $259.9 million from the same period last year. This increase
was attributable to a 34.3% increase in net revenues in North America from $64.2
million to $86.2 million, a 99.5% increase in net revenues in Europe from $80.4
million to $160.4 million, and a  40.4% increase in net revenues in the
Australia and Pacific Rim territory from $4.7 million to $6.6 million.

     Console net revenues increased 82.2% over the prior year to $103.7 million
as a result of the initial release of PITFALL 3D (PlayStation), NIGHTMARE
CREATURES (PlayStation) and CAR & DRIVER'S GRAND TOUR RACING (PlayStation) as
well as an increase in console related distribution net revenues. PC net 
revenues increased by 59.9% over the prior year to $156.2 million primarily as a
result of the initial release of QUAKE II (Windows 95), DARK REIGN: THE FUTURE 
OF WAR (Windows 95), HEXEN II (Windows 95), BATTLEZONE (Windows 95) and HEAVY 
GEAR (Windows 95). North America, Europe and Australia net revenues increased as
a result of the increase in PC and console revenues.  Net OEM, licensing, 
on-line and other revenues increased 14.3% over the prior year to $24.0 million.
The increase was due to an increase in the number of titles made available to 
OEMS, including 3-D versions of various products.

     Net revenues also increased over the prior fiscal year due to the fact that
CentreSoft, which began operations in June 1996, contributed only 10 months of
revenue for the year ended March 31, 1997, as opposed to twelve months for the
year ended March 31, 1998.

COST OF GOODS SOLD;  GROSS PROFIT

     Gross profit as a percentage of net revenues decreased to 37.2% for the 
fiscal year ended March 31, 1998, from 43.7% for fiscal 1997. The decrease in 
gross profit as a percentage of net revenues is due to the increase in net 
revenues derived from distribution arrangements as opposed to publishing 
arrangements, the increase in the sales mix of console net revenues versus PC 
net revenues and the increase in the number of externally developed versus 
internally developed products.  Future determinations of gross profit as a 
percentage of net revenues will be driven primarily by the mix of new PC and 
console products released by the Company during the applicable period, the 
mix of revenues related to publishing arrangements versus distribution 
arrangements during the applicable period, as well as the mix of internally 
versus externally developed product releases during the applicable period, 
the latter in each case resulting in lower gross profit margins.

OPERATING EXPENSES

     Product development expenses for the year ended March 31, 1998 increased 
56.0% from the same period last year from $18.2 million to $28.4 million.  As 
a percentage of net revenue, product development expenses decreased from 
11.8% to 10.9%.  The increase in product development expenses was due to the 
increased number of new products in development  and the increased costs 
associated with the enhanced content and new technologies incorporated into 
such products.  In addition, product development expenses as a percentage of 
net revenues decreased primarily as a result of an increase in net revenues 
from distribution arrangements.

     Sales and marketing expenses for the year ended March 31, 1998 increased
66.2% from the same period last year, from $26.3 million to $43.7 million. As a
percentage of net revenues, sales and marketing expenses decreased from 17.0% to
16.8%.  The increase in sales and marketing expenses was due to increased
marketing and promotional activities necessary to release new titles in an
increasingly competitive environment and the Company's expansion of its European
and Japanese sales and marketing infrastructures.

     General and administrative expenses for the year ended March 31, 1998
increased 49.4% from the same period last year, from $7.7 million to $11.5
million.  These expenses decreased as a percentage of net revenue from 5.0% to
4.4%. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to
an increase in worldwide administrative support needs and headcount related
expenses.

     Merger expenses of $1.4 million were incurred during the year ended March
31, 1998 in connection with  the Company's acquisitions.  See Note 2 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.



OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)

     Net interest expense was $694,000 for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1998,
compared to net interest income of $233,000 for the same period last year.  The
decrease was primarily as a result of lower average cash and cash equivalent
balances and the issuance of the convertible subordinated notes in December
1997.  See "Liquidity and Capital Resources."




PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES

     The Company's effective tax rate was 38.2% for the fiscal year ended March
31, 1998 as compared to 34.3% for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1997.  The
increase was primarily attributable to the territorial mix of taxable income
as well as the tax effect of non-deductible merger expenses.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - FISCAL YEARS ENDED MARCH 31, 1996 AND 1997

NET REVENUES

     Net revenues for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1997 increased 151.8% from
$61.4 million to $154.6 million from the same period last year.  This increase
was attributable to a 36.6% increase in net revenues in North America from $47.0
million to $64.2 million, an 1,136.9% increase in net revenues in Europe from
$6.5 million to $80.4 million and a 62.1% increase in net revenues in the
Australia and Pacific Rim territory from $2.9 million to $4.7 million.  The
increase in net revenues in Europe was attributable to the CentreSoft
acquisition; CentreSoft began operations in June 1996 and, therefore, results of
operations and net revenues for fiscal 1996, which are not effected by the
CentreSoft acquisition, are not indicative of comparable results for fiscal
1997.

     Console net revenues increased 1,015.7% over the prior year to  $56.9
million as a result of the CentreSoft acquisition and the initial release of
BLOOD OMEN: LEGACY OF KAIN (PlayStation), MECHWARRIOR 2 (PlayStation and
Saturn), POWER MOVE PRO WRESTLING (PlayStation) and TIME COMMANDO (PlayStation).
PC net revenues increased by 73.8% over the prior year to $97.7 million
primarily as a result of the initial release of MECHWARRIOR 2: MERCENARIES
(Windows 95), INTERSTATE '76 (Windows 95), TIME COMMANDO (Windows 95), QUAKE
MISSION PACK NO. 1: SCOURGE OF ARMAGON (MS-DOS/Windows 95), QUAKE MISSION PACK
NO. 2: DISSOLUTION OF ETERNITY (MS-DOS/Windows 95) and continued sales of
MECHWARRIOR 2 (Windows 95/Macintosh) and the CentreSoft acquisition. North
America, Europe and Australia net revenues increased as a result of the
increases in PC and console revenues.

     OEM net revenues increased 29.9% over the prior year to $13.9 million
primarily due to revenues related to enhanced 3-D versions of MECHWARRIOR 2
(Windows 95) and MECHWARRIOR 2: MERCENARIES (Windows 95/D3D).  OEM net revenues
also included net revenues from INTERSTATE '76 (Windows 95), TIME COMMANDO
(Windows 95) and DVD versions of SPYCRAFT (Windows 95) and MUPPET TREASURE
ISLAND (Windows 95).

COST OF GOODS SOLD; GROSS PROFIT

     Gross profit as a percentage of net revenues decreased to 43.7% for the
fiscal year ended March 31, 1997, from 64.6% for fiscal 1996. The decrease in
gross profit as a percentage of net revenues is due to the increase in the sales
mix of console net revenues versus PC net revenues and the increase in net
revenues from distribution arrangements as opposed to publishing arrangements
which resulted from the CentreSoft acquisition. Future determination of gross
profit as a percentage of net revenues will be driven primarily by the mix of
new PC and console products released  by the Company during the applicable
period, the mix of revenues related to publishing arrangements versus
distribution arrangements during the applicable period, as well as the mix of
internal versus external product development, the latter in each case resulting
in lower gross profit margins.

OPERATING EXPENSES

     Product development expenses for the year ended March 31, 1997 increased
4.0% from the same period last year from $17.5 million to $18.2 million.  As a
percentage of revenues, product development expenses decreased from 28.5% to
11.8%.  The increase in product development expenses was due to the increased
number of new products in development and the increased costs associated with
the enhanced content and new technologies incorporated into such products.  The
impact of these increases, however, was partially offset by a decrease in the
number of products in development that contain live action video, which
generally have higher production costs.  Operating expenses as a percentage of
net revenues decreased due in part to the change in mix of internally developed
and externally developed products.  The costs of internal product development
generally are expensed as incurred prior to the product's release and therefore
are reflected in operating expenses; the costs of acquired products in the form
of advances against royalties generally are amortized against product unit sales
or revenues following the release of the product and are identified as royalty
expenses and are included in the cost of goods sold.  During the 1997 fiscal
year, products developed internally by Activision accounted for a smaller
portion of the overall number of new products released by the Company as
compared to the 1996 fiscal year.

     Sales and marketing expenses for year ended March 31, 1997 increased 89.2%
from the same period last year, from $13.9 million to $26.3 million from the
same period last year and decreased as a percentage of net revenues from 22.7%
to 17.0%.  The increase in sales and marketing expenses was due to increased
marketing expenses and promotional activities necessary to release new titles in
an increasingly competitive environment and the Company's expansion of its
European and Japanese sales and marketing infrastructures. The decrease in sales
and marketing as a percentage of net revenues was the result of the CentreSoft
acquisition, whereby distributed products have less associated sales and
marketing expenses than published products.




     General and administrative expenses for the year ended March 31, 1997
increased 75.0% from the same period last year, from $4.4 million to $7.7
million.  These expenses decreased as a percentage of net revenues from 7.2% to
5.0%.  The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to
the CentreSoft acquisition.

OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)

     Interest income, net decreased to $233,000 for the fiscal year ended March
31, 1997, from $1,707,000 for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1996, as a result
of  interest expense incurred on CentreSoft debt prior to its acquisition by the
Company, as well as the result of lower average cash and cash equivalent
balances.

PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES

     The Company's effective tax rate was 34.3% for the fiscal year ended March
31, 1997.  During the fiscal year ended March 31, 1996, the Company recognized a
tax benefit of $1.5 million due to a reduction in the Company's deferred tax
asset valuation allowance. The reduction reflected the remaining portion of the
Company's net operating loss carryforwards, the benefit from which could be
recognized in the Company's provision for income taxes.  During the fiscal year
ended March 31, 1997, the Company recognized an additional $6.6 million
reduction to the Company's deferred tax asset valuation allowance, relating to
net operating loss carryforwards arising prior to the Company's reorganization,
which were credited to additional paid-in capital in shareholders' equity and
did not affect net income. The reductions in the valuation allowance during the
years ended March 31, 1997 and 1996 resulted principally from the Company's
assessment of the realizability of its deferred tax assets, based on recent
operating history, as well as an assessment that operations will continue to
generate taxable income.  Realization of the deferred tax assets depends on the
continued generation of sufficient taxable income prior to expiration of tax
credits and loss carryforwards.  Although realization is not assured, management
believes it is more likely than not that the deferred tax asset of $5.7 million
will be realized.  The amount of deferred tax assets considered realizable,
however, could be reduced in the future if estimates of future taxable income
during the carryforward period are reduced.

QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS

     The Company's quarterly operating results have in the past varied
significantly and will likely vary significantly in the future, depending on
numerous factors, several of which are not under the Company's control.  See
Item 1. Business - "Certain Cautionary Information."  Accordingly, the Company
believes that period-to-period comparisons of its operating results are not
necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future
performance.

The following table is a comparative breakdown of the Company's quarterly
results for the immediately preceding eight quarters (amounts in thousands,
except per share data):


 
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     The Company's cash and cash equivalents increased $52.0 million from $21.4
million at March 31, 1997 to $73.4 million at March 31, 1998.  Approximately
$1.4 million in cash and cash equivalents was used in operating activities
during the year ended March 31,1998.  Such operating uses of cash are primarily
the result of increases in accounts receivable, inventories and prepaid 
royalties and capitalized software costs.  Such increases are offset partially 
by increases in accounts payable and accrued liabilities.

     In addition, approximately $9.2 million in cash and cash equivalents were
used in investing activities.  Capital expenditures totaled approximately $8.3
million, which were primarily composed of costs relating to the Company moving
its Los Angeles office to a new facility in Santa Monica, California.

     Sources of cash from financing activities totaled $62.4 million for the
year ended March 31, 1998 which included $4.8 million in proceeds from exercise
of employee stock options.  In addition, on December 22, 1997, the Company
completed a private placement of $60 million in convertible subordinated notes
("Convertible Notes").  The Convertible Notes have a 6.75% coupon, are due in
January 2005 and are convertible, at any time prior to maturity, into




shares of the Company's Common Stock at $18.875 per share.  Net proceeds from
the issuance of the Convertible Notes was approximately $57.9 million. The
Company intends to use such net proceeds to fund product development, to acquire
third party publishing and distribution rights, to expand the Company's direct
sales and marketing capabilities and for general corporate purposes.  In
addition, the Company may, when and if the opportunity arises, use an
unspecified portion of the net proceeds to acquire businesses, products or
technologies that it believes are of strategic importance.  Pending such uses,
the Company intends to invest the net proceeds in short-term money market and
other market rate, investment-grade instruments.

     The Company has a $10 million revolving credit and letter of credit
facility (the "Facility") with its bank (the "Bank").  The Facility provides the
Company the ability to borrow funds and issue letters of credit against eligible
domestic accounts receivable up to $10 million.  The Facility expires in
September 1998.  In addition, the Company has a $2 million line of credit
agreement (the "Asset Line") with the Bank; drawings under the Asset Line are
structured with 36 month repayment terms and the Asset Line of credit expires in
September 1998.  Borrowings under the Asset Line totaled $1.4 million as of
March 31,1998 with an effective borrowing rate of 8.3%.

     In Europe, the Company has a revolving credit facility (the "Europe
Facility") with its bank for approximately $8.5 million.  The Europe Facility
can be used for working capital requirements,  and expires in June 2000. The
Company had no borrowings under the Europe Facility as of March 31, 1998.

     The Company will use its working capital ($120.5 million at March 31, 1998)
to finance ongoing operations, including acquisitions of inventory and
equipment, to fund the development, production, marketing and selling of new
products, and to obtain intellectual property rights for future products from
third parties.  Management believes that the Company's existing cash and cash
equivalents, together with the proceeds available from the Facility, Asset Line
and the Europe Facility, will be sufficient to meet the Company's operational
requirements for at least the next twelve months.

     The Company's management currently believes that inflation has not had a
material impact on continuing operations.

     Like many other software companies, the year 2000 computer issue creates
risk for the Company.  If internal systems do not correctly recognize date
information when the year changes to 2000, there could be an adverse impact on
the Company's operations.  The Company has initiated a comprehensive plan to
prepare its computer systems for the year 2000 and is currently implementing
changes to alleviate any year 2000 incapability.  The Company is also contacting
critical suppliers of products and service to determine that the supplier's
operations and the products and services they provide are year 2000 capable.
There can be no assurance that another company's failure to ensure year 2000
capability would not have an adverse effect on the Company.  Costs associated
with this issue are not expected to be material.

RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

     Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 128, "Earnings per
Share," is effective for financial statements issued for periods ended after
December 15, 1997.  SFAS No. 128 replaces Accounting Principles Board Opinion
("APB") No. 15 and simplifies the computation of earnings per share ("EPS") by
replacing the presentation of primary EPS with a presentation of basic EPS.
Basic EPS includes no dilution and is computed by dividing income available to
common stockholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding
for the period.  Diluted EPS reflects the potential dilution from securities
that could share in the earnings of the Company, similar to fully diluted EPS
under APB No. 15.  The Statement requires dual presentation of basic and diluted
EPS by entities with complex capital structures.  The Company adopted SFAS No.
128 for the financial statements for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1998 and
has presented Basic EPS and Diluted EPS for all periods presented.

     SFAS No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income," is effective for fiscal
years beginning after December 15, 1997.  SFAS No. 130 established standards for
the reporting and display of comprehensive income and its components (revenues,
expenses, gains and losses) in a full set of general-purpose financial
statements.  The Statement requires that all items that are required to be
recognized under accounting standards as components of comprehensive income be
reported in a financial statement that is displayed with the same prominence as
other financial statements.  The Company will adopt SFAS No. 130 effective April
1, 1998.

     SFAS No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
Information" is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1997.
SFAS No. 131 establishes standards for the way that public business enterprises
report financial and descriptive information about reportable operating segments
in annual financial statements and interim financial reports issued to
stockholders.  SFAS No. 131 supersedes SFAS No. 14, "Financial Reporting for
Segments of a Business Enterprise," but retains the requirement to report
information about major customers.  The Company will adopt SFAS No. 131
effective April 1, 1998.

     The AICPA recently issued Statement of Position 97-2, "Software Revenue
Recognition," (SOP 97-2) effective for transactions entered into in fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 1997.  The Company will adopt




SOP 97-2 for transactions occurring on or after April 1, 1998.  The Company is
in compliance with the provisions thereof.

Item 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

     The Company transacts business in many different foreign currencies and may
be exposed to financial market risk resulting  from fluctuations in foreign
currency exchange rates, particularly the British Pound sterling.  However, due
to the long-term stability of the pound, the Company has deemed it unnecessary
to hedge against foreign currency devaluation at the present time.  The
volatility of the Pound (and all other applicable currencies) will be monitored
frequently throughout the coming year and the Company may require the use of
hedging programs, currency forward contracts, currency options and/or other
derivative financial instruments commonly utilized to reduce financial market
risks.












Item 8.   CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA


          All other schedules of the Registrant are omitted because of the
          absence of conditions under which they are required or because the
          required information is included elsewhere in the financial statements
          or in the notes thereto.

Item 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
          FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

                The Company replaced Coopers & Lybrand, LLP ("Coopers &
          Lybrand") as its principal accountants, effective January 17, 1997.
          The action was recommended by the Audit Committee of the Board of
          Directors and was approved by the Company's Board of Directors.
          Coopers & Lybrand's reports on the Company's financial statements for
          the fiscal years ended March 31, 1996 and 1995 did not contain an
          adverse opinion or a disclaimer of opinion and were not qualified or
          modified as to uncertainty, audit scope or accounting principles.
          During the two fiscal years ended March 31, 1996 and 1995 and all
          interim periods through January 17, 1997, (i) there were no
          disagreements with Coopers & Lybrand on any matter of accounting
          principles or practices, financial statement disclosure, or auditing
          scope or procedure, which disagreements, if not resolved to the
          satisfaction of Coopers & Lybrand, would have caused Coopers & Lybrand
          to make a reference to the subject matter of the disagreements in
          connection with its reports in the financial statements for such
          years, and (ii) there were no reportable events as described in Item
          304 of Regulation S-K.

                The Company engaged KPMG Peat Marwick, LLP ("Peat Marwick") as
          the Company's principal accountants to audit the Company's financial
          statements, effective January 17, 1997.  The action was recommended by
          the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors and was approved by the
          Company's Board of Directors.





                                       PART III

Item 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

          The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to
          the sections of the Company's definitive Proxy Statement for its 1998
          Annual Meeting of Shareholders, entitled "Election of Directors" and
          "Executive Officers and Key Employees" to be filed with the Securities
          and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal
          year covered by this Form 10-K.

Item 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

          The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to
          the sections of the Company's definitive Proxy Statement for its 1998
          Annual Meeting of Shareholders, entitled "Executive Compensation" and
          "Indebtedness of Management" to be filed with the Securities and
          Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year
          covered by this Form 10-K.

Item 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

          The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to
          the sections of the Company's definitive Proxy Statement for its 1998
          Annual Meeting of Shareholders, entitled "Security Ownership of
          Certain Beneficial Owners and Management" to be filed with the
          Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of
          the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K.

Item 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

          The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to
          the sections of the Company's definitive Proxy Statement for its 1998
          Annual Meeting of Shareholders, entitled "Certain Relationships and
          Related Transactions" to be filed with the Securities and Exchange
          Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by
          this Form 10-K.










                                       PART IV

     Item 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K


          (a)  1.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  See Item 8. - Consolidated
                    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Index for
                    Financial Statements and Schedule on page 25 herein.

               2.   FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE  The following financial
                    statement schedule of Activision, Inc. for the years ended
                    March 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996 is filed as part of this
                    report and should be read in conjunction with the
                    Consolidated Financial Statements of Activision, Inc.
                         Schedule II -- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and
                    Reserves Other financial statement schedules are omitted
                    because the information called for is not required or is
                    shown either in the Consolidated Financial Statements or the
                    notes thereto.

               3.   EXHIBITS REQUIRED BY ITEM 601 OF REGULATION S-K



     (b)  REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.  The following reports on Form 8-K have been
          filed by the Company during the last quarter of the fiscal year ended
          March 31, 1998:

                    1.   Form 8-K dated January 6, 1998, containing items 5 and
                         7.




                                     SIGNATURES


Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date: June 15, 1998

ACTIVISION, INC.


By:     /s/  ROBERT A. KOTICK
   ---------------------------------
         (Robert A. Kotick)
              Chairman


     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


 



                             INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT



The Board of Directors and Shareholders:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of ACTIVISION, 
INC. and subsidiaries as of March 31, 1998 and 1997 and the related 
consolidated statements of operations, changes in shareholders' equity and 
cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended March 31, 
1998.  In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, 
we also have audited financial statement schedule II for each of the years in 
the three-year period ended March 31, 1998. These consolidated financial 
statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the 
Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these 
consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule based on 
our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above 
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position 
of ACTIVISION, INC. and subsidiaries as of March 31, 1998 and 1997, and the 
results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the 
years in the three-year period ended March 31, 1998, in conformity with 
generally accepted accounting principles.  Also in our opinion, the 
related financial statement schedule for each of the years in the three-year 
period ended March 31, 1998, when considered in relation to the basic 
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all 
material respects, the information set forth therein.

KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP


Los Angeles, California
May 12, 1998


                                         F-1


PART I.  FINANCIAL INFORMATION.
Item I.  Financial Statements.

                         ACTIVISION, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                            CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

                          (In thousands except share data)

 

                 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
                          consolidated financial statements.


                                         F-2


                          ACTIVISION, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                         (in thousands except per share data)


 


                 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
                          consolidated financial statements.


                                         F-3


                          ACTIVISION, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

                                    (in thousands)



















                                         F-4


                          ACTIVISION, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

                                    (in thousands)


 


                 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
                          consolidated financial statements.


                                         F-5


                          ACTIVISION, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     1.   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

          BUSINESS

          The Company is a leading international publisher, developer and
          distributor of interactive entertainment software.  The Company
          currently focuses its publishing and development efforts on products
          designed for personal computers ("PCs") as well as the Sony
          PlayStation and Nintendo 64 console systems.  In selecting titles for
          acquisition or development, the Company currently pursues a
          combination of internally and externally developed titles, products
          based on proven technology and those based on new technology, and PC
          and console products.

          The Company distributes its products worldwide primarily through its
          direct sales force, its distribution subsidiaries in Europe, and to a
          lesser extent, through third party distributors and licensees.

          PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION

          The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
          Activision, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its wholly-owned
          subsidiaries (the "Company").  All intercompany accounts and
          transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

          BASIS OF PRESENTATION

          These consolidated financial statements reflect the pooling of
          interests of the Company with Combined Distribution (Holdings) Limited
          ("CentreSoft") from June 28, 1996 (the inception of CentreSoft) (see
          Note 2 "Acquisitions").  As further described in Note 2, certain
          acquisitions (which occurred after March 31, 1997) have not been
          retroactively reflected in the historical financial statements of the
          Company for years ending on or before March 31, 1997, except for
          weighted averages shares outstanding and earnings per share data, as
          the impact would be immaterial.

          CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

          Cash and cash equivalents include cash and short-term investments with
          original maturities of not more than 90 days.

          CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK

          Financial instruments which potentially subject the Company to
          concentration of credit risk consist principally of temporary cash
          investments and accounts receivable.  The Company places its temporary
          cash investments with financial institutions.  At various
          times during the fiscal years ended March 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, the
          Company had deposits in excess of the $100,000 Federal Deposit
          Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") limit at these financial institutions.
          At March 31, 1998, the Company had approximately $48.3 million
          invested in short-term commercial paper and short-term United States
          government backed securities.  The Company's customer base includes
          retail outlets and distributors including consumer electronics and
          computer specialty stores, discount chains, video rental stores and
          toy stores in the United States and countries worldwide.  The Company
          performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers and maintains
          allowances for potential credit losses.  The Company generally does
          not require collateral or other security from its customers.

          FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

          The fair values of the Company's cash and cash equivalents, accounts
          receivable, accounts payable, and accrued liabilities approximate
          their carrying values due to the relatively short maturities of these
          instruments. Trade receivables are primarily due from retailers and
          original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs").

          PREPAID ROYALTIES AND CAPITALIZED SOFTWARE COSTS

          Prepaid royalties primarily represent payments made to independent 
          software developers under development agreements.  Also included in 
          prepaid royalties are license fees paid to intellectual property 
          rights holders for use of their trademarks or copyrights. 
          Intellectual property rights which have alternative future uses are 
          capitalized. Capitalized software costs represent costs incurred for 
          development that are not recoupable against future royalties.


          The Company accounts for prepaid royalties relating to development 
          agreements and capitalized software costs in accordance with 
          Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 86, "Accounting for 
          the Costs of Computer Software to be Sold, Leased, or Otherwise 
          Marketed," (SFAS No. 86).  In accordance with SFAS No. 86, the 
          Company capitalizes software development costs and prepaid 
          royalties once technological feasibility is established. Prior to 
          the capitalization of any amounts, the Company evaluates 
          recoverability based on the criteria discussed below.  Amounts 
          related

                                         F-6


          to product development which are not capitalized are charged to
          product development expense.  The Company evaluates technological
          feasibility on a product by product basis. For products where proven 
          game engine technology exists, this may occur early in the development
          cycle.

          Capitalized software development costs are amortized to cost of goods
          sold on a straight-line basis over the estimated product life
          (generally one year or less) commencing upon product release, or on
          the ratio of current revenues to total projected revenues, whichever
          amortization amount is greater.  Prepaid royalties are expensed to
          cost of goods sold at the contractual royalty rate based on actual net
          product sales, or on the ratio of current revenues to total projected
          revenues, whichever amortization amount is greater.

          For products that have been released, management evaluates the future
          recoverability of capitalized amounts on a quarterly basis.  Prior to
          a product's release, the Company expenses, as part of product
          development costs, capitalized costs when, in management's estimate,
          such amounts are not recoverable.  Management primarily uses the
          following criteria in evaluating recoverability:  historical
          performance of comparable products; the commercial acceptance of prior
          products released on a given game engine; estimated performance of a
          sequel product based on the performance of the product on which the
          sequel is based; and actual development costs of a product as compared
          to the Company's budgeted amount.

          As of March 31, 1998, prepaid royalties and unamortized capitalized
          software costs totaled $10,730,000 and $1,714,000, respectively. As of
          March 31, 1997, prepaid royalties and unamortized capitalized software
          costs totaled $6,230,000 and $329,000, respectively.  Amortization of
          prepaid royalties and capitalized software costs was $24,944,000,
          $9,057,000 and $3,451,000 for the years ended March 31, 1998, 1997 and
          1996, respectively.  Write-offs of prepaid royalties and capitalized
          software costs prior to product release were $363,000, $588,000 and
          $816,000 for the years ended March 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996,
          respectively.

          INVENTORIES

          Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or
          market.

          REVENUE RECOGNITION

          Product Sales:  The Company recognizes revenue from the sale of its
          products upon shipment.  Subject to certain limitations, the Company
          permits customers to obtain exchanges or return products within
          certain specified periods, and provides price protection on certain
          unsold merchandise.  Revenue from product sales is reflected net of
          the allowance for returns and price protection.

          Software Licenses:  For those license agreements which provide the
          customers the right to multiple copies in exchange for guaranteed
          amounts, revenue is recognized at delivery of the product master or
          the first copy.  Per copy royalties on sales which exceed the
          guarantee are recognized as earned.

          The AICPA's Statement of Position 97-2 "Software Revenue Recognition"
          (SOP 97-2) will be effective for all transactions entered into 
          subsequent to March 31, 1998.  The Company does not believe the 
          adoption of SOP 97-2 will have a material impact on its financial 
          position, results of operations or liquidity.

          ADVERTISING EXPENSES

          The Company expenses advertising and the related costs as incurred.
          Advertising expenses for the years ended March 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996
          were approximately $6,336,000, $3,285,000 and $1,940,000,
          respectively, and are included in sales and marketing expense in the
          consolidated statements of operations.

          EXCESS PURCHASE PRICE OVER IDENTIFIABLE ASSETS ACQUIRED, NET

          The excess cost over net assets acquired is being amortized on a
          straight-line basis over a 20 year period.  As of March 31, 1998 and
          1997, accumulated amortization amounted to $7,904,000 and $6,342,000,
          respectively.  The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 121,
          "Accounting for Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Long-Lived Assets
          to Be Disposed Of," on April 1, 1996.  This Statement requires that
          long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangibles be reviewed for
          impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that
          the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability
          of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the
          carrying amount of the asset to undiscounted cash flows expected  to
          be generated by the asset.  If such assets are considered to be
          impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by
          which the carrying amount exceeds the fair value of the assets.
          Adoption of this Statement did not have a material impact on the
          Company's financial position, results of operations, or liquidity.



                                         F-7


          OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)

          Other income (expense), net is comprised of:



          INCOME TAXES

          The Company accounts for income taxes using Statement of Financial
          Accounting Standards No. 109 (SFAS No. 109), "Accounting for Income
          Taxes."  Under SFAS No. 109, income taxes are accounted for under the
          asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
          recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences
          between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets
          and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and
          tax credit carryforwards.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
          measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income
          in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be
          recovered or settled.  The effect on deferred tax assets and
          liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the
          period that includes the enactment date.

          FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION

          The Company's foreign subsidiaries maintain their accounting records
          in their local currency.  The currencies are then converted to United
          States dollars and the effect of the foreign currency translation is
          reflected as a component of shareholders' equity in accordance with
          Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 52, "Foreign Currency
          Translation."

          NET INCOME PER COMMON SHARE

          Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 128,
          "Earnings per Share," is effective for financial statements issued for
          periods ending after December 15, 1997.  SFAS No. 128 replaces
          Accounting Principles Board Opinion ("APB") No. 15 and simplifies the
          computation of earnings per share ("EPS") by replacing the
          presentation of primary EPS with a presentation of basic EPS.  Basic
          EPS includes no dilution and is computed by dividing income available
          to common stockholders by the weighted-average number of common shares
          outstanding for the period.  Diluted EPS reflects the potential
          dilution from securities that could share in the earnings of the
          Company, similar to fully diluted EPS under APB No. 15.  The Statement
          requires dual presentation of basic and diluted EPS by entities with
          complex capital structures.  The Company adopted SFAS No. 128 for the
          consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 1998
          and in accordance with SFAS No. 128, all prior periods have been
          restated to adopt this standard. See Note 9 - "Computation of Net
          Income Per Share."

          ESTIMATES

          The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
          accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates
          and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
          liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported
          amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.  Actual
          results could differ from those estimates.

          STOCK BASED COMPENSATION

          Prior to April 1, 1996, the Company accounted for its stock option
          plan in accordance with the provisions of Accounting Principles Board
          ("APB") Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and
          related interpretations.  As such, compensation expense would be
          recorded on the date of the grant only if the current market price of
          the underlying stock exceeded the exercise price.  On April 1, 1996
          the Company adopted SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based
          Compensation, which permits entities to recognize as expense over the
          vesting period  the fair value of all stock-based awards on the date
          of the grant.  Alternatively, SFAS No. 123 also allows entities to
          continue to apply the provisions of APB Opinion No. 25 and provide pro
          forma net income and pro forma earnings per share disclosures for
          employee stock option grants made in 1995 and future years as if the
          fair-value-based method defined in SFAS No. 123 had been applied.  The
          Company has elected to continue to apply the provisions of APB No. 25
          and provide the pro forma disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 123.


                                         F-8


          RECLASSIFICATIONS

          Certain amounts in the consolidated financial statements have been
          reclassified to conform with the current year's presentation.

     2.   ACQUISITIONS

          ACQUISITION OF CENTRESOFT AND NBG

          On November 26, 1997, the Company completed its acquisition of
          CentreSoft by the issuance of 2,787,043 shares of the Company's common
          stock in exchange for all the outstanding Ordinary Shares, "A"
          Ordinary Shares, "B" Ordinary Shares, redeemable preferred stock,
          convertible preferred stock and secured loan stock debentures of
          CentreSoft.  In addition, the Company issued options to acquire 50,325
          shares of the Company's common stock which were in exchange for
          outstanding CentreSoft stock options.  The acquisition of CentreSoft
          was accounted for in accordance with the pooling of interests method
          of accounting and, accordingly, the accompanying consolidated
          financial statements have been retroactively adjusted as if CentreSoft
          and the Company had operated as one since June 28, 1996 (inception of
          CentreSoft).

          CentreSoft previously used the fiscal year ended April 30 for its
          financial reporting.  Accordingly, the consolidated balance sheet as
          of March 31, 1997 contained herein includes the financial position of
          CentreSoft as of April 30, 1997, and the consolidated statement of 
          operations for the year ended March 31, 1997 contained herein include 
          the results of operations of CentreSoft for the period from June 28, 
          1996 (inception) to April 30, 1997.  The month ended April 30, 1997 is
          also included in the results of operations for the year ended 
          March 31, 1998 and for the year ended March 31, 1997.   CentreSoft's
          net revenues and net loss for the month ended April 30, 1997 were
          approximately $8.0 million and $639,000, respectively.

          Also on November 26, 1997, the Company completed its acquisition of
          NBG EDV Handels und Verlags GmbH ("NBG") by the issuance of 281,206
          shares of the Company's common stock in exchange for all outstanding
          common stock of NBG.  An additional 11,117 shares of common stock were
          issued in exchange for all the outstanding capital stock of NBG USA,
          Inc.  In addition, as part of the transaction, the Company acquired
          the real property (including land and buildings) used by NBG that was
          owned by the two equity owners of NBG, in exchange for assumption of
          certain debt secured by a mortgage on the property.  The transaction
          was accounted for as an immaterial pooling; accordingly, the Company's
          operating results were not restated for periods prior to October 1,
          1997 and the assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at
          their historical values.  However, weighted average shares outstanding
          and earnings per share data were retroactively restated for the effect
          of the NBG acquisition for all periods presented.

          All costs related to the acquisitions of CentreSoft and NBG have been
          reflected in the Company's consolidated financial statements for the
          period ended March 31, 1998.  Such non-recurring costs were
          approximately $1.4 million and were comprised primarily of consulting,
          legal and accounting costs.

          ACQUISITION OF TAKE US! MARKETING GMBH

          On June 13, 1997, the Company completed its acquisition of  Take Us!
          Marketing GmbH ("Take Us!") in exchange for $246,000 in cash and
          10,000 shares of the Company's common stock with a value of $136,000.
          The acquisition of Take Us! was accounted for by the purchase method
          of accounting.  The purchase price of $382,000 exceeded the fair value
          of net assets acquired of $151,000 resulting in an intangible asset of
          approximately $231,000.

          ACQUISITION OF RAVEN SOFTWARE CORPORATION

          On August 26, 1997, the Company completed its acquisition of Raven
          Software Corporation ("Raven") in exchange for 1,040,000 shares of the
          Company's common stock.  This transaction was accounted for as an
          immaterial pooling; accordingly, periods prior to April 1, 1997 were
          not restated retroactively for this transaction.  However, weighted
          average shares outstanding and earnings per share data were
          retroactively restated for the affect of the Raven acquisition for all
          periods presented.

     3.   PRIVATE PLACEMENT OF CONVERTIBLE SUBORDINATED NOTES

          In December 1997, the Company completed the private placement of $60.0
          million principal amount of 6 3/4% convertible subordinated notes due
          2005 (the "Notes").  The Notes are convertible, in whole or in part,
          at the option of the holder at any time after December 22, 1997 (the
          date of original issuance) and prior to the close of business on the
          business day immediately preceding the maturity date, unless
          previously redeemed or


                                         F-9


          repurchased, into common stock, $.000001 par value, of the Company, at
          a conversion price of $18.875 per share, (equivalent to a conversion
          rate of 52.9801 shares per $1,000 principal amount of Notes), subject
          to adjustment in certain circumstances.  The Notes are redeemable, in
          whole or in part, at the option of the Company at any time on or after
          January 10, 2001, subject to premiums through December 31, 2003.
          Issuance costs totaled $2.1 million.

     4.   MANAGEMENT BUYOUT OF CENTRESOFT

          On June 28, 1996 CentreSoft's management completed a buyout of
          CentreSoft ("Management Buyout").  In the Management Buyout,
          CentreSoft acquired all the outstanding ordinary shares of CentreSoft
          Limited ("CentreSoft") for approximately $7,428,000 in cash from
          Centregold plc, a subsidiary of Eidos plc ("Eidos").  The acquisition
          agreement provided for a contingent payment of a maximum of
          approximately $812,000 to Eidos if CentreSoft is later sold at above a
          certain price, resulting in a total purchase price of approximately
          $8,240,000.  This contingent payment has been recorded by the Company
          as a result of the Company's subsequent acquisition of CentreSoft in
          November 1997. The Management Buyout was accounted for by the purchase
          method of accounting.   The excess of the purchase price over the
          estimated fair values of the net assets acquired was recorded as an
          intangible asset in the amount of  $6,486,000.  This intangible asset
          is being amortized on a straight-line basis over a 20 year period.
          Amortization was approximately $324,000 and $238,000 for the years
          ended March 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

          The assets and liabilities of CentreSoft acquired on June 28, 1996
          were as follows (amounts in thousands):



          To effect the Management Buyout, CentreSoft received proceeds from the
          issuance of secured subordinated loan stock debentures, redeemable
          preferred stock, convertible preferred stock, "A" ordinary shares, "B"
          ordinary shares and ordinary shares.

          SECURED SUBORDINATED LOAN STOCK DEBENTURES

          Proceeds from the issuance of the Secured Subordinated Loan Stock
          Debentures ("Debentures") totaled $3,216,000.  The Debentures bore
          interest at the rate of 15% per annum.  In connection with the
          acquisition of CentreSoft by the Company on November 26, 1997, the
          Debentures were exchanged for 217,405 shares of the Company's common
          stock.

          REDEEMABLE PREFERRED STOCK

          Proceeds from the issuance of the 800,000 shares of Redeemable
          Preferred Stock with a stated par value of $0.16 per share totaled
          $1,286,000.  The Preferred Stock was entitled to a cumulative dividend
          of $0.19 per share  per annum.  In connection with the acquisition of
          CentreSoft by the Company the Preferred Stock was exchanged for 86,962
          shares of the Company's common stock.

          CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK

          Proceeds from the issuance of 133,333 shares of Convertible Preferred
          Stock with a stated par value of $1.61 per share totaled $214,000.
          The Convertible Preferred Stock was entitled to a dividend of 12% per
          annum.


                                         F-10


          The Convertible Preferred Stock was convertible into Ordinary Shares
          on a one-for-one basis in the event the Company had not redeemed the
          Redeemable Preferred Stock or Convertible Preferred Stock by the
          period ending six months after the final redemption date of January
          31, 2001. In connection with the acquisition of CentreSoft by the
          Company, on November 26, 1997, the Convertible Preferred Stock was 
          exchanged for 14,494 shares of the Company's common stock.

          "A" ORDINARY SHARES, "B" ORDINARY SHARES  AND ORDINARY SHARES

          CentreSoft had three classes of ordinary shares outstanding,
          consisting of "A" Ordinary Shares, "B" Ordinary Shares and Ordinary
          Shares.  Each class had a stated par value of $0.02 per share.
          Proceeds from the issuance of the 47,059 shares of "A" Ordinary
          Shares, 19,608 shares of "B" Ordinary Shares and 100,000 shares of
          Ordinary Shares was $76,000,  $31,000 and $161,000, respectively.

          Subject to payment of the dividends on the Redeemable Preferred Stock
          and the Convertible Preferred Stock (including any arrears or
          accruals), the holders of the "A" Ordinary Shares and "B" Ordinary
          Shares received a fixed cumulative net dividend of $0.16 per share per
          annum ("Ordinary Dividend") and a cumulative preferential dividend
          which, when added to the Ordinary Dividend, equaled the higher of 20%
          of the net profits (as defined in CentreSoft's Articles of
          Association) and the dividends declared on any other class of share
          capital of CentreSoft for the relevant financial year. The balance of
          any profits declared by the Board to be distributed by way of
          dividends for a financial year are to be distributed pro rata among
          the holders of the "B" Ordinary Shares, the "A" Ordinary Shares and
          the Ordinary Shares.

          In connection with the acquisition of CentreSoft by the Company on
          November 26, 1997, the "A" Ordinary Shares, "B" Ordinary Shares and
          Ordinary Shares were exchanged for 781,608, 25,661 and 1,660,913
          shares of the Company's common stock, respectively.

          DIVIDENDS

          In accordance with the terms of the Redeemable Preferred Stock,
          Convertible Preferred Stock, the "A" Ordinary shares, the "B" Ordinary
          shares and the Ordinary shares, CentreSoft declared dividends on
          September 30 and December 31, 1996 and March 31 and June 27, 1997
          totaling as follows (amounts in thousands):



          In connection with the acquisition of CentreSoft by the Company,
          dividends were only declared and paid on the Redeemable Preferred
          Stock, Convertible Preferred Stock, "A" Ordinary shares and the "B"
          Ordinary shares through the date of the Company's acquisition of
          CentreSoft due to the exchange of these securities for common stock of
          the Company.

     5.   INVENTORIES

          Inventories at March 31, 1998 and 1997 reflect an adjustment to net
          realizable value of approximately $828,000 and $471,000, respectively.
          The provisions for net realizable value for the years ended March 31,
          1998, 1997 and 1996 were approximately $1,082,000, $478,000 and
          $532,000, respectively.  Inventories, net of reserves, consisted of
          (amounts in thousands):



          Included in finished goods at March 31, 1998 and 1997 are expected
          inventory returns at a net realizable value of $1,276,000 and
          $837,000, respectively.


                                         F-11


     6.   PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

          Property and equipment are recorded at cost.  Depreciation and
          amortization are provided using the straight-line method over the
          shorter of the estimated useful lives or the lease term:  building, 30
          years; computer equipment, office furniture and other equipment, 3
          years; leasehold improvements, through the life of the lease.
          Property and equipment, stated at cost, was as follows (amounts in
          thousands):



          Depreciation expense for the years ended March 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996
          was $3,836,000, $2,613,000 and $1,362,000, respectively.

7.   ACCRUED EXPENSES

     Accrued expenses were as follows (amounts in thousands):
          


                                         F-12


8.   OPERATIONS BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA

     The following table summarizes the geographic operations of the Company 
     (amounts in thousands):




                                         F-13



9.   COMPUTATION OF NET INCOME PER SHARE

     The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted
     net income per share:



     Weighted average options to purchase 1,978,000, 2,838,000 and 1,738,000 
     shares of common stock were outstanding for the years ended March 31, 
     1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively, but were not included in the 
     calculations of diluted earnings per share because their effect would be 
     antidilutive.  Convertible subordinated notes and convertible preferred 
     stock were not included in the calculations of diluted earnings per 
     share because their effect would be antidilutive.


                                         F-14



10.  INCOME TAXES

     Domestic and foreign income (loss) before income taxes and details of the
     income tax provision (benefit) are as follows (amounts in thousands):



     The items accounting for the difference between income taxes computed at
     the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate and the income tax provision for
     each of the years are as follows:




                                         F-15



     The components of the net deferred tax asset and liability were as follows
     (amounts in thousands):



     During the year ended March 31, 1996, the Company recognized a tax benefit
     of $1.5 million through a reduction in the Company's deferred tax asset
     valuation allowance. The reduction reflected the remaining portion of the
     Company's net operating loss carryforwards, the benefit from which could be
     recorded in the Company's provision for income taxes.  In accordance with
     Statement of Position 90-7, "Financial Reporting by Entities in
     Reorganization Under the Bankruptcy Code," issued by the American Institute
     of Certified Public Accountants, benefits from loss carryforwards arising
     prior to the Company's reorganization are recorded as additional paid-in
     capital.  During the year ended March 31, 1997, $6.6 million of such
     benefit was recognized through a reduction in the valuation allowance.  No
     further reduction was recognized in fiscal 1998.  The reductions in the
     valuation allowance during the years ended March 31, 1997 and 1996 were 
     determined based on the Company's assessment of the realizability of its 
     deferred tax assets, which assessment was based on recent operating 
     history, and the Company's expectation that operations will continue to 
     generate taxable income, as well as other factors.  Realization of the 
     deferred tax assets is dependent upon the continued generation of 
     sufficient taxable income prior to expiration of tax credits and loss 
     carryforwards.  Although realization is not assured, management believes 
     it is more likely than not that the deferred tax asset of $8.5 million will
     be realized.  The amount of deferred tax assets considered realizable, 
     however, could be reduced in the future if estimates of future taxable 
     income are reduced.

     The Company's available net operating loss carryforward for federal tax 
     reporting purposes approximates $25.8 million and is subject to certain 
     limitations as defined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code.
     The net operating loss carryforwards expire from 1999 to 2009.  The Company
     has tax credit carryforwards of approximately $2.4 million and $900,000 
     for federal and state purposes, respectively.

11.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

     BANK LINE OF CREDIT

     As of March 31, 1998, the Company has a $10.0 million revolving credit and
     letter of credit facility (the "Facility") with its bank (the "Bank").  The
     Facility currently provides the Company with the ability to borrow funds
     and issue letters of credit against eligible domestic accounts receivable
     up to $10.0 million.  The Facility expires in September 1998.  In addition,
     the Company has entered into a $2.0 million line of credit agreement (the
     "Asset Line") with the Bank.  Drawings under the Asset Line are structured
     with 36 month repayment terms and the Asset Line expires in September 1998.
     Borrowings under the Asset Line totaled $1.2 million as of March 31, 1998
     with an effective borrowing rate of 8.3%.

     In addition, the Company has a revolving credit facility (the "Europe
     Facility") with its bank in Europe for approximately $8.5 million.  The
     Europe Facility can be used for working capital requirements and expires in
     June 2000.  The Company had no borrowings outstanding against the Europe
     facility as of March 31, 1998.

     LEASE OBLIGATIONS

     The Company leases certain of its facilities under non-cancelable operating
     lease agreements.  Total future minimum lease commitments as of March 31,
     1998 are as follows (amounts in thousands):




                                         F-16




     Rent expense for the years ended March 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996 was
     approximately $3,219,000, $2,279,000 and $1,348,000, respectively.

     LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     The Company is party to routine claims and suits brought against it in the
     ordinary course of business, including disputes arising over the ownership
     of intellectual property rights and  collection matters.  In the opinion of
     management, the outcome of such routine claims will not have a material
     adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, results of
     operations or liquidity.

12.  STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

     STOCK OPTION PLAN

     The Company has a stock option plan (the "Stock Option Plan") for the
     benefit of officers, employees, consultants and others.  The Stock Option
     Plan  permits the granting of non-qualified stock options, incentive stock
     options ("ISOs"), stock appreciation rights ("SARs"), restricted stock
     awards, deferred stock awards and other Common Stock-based awards.  As of
     March 31, 1998, the total number of shares of Common Stock available for
     distribution under the Stock Option Plan was 7,666,667.  The plan requires
     available shares to consist in whole or in part of authorized and unissued
     shares or treasury shares.  There were 258,480 remaining shares available
     for grant under the Stock Option Plan as of March 31, 1998.

     The stock option exercise price is determined at the discretion of the
     Board of Directors, and for ISOs, is not to be less than the fair market
     value of the Company's common stock at the date of grant, or in the case of
     non-qualified options, must exceed or be equal to 85% of fair market value
     at date of grant.  Options typically become exercisable in equal
     installments over a period not to exceed five years and must be exercised
     within 10 years of date of grant.  Historically, stock options have been
     granted with exercise prices equal to or greater than the fair market value
     at the date of grant.

     Stock Option Plan activity was as follows (amounts in thousands, except
     weighted average exercise price amounts):





     The range of exercise prices for options outstanding as of March 31, 1998
     was $.75 to  $21.18.  The range of exercise prices for options is wide due
     to increases and decreases in the Company's stock price over the period of
     the grants.   For the year ended March 31, 1998, 2,019,000 options were
     granted at an exercise price equal to the fair market value on the date of
     grant, and 757,000 options were granted at an exercise price greater than
     fair market value on the date of grant.


                                         F-17



     The following tables summarize information about options outstanding at
     March 31, 1998:





     These options will expire if not exercised at specific dates ranging from
     January 2002 to March 2008.  Prices for options exercised during the three
     year period ended March 31, 1998 ranged from $1.50 to $15.75.

     EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN

     The Company has an employee stock purchase plan for all eligible employees
     (the "Purchase Plan").  Under the Purchase Plan, shares of the Company's
     common stock may be purchased at six-month intervals at 85% of the lower of
     the fair market value on the first or last day of each six-month period
     (the "Offering Period").  Employees may purchase shares having a value not
     exceeding 10% of their gross compensation during an Offering Period.
     Employees purchased 24,600 shares at a price of $9.35 per share and 38,500
     shares at a price of $9.14 per share during the Purchase Plan's offering
     period ended September 30, 1997 and March 31, 1998, respectively.  As of
     March 31, 1998, 117,900 shares were reserved for future issuance under the
     Purchase Plan.

     EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT PLAN

     The Company has a retirement plan covering substantially all of its
     eligible employees.  The retirement plan is qualified in accordance with
     Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code.  Under the plan, employees may
     defer up to 15% of their pre-tax salary, but not more than statutory
     limits.  The Company contributes 5% of each dollar contributed by a
     participant.  The Company's matching contributions to the plan were
     $40,000, $25,000 and $10,000 during the years ended March 31, 1998, 1997
     and 1996, respectively.

     DIRECTOR WARRANT PLAN

     The Director Warrant Plan provides for the automatic granting of warrants
     ("Director Warrants") to purchase 16,667 shares of the Common Stock to each
     director of the Company who is not an officer or employee of the Company or
     any of its subsidiaries. Director Warrants granted under the Director
     Warrant Plan vest  25% on the first anniversary of the date of grant, and
     12.5% each six months thereafter.  The Director Warrant Plan expired on
     December 19, 1996. The expiration had no effect on the outstanding
     Warrants. As of March 31, 1998, there were no shares of Common Stock
     available for distribution under the Director Warrant Plan.


                                         F-18



     Director Warrant activity was as follows (amounts in thousands, except
     weighted average exercise price amounts):






     The range of exercise prices for Director Warrants outstanding as of March
     31, 1998 was $.75 to 8.50.  The range of exercise prices for director
     warrants is wide due to increases and decreases in the Company's stock
     price over the period of the grants.   As of March 31, 1998, 33,300 of the
     outstanding and vested Director Warrants have a weighted average remaining
     contractual life of 3.78 years and a weighted average exercise price of
     $.75; 20,000 of the outstanding and vested Director Warrants have a
     weighted average remaining contractual life of 6.82 years and a weighted
     average exercise price of $6.50; and 20,000 of the outstanding and vested
     Director Warrants have a weighted average remaining contractual life of
     6.82 years and a weighted average exercise price of $8.50.

     OTHER WARRANTS

     During the fiscal year ended March 31, 1997, the Company granted 40,000 
     warrants to purchase Common Stock with a weighted average exercise price
     of $12.02 to two of its outside directors in connection with their election
     to the Board.  Such warrants have vesting terms identical to the Director
     Warrants and expire within 10 years.  As of March 31, 1998, 10,125 of such
     warrants were vested and exercisable.

     During the fiscal year ended March 31, 1998, the Company granted warrants
     to purchase 300,000 shares of Common Stock to an outside developer in 
     connection with software license agreements.  Of the warrants, 150,000 have
     an exercise price of $10.38 per share, are immediately exercisable, and 
     expire on May 20, 2007.  The remaining 150,000 warrants have an exercise 
     price of $10.50, are immediately exercisable, and expire March 31, 2008.
     The Company has accounted for the fair value of the warrants.

     PRO FORMA INFORMATION

     The Company has elected to follow APB Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock
     Issued to Employees," in accounting for its employee stock options.  Under
     APB No. 25, if the exercise price of the Company's employee stock options
     equals the market price of the underlying stock on the date of grant, no
     compensation expense is recognized in the Company's financial statements.

     Pro forma information regarding net income (loss) and net income (loss) per
     share is required by SFAS No. 123.  This information is required to be
     determined as if the Company had accounted for its employee stock options
     (including shares issued under the Purchase Plan and Director Warrant Plan,
     collectively called "options") granted during fiscal 1996, 1997 and 1998
     under the fair value method of that statement.  The fair value of options
     granted in the years ended March 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996 reported below has
     been estimated at the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option pricing
     model with the following weighted average assumptions:


                                         F-19






     The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use in
     estimating the fair value of traded options that have no vesting
     restrictions and are fully transferable.  In addition, option valuation
     models require the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the
     expected stock price volatility.  Because the Company's options have
     characteristics significantly different from those of traded options, and
     because changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect
     the fair value estimate, in the opinion of management, the existing models
     do not necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the fair value of
     its options.  The weighted average estimated fair value of Stock Option
     Plan shares granted during the years ended March 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996
     was $4.49, $4.04 and $3.74 per share, respectively. The weighted average
     estimated fair value of Employee Purchase Plan shares granted during the
     year ended March 31, 1998 and 1997 were $2.65 and $2.89, respectively.  The
     weighted average estimated fair value of Director Warrants granted during
     the year ended March 31, 1997 was $2.27.   No Director Warrants were
     granted during the year ended March 31, 1998.

     For purposes of  pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value of the
     options is amortized to expense over the options' vesting period.  The
     Company's pro forma information follows (amounts in thousands except for
     net income (loss) per share information):



     The effects on pro forma disclosures of applying SFAS No. 123 are not
     likely to be representative of the effects on pro forma disclosures of
     future years.  Because SFAS No. 123 is applicable only to options granted
     during fiscal 1996 through 1998, the pro forma effect will not be fully
     reflected until the fiscal year ended March 31, 2000.

13.   QUARTERLY FINANCIAL AND MARKET INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)




                                         F-20



                                                                     SCHEDULE II

                         ACTIVISION, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES
                               (Amounts in thousands)







(A)  Actual write-offs of uncollectible accounts receivable or sales returns and
     price protection.
(B)  Actual write-offs of obsolete inventory, scrap and reduction in carrying
     value of certain portions of inventory.


                                         F-21


                                    EXHIBIT INDEX

ITEM 14(a).  EXHIBITS.




     (b)  REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.  The following reports on Form 8-K have been
          filed by the Company during the last quarter of the fiscal year ended
          March 31, 1998:

               1.   Form 8-K dated January 6, 1998, containing items 5 and 7.


                                         F-22

