Item 1.Business

Forward
Looking Statements

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of
Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and is subject to the safe harbor provisions set forth in the Exchange Act.
Forward-looking statements usually contain the words “estimate,” “intend,” “plan,” “predict,” “seek,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “would,” “could,”
“anticipate,” “expect,” “believe,” or similar expressions and variations or negatives of these words or expressions. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections, or other characterizations of
future events or circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements, including but not limited to, statements about:



•our future financial and operating results;



•our business strategies;



•management’s plans, beliefs and objectives for future operations, research and development;



•economic and industry trends or trend analysis;



•product introductions, development, enhancements and acceptance;



•acquisitions and joint ventures, growth opportunities, investments and legal proceedings;



•competitive positions;



•future cash flows and cash deployment strategies;



•short-term and long-term cash requirements, including anticipated capital expenditures;



•our anticipated tax rate;



•the dilutive effect of our convertible notes and associated warrants on our earnings per share;



•the conversion, maturation or repurchase of the convertible notes,



•compliance with laws, regulations and debt covenants;



•the continuation of our stock repurchase program; and



•the impact of completed acquisitions

are inherently uncertain as they are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions concerning future events, and they are subject to numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties.
Therefore, our actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements contained herein. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described herein include, but are not limited to:



•acceptance of, and demand for, our products, including our recent new product introductions;



•our ability to increase our customer base, market share and revenue;



•the general economic environment and the growth of the storage markets;



•the amount of orders received in future periods;



•our ability to ship our products in a timely manner;



•our ability to achieve anticipated pricing, cost, and gross margins levels;



•our ability to successfully manage our backlog and increase revenue;



•our ability to successfully execute on our strategy;



•our ability to effectively integrate acquired products and technologies;







•our ability to successfully introduce new products and forecast demand for those products;



•our ability to maintain the quality of our hardware, software and services offerings;



•our ability to adapt to changes in market demand;



•demand for our services and support;



•our ability to identify and respond to significant market trends and emerging standards;



•the impact of industry consolidation;



•our ability to successfully manage our investment in people, process, and systems;



•our ability to maintain our partner, supplier and contract manufacturer relationships;



•the ability of our suppliers and contract manufacturers to meet our requirements;



•the ability of our competitors to introduce new products that compete successfully with our products;



•our ability to grow direct and indirect sales and to efficiently utilize global service and support;



•variability in our gross margins;



•our ability to sustain and/or improve our cash and overall financial position;



•our cash requirements and terms and availability of financing;



•valuation and liquidity of our investment portfolio;



•our ability to finance business acquisitions, construction projects and capital expenditures through cash from operations and/or financing;



•the results of our ongoing litigation, tax audits, government audits and inquiries; and



•those factors discussed under “Risk Factors” elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof and are
based upon information available to us at this time. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. We disclaim any obligation to update information in any forward-looking statement. Actual results could vary from our forward looking
statements due to foregoing factors as well as other important factors, including those described in the Risk Factors included in Item 1A.

Overview

NetApp, Inc.
(NetApp) is a leading provider of storage and data management solutions that help increase IT efficiency and flexibility.

Customers around the world choose us for our broad portfolio of application, virtualization, cloud, and service provider solutions that
help customers streamline operations and lower the costs associated with storing and managing their data.

We believe that our innovative technologies position us well to take advantage of the market shift from traditional
dedicated storage to shared storage in virtualized IT infrastructures. Wherever an organization is on the path to a shared IT infrastructure, NetApp®solutions bring immediate cost savings and help enable quick response to change. NetApp offers the optimal storage platform for delivering the sustained efficiency
and flexibility customers need to enable business success.

Our products and services are designed to meet the expansive
requirements and demanding service levels of large enterprises and their mission-critical business applications. In addition, we bring our affordable, enterprise-proven technology to midsize enterprises. To better meet the needs of our customers, we
develop integrated solutions that optimize the performance of customers’ applications and their infrastructure in partnership with







key industry leaders such as Cisco Systems, IBM, Microsoft, SAP, Symantec, and VMware. We also design our products to satisfy the demands of high-performance computing and technical data center
applications, offering solutions used in the design of semiconductors and automobiles, as well as graphics rendering and seismic exploration.

We were incorporated in 1992 and shipped the world’s first networked storage appliance a year later. Since then, we have brought to market many innovations in storage and data management. We have
grown to more than 11,000 employees, including approximately 1,000 additional employees from the recent acquisition of certain assets related to the Engenio external storage systems business (ESG) of LSI Corporation (LSI). We have operations in
over 130 locations around the world.

NetApp Product Overview

NetApp offers highly available, scalable, and cost-effective storage solutions that incorporate our unified storage platform and the feature-rich functionality of our data and storage resource management
software. The cost savings that can be realized from the NetApp Unified Storage Architecture and the infrastructure consolidation that can be achieved through a single storage platform are significant and can provide a strong platform for a
service-oriented IT infrastructure. The NetApp Unified Storage Architecture, secure multi-tenancy capability, scalable systems, efficiency technologies, and data management software functionality provide a powerful combination for enterprises
building internal private clouds and for service providers building IT-as-a-service offerings.

We believe that by providing
greater efficiency and flexibility, our solutions help improve business productivity, performance, and profitability, while providing investment protection and enhanced asset utilization. Our enterprise-class storage solutions are complemented by
our services expertise to enable interoperability and optimization in the context of the application and IT infrastructure within which they are deployed.

Data ONTAP Software

Our fabric-attached storage
(FAS) and V-Series storage solutions are based on Data ONTAP®, a highly scalable and flexible operating system
that concurrently supports any mix of storage area network (SAN) and network-attached storage (NAS) environments. This unified storage software platform is compatible with UNIX®, Linux®, and Web
environments.

The Data ONTAP operating system provides the foundation to build a shared storage infrastructure and an
enterprise-wide data fabric for the full breadth of business applications and data storage and protection requirements. Data ONTAP features scalability, secure multi-tenancy, and unification across protocols and disks. Data ONTAP also unifies
storage efficiency, data management, and data protection. We believe customers can benefit from these capabilities as they increasingly virtualize application environments. Our deduplication for primary and secondary storage, thin provisioning, and
highly efficient hardware help maximize utilization while reducing data center footprint and lowering storage-related power and cooling consumption. A few of the technology features we offer with Data ONTAP include:



•FlexShare®technology, which directs how storage system resources are used to deliver an appropriate level of service for each application;



•FlexCache®technology, which allows performance acceleration through the creation of read-only cached volumes by creating caching volumes on multiple storage controllers;



•MultiStore®software, which allows partitioning of individual physical storage systems into multiple secure and separate logical partitions; and



•RAID-DP®, a
standard Data ONTAP feature that safeguards data from double disk failure. Integrated with our WAFL®(Write
Anywhere File Layout) file system, RAID-DP gives customers data protection plus high performance.







Storage Efficiency

NetApp’s portfolio of efficiency technologies helps our customers reduce their storage spending and get more from the storage assets
they already own. Some of the efficiency technologies we offer include:



•FlexVol®technology, which provides for thin provisioning through virtual volumes, enabling storage architectures to be more efficient and achieve higher utilization using flexible volumes that do not require repartitioning of physical storage space;



•FlexClone®technology, which enables true data cloning using logical copies that do not require additional physical storage space and allows for instant replication of data volumes and datasets; and



•Deduplication technology, which provides the ability to eliminate duplicate data within primary and secondary disk storage environments, resulting in
greater efficiency and higher utilization of storage capacity.

Storage Management and Application
Integration Software

NetApp OnCommand®management software improves storage and service efficiency through functions that help customers control, automate, and analyze their shared storage infrastructures.
Our management software family of products provides a broad range of storage and data management tools to simplify IT administration and enhance flexibility and productivity. We deliver differentiated products that support industry open standards
and interfaces to deliver this value to customers. We tightly integrate our software with database and business application software from partners such as Microsoft, Oracle, SAP, and VMware in order to optimize the performance of those applications
on our storage systems.

Through data center automation tools, we give customers the ability to monitor service levels, manage
performance, and support change management in complex enterprise SAN environments. We help customers optimize shared infrastructures by supporting individual application performance, service level, and security needs even while the storage is shared
across multiple applications.

FAS Unified Storage Systems Family

The NetApp family of modular, scalable, highly available, unified storage systems supports a full range of data for users on a variety of
platforms. In the same way that server virtualization eliminates the sprawl in the application layer, NetApp’s FAS unified architecture streamlines, simplifies, and consolidates the storage layer. The FAS6200, FAS3200, and FAS2000 series of
fabric-attached storage systems are designed to consolidate all types of storage workloads — including primary and secondary data, as well as structured and unstructured data — across all key OS platforms and network infrastructures. Also,
NetApp unifies storage access for all standard network protocols based on a single HBA technology and standard IP networks. All NetApp FAS systems are interoperable and provide common software services. NetApp provides a data-in-place upgrade path
that spans from entry-level platforms for smaller organizations all the way to high-end data center environments. The NetApp FAS unified architecture supports both scale-up and scale-out growth strategies running the highly efficient Data ONTAP
operating system.

Virtual Storage Tier

Customers can increase the performance of a NetApp storage controller using our virtual storage tiering, which is available with our Flash Cache modular cache expansion. Virtual storage tiering lowers
response times and increases input/output operations of solid state drives without storing additional data on them. Using dynamic storage tiering, it also improves application performance for production workloads residing on any type of disk drive.
Dedupe capabilities reduce the I/O load on storage controllers to provide extreme scaling, especially useful with virtual- and cloud-based working sets.







V-Series Family

Our V-Series family is a network-based virtualization solution that consolidates storage from different suppliers behind our data
management interface, providing SAN and NAS access to the data stored in heterogeneous storage arrays. With the V-Series solution, customers are able to:



•Transform existing heterogeneous, multivendor storage systems into a single storage pool;



•Simplify storage provisioning and management with Data ONTAP thin provisioning; and



•Dramatically lower backup time, space, and cost with Data ONTAP Snapshot®copies.

The V-Series
family is compatible with the FAS family of storage systems.

Data Protection Software Products

We offer a broad range of integrated data protection solutions for enterprise customer environments that can be tightly integrated with
application offerings from partners to increase the speed and efficiency of data protection operations:



•Snapshot technology enables near-instantaneous, space-efficient online backups of large datasets without affecting system performance;



•SnapRestore®technology uses stored Snapshot backups to recover entire file systems or data volumes in seconds, regardless of capacity or number of files;



•SnapVault®and
Open Systems SnapVault technologies provide network- and storage-optimized disk-to-disk backup solutions;



•MetroCluster™ uniquely combines array-based clustering with synchronous mirroring to deliver continuous availability and zero data loss; and



•SnapMirror®data replication solution provides disaster recovery protection for business-critical data matched to the recovery point objectives and recovery time objectives of customer environments.

Data Retention and Archive Products

To meet growing regulatory compliance demands faced by most enterprises, we offer a broad suite of products to help
enable data permanence, accessibility, and privacy across a variety of different regulations such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, 21 CFR Part 11, SEC Rule 17a-4, and HIPAA. Cost-effective, resilient, and reliable storage architectures can
be created utilizing NetApp SnapLock®products.

Flash Cache

NetApp Flash Cache modules optimize the performance of random read-intensive workloads such as file services and messaging. These intelligent read caches speed access to user data, reducing latency by a
factor of 10 or more compared to disk drives. Faster response times can translate into higher throughput for random I/O workloads. NetApp Flash Cache gives users performance that is comparable to that of solid state disks (SSDs) without the
complexity of another storage tier.

Storage Security Products

Partnering with SafeNet, Inc. enables us to provide a unified platform for data security and key management across IP SAN, NAS, and tape
backup environments. The platform combines wire-speed encryption, access controls, authentication, and automated key management to provide strong security for data at rest, while still allowing the capability to search compliant data for legal
discovery purposes if the need arises. We also partner with Brocade Communications Systems, Inc. to provide advanced fabric services for SANs. These high-speed, highly reliable hardware devices deliver fabric-based encryption services to secure data
assets either selectively or comprehensively.







Object Storage

NetApp StorageGRID®is a proven object storage software solution designed to manage petabyte-scale, globally distributed repositories of images, video, and records for enterprises and
service providers. NetApp StorageGRID provides tremendous scalability by eliminating the typical constraints of data containers in blocks and files. It supports billions of files or objects and petabytes of capacity in hybrid cloud storage
architectures with a single global namespace.

NetApp StorageGRID enables intelligent data management and secure content
retention. Data placement and secure content retention are optimized by aligning system and business process management metadata with a global policy engine that manages how data is stored, placed, governed, protected, and retrieved. Content is
protected from tampering using technologies such as digital fingerprints and encryption.

NetApp Services

Our customers demand high availability and reliability of their storage infrastructure to ensure the successful ongoing operation of their
businesses. NetApp’s services are designed with this in mind. We provide professional services, global support solutions, and customer education and training to help customers most effectively manage their data. The professional services and
support solutions we offer help our customers to resolve business problems, reduce costs, keep businesses up and running continuously, comply with regulations and policies, and improve overall operational results. We utilize a global, integrated
model to provide consistent service delivery and global support during every phase of the customer engagement, including assessment and analysis, planning, design, installation, implementation, integration, optimization, ongoing support, and remote
management and monitoring. Services and support often involve phased rollouts, technology transitions and migrations, and other long-term engagements.

Sales, Principal Markets, and Distribution Channels

We market and sell our
products in numerous countries throughout the world, and we continue to make investments in our multiyear branding and awareness campaign to increase visibility of NetApp in the broader IT segment.

Our diversified customer base spans a number of customer segments and vertical markets, including energy, financial services, government,
high technology, Internet, life sciences and healthcare services, major manufacturing, media, entertainment, animation and video postproduction, and telecommunications. We focus primarily on the data management and storage markets, offering an array
of solutions from our high-end products designed for large enterprise customers to entry-level products designed for midsized enterprise customers.

To increase market share, we are focused on diversifying our multichannel distribution strategy. We are strengthening existing partnerships and investing in new partnerships with system integrators and
cloud service providers.

As of the end of fiscal 2011, our worldwide sales and marketing function consisted of 4,808
managers, sales representatives, and technical support personnel. We have field sales offices in more than 40 countries. We employ a multichannel distribution strategy, selling products and services to end users and service providers through a
direct sales force and through channel partners, including value-added resellers, system integrators, original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), and distributors. During fiscal year 2011, sales through our indirect channels represented 73% of our
total net revenues. Sales to customers Arrow Electronics, Inc. and Avnet, Inc., who are distributors, accounted for approximately 18% and 12% of our net revenues, respectively, in fiscal 2011; approximately 14% and 11% of our net revenues,
respectively, for fiscal 2010; and approximately 11% and 10% of our net revenues, respectively, for fiscal 2009. Information about our segment disclosures, foreign operations, and net sales attributable to our geographic regions is included in
Note 16 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements.







Seasonality

We have historically experienced a decline in revenues in the first quarter of our fiscal year, as the sales organization spends time developing new business after higher close rates in the fourth
quarter, and because sales to European customers are historically weaker during the summer months. During the second quarter of our fiscal year, we have historically experienced increased sales, driven by the government sector, concurrent with the
end of the U.S. federal government’s fiscal year in September, as well as an increase in business from European markets. We derive a majority of our revenue in any given quarter from orders booked in the same quarter. Bookings and revenues
typically follow intraquarter seasonality patterns weighted toward the back end of the quarter.

Backlog

We manufacture products based on a combination of specific order requirements and forecasts of our customers’ demand. Orders are
generally placed by customers on an as-needed basis. A substantial portion of our products is sold on the basis of standard purchase orders that are cancellable prior to shipment without penalty. In certain circumstances, purchase orders are subject
to change with respect to quantity of product or timing of delivery resulting from changes in customer requirements. Our business is characterized by seasonal and intraquarter variability in demand, as well as short lead times and product delivery
schedules. Accordingly, backlog at any given time may not be a meaningful indicator of future revenue.

Manufacturing and Supply Chain

We have outsourced manufacturing operations to third parties located in Memphis, Tennessee; Olive Branch, Mississippi;
Livingston, Scotland; Schiphol Airport, The Netherlands; Shanghai and Longhua, China; Singapore and Guadalajara, Mexico. These operations include materials procurement, commodity management, component engineering, test engineering, manufacturing
engineering, product assembly, product assurance, quality control, final test, and global logistics. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for materials, as well as several key subcontractors for the production of certain subassemblies and
finished systems. We use multiple vendors and have our products manufactured in a number of locations wherever possible to mitigate our supply chain risk. Our strategy has been to develop close relationships with our suppliers, exchanging critical
information and implementing joint quality programs. We also use contract manufacturers for the production of major subassemblies to improve our manufacturing continuity of business. This manufacturing strategy minimizes capital investments and
overhead expenditures while creating flexibility for rapid expansion.

We were awarded ISO 9001 certification on May 29,
1997, and continue to be ISO 9001 certified. We were awarded ISO 14001 certification on December 8, 2004, and continue to be ISO 14001 certified.

Research and Development

We conduct research and development activities in
various locations throughout the world. In fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009, research and development expenses represented 13%, 14%, and 15% of our net revenues, respectively. These costs relate primarily to personnel and related costs incurred to
conduct product development activities. Although we develop many of our products internally, we may acquire technology through business combinations or through licensing from third parties when appropriate. We believe that technical leadership is
essential to our success, and we expect to continue to commit substantial resources to research and development.

Competition

We compete with many companies in the markets we serve, including companies that offer a broad spectrum of IT products and
services and others that offer a more limited set of storage and data management products or services. In the primary storage market, our system products and associated software portfolio mainly compete with storage system products and data
management software from Dell, EMC, Hitachi Data Systems,







HP, IBM, and Oracle Corporation. In the secondary storage market, which includes the disk-to-disk backup, archival and compliance, and business continuity segments, our solutions mainly compete
against products from EMC, Hitachi Data Systems, HP, IBM, and Oracle Corporation. In vertical markets — such as content storage, digital media, and graphics — our top competitors include EMC, Hitachi Data Systems, and HP. In the IT
infrastructure and service provider markets, we compete primarily with EMC, Hitachi Data Systems, and HP.

We compete with
these companies based on market presence, breadth of product offerings, breadth of service offerings and price. Some of these companies also compete by offering storage and data management products or services together with other IT products or
services, at minimal or no additional cost, in order to preserve or gain market share.

We believe that we have a number of
competitive advantages over many of these companies, including product innovation, the relationships we have with our customers, the deep integration we do with technology partners, and our collaboration with sales partners. We believe the
advantages of our products include functionality, scalability, performance, flexibility, quality, and operational efficiency. We believe our advantage also includes the nature of the relationships we form with our customers and sales partners
worldwide. We strive to deliver an outstanding experience in every interaction we have with our customers and partners through our product, service, and support offerings, which enable us to provide our customers with a full range of expertise
before, during, and after their purchase from us or from one of our sales partners.

An increase in industry consolidation may
result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties,
including some of our partners. It is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share.

Proprietary Rights

We currently rely on a combination
of copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions, and patents to protect our proprietary rights. We seek to protect our software, documentation, and other written materials under trade secret,
copyright, and patent laws, which afford only limited protection. We have registered our NetApp name and logo, Network Appliancetmname and logo, Data ONTAP, DataFabric®, FAServer®, FlexVol,
FilerView®, NearStore®, SecureShare®, SnapDrive®, SnapLock, SnapManager®, SnapMirror, SnapRestore, SnapVault, WAFL, and others as trademarks in the United States. Other U.S. trademarks and U.S. registered trademarks are
registered internationally as well. We will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks as appropriate. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, resellers, customers, and suppliers. We currently have
multiple U.S. and international patent applications pending and multiple U.S. patents issued.

In addition, through
various licensing arrangements, we receive certain rights to intellectual property of others. We expect to maintain current licensing arrangements and to secure licensing arrangements in the future, as needed and to the extent available on
reasonable terms and conditions, to support continued development and sales of our products and services. Some of these licensing arrangements require or might require royalty payments and other licensing fees. The amount of these payments and fees
might depend on various factors, including but not limited to the structure of royalty payments; offsetting considerations, if any; and the degree of use of the licensed technology.

The industry in which we compete is characterized by rapidly changing technology, a large number of patents, and frequent claims and
related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights, and we are exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims and protection of intellectual property rights. If we are unable to protect our intellectual
property, we might be subject to increased competition that could materially and adversely affect our operating results.







Environmental Disclosure

NetApp is committed to minimizing environmental impact through use of NetApp products, activities, and services. The NetApp environmental management system (EMS) provides the framework for setting,
implementing, and reviewing the company’s environmental objectives and targets. The NetApp EMS supports:



•Commitment to complying with relevant environmental legislation, regulations, and other customer and community requirements;



•Prevention of pollution;



•Conservation of natural resources; and



•Continual improvement of our environmental management system.

The NetApp EMS makes sure that activities, products, and services conform to the ISO 14001 standard and environmental requirements.

We are voluntarily measuring, monitoring, and publicly reporting our Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions. We have
established employee commuter programs and education and awareness campaigns, and we continuously seek to optimize the energy efficiency of our buildings, labs, and data centers. At both the global and regional/state levels, various laws and
regulations have been implemented or are under consideration to mitigate the effects of climate change caused by greenhouse gas emissions. Environmental laws are complex, change frequently, and have tended to become more stringent over time. It is
often difficult to estimate the future impact of environmental matters. Based on current information and subject to the finalization of the proposed regulations, we believe that our primary risk related to climate change is the risk of increased
energy costs. However, we do not anticipate being subject to a cap and trade system or any other mitigation measures that would be material to our operations in the near future. Additionally, we have implemented many disaster recovery and business
resiliency measures to mitigate the physical risks our facilities, business, and supply chain might face as a consequence of severe weather/climate-related phenomena such as earthquakes, floods, droughts, and other such natural occurrences.

We are also subject to other federal, state, and local regulations regarding workplace safety and protection of the
environment. Various international, federal, state, and local provisions regulate the use and discharge of certain hazardous materials used in the manufacture of our products. Failure to comply with environmental regulations in the future could
cause us to incur substantial costs or subject us to business interruptions. We believe we are substantially compliant with all applicable environmental laws. All of our products meet the requirements for REACH, WEEE, RoHS, and China RoHS
compliance. We have maintained an environmental management system since December 2004 as well as ISO 14001 certification at our corporate headquarters, which represents approximately 40% of our employee population and is one of the largest
components of our corporate carbon footprint. As part of ISO 14001 requirements, we set environmental performance goals around reducing energy use per square foot as well as waste generated on site (per employee). We also conduct an annual review
and third-party verified audits of our operations, and we monitor environmental legislation and requirements to help make sure we are taking necessary measures to remain in compliance with applicable laws, not only in our operations but also for our
products.

Working Capital Practices

Information about our working capital practices is included in Item 7 — “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” under the
heading “Liquidity and Capital Resources” and is incorporated herein by reference.







Employees

As of April 29, 2011, we had 10,212 employees, of which 4,808 were in sales and marketing, 3,146 were in research and development, 1,248 were in services and manufacturing operations, and 1,010
were in finance and administration. In addition, we added approximately 1,000 employees as a result of the recent acquisition of ESG, which was completed on May 6, 2011. We have never had a work stoppage and consider relations with our
employees to be good. Competition for technical personnel in the industry in which we compete is intense. We believe that our future success depends in part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate, and retain qualified personnel. To date, we
believe that we have been successful in recruiting qualified employees, but there is no assurance that we will continue to be successful in the future.

Executive Officers

Our executive officers and their ages as of
May 24, 2011, are as follows:



NameAgePositionThomas Georgens51President, Chief Executive Officer, DirectorManish Goel46Executive Vice President, ProductsSteven J. Gomo59Executive Vice President, Finance and ChiefFinancial OfficerMatthew K. Fawcett43Senior Vice President, General Counsel andCorporate SecretaryRobert E. Salmon50Executive Vice President, Field Operations

Thomas Georgensis our president and chief executive officer. From February 2008 to August 2009, Mr. Georgens served as our
president and chief operating officer and was responsible for all product operations and field operations worldwide. Mr. Georgens has also been a member of our Board of Directors since March 2008. Mr. Georgens joined NetApp in October 2005
as executive vice president and general manager of enterprise storage systems and was named executive vice president of product operations where he served in that role from January 2007 to February 2008. Before joining NetApp, Mr. Georgens
spent nine years at Engenio, a former subsidiary of LSI Corporation, with the last two years as chief executive officer. He has also served in various other positions, including president of LSI Logic Storage Systems and executive vice president of
LSI Corporation. Prior to LSI Corporation, Mr. Georgens spent 11 years at EMC in a variety of engineering and marketing positions. Mr. Georgens holds a BS degree and an ME degree in computer and systems engineering from Rensselaer
Polytechnic Institute as well as an MBA degree from Babson College.

Manish Goelwas appointed the executive vice
president of product operations in June 2009, overseeing all aspects of technology strategy and product engineering across the Company’s product portfolio. Mr. Goel has held a variety of leadership roles in corporate development, sales,
and business unit general management since he joined NetApp in 2002. Prior to NetApp, Mr. Goel led corporate and business development activities for Cadence Design Systems and Copper Mountain Networks. Prior to that, he spent four years as a
strategy consultant for McKinsey and Co. and six years as a systems software engineer. Mr. Goel holds a BS degree in electrical engineering from IIT Chennai and an MBA degree in finance from the Wharton School of Business.

Steven J. Gomojoined NetApp in August 2002 as senior vice president of finance and chief financial officer. He was appointed
executive vice president of finance and chief financial officer in October 2004. Prior to joining the Company, he served as chief financial officer for Gemplus International S.A., headquartered in Luxembourg from November 2000 to April 2002 and as
chief financial officer of Silicon Graphics, Inc., from February 1998 to August 2000. Prior to February 1998, he worked at Hewlett-Packard Company for 24 years in various positions, including financial management, corporate finance, general
management, and manufacturing. Mr. Gomo currently serves on the board of SanDisk Corporation and Enphase Energy. Mr. Gomo holds an MBA degree from Santa Clara University and a BS degree in business administration from Oregon State
University.







Matthew K. Fawcettjoined the Company in September 2010 as senior vice president,
general counsel and corporate secretary. Prior to joining NetApp, from 1999 to August 2010, Mr. Fawcett served in various legal positions at JDS Uniphase Corporation, including as senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary.
Prior to joining JDSU, Mr. Fawcett was counsel at Fujitsu and worked in private practice at Morrison & Foerster LLP. Fawcett holds a BA degree from the University of California at Berkeley and a JD degree from the University of
California at Los Angeles.

Robert E. Salmonjoined NetApp in January 1994 and was appointed executive vice president,
field operations in December 2005. Mr. Salmon has served as the Company’s executive vice president of worldwide sales since September 2004. From August 2003 to September 2004, Mr. Salmon served as the Company’s senior vice
president of worldwide sales, and from May 2000 to August 2003, Mr. Salmon served as the Company’s vice president of North American sales. Prior to his tenure at NetApp Mr. Salmon spent nearly 10 years with Sun Microsystems and Data
General Corporation. Mr. Salmon graduated from California State University, Chico with a BS degree in computer science.

Additional Information

Our Internet address iswww.netapp.com.We make available through our Internet Web site our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K,
and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC.

The SEC maintains an Internet site (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other
information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The public also may read and copy these filings at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, DC 20549. Information about this Public
Reference Room is available by calling (800) SEC-0330.



