Item 1.Business

Forward-Looking Statements

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of
1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and is subject to the safe harbor provisions set forth in the Exchange Act. Forward-looking statements usually contain the words
“estimate,” “intend,” “plan,” “predict,” “seek,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “would,” “could,” “anticipate,” “expect,”
“believe,” or similar expressions and variations or negatives of these words or expressions. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections, or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, including any
underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements, including but not limited to, statements about:



•our future financial and operating results;



•our business strategies;



•management’s plans, beliefs and objectives for future operations, research and development;



•economic and industry trends or trend analysis;



•product introductions, development, enhancements and acceptance;



•acquisitions and joint ventures, growth opportunities, investments and legal proceedings;



•competitive positions;



•future cash flows and cash deployment strategies;



•short-term and long-term cash requirements, including anticipated capital expenditures;



•our anticipated tax rate;



•the dilutive effect of our 1.75% Convertible Senior Notes due June 2013 (the Notes) and associated warrants on our earnings per share;



•the conversion, maturation or repurchase of the Notes;



•compliance with laws, regulations and debt covenants;



•the continuation of our stock repurchase program; and



•the impact of completed acquisitions

are inherently uncertain as they are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions concerning future events, and are subject to numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties.
Therefore, our actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements contained herein. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described herein include, but are not limited to:



•acceptance of, and demand for, our products, including our recent product introductions;



•our ability to increase our customer base, market share and revenue;



•general economic and market conditions, particularly the continuing fiscal challenges in the United States (U.S.) and Europe;



•the effects of the flooding in Thailand;



•the amount of orders received in future periods;



•our ability to ship our products in a timely manner;







•our ability to achieve anticipated pricing, cost, and gross margins levels;



•our ability to successfully manage our backlog and increase revenue;



•our ability to successfully execute on our strategies;



•our ability to effectively integrate acquired products and technologies;



•our ability to successfully introduce new products and forecast demand for those products;



•our ability to maintain the quality of our hardware, software and services offerings;



•our ability to adapt to changes in market demand;



•demand for our services and support and the growth of the storage markets generally;



•our ability to identify and respond to significant market trends and emerging standards;



•the impact of industry consolidation;



•our ability to successfully manage our investment in people, process, and systems;



•our ability to maintain our partner, supplier and contract manufacturer relationships;



•the ability of our suppliers and contract manufacturers to meet our requirements;



•the ability of our competitors to introduce new products that compete successfully with our products;



•our ability to grow direct and indirect sales and to efficiently utilize global service and support;



•variability in our gross margins;



•our ability to sustain and/or improve our cash and overall financial position;



•our cash requirements and terms and availability of financing;



•valuation and liquidity of our investment portfolio;



•our ability to finance business acquisitions, construction projects and capital expenditures through cash from operations and/or financing;



•the results of our ongoing litigation, tax audits, government audits, inquiries and investigations; and



•those factors discussed under the heading “Risk Factors” elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof and are
based upon information available to us at this time. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. We disclaim any obligation to update information in any forward-looking statement. Actual results could vary from our forward-looking
statements due to foregoing factors as well as other important factors, including those described in the Risk Factors included in Part I of Item 1A.

Overview

NetApp, Inc. (NetApp, we or us) is a leading provider of
innovative storage systems and data management solutions that form the foundation for efficient and flexible IT infrastructures. Our storage systems help customers streamline operations and lower the cost associated with storing and managing their
data. Our unified fabric-attached storage (FAS) platform offers the optimal storage platform for business applications, shared infrastructures, and cloud environments. Our E-Series systems, acquired from LSI Corporation, provide the cost-effective,
high-performance storage building blocks for value-added customization and big data workloads. We are a leading original equipment manufacturer (OEM) storage provider with a 15-year track record of enabling OEMs to offer market-leading IT and
storage solutions that serve specific markets and customer requirements.







We were incorporated in 1992 and shipped the world’s first networked storage appliance
one year later. Since then, we have brought to market many innovations in storage and data management. Our evolution can be attributed to our history of identifying and creating new markets and innovating around market transitions. These markets
include:



•Shared infrastructures.A market shift from traditional dedicated storage to shared storage in virtualized IT infrastructures is well under way.
Virtualization allows organizations to separate applications and data from dedicated hardware so that the server, storage, and networking infrastructure can be shared and used more efficiently. Our unified FAS architecture is well suited for
virtualized environments because it provides integrated data protection along with increased efficiency and flexibility.



•Cloud.Cloud-based infrastructure has become a business priority. Clouds built on a NetApp®foundation have lower costs and provide operational efficiencies that allow IT to respond more rapidly. Our goal is to help organizations benefit from the efficiency
and flexibility our products provide, whether they choose to deploy an on-premises (private) cloud solution or outsource to an external (public) cloud service provider. In order to meet customers’ needs for external cloud services, we have
developed a global network of cloud service provider partners. Our solutions for service providers accelerate the development and delivery of cloud services such as Microsoft®Exchange as a Service,
Microsoft®SharePoint as a Service, IT Infrastructure as a Service, Desktop as a Service, Storage as a
Service, and Data Protection as a Service.



•Business applications.Our products and services are designed to meet the expansive requirements and demanding service levels of large
enterprises and their mission-critical business applications. In addition, we bring our affordable, enterprise-proven technology to midsize enterprise businesses. We also design our products to satisfy the demands of high-performance computing and
technical data center applications. To better meet the needs of our customers, we develop integrated solutions that optimize the performance of customers’ applications and their infrastructure in partnership with key industry leaders such as
Cisco Systems, IBM, Microsoft, Oracle, SAP, and VMware. We partner with industry leaders to create best-in-class solutions and to deliver and support them worldwide. We provide expert services and global support to maximize the value customers
derive from our products and to maintain their systems.



•Big data.We are now entering an era of big scale, in which the amount of data processed and stored by enterprises is stressing traditional
storage architectures. Customers require storage products and solutions that are optimized for these workloads such as:



•Analytics.This solution area focuses on providing efficient analytics for extremely large datasets and turning data into high-quality
information to facilitate deeper insights about the business for better and quicker decision making.



•Bandwidth.This solution area focuses on obtaining better performance for high-performance workloads.



•Content.This solution area focuses on satisfying the need to store, find, and access almost unlimited amounts of data for an indefinite amount
of time.

NetApp Product Overview

We offer two storage platforms, each engineered to serve different goals. Our unified FAS storage systems offer integrated protection and data management and built-in efficiency for virtualized, shared
infrastructures and business applications. Our E-Series systems offer high-performance, reliable, scalable, and space-efficient storage — the optimal platform for big data workloads and value-added customization.

Both platforms reflect our commitment to the principles of simplicity, innovation, and a dedication to customer and partner success. Both
platforms have a proven track record of reliability and performance, are highly cost efficient and provide flexibility for diverse workloads.







We believe that by providing greater efficiency and flexibility, our solutions help improve
business productivity, performance, and profitability, while providing investment protection and enhanced asset utilization. Our enterprise-class storage solutions are complemented by our services expertise to maximize the business benefits that
customers gain from deploying our storage products.

FAS Storage Platform

We offer highly available, scalable, and cost-effective storage solutions that incorporate our unified FAS platform
and the feature-rich functionality of our Data ONTAP®data and storage resource management software.

Data ONTAP Software

Our FAS and V-Series storage solutions are based on Data ONTAP, a highly scalable and flexible operating system (OS) that concurrently supports any mix of storage area network (SAN) and network-attached
storage (NAS) environments. Our unified storage software platform is compatible with UNIX®, Linux®, Windows®, and Web environments. It enables scalable storage that is always on and that provides superior operational efficiency to help manage data, application, and
infrastructure growth.

The Data ONTAP OS provides the foundation to build a shared storage infrastructure and an
enterprise-wide data fabric for the full breadth of business applications and data storage and protection requirements. Data ONTAP features scalability, secure multi-tenancy, and unification across protocols and disks. Data ONTAP also unifies
storage efficiency, data management, and data protection. We believe customers can benefit from these capabilities as they increasingly virtualize their application environments. Our deduplication for primary and secondary storage, thin
provisioning, and highly efficient hardware help maximize utilization while reducing data center footprint and lowering storage-related power and cooling consumption. A few of the technology features we offer with Data ONTAP include:



•FlexShare®technology, which directs how storage system resources are used to deliver an appropriate level of service for each application;



•FlexCache®technology, which allows performance acceleration through the creation of read-only cached volumes on multiple storage controllers;



•MultiStore®software, which allows partitioning of individual physical storage systems into multiple secure and separate logical partitions; and



•RAID-DP®, a
standard Data ONTAP feature that safeguards data from double disk failure. Integrated with our WAFL®(Write
Anywhere File Layout) file system, RAID-DP gives customers data protection plus high performance.

Storage Efficiency

Our portfolio of efficiency technologies helps our customers reduce their storage spending and get more from the storage assets they already own. Some of the efficiency technologies we offer include:



•FlexVol®technology, which provides for thin provisioning through virtual volumes, enabling storage architectures to be more efficient and achieve higher utilization using flexible volumes that do not require repartitioning of physical storage space;



•FlexClone®technology, which enables true data cloning using logical copies that do not require additional physical storage space and allows for instant replication of data volumes and datasets; and



•Deduplication technology, which provides the ability to eliminate duplicate data within primary and secondary disk storage environments, resulting in
greater efficiency and higher utilization of storage capacity.







Storage Management and Application Integration Software

NetApp OnCommand™ management software improves storage and service efficiency through functions that help customers control,
automate, and analyze their shared storage infrastructures. Our management software family of products provides a broad range of storage and data management tools to simplify IT administration and enhance flexibility and productivity. We deliver
differentiated products that support industry open standards and interfaces to deliver this value to customers. We tightly integrate our software with database and business application software from partners such as Microsoft, Oracle, SAP, and
VMware in order to optimize the performance of those applications on our storage systems.

Through data center automation
tools, we give customers the ability to monitor service levels, manage performance, and support change management in complex enterprise SAN and NAS environments. We help customers optimize shared infrastructures by supporting individual application
performance, service level, and security needs even while the storage is shared across multiple applications.

FAS Unified Storage Systems Family

Our family of modular, scalable, highly available, unified storage systems streamlines, simplifies, and consolidates the storage layer. The FAS6200, FAS3200, and FAS2000 series of fabric-attached storage
systems are designed to consolidate all types of storage workloads, including primary and secondary data, as well as structured and unstructured data, across all key OS platforms and network infrastructures. Also, we unify storage access for all
standard network protocols based on host bus adapter (HBA) technology and standard Internet Protocol (IP) networks. All our FAS systems are interoperable and provide common software services. We provide a data-in-place upgrade path that spans from
entry-level platforms for smaller organizations all the way to high-end data center environments. Our FAS unified architecture supports both scale-up and scale-out growth strategies running the highly efficient Data ONTAP operating system.

Virtual Storage Tier

Customers can increase the performance of our storage controller using our virtual storage tiering, which is available with our Flash Cache modular cache expansion. Virtual storage tiering lowers response
times and increases input/output (I/O) operations of disk drives without storing additional data on them. Using dynamic storage tiering also improves application performance for production workloads residing on any type of disk drive. Deduplication
capabilities reduce the I/O load on storage controllers to provide extreme scaling, especially useful with virtual and cloud-based working sets.

V-Series Family

Our V-Series family is a network-based
virtualization solution that consolidates storage from different suppliers behind our data management interface, providing SAN and NAS access to the data stored in heterogeneous storage arrays. With the V-Series solution, customers are able to:



•Transform existing heterogeneous, multivendor storage systems into a single storage pool;



•Simplify storage provisioning and management with Data ONTAP thin provisioning; and



•Dramatically lower backup time, space, and cost with Data ONTAP Snapshot™ copies.

The V-Series family is compatible with the FAS family of storage systems.

Data Protection Software Products

The NetApp Integrated Data Protection portfolio offers a broad range of branded and partner-integrated solutions designed to increase the speed, simplicity, and efficiency of data protection operations in
any environment from physical to shared IT to cloud. This portfolio includes:



•Snapshot technology, which enables near-instantaneous, space-efficient online backups of large datasets without affecting system performance;







•SnapRestore®technology, which uses stored Snapshot backups to recover entire file systems or data volumes in seconds, regardless of capacity or number of files;



•SnapVault®and
Open Systems SnapVault technologies, which provide network- and storage-optimized data movement for disk-to-disk backup;



•MetroCluster™, which uniquely combines array-based clustering with synchronous mirroring to deliver continuous availability and zero data loss;



•SnapMirror®data replication solution, which provides disaster recovery protection for business-critical data matched to the recovery point objectives and recovery time objectives of customer environments;



•NetApp
SnapProtect®, which manages NetApp Snapshot copies, replication, and tape from a single console to enable
high-speed, modern backup solutions that solve longstanding data protection challenges; and



•NetApp integrated backup solutions, which bring the speed and efficiency of NetApp Snapshot and replication to customers using our alliance
partners’ backup solutions. Symantec™ NetBackup™, CommVault Simpana, and Syncsort data protection software can manage our data protection stack to accelerate operations without complicating management.

Data Retention and Archive Products

To meet growing regulatory compliance demands faced by most enterprises, we offer a broad suite of products to help
enable data permanence, accessibility, and privacy to satisfy a variety of different regulations such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, FDA Title 21 CFR Part 11, SEC Rule 17a-4, and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act
(HIPAA). Cost-effective, resilient, and reliable storage architectures can be created utilizing NetApp SnapLock®products.

Flash Cache

NetApp Flash Cache modules optimize the performance of random read–intensive workloads such as file services and messaging. These intelligent read caches speed access to user data, reducing latency
by a factor of 10 or more compared to disk drives. Faster response times can translate into higher throughput for random I/O workloads. NetApp Flash Cache gives users performance that is comparable to that of solid state disks (SSDs) without the
complexity of another storage tier.

Storage Security Products

Partnering with SafeNet, Inc. enables us to provide a unified platform for data security and key management across IP SAN, NAS, and tape
backup environments. The platform combines wire-speed encryption, access controls, authentication, and automated key management to provide strong security for data at rest, while still allowing the capability to search compliant data for legal
discovery purposes if the need arises. We also partner with Brocade Communications Systems, Inc. to provide advanced fabric services for SANs. These high-speed, highly reliable hardware devices deliver fabric-based encryption services to secure data
assets either selectively or comprehensively.

Big Content Solutions: StorageGRID

NetApp StorageGRID®is a proven object storage software solution designed to manage petabyte-scale, globally distributed repositories of images, video, and records for enterprises and
service providers. NetApp StorageGRID provides tremendous scalability by eliminating the typical constraints of data containers in blocks and files. It supports billions of files or objects and petabytes of capacity in hybrid cloud storage
architectures with a single global namespace.







NetApp StorageGRID enables intelligent data management and secure content retention. Data
placement and secure content retention are optimized by aligning system and business process management metadata with a global policy engine that manages how data is stored, placed, governed, protected, and retrieved. Content is protected from
tampering using technologies such as digital fingerprints and encryption.

Other big content offerings include the NetApp
Solution for Archive as a Service and NetApp StorageGRID Healthcare Solution.

E-Series Storage Platform

E-Series systems offer OEMs a high-performance, modular storage platform with flexible scalability, space-efficient density, and high
reliability for their purpose-built solutions and value-added customizations. This combination makes E-Series systems ideal for high-performance environments that are characterized by massive amounts of critical data and computing demands that
require enterprise-class scalability and reliability. Our server OEMs also take advantage of E-Series attributes to deliver entry storage systems to their diverse customers.

We also leverage the E-Series platform to simplify the deployment of a Hadoop big data infrastructure. We accelerate the time to value for a Hadoop infrastructure and enable customers to scale their
deployments more practically and predictably. Working with an ecosystem of partners, we continue our commitment to industry standards and open sources, including the Apache distribution of Hadoop.

We also leverage the E-Series platform in the development of big bandwidth solutions for full-motion video, seismic processing, medical
content management, and high-performance Lustre solutions.

NetApp Services

Our customers demand high availability and reliability of their storage infrastructure to ensure the successful ongoing operation of their
businesses. Our services are designed with this in mind. We provide professional services, global support solutions, and customer education and training to help customers most effectively manage their data. The professional services and support
solutions we offer help our customers to resolve business problems, reduce costs, keep businesses up and running continuously, comply with regulations and policies, and improve overall operational results. We utilize a global, integrated model to
provide consistent service delivery and global support during every phase of the customer engagement, including assessment and analysis, planning, design, installation, implementation, integration, optimization, ongoing support, and remote
management and monitoring. Services and support often involve phased rollouts, technology transitions and migrations, and other long-term engagements.

Sales, Principal Markets, and Distribution Channels

We market and sell our
products in numerous countries throughout the world, and we continue to make investments in our multiyear branding and awareness campaign to increase visibility of NetApp in the broader IT segment.

Our diversified customer base spans a number of customer segments and vertical markets, including energy, financial services, government,
high technology, Internet, life sciences and healthcare services, major manufacturing, media, entertainment, animation and video postproduction, and telecommunications. We focus primarily on the data management and storage markets, offering an array
of solutions from our high-end products designed for large enterprise customers to entry-level products designed for midsized enterprise customers.

To increase market share, we are focused on diversifying our multichannel distribution strategy. We are strengthening existing partnerships and investing in new partnerships with system integrators and
cloud service providers.







As of the end of fiscal 2012, our worldwide sales and marketing function consisted of
approximately 5,600 managers, sales representatives, and technical support personnel. We have field sales offices in more than 40 countries. We employ a multichannel distribution strategy, selling products and services to end users and service
providers through a direct sales force and through channel partners, including value-added resellers, system integrators, OEMs, and distributors. During fiscal year 2012, sales through our indirect channels represented 78% of our total net revenues.
Sales to customers Arrow Electronics, Inc. and Avnet, Inc., who are distributors, accounted for approximately 17% and 12% of our net revenues, respectively, in fiscal 2012; approximately 18% and 12% of our net revenues, respectively, for fiscal
2011; and approximately 14% and 11% of our net revenues, respectively, for fiscal 2010. Information about our segment disclosures, foreign operations, and net sales attributable to our geographic regions is included in Note 15 of the
accompanying consolidated financial statements.

Seasonality

We have historically experienced a decline in revenues in the first quarter of our fiscal year, as the sales organization spends time developing new business after higher close rates in the fourth
quarter, and because sales to European customers are historically weaker during the summer months. During the second quarter of our fiscal year, we have historically experienced increased sales, driven by the government sector, concurrent with the
end of the U.S. federal government’s fiscal year in September, as well as an increase in business from European markets. We derive a majority of our revenue in any given quarter from orders booked in the same quarter. Bookings and revenues
typically follow intraquarter seasonality patterns weighted toward the back end of the quarter.

Backlog

We manufacture products based on a combination of specific order requirements and forecasts of our customers’ demand. Orders are
generally placed by customers on an as-needed basis. A substantial portion of our products is sold on the basis of standard purchase orders that are cancellable prior to shipment without penalty. In certain circumstances, purchase orders are subject
to change with respect to quantity of product or timing of delivery resulting from changes in customer requirements. Our business is characterized by seasonal and intraquarter variability in demand, as well as short lead times and product delivery
schedules. Accordingly, backlog at any given time might not be a meaningful indicator of future revenue.

Manufacturing and Supply Chain

We have outsourced manufacturing operations to third parties located in Memphis, Tennessee; Olive Branch, Mississippi;
Livingston, Scotland; Schiphol Airport, The Netherlands; Szekesfehervar, Hungary; Shanghai and Longhua, China; Taoyuan City, Taiwan; Singapore; and Guadalajara, Mexico. These operations include materials procurement, commodity management, component
engineering, test engineering, manufacturing engineering, product assembly, product assurance, quality control, final test, and global logistics. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for materials, as well as several key subcontractors for the
production of certain subassemblies and finished systems. We use multiple vendors and have our products manufactured in a number of locations wherever possible to mitigate our supply chain risk. Our strategy has been to develop close relationships
with our suppliers, exchanging critical information and implementing joint quality programs. We also use contract manufacturers for the production of major subassemblies to improve our manufacturing continuity of business. This manufacturing
strategy minimizes capital investments and overhead expenditures while creating flexibility for rapid expansion.

We were
awarded ISO 9001 certification on May 29, 1997, and continue to be ISO 9001 certified. We were awarded ISO 14001 certification on December 8, 2004, and continue to be ISO 14001 certified.







Research and Development

We conduct research and development activities in various locations throughout the world. In fiscal 2012, 2011, and 2010, research and development expenses represented 13%, 13%, and 14% of our net
revenues, respectively. These costs relate primarily to personnel and related costs incurred to conduct product development activities. Although we develop many of our products internally, we might acquire technology through business combinations or
through licensing from third parties when appropriate. We believe that technical leadership is essential to our success, and we expect to continue to commit substantial resources to research and development.

Competition

We compete
with many companies in the markets we serve, including companies that offer a broad spectrum of IT products and services (full-stack vendors) and others that offer a more limited set of storage and data management products or services. In the
primary storage market, our system products and associated software portfolio mainly compete with storage system products and data management software from Dell, EMC, Hitachi Data Systems, HP, IBM, and Oracle Corporation. We compete against these
same companies in the secondary storage market, which includes the disk-to-disk backup, archival and compliance, and business continuity segments. In markets such as cloud, big data, and converged infrastructure, our primary competitors include EMC,
Hitachi Data Systems, HP, and IBM. In the healthcare, financial services, life sciences, and service provider markets, we compete primarily with EMC, Hitachi Data Systems, HP, and IBM. Some of our competitors in the primary and secondary storage
markets also offer their systems to OEM customers. In addition, we compete in the OEM market against products from DotHill and Xyratex.

Most full-stack vendors that sell storage started as server companies. Their ability to monetize their storage investment is limited by their server market share because their primary sales strategy is to
attach storage to their server sales. With such a cap on market opportunity, we expect that over time the server companies will have difficulty sustaining investment in storage and data management. However, most storage companies have multiple
overlapping architectures. Many of our competitors have multiple products that serve similar needs, resulting in multiple code bases that have to replicate the same functionality, diluting product development and management, current product
engineering, and support costs and slowing their ability to innovate.

We consider innovation and our technological
partnerships to be our key differentiators. We are committed to being the best-in-class storage vendor and partnering with other industry leaders in delivering what we call the “innovation stack.” An innovation stack from best-in-class
vendors gives customers the best applications and technologies available. To support our solutions for converged architectures, we offer a cooperative support model with our partners.

In the OEM market, we compete based on the total offering we provide our partners, which is focused on a commitment to their success.
They choose us for our products, technology, training, and support through the sales and product lifecycles.

We believe the
advantages of our products include functionality, scalability, performance, flexibility, quality, and operational efficiency. We believe our advantage also includes the nature of the relationships we form with our customers and partners worldwide.
We strive to deliver an outstanding experience in every interaction we have with our customers and partners through our product, service, and support offerings, which enable us to provide our customers with a full range of expertise before, during,
and after their purchase.

An increase in industry consolidation might result in stronger competitors that are better able to
compete as sole-source vendors for customers. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or might establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties, including some of our partners. It is possible that
new competitors or alliances among competitors might emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share.







Proprietary Rights

We currently rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures, contractual
provisions, and patents to protect our proprietary rights. We seek to protect our software, documentation, and other written materials under trade secret, copyright, and patent laws, which afford only limited protection. We have registered our
NetApp name and logo, Network Appliance®name and logo, Data ONTAP, DataFabric®, FlexVol, FlexPod™, FilerView®, NearStore®, OnCommand,
SecureShare®, SnapDrive®, SnapLock, SnapManager®,
SnapMirror, SnapRestore, SnapVault, WAFL, and others as trademarks in the United States. Other U.S. trademarks and U.S. registered trademarks are registered internationally as well. We will continue to evaluate the registration of
additional trademarks as appropriate. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, resellers, customers, and suppliers. We currently have multiple U.S. and international patent applications pending and multiple
U.S. patents issued.

In addition, through various licensing arrangements, we receive certain rights to intellectual
property of others. We expect to maintain current licensing arrangements and to secure licensing arrangements in the future, as needed and to the extent available on reasonable terms and conditions, to support continued development and sales of our
products and services. Some of these licensing arrangements require or might require royalty payments and other licensing fees. The amount of these payments and fees might depend on various factors, including but not limited to the structure of
royalty payments; offsetting considerations, if any; and the degree of use of the licensed technology.

The industry in which
we compete is characterized by rapidly changing technology, a large number of patents, and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights, and we are exposed to various risks related to legal
proceedings or claims and protection of intellectual property rights. Also, if we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we might be subject to increased competition that could materially and adversely affect our operating results.

Environmental Disclosure

We are committed to the success of our customers and partners, to delivering value to our shareholders, and to positively affecting the communities where our employees work and live. We firmly believe
that we can accomplish these objectives concurrently with our commitment to sustainability and environmental responsibility. We are committed to the prevention of pollution; efficient use of natural resources; and minimizing, relative to the growth
of the company, the environmental impacts from our operations, products, and services, as well as to comply with laws and regulations related to these areas. Our environmental management system provides the framework for setting, monitoring, and
continuously improving our environmental goals and objectives.

We are voluntarily measuring, monitoring, and publicly
reporting our Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions. We have established employee commuter programs and education and awareness campaigns, and we continuously seek to optimize the energy efficiency of our buildings, labs, and data centers. At
both the global and regional/state levels, various laws and regulations have been implemented or are under consideration to mitigate the effects of climate change caused by greenhouse gas emissions. Environmental laws are complex, change frequently,
and have tended to become more stringent over time. It is often difficult to estimate the future impact of environmental matters. Based on current information and subject to the finalization of the proposed regulations, we believe that our primary
risk related to climate change is the risk of increased energy costs. However, we do not anticipate being subject to a cap and trade system or any other mitigation measures that would be material to our operations in the near future. Additionally,
we have implemented disaster recovery and business resiliency measures to mitigate the physical risks our facilities, business, and supply chain might face as a consequence of severe weather/climate-related phenomena such as earthquakes, floods,
droughts, and other such natural occurrences.







Working Capital Practices

Information about our working capital practices is included in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operation,” under the heading “Liquidity and Capital Resources” and is incorporated herein by reference.

Employees

As of April 27, 2012, we had 12,149 employees, of
which 5,569 were in sales and marketing, 3,957 were in research and development, 1,524 were in services and manufacturing operations, and 1,099 were in finance and administration. We have never had a work stoppage and consider relations with our
employees to be good. Competition for technical personnel in the industry in which we compete is intense. We believe that our future success depends in part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate, and retain qualified personnel. To date, we
believe that we have been successful in recruiting qualified employees, but there is no assurance that we will continue to be successful in the future.

Executive Officers

Our executive officers and their ages as of
May 22, 2012, are as follows:



NameAgePositionThomas Georgens52President and Chief Executive OfficerNicholas R. Noviello43Executive Vice President and ChiefFinancial OfficerRobert E. Salmon51Executive Vice President, Field OperationsManish Goel47Executive Vice President, Product OperationsMatthew K. Fawcett44Senior Vice President and General Counsel

Thomas Georgenshas been the Company’s president and chief executive officer since August
2009. From February 2008 to August 2009, Mr. Georgens served as our president and chief operating officer and was responsible for all product operations and field operations worldwide. Mr. Georgens has also been a member of our Board of
Directors since March 2008. Mr. Georgens joined NetApp in October 2005 as executive vice president and general manager of enterprise storage systems and served as our executive vice president of product operations from January 2007 to February
2008. Before joining the Company, Mr. Georgens spent nine years in various roles at LSI Corporation, an electronics design company, and its subsidiaries, including chief







executive officer of Engenio, president of LSI Logic Storage Systems and executive vice president of LSI Logic. Prior to Engenio, Mr. Georgens spent 11 years at EMC Corporation, a
computer storage and data management company, in a variety of engineering and marketing positions. Mr. Georgens holds a B.S. degree and an M.E. degree in computer and systems engineering from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute as well as an
M.B.A. degree from Babson College.

Nicholas R. Noviellowas appointed executive vice president and chief financial
officer in January 2012, overseeing the company’s finance, customer leasing, workplace resources, and investor relations functions. Mr. Noviello joined NetApp in January 2008 as vice president, finance and controller. He was named senior
vice president finance and corporate controller in April 2008, and senior vice president finance and global controller in November 2010. Before joining NetApp, Mr. Noviello spent eight years at Honeywell International, where he was chief
financial officer of two global business units, managed investor relations, and was a leader on the corporate mergers and acquisitions team. Prior to Honeywell, Mr. Noviello led mergers and acquisitions for Monarch Dental Corporation for two
years and spent seven years at PricewaterhouseCoopers in mergers and acquisitions transaction services, tax, and audit. Mr. Noviello holds a BS degree in business administration from Boston University and an MS degree in taxation from Fairleigh
Dickinson University, and he is a certified public accountant.

Robert E. Salmonjoined NetApp in January 1994 and was
appointed executive vice president, field operations in December 2005. Mr. Salmon has served as the company’s executive vice president of worldwide sales since September 2004. From August 2003 to September 2004, Mr. Salmon served as
our senior vice president of worldwide sales, and from May 2000 to August 2003, Mr. Salmon served as our vice president of North American sales. Prior to his tenure at NetApp, Mr. Salmon spent nearly 10 years with Sun Microsystems, a
supplier of network computing systems, and Data General Corporation, a manufacturer of multi-user computer systems. Mr. Salmon graduated from California State University, Chico with a BS degree in computer science.

Manish Goelwas appointed the executive vice president, of product operations in June 2009, overseeing all aspects of technology
strategy and product engineering across our product portfolio. Mr. Goel has held a variety of leadership roles in corporate development, sales, and business unit general management since he joined NetApp in 2002. Prior to NetApp, Mr. Goel
led corporate and business development activities for Cadence Design Systems, an electronic design automation company, from February 1998 to May 1999, and Copper Mountain Networks, a developer of digital subscriber line (DSL) products, from May 1999
to October 2001. Prior to that, he spent four years as a strategy consultant for McKinsey and Co. and six years in sales operations and software engineering roles. Mr. Goel holds a BS degree in electrical engineering from IIT Chennai and an MBA
degree in finance from the Wharton School of Business.

Matthew K. Fawcettjoined the company in September 2010 as
senior vice president and general counsel. Prior to joining NetApp, from 1999 to August 2010, Mr. Fawcett served in various legal positions at JDS Uniphase Corporation, an optical components company, including as senior vice president, general
counsel and corporate secretary. Prior to joining JDSU, Mr. Fawcett was counsel at Fujitsu and worked in private practice at Morrison & Foerster LLP. Fawcett holds a BA degree from the University of California at Berkeley and a JD
degree from the University of California at Los Angeles.

Additional Information

Our Internet address iswww.netapp.com.We make available through our Internet Web site our annual reports on Form 10-K,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we
electronically file such materials with, or furnish them to, the SEC.

The SEC maintains an Internet site (www.sec.gov)
that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The public also may read and copy these filings at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street
N.E., Washington, DC 20549. Information about this Public Reference Room is available by calling (800) SEC-0330.







