Item 1.Business



Forward
    Looking Statements



This Annual Report onForm 10-Kcontains forward-looking statements within the meaning of
    Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and
    Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
    amended (the “Exchange Act”), and is subject to the
    safe harbor provisions set forth in the Exchange Act.
    Forward-looking statements usually contain the words
    “estimate,” “intend,” “plan,”
    “predict,” “seek,” “may,”
    “will,” “should,” “would,”
    “could,” “anticipate,” “expect,”
    “believe,” or similar expressions and variations or
    negatives of these words. In addition, any statements that refer
    to expectations, projections, or other characterizations of
    future events or circumstances, including any underlying
    assumptions, are forward-looking statements. All forward-looking
    statements, including but not limited to, statements about:



•our future financial and operating results;•our business strategies;•management’s plans, beliefs and objectives for future
    operations, research and development;•acquisitions and joint ventures, growth opportunities,
    investments and legal proceedings;•competitive positions;•product introductions, development, enhancements and acceptance;•economic and industry trends or trend analyses;•future cash flows and cash deployment strategies;•short-term and long-term cash requirements;•our anticipated tax rate;•the dilutive effect of our convertible Notes and associated
    warrants on our earnings per share;•the conversion, maturation or repurchase of the Notes,•compliance with laws, regulations and debt covenants;•the continuation of our stock repurchase program; and•the impact of completed acquisitions



are inherently uncertain as they are based on management’s
    current expectations and assumptions concerning future events,
    and they are subject to numerous known and unknown risks and
    uncertainties. Therefore, our actual results may differ
    materially from the forward-looking statements contained herein.
    Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially
    from those described herein include, but are not limited to:



•acceptance of, and demand for, our products;•the amount of orders received in future periods;•our ability to ship our products in a timely manner;•our ability to achieve anticipated pricing, cost, and gross
    margins levels;•our ability to successfully manage our backlog and increase
    revenue;•our ability to successfully execute on our strategy;•our ability to increase our customer base, market share and
    revenue;•our ability to successfully introduce new products;







•our ability to maintain the quality of our hardware, software
    and services offerings;•our ability to adapt to changes in market demand;•the general economic environment and the growth of the storage
    markets;•demand for our services and support;•our ability to identify and respond to significant market trends
    and emerging standards;•the impact of industry consolidation;•our ability to successfully manage our investment in people,
    process, and systems;•our ability to maintain our supplier and contract manufacturer
    relationships;•the ability of our suppliers and contract manufacturers to meet
    our requirements;•the ability of our competitors to introduce new products that
    compete successfully with our products;•our ability to grow direct and indirect sales and to efficiently
    utilize global service and support;•variability in our gross margins;•our ability to sustainand/orimprove our cash and overall financial position;•our cash requirements and terms and availability of financing;•valuation and liquidity of our investment portfolio;•our ability to finance business acquisitions, construction
    projects and capital expenditures through cash from operationsand/orfinancing;•the results of our ongoing litigation, tax audits, government
    audits and inquiries; and•those factors discussed under “Risk Factors” elsewhere
    in this Annual Report on Form10-K.



Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these
    forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date
    hereof and are based upon information available to us at this
    time. These statements are not guarantees of future performance.
    We disclaim any obligation to update information in any
    forward-looking statement. Actual results could vary from our
    forward looking statements due to foregoing factors as well as
    other important factors, including those described in the Risk
    Factors included on page 11.



Overview



NetApp, Inc. (NetApp) is a leading provider of storage and data
    management solutions. We offer solutions for storing, managing,
    protecting and archiving business data. Our solutions are
    designed to lower the cost of managing and protecting our
    customers’ data while increasing their agility and
    competitiveness.



We offer comprehensive solutions to help customers effectively
    streamline operations and lower the cost associated with storing
    and managing their data. In an era of increasing constraints on
    information technology (IT) spending, our storage efficiency
    innovations allow customers to use smaller, more efficient
    storage systems in support of primary and secondary storage
    applications, helping them manage the issues associated with
    continuous data growth. We strive to provide the best experience
    in the industry with every interaction customers have with our
    people, products and services. In addition to our broad range of
    storage and data management solutions, we provide global service
    and support and work to simplify customer environments by
    utilizing open standards and closely collaborating and
    partnering with other industry leaders. We help solve customer
    business challenges and help enable them to maximize return on
    investment through a combination of products, technologies,
    services, and partnerships.



Our products and services are designed to meet the expansive
    requirements and demanding service levels of large enterprises
    and their mission-critical business applications. To better meet
    these needs, we partner with key industry leaders, such as Cisco
    Systems, Inc., IBM Corporation, Microsoft Corporation, SAP
    Corporation,





Symantec Corporation and VMware, Inc. to develop integrated
    solutions that optimize the performance of customers’
    applications and their infrastructure. In addition, our products
    have been designed to satisfy the demands of high performance
    computing and technical data center applications, offering
    solutions used in the design of semiconductors and automobiles,
    as well as graphics rendering and seismic exploration.



We were incorporated in 1992 and shipped the world’s first
    networked storage appliance a year later. Since then, we have
    brought to market many innovations in storage and data
    management. We have grown to over 8,300 employees with
    operations in over 130 locations around the world.



NetApp
    Product Overview



We offer highly available, scalable and cost-effective storage
    solutions that incorporate our unified storage platform and the
    feature-rich functionality of our data and storage resource
    management software. We believe that our solutions help improve
    enterprise productivity, performance and profitability, while
    providing investment protection and enhanced asset utilization.
    Our enterprise-class storage solutions are complemented by our
    services expertise to enable interoperability and optimization
    in the context of the application and IT infrastructure within
    which they are deployed.



Data
    ONTAP Software



Our Fabric-Attached Storage (FAS) and V-Series storage solutions
    are based on Data
    ONTAP®,

    a highly scalable and flexible operating system that uniquely
    supports any mix of storage area network (SAN), network-attached
    storage (NAS) and Internet Small Computer System Interface
    (iSCSI) environments concurrently. This unified storage software
    platform is compatible with
    UNIX®,

    Linux®,

    Windows®and Web environments.



The Data ONTAP operating system provides the foundation to build
    a shared storage infrastructure and an enterprise-wide data
    fabric for the full breadth of business applications and data
    storage and protection requirements. Data ONTAP features
    scalability, secure multi-tenancy and unification across
    protocols and disks. Data ONTAP also unifies storage efficiency,
    data management and data protection delivery. We believe
    customers can benefit from these capabilities as they
    increasingly virtualize application environments. Our
    deduplication for primary and secondary storage, thin
    provisioning, and highly efficient hardware help maximize
    utilization while reducing data center footprint and lowering
    storage-related power and cooling consumption. A few of the
    technology features we offer with Data ONTAP include:



•FlexShare®technology directs how storage system resources are used to
    deliver an appropriate level of service for each application ;•FlexCache®technology allows performance acceleration through the creation
    of read-only cached volumes by creating caching volumes on
    multiple storage controllers; and•MultiStore®software allows partitioning of individual physical storage
    systems into multiple secure and separate logical partitions.



Storage
    Efficiency



NetApp’s portfolio of efficiency technologies helps our
    customers reduce their storage spending and get more from
    storage assets they already own. Some of the efficiency
    technologies we offer include:



•FlexVol®technology provides thin provisioning through virtual volumes,
    enabling storage architectures to be more efficient and achieve
    higher utilization using flexible volumes that do not require
    repartitioning of physical storage space;•FlexClone®technology enables true data cloning using logical copies that
    do not require additional physical storage space, and allows for
    instant replication of data volumes and data sets; and•Deduplicationtechnology provides the ability to
    eliminate duplicate data within primary and secondary disk
    storage environments, resulting in greater efficiency and higher
    utilization of storage capacity.







Storage
    Management and Application Integration Software



Our management software family of products provides a broad
    range of storage and data management tools to simplify IT
    administration and enhance flexibility and productivity. We
    deliver differentiated products and collaborate with industry
    open standards and interfaces to deliver this value to
    customers. We have four suites of products targeted to different
    IT administrative roles: Storage Suite, Server Suite, Database
    Suite and Application Suite. The software products within these
    suites are tightly integrated with database and business
    application software from partners such as Microsoft, Oracle,
    SAP and VMware, in order to optimize the performance of those
    applications on our storage systems. Our product offering
    extends into data center automation, which provides the
    capability to monitor service levels, manage performance and
    support change management in complex enterprise SAN
    environments. We help customers optimize shared infrastructures
    by supporting individual application performance, service level
    and security needs even while the storage is shared across
    multiple applications.



FAS Storage
    Systems Family



Our family of modular, scalable, highly available, unified
    networked storage systems provides access to a full range of
    enterprise data for users on a variety of platforms. The
    FAS 6000, FAS 3000, and the FAS 2000 series of
    fabric-attached enterprise storage systems are designed to
    consolidate UNIX, Windows, NAS, iSCSI, SAN and Web data in
    central locations running over standard connection types:
    Gigabit Ethernet, FC and parallel SCSI (for backup). Our design
    optimizes and consolidates high-performance data access for
    individuals in multi-user environments as well as for
    application servers and server clusters with dedicated access.
    All of our FAS systems are interoperable and run the highly
    efficient Data ONTAP operating system.



V-Series Family



Our V-Series is a network-based virtualization solution that
    consolidates storage from different suppliers behind our data
    management interface, providing SAN, iSCSI and NAS access to the
    data stored in heterogeneous storage arrays. With the V-Series
    solution, customers are able to: transform existing
    heterogeneous, multi-vendor storage systems into a single
    storage pool; simplify storage provisioning and management with
    Data ONTAP thin provisioning; and dramatically lower backup
    time, space and cost with Data ONTAP
    Snapshottmcopies. The V-Series is compatible with the FAS family of
    storage systems.



Data
    Protection Software Products



We offer a broad range of integrated data protection solutions
    for enterprise customer environments:



•Snapshottechnology enables near-instantaneous, space
    efficient online backups of large data sets without affecting
    system performance;•SnapRestore®technology uses stored
    Snapshottmbackups to recover entire file systems or data volumes in
    seconds, regardless of capacity or number of files;•SnapVault®and Open Systems SnapVaulttechnologies provide network-
    and storage-optimizeddisk-to-diskbackup solutions;•MetroClusteris a unique solution that combines
    array-based clustering with synchronous mirroring designed to
    deliver continuous availability and zero data loss;•SnapMirror®data replication solution provides disaster recovery protection
    for business-critical data matched to the recovery point
    objectives and recovery time objectives of customer environments.



Data
    Retention and Archive Products



To meet growing regulatory compliance demands faced by most
    enterprises, we offer a broad suite of products to help enable
    data permanence, accessibility and privacy across a variety of
    different regulations such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act,
    21 CFR Part 11, SECRule 17a-4and HIPAA. Immutable, cost-effective, resilient and reliable
    storage architectures can be created utilizing
    SnapLock®products.





Flash
    Cache



Our
    NetApp®Flash Cache modules optimize the performance of random read
    intensive workloads such as file services and messaging. These
    intelligent read caches speed access to user data, reducing
    latency by a factor of 10 or more compared to disk drives.
    Faster response times can translate into higher throughput for
    random I/O workloads. NetApp Flash Cache and PAM give users
    performance that is comparable to that of solid state disks
    (SSDs) without the complexity of another storage tier.



Storage
    Security Products



Our DataFort storage security appliance provides a unified
    platform for data security and key management across NAS, IP
    SAN, and tape backup environments. The platform combines
    wire-speed encryption, access controls, authentication and
    automated key management to provide strong security for data at
    rest, while still allowing the capability to search compliant
    data for legal discovery purposes if the need arises. NetApp has
    partnered with Brocade Communications Systems, Inc. to provide
    advanced fabric services for SANs. These high-speed, highly
    reliable hardware devices deliver fabric-based encryption
    services to secure data assets either selectively or
    comprehensively.



NetApp
    Services



Our customers demand high availability and reliability of their
    storage infrastructure to ensure the successful, ongoing
    operation of their businesses. NetApp’s services are
    designed with this in mind. We provide professional services,
    global support solutions and customer education and training to
    help customers most effectively manage their data. The
    professional services and support solutions we offer help our
    customers to resolve business problems, reduce costs, keep
    businesses up and running continuously, comply with regulations
    and policies and improve overall operational results. We utilize
    a global, integrated model to provide consistent service
    delivery and global support during every phase of the customer
    engagement, including assessment and analysis, planning, design,
    installation, implementation, integration, optimization, ongoing
    support and remote management and monitoring. Services and
    support often involve phased rollouts, technology transitions
    and migrations and other long-term engagements.



Sales,
    Principal Markets and Distribution Channels



We market and sell our products in numerous countries throughout
    the world and we continue to make investments in our multi-year
    branding and awareness campaign to increase visibility of NetApp
    in the broader IT segment.



Our diversified customer base spans a number of customer
    segments and vertical markets, including energy, financial
    services, government, high technology, internet, life sciences
    and healthcare services, major manufacturing, media,
    entertainment, animation and video postproduction and
    telecommunications. We focus primarily on the data management
    and storage markets, offering an array of solutions from our
    high-end products designed for large enterprise customers to
    entry-level products designed for mid-sized enterprise customers.



Our solutions are positioned to address the emerging
    opportunities presented by cloud computing. Our unified storage
    architecture, secure multi-tenancy capability, scalable systems,
    efficiency technologies and data management software
    functionality provide a powerful combination both for
    enterprises wanting to develop internal private clouds, and for
    service providers who want to build IT, Software, Storage and
    Infrastructure as a Service offerings.



As of the end of fiscal 2010, our worldwide sales and marketing
    function consisted of managers, sales representatives, and
    technical support personnel. We have field sales offices in more
    than 45 countries. We employ a multi-channel distribution
    strategy, selling products and services to end users and service
    providers through a direct sales force and through channel
    partners, including value-added resellers, system integrators,
    original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and distributors. During
    fiscal year 2010, sales through our indirect channels
    represented 69% of our total revenues. Sales to customers Arrow
    and Avnet, who are distributors, accounted for approximately 14%
    and 11% of our net revenues, respectively, in fiscal 2010 and
    for approximately 11% and 10% of our net revenues, respectively,
    for fiscal 2009. No individual customer accounted for ten
    percent or more of our net





revenues during fiscal 2008. Information about our segment
    disclosures, foreign operations and net sales attributable to
    our geographic regions is included in Note 16 of the
    accompanying consolidated financial statements.



Seasonality



We have historically experienced a decline in revenues in the
    first quarter of our fiscal year, as the sales organization
    spends time developing new business after higher close rates in
    the fourth quarter, and because sales to European customers are
    historically weaker during the summer months. During the second
    quarter of our fiscal year, we have historically experienced
    increased sales, driven by the government sector, concurrent
    with the end of the U.S. federal government’s fiscal
    year in September, as well as an increase in business from
    European markets. We derive a majority of our revenue in any
    given quarter from orders booked in the same quarter. Bookings
    and revenues typically follow intraquarter seasonality patterns
    weighted toward the back end of the quarter.



Backlog



We manufacture products based on a combination of specific order
    requirements and forecasts of our customers’ demand. Orders
    are generally placed by customers on an as-needed basis. A
    substantial portion of our products are sold on the basis of
    standard purchase orders that are cancellable prior to shipment
    without penalty. In certain circumstances, purchase orders are
    subject to change with respect to quantity of product or timing
    of delivery resulting from changes in customer requirements. Our
    business is characterized by seasonal and intra-quarter
    variability in demand, as well as short lead-times and product
    delivery schedules. Accordingly, backlog at any given time may
    not be a meaningful indicator of future revenue.



Manufacturing
    and Supply Chain



We have outsourced manufacturing operations to third parties
    located in Memphis, Tennessee; Livingston, Scotland; Schiphol
    Airport, The Netherlands; Shanghai, China; and Singapore. These
    operations include materials procurement, commodity management,
    component engineering, test engineering, manufacturing
    engineering, product assembly, product assurance, quality
    control, final test, and global logistics. We rely on a limited
    number of suppliers for materials, as well as several key
    subcontractors for the production of certain subassemblies and
    finished systems. We multi-source wherever possible to mitigate
    supply risk. Our strategy has been to develop close
    relationships with our suppliers, exchanging critical
    information and implementing joint quality programs. We also use
    contract manufacturers for the production of major subassemblies
    to improve our manufacturing redundancy. This manufacturing
    strategy minimizes capital investments and overhead expenditures
    and creates flexibility for rapid expansion.



We were awarded ISO 9001 certification on May 29, 1997 and
    continue to be ISO 9001 certified. We were awarded ISO 14001
    certification on December 8, 2004 and continue to be ISO
    14001 certified.



Research
    and Development



We conduct research and development activities in various
    locations throughout the world. In fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    research and development expenses represented 14%, 15% and 14%
    of our net revenues, respectively. These costs relate primarily
    to personnel and related costs incurred to conduct product
    development activities. Although we develop many of our products
    internally, we may acquire technology through business
    combinations or through licensing from third parties when
    appropriate. We believe that technical leadership is essential
    to our success and we expect to continue to commit substantial
    resources to research and development.



Competition



We compete with many companies in the markets we serve,
    including companies that offer a broad spectrum of IT products
    and services and others that offer specific storage and data
    management products or services. In the storage market, our
    primary system products and our associated software portfolio
    compete primarily with storage system products and data
    management software from EMC, Hitachi Data Systems, HP, IBM, and
    Oracle Corporation, through its acquisition of Sun Microsystems.
    In addition, Dell, Inc. is a competitor in the storage
    marketplace through its business arrangement with EMC, which
    allows Dell to resell EMC storage hardware and





software products, as well as through Dell’s acquisition of
    EqualLogic, through which Dell offers low-priced storage
    solutions. In the secondary storage market, which includes thedisk-to-diskbackup, compliance and business continuity segments, our
    solutions compete primarily against products from EMC and Oracle
    Corporation, through its acquisition of Sun Microsystems.



We believe that most of these companies compete based on their
    market presence, products, service or price. Some of these
    companies also compete by offering storage and data management
    products or services together with other IT products or
    services, at minimal or no additional cost in order to preserve
    or gain market share.



We believe that we have a number of competitive advantages over
    many of these companies, including product innovation and the
    relationships we have with our customers and partners. We
    believe the advantages of our products include functionality,
    scalability, performance, quality and operational efficiency. We
    believe we have an advantage in the nature of the relationships
    we form with our customers and partners worldwide. We strive to
    deliver an outstanding experience in every interaction we have
    with our customers and partners through our product, service and
    support offerings that enable us to provide our customers with a
    full range of expertise before, during and after their purchase
    from us or from one of our partners.



An increase in industry consolidation may result in stronger
    competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source
    vendors for customers. In addition, current and potential
    competitors have established or may establish cooperative
    relationships among themselves or with third parties, including
    some of our partners. It is possible that new competitors or
    alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire
    significant market share.



Proprietary
    Rights



We currently rely on a combination of copyright and trademark
    laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures, contractual
    provisions, and patents to protect our proprietary rights. We
    seek to protect our software, documentation, and other written
    materials under trade secret, copyright, and patent laws, which
    afford only limited protection. We have registered our NetApp
    name and logo, Network
    Appliancetmname and logo, Data ONTAP,
    DataFabric®,

    FAServer®,

    FlexVol,
    FilerView®,

    NearStore®,

    SecureShare®,

    SnapDrive®,

    SnapLock,
    SnapManager®,

    SnapMirror, SnapRestore, SnapVault,
    WAFL®,

    and others as trademarks in the United States. Other
    U.S. trademarks and U.S. registered trademarks are
    registered internationally as well. We will continue to evaluate
    the registration of additional trademarks as appropriate. We
    generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our
    employees, resellers, customers, and suppliers. We currently
    have multiple U.S. and international patent applications
    pending and multiple U.S. patents issued.



In addition, through various licensing arrangements, we receive
    certain rights to intellectual property of others. We expect to
    maintain current licensing arrangements and to secure licensing
    arrangements in the future, as needed and to the extent
    available on reasonable terms and conditions, to support
    continued development and sales of our products and services.
    Some of these licensing arrangements require or may require
    royalty payments and other licensing fees. The amount of these
    payments and fees may depend on various factors, including but
    not limited to: the structure of royalty payments, offsetting
    considerations, if any, and the degree of use of the licensed
    technology.



The industry in which we compete is characterized by rapidly
    changing technology, a large number of patents, and frequent
    claims and related litigation regarding patent and other
    intellectual property rights, and we are exposed to various
    risks related to legal proceedings or claims and protection of
    intellectual property rights. If we are unable to protect our
    intellectual property, we may be subject to increased
    competition that could materially and adversely affect our
    operating results.



Environmental
    Disclosure



We seek to comply with all applicable statutory and
    administrative requirements concerning environmental quality and
    worker health and safety. We have made, and will continue to
    make, expenditures for environmental compliance and protection.
    Such expenditures have not had, and are not expected to have, a
    material effect on our capital expenditures, results of
    operations or competitive position.



We are voluntarily assessing our greenhouse gas emissions, and
    have begun to take action to reduce such emissions, for example
    through establishing employee commuter programs and evaluating
    the energy efficiency of





our buildings. Various laws and regulations have been
    implemented or are under consideration to mitigate the effects
    of climate change caused by greenhouse gas emissions.
    Environmental laws are complex, change frequently and have
    tended to become more stringent over time. It is often difficult
    to estimate the future impact of environmental matters. Based on
    current information and subject to the finalization of the
    proposed regulations, we believe that our primary risk related
    to climate change is the risk of increased energy costs.
    However, because we are not an energy intensive business, we do
    not anticipate being subject to a cap and trade system or any
    other mitigation measures that would be material to our
    operations.



We are also subject to other federal, state and local
    regulations regarding workplace safety and protection of the
    environment. Various international, federal, state and local
    provisions regulate the use and discharge of certain hazardous
    materials used in the manufacture of our products. Failure to
    comply with environmental regulations in the future could cause
    us to incur substantial costs or subject us to business
    interruptions. We believe we are substantially compliant with
    all applicable environmental laws. All of our products meet the
    requirements for WEEE, RoHS and China RoHS compliance. We have
    maintained an Environmental Management System since December
    2004 as well as our ISO 14001 certification. As part of ISO
    14001 requirements, we conduct an annual review of our
    operations and we monitor environmental legislation and
    requirements to help ensure we are taking necessary measures to
    remain in compliance with applicable laws.



Working
    Capital Practices



Information about our working capital practices is included in
    Item 7 — “Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation”
    under the heading “Liquidity and Capital Resources”
    and is incorporated herein by reference.



Employees



As of April 30, 2010, we had 8,333 employees, of
    which, 2,346 were in research and development, 3,912 were in
    sales and marketing, 1,215 were in services and manufacturing
    operations, and 860 were in finance and administration. We have
    never had a work stoppage and consider relations with our
    employees to be good. Competition for technical personnel in the
    industry in which we compete is intense. We believe that our
    future success depends in part on our continued ability to hire,
    assimilate, and retain qualified personnel. To date, we believe
    that we have been successful in recruiting qualified employees,
    but there is no assurance that we will continue to be successful
    in the future.



Executive
    Officers



Our executive officers and their ages as of May 25, 2010,
    are as follows:



NameAgePositionThomas Georgens50President, Chief Executive Officer, DirectorManish Goel45Executive Vice President, ProductsSteven J. Gomo58Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial OfficerAndrew Kryder57Senior Vice President, General Counsel, SecretaryRobert E. Salmon49Executive Vice President, Field Operations





Thomas Georgensis the president and chief executive
    officer of the Company. Previously, Mr. Georgens served as
    president and chief operating officer responsible for all
    product operations and field operations worldwide from February
    2008 to August 2009. Mr. Georgens has also been a member of
    the Board of Directors at NetApp since March 2008.
    Mr. Georgens joined NetApp in October 2005 as executive
    vice president and general manager of enterprise storage systems
    and was named executive vice president of product operations
    where he served in that role from January 2007 to February 2008.
    Before joining NetApp, Mr. Georgens spent nine years at
    Engenio, a subsidiary of LSI Corporation, with the last two
    years as chief executive officer. He has also served in various
    other positions, including president of LSI Logic Storage
    Systems and executive vice president of LSI Corporation. Prior
    to LSI Corporation, Mr. Georgens spent 11 years at EMC
    in a variety of engineering and marketing positions.





Mr. Georgens holds a B.S. degree and an M.E. degree in
    Computer and Systems Engineering from Rensselaer Polytechnic
    Institute as well as an M.B.A. degree from Babson College.



Manish Goelwas appointed the executive vice president of
    product operations in June 2009, overseeing all aspects of
    technology strategy and product engineering across the
    Company’s product portfolio. Mr. Goel has held a
    variety of leadership roles in corporate development, sales, and
    business unit general management since he joined NetApp in 2002.
    Prior to NetApp, Mr. Goel led corporate and business
    development activities for Cadence Design Systems and Copper
    Mountain Networks. Prior to that, he spent four years as a
    strategy consultant for McKinsey and Co. and six years as a
    systems software engineer. Mr. Goel holds a B.S. in
    electrical engineering from IIT Chennai, and an MBA in finance
    from the Wharton School of Business.



Steven J. Gomojoined NetApp in August 2002 as senior
    vice president of finance and chief financial officer. He was
    appointed executive vice president of finance and chief
    financial officer in October 2004. Prior to joining the Company,
    he served as chief financial officer for Gemplus International
    S.A., headquartered in Luxembourg from November 2000 to April
    2002 and as chief financial officer of Silicon Graphics, Inc.,
    from February 1998 to August 2000. Prior to February 1998, he
    worked at Hewlett-Packard Company for 24 years in various
    positions, including financial management, corporate finance,
    general management, and manufacturing. Mr. Gomo currently
    serves on the board of SanDisk Corporation. Mr. Gomo holds
    an M.B.A. degree from Santa Clara University and a B.S.
    degree in business administration from Oregon State University.



Andrew Kryderis the Senior Vice President, General
    Counsel, Secretary of the Company. He was promoted to Senior
    Vice President Tax and General Counsel in June 2006.
    Mr. Kryder joined NetApp in August 2000 as Vice President,
    Legal and Tax and General Counsel. He has served as the
    Company’s Secretary since 2001. Prior to joining NetApp, he
    served as General Counsel and Vice President, Tax with Quantum
    Corporation, headquartered in Santa Clara, California, from
    November 1990 to August 2000 and was a tax partner and staff
    accountant with Ernst & Young from June 1977 to
    November 1990. Mr. Kryder currently serves on the board of
    JW house, a charitable organization. Mr. Kryder received
    his Juris Doctorate and Masters of Business Administration from
    Santa Clara University in 1977 and his B.S. degree in
    business administration also from Santa Clara University in
    1974.



Robert E. Salmonjoined NetApp in January 1994 and was
    appointed executive vice president, field operations in December
    2005. Mr. Salmon has served as the Company’s executive
    vice president of worldwide sales since September 2004. From
    August 2003 to September 2004, Mr. Salmon served as the
    Company’s senior vice president of worldwide sales and from
    May 2000 to August 2003, Mr. Salmon served as the
    Company’s vice president of North American sales. Prior to
    his tenure at NetApp Mr. Salmon spent nearly ten years with
    Sun Microsystems and Data General Corporation. Mr. Salmon
    graduated from California State University, Chico with a B.S.
    degree in computer science.



Additional
    Information



Our Internet address iswww.netapp.com.We make available
    through our Internet Web site our annual reports onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,current reports onForm 8-K,and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
    amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we
    electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the
    SEC.



The SEC maintains an Internet site(www.sec.gov)that
    contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other
    information regarding issuers that file electronically with the
    SEC. The public also may read and copy these filings at the
    SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street,
    N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information about this Public
    Reference Room is available by calling (800) SEC-0330.



