ITEM 1.BUSINESS

General

Pioneer is a Delaware corporation whose common stock is listed and traded on the NYSE. The Company is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company with current operations in the
United States and South Africa. Pioneer is a holding company whose assets consist of direct and indirect ownership interests in, and whose business is conducted substantially through, its subsidiaries.

The Company’s executive offices are located at 5205 N. O’Connor Blvd., Suite 200, Irving, Texas 75039. The
Company’s telephone number is (972) 444-9001. The Company maintains other offices in Anchorage, Alaska; Denver, Colorado; Midland, Texas; London, England and Capetown, South Africa. At December 31, 2010, the Company had 2,248
employees, 1,399 of whom were employed in field and plant operations.

Available Information

Pioneer files or furnishes annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the SEC under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”). The public may read and copy any materials that Pioneer files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may
obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, the SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers,
including Pioneer, that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that Pioneer files with the SEC athttp://www.sec.gov.

The Company also makes available free of charge through its internet website (www.pxd.com) its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and, if
applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC.

Mission and Strategies

The Company’s mission is to enhance shareholder investment returns through strategies that maximize Pioneer’s long-term profitability and net asset value. The strategies employed to achieve this
mission are predicated on maintaining financial flexibility, capital allocation discipline and enhancing net asset value through accretive drilling programs, joint ventures and acquisitions. These strategies are anchored by the Company’s
interests in long-lived Spraberry oil field; the liquid-rich Eagle Ford, Barnett Shale Combo, Hugoton and West Panhandle fields; and the Raton gas field; which together have an estimated remaining productive life in excess of 40 years. Underlying
these fields are approximately 90 percent of the Company’s proved oil and gas reserves as of December 
31, 2010.

Business Activities

The Company is an independent oil and gas exploration and production company. Pioneer’s purpose is to competitively
and profitably explore for, develop and produce oil and gas reserves. In so doing, the Company sells homogenous oil, NGL and gas units that, except for geographic and relatively minor quality differences, cannot be significantly differentiated from
units offered for sale by the Company’s competitors. Competitive advantage is gained in the oil and gas exploration and development industry by employing well-trained and experienced personnel who make prudent capital investment decisions based
on management direction, embrace technological innovation and are focused on price and cost management.

Petroleum industry.For several years preceding 2008, the petroleum industry was generally characterized by
volatile, but upward trending, oil, NGL and gas commodity prices. During the first half of 2008, North American gas prices increased as a result of reduced inventory levels, a perceived shortage of North American gas supply and anticipation that the
United States would become a larger importer of LNG, which was then selling in the world market at a substantial premium to United States gas prices. However, by mid-year 2008, it became apparent that capital investments in gas drilling and
discoveries of significant gas reserves in United States shale plays would cause domestic gas supply to exceed existing United States gas demand. Beginning in the second half of 2008 and continuing throughout most of 2009, the United States and
other industrialized countries experienced a significant economic slowdown, which







led to a substantial decline in worldwide energy demand. Declining energy
demand due to the economic slowdown, together with the increased supply of United States gas, resulted in sharp declines in oil, NGL and North American gas prices during the second half of 2008 and first half of 2009.

During the second half of 2009 and throughout 2010, economic stimulus initiatives implemented in the United States and
worldwide served to stabilize economies and increase industry and consumer confidence. While oil and NGL prices have steadily improved since the beginning of the second quarter of 2009, gas prices have remained volatile throughout 2009 and 2010 as a
result of increased gas supply and growing storage levels in the United States, which has offset the growth in demand. The outlook for continuation of the worldwide economic recovery in 2011 is cautiously optimistic but remains uncertain; therefore,
the sustainability of the recovery in worldwide demand for energy is difficult to predict. As a result, the Company believes it is likely that commodity prices, especially North American gas prices, will continue to be volatile during 2011.

Significant factors that will impact 2011 commodity prices include: the ongoing impact of economic stimulus
initiatives in the United States and worldwide in response to the worldwide economic decline; political and economic developments in North Africa and the Middle East; demand of Asian and European markets; the extent to which members of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) and other oil exporting nations are able to manage oil supply through export quotas; and overall North American gas supply and demand fundamentals.

Pioneer uses commodity derivative contracts to mitigate the impact of commodity price volatility on the Company’s
net cash provided by operating activities and its net asset value. Although the Company has entered into derivative contracts on a large portion of its forecasted production through 2014, a sustained lower commodity price environment would result in
lower realized prices for unprotected volumes and reduce the prices at which the Company could enter into derivative contracts on additional volumes in the future. As a result, the Company’s internal cash flows would be reduced for affected
periods. A sustained decline in commodity prices could result in a shortfall in expected cash flows, which could negatively impact the Company’s liquidity, financial position and future results of operations. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” and Note J of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for information regarding the impact to oil, NGL and gas revenues
during 2010, 2009 and 2008 from the Company’s derivative price risk management activities and the Company’s open derivative positions at December 31, 2010.

The Company.The Company’s asset base is anchored by the Spraberry oil field located in West Texas,
the Raton gas field located in southern Colorado, the Hugoton gas field located in southwest Kansas and the West Panhandle gas field located in the Texas Panhandle. Complementing these areas, the Company has exploration and development opportunities
and/or oil and gas production activities in the Eagle Ford Shale and Edwards Trend areas of South Texas, the Barnett Shale area of North Texas and Alaska, and internationally in South Africa. Combined, these assets create a portfolio of resources
and opportunities that are well balanced among oil, NGL and gas, and that are also well balanced among long-lived, dependable production and lower-risk exploration and development opportunities. Additionally, the Company has a team of dedicated
employees that represent the professional disciplines and sciences that are necessary to allow Pioneer to maximize the long-term profitability and net asset value inherent in its physical assets.

The Company provides administrative, financial, legal and management support to United States and foreign subsidiaries
that explore for, develop and produce proved reserves. Production operations are principally located domestically in Texas, Kansas, Colorado and Alaska, and internationally in South Africa.

Production.The Company focuses its efforts towards maximizing its average daily production of oil, NGLs
and gas through development drilling, production enhancement activities and acquisitions of producing properties, while minimizing the controllable costs associated with the production activities. For the year ended December 31, 2010, the
Company’s production of 41.9 MMBOE was consistent with production during 2009. Production, price and cost information with respect to the Company’s properties for 2010, 2009 and 2008 is set forth in “Item 2. Properties — Selected
Oil and Gas Information — Production, Price and Cost Data.”

Development activities.The Company seeks to increase its oil and gas reserves, production and cash flow through development drilling and by conducting other production enhancement activities, such as well recompletions. During the three years ended
December 31, 2010, the Company drilled 1,033 gross (952 net) development wells, 99 percent of which were successfully completed as productive wells, at a total drilling cost (net to the Company’s interest) of $1.9 billion.







PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



The Company believes that its current property base provides a
substantial inventory of prospects for future reserve, production and cash flow growth. The Company’s proved reserves as of December 31, 2010 include proved undeveloped reserves and proved developed reserves that are behind pipe of 219
MMBbls of oil, 79 MMBbls of NGLs and 991 Bcf of gas. The Company believes that its current portfolio of proved reserves provides attractive development opportunities for at least the next five years. The timing of the development of these reserves
will be dependent upon commodity prices, drilling and operating costs and the Company’s expected operating cash flows and financial condition.

Exploratory activities.The Company has devoted significant efforts and resources to hiring and developing a highly skilled geoscience staff as well as acquiring a portfolio of lower-risk
exploration opportunities. Exploratory and extension drilling involve greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons than development drilling or enhanced recovery activities. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors
— Exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves” below.

Acquisition activities.The Company regularly seeks to acquire properties that complement its operations,
provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. In addition, the Company pursues strategic acquisitions that will allow the Company to expand into new geographical areas that feature
producing properties and provide exploration/exploitation opportunities. During 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Company invested $181.6 million, $88.9 million and $137.6 million, respectively, of acquisition capital to purchase proved oil and gas
properties, including additional interests in its existing assets, and to acquire new prospects for future exploitation and exploration activities.

The Company periodically evaluates and pursues acquisition opportunities (including opportunities to acquire particular oil and gas assets or entities owning oil and gas assets and opportunities to engage
in mergers, consolidations or other business combinations with such entities) and at any given time may be in various stages of evaluating such opportunities. Such stages may take the form of internal financial analyses, oil and gas reserve
analyses, due diligence, the submission of indications of interest, preliminary negotiations, negotiation of letters of intent or negotiation of definitive agreements. The success of any acquisition is uncertain and depends on a number of factors,
some of which are outside the Company’s control. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors — The Company may be unable to make attractive acquisitions and any acquisition it completes is subject to substantial risks that could adversely affect its
business.”

Asset divestitures.The Company regularly reviews its asset base for the
purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. While the Company generally does not dispose of assets
solely for the purpose of reducing debt, such dispositions can have the result of furthering the Company’s objective of increasing financial flexibility through reduced debt levels.

During February 2011, the Company sold 100 percent of its share holdings in its Tunisian subsidiaries for cash proceeds
of $866 million, before normal closing adjustments. As a result of having committed to a plan to sell the Tunisian subsidiaries during 2010, the Company has classified its Tunisian assets and liabilities as assets and liabilities held for sale and
the historic results of operations of its Tunisian assets as discontinued operations in its accompanying consolidated financial statements.

The Company anticipates that it will continue to sell nonstrategic properties or other assets from time to time to increase capital resources available for other activities, to achieve operating and
administrative efficiencies and to improve profitability. See Notes M and U of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for specific information regarding the
Company’s asset divestitures and discontinued operations, including the 2011 sale of Tunisia, during 2010, 2009 and 2008.

Operations by Geographic Area

The Company operates in the oil and gas exploration and production
industry and has operations in two geographic areas. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” and Note Q of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data” for geographic operating segment information, including results of operations and segment assets.







PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



Marketing of Production

General.Production from the Company’s properties is marketed using methods that are consistent with
industry practices. Sales prices for oil, NGL and gas production are negotiated based on factors normally considered in the industry, such as an index or spot price, price regulations, distance from the well to the pipeline, commodity quality and
prevailing supply and demand conditions. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” for additional discussion of operations and price risk.

Significant purchasers.During 2010, the Company’s significant purchasers of oil, NGLs and gas were
Plains Marketing LP (12 percent) and Enterprise Products Partners L.P. (10 percent). The Company believes that the loss of any one purchaser would not have an adverse effect on its ability to sell its oil, NGL and gas production.

Derivative risk management activities.The Company utilizes commodity swap contracts, collar contracts and
collar contracts with short puts to (i) reduce the effect of price volatility on the commodities the Company produces and sells, (ii) support the Company’s annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) reduce commodity
price risk associated with certain capital projects. Effective February 1, 2009, the Company discontinued hedge accounting on all of its then-existing hedge contracts and began accounting for its derivative contracts using the mark-to-market
(“MTM”) method of accounting. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for a description of the Company’s derivative risk management activities, “Item 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” and Note I of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for information about the impact of commodity
derivative activities on oil, NGL and gas revenues and net derivative gains and losses during 2010, 2009 and 2008, as well as the Company’s open commodity derivative positions at December 31, 2010.

Competition, Markets and Regulations

Competition.The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. A large number of companies, including major
integrated and other independent companies, and individuals engage in the exploration for and development of oil and gas properties, and there is a high degree of competition for oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration.
Acquisitions of oil and gas properties have been an important element of the Company’s growth. The Company intends to continue acquiring oil and gas properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities
and potentially provide superior returns on investment. The principal competitive factors in the acquisition of oil and gas properties include the staff and data necessary to identify, evaluate and acquire such properties and the financial resources
necessary to acquire and develop the properties. Many of the Company’s competitors are substantially larger and have financial and other resources greater than those of the Company.

Markets.The Company’s ability to produce and market oil, NGLs and gas profitably depends on numerous
factors beyond the Company’s control. The effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted or anticipated. Although the Company cannot predict the occurrence of events that may affect these commodity prices or the degree to which these
prices will be affected, the prices for any commodity that the Company produces will generally approximate current market prices in the geographic region of the production.

Securities regulations.Enterprises that sell securities in public markets are subject to regulatory
oversight by agencies such as the SEC and the NYSE. This regulatory oversight imposes on the Company the responsibility for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, and ensuring
that the financial statements and other information included in submissions to the SEC do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made in such submissions not misleading.
Failure to comply with the rules and regulations of the SEC could subject the Company to litigation from public or private plaintiffs. Failure to comply with the rules of the NYSE could result in the de-listing of the Company’s common stock,
which would have an adverse effect on the market price of the Company’s commons stock. Compliance with some of these rules and regulations is costly, and regulations are subject to change or reinterpretation.

Environmental matters and regulations.The Company’s operations are subject to stringent and complex
foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations governing environmental protection as well as the discharge of materials into the environment. These laws and regulations may, among other things:



•require the acquisition of various permits before drilling commences;







PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



•enjoin some or all of the operations of facilities deemed in non-compliance with permits;



•restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with oil and gas
drilling, production and transportation activities;



•limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; and



•require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former and ongoing operations, such as requirements to close pits and plug abandoned wells.

These laws, rules and regulations may also restrict the rate of oil and gas production
below the rate that would otherwise be possible. The regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases the cost of doing business in the industry and consequently affects profitability. Additionally, the United States Congress and state
legislatures, federal and state regulatory agencies and foreign government and agencies frequently revise environmental laws and regulations, and the clear trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions and limitations on activities
that may affect the environment. Any changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, disposal and cleanup requirements for the oil and gas industry could have a significant impact on the Company’s operating costs.

The following is a summary of some of the existing laws, rules and regulations to which the Company’s business
operations are subject.

Waste handling.The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”)
and comparable state statutes regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. Under the auspices of the federal Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”), the
individual states administer some or all of the provisions of RCRA, sometimes in conjunction with their own, more stringent requirements. Drilling fluids, produced waters and most of the other wastes associated with the exploration, development and
production of oil or gas are currently regulated under RCRA’s non-hazardous waste provisions. It is possible that certain oil and gas exploration and production wastes now classified as non-hazardous could be classified as hazardous wastes in
the future. Any such change could result in an increase in the Company’s costs to manage and dispose of wastes, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. Also, in the course
of the Company’s operations, it generates some amounts of ordinary industrial wastes, such as paint wastes, waste solvents and waste oils that may be regulated as hazardous wastes.

Wastes containing naturally occurring radioactive materials (“NORM”) may also be generated in connection with
the Company’s operations. Certain processes used to produce oil and gas may enhance the radioactivity of NORM, which may be present in oilfield wastes. NORM is subject primarily to individual state radiation control regulations. In addition,
NORM handling and management activities are governed by regulations promulgated by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”). These state and OSHA regulations impose certain requirements concerning worker protection; the
treatment, storage and disposal of NORM waste; the management of waste piles, containers and tanks containing NORM; as well as restrictions on the uses of land with NORM contamination.

Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act.The Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), also known as the Superfund law, imposes joint and several liability, without regard to fault or legality of conduct, on classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of
a hazardous substance into the environment. These persons include the current and past owner or operator of the site where the release occurred, and anyone who disposed or arranged for the disposal of a hazardous substance released at the site.
Under CERCLA, such persons may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health
studies. In addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third-parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment.

The Company currently owns or leases numerous properties that have been used for oil and gas exploration and production
for many years. Although the Company believes it has used operating and waste disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hazardous substances, wastes or hydrocarbons may have been released on or under the properties owned or
leased by the Company, or on or under other locations, including off-site locations, where such substances have been taken for disposal. In addition, some of the Company’s properties have been operated by third parties or by previous owners or
operators whose treatment and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes or hydrocarbons were not under the Company’s control. In fact, there is evidence that petroleum spills or releases have occurred in the past at some of the properties owned
or leased by the Company. These







PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



properties and the substances disposed or released on them may be subject to CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws. Under such laws, the Company could be required to remove previously disposed
substances and wastes, remediate contaminated property or perform remedial plugging or pit closure operations to prevent future contamination.

Water discharges and use.The Clean Water Act (the “CWA”) and analogous state laws impose restrictions and strict controls with respect to the discharge of pollutants, including spills
and leaks of oil and other substances, into waters of the United States. The discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by EPA or an analogous state agency. The CWA and
regulations implemented thereunder also prohibit the discharge of dredge and fill material into regulated waters, including wetlands, unless authorized by an appropriately issued permit. Spill prevention, control and countermeasure requirements of
federal laws require appropriate containment berms and similar structures to help prevent the contamination of navigable waters by a petroleum hydrocarbon tank spill, rupture or leak. Federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative,
civil and criminal penalties for non-compliance with discharge permits or other requirements of the CWA and analogous state laws and regulations.

The primary federal law imposing liability for oil spills is the Oil Pollution Act (“OPA”), which sets minimum standards for prevention, containment and cleanup of oil spills. OPA applies to
vessels, offshore facilities and onshore facilities, including exploration and production facilities that may affect waters of the United States. Under OPA, responsible parties, including owners and operators of onshore facilities, may be subject to
oil spill cleanup costs and natural resource damages as well as a variety of public and private damages that may result from oil spills.

The water produced by the Company’s CBM operations also may be
subject to the laws of various states and regulatory bodies regarding the ownership and use of water. For example, in connection with the Company’s CBM operations in the Raton Basin in Colorado, water is removed from coal seams to reduce
pressure and allow the methane to be recovered. Historically, these operations have been regulated by the state agency responsible for regulating oil and gas activity in the state. In a 2008 case brought by the owners of ranch land involving a CBM
competitor in a different CBM basin in Colorado, the Colorado Supreme Court held that water produced in connection with the CBM operations should be subject to state water-use regulations administered by a different agency that regulates other uses
of water in the state, including requirements to obtain permits for diversion and use of surface and subsurface water, an evaluation of potential competing uses of the water, and a possible requirement to provide mitigation water for other water
users. The Colorado legislature and state agency adopted laws and regulations in response to this holding, but there continue to be litigation and uncertainty regarding permitting of







PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



produced water withdrawn in connection with CBM activities. The Company’s CBM or other oil and gas operations and the Company’s ability to expand its operations could be adversely
affected, and these changes in regulation could ultimately increase the Company’s cost of doing business.

Air emissions.The Federal Clean Air Act (the “CAA”) and comparable state laws regulate emissions of
various air pollutants through air emissions permitting programs and the imposition of other requirements. Such laws and regulations may require a facility to obtain pre-approval for the construction or modification of certain projects or facilities
expected to produce air emissions or result in the increase of existing air emissions; obtain or strictly comply with air permits containing various emissions and operational limitations; or utilize specific emission control technologies to limit
emissions of certain air pollutants. In addition, the EPA has developed, and continues to develop, stringent regulations governing emissions of toxic air pollutants at specified sources. Moreover, states can impose air emissions limitations that are
more stringent than the federal standards imposed by the EPA. Federal and state regulatory agencies can also impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non-compliance with air permits or other requirements of the federal CAA and
associated state laws and regulations.

Permits and related compliance obligations under the CAA, as well as
changes to state implementation plans for controlling air emissions in regional non-attainment areas, may require the Company to incur future capital expenditures in connection with the addition or modification of existing air emission control
equipment and strategies for gas and oil exploration and production operations. In addition, some gas and oil production facilities may be included within the categories of hazardous air pollutant sources, which are subject to increasing regulation
under the CAA. Failure to comply with these requirements could subject a regulated entity to monetary penalties, injunctions, conditions or restrictions on operations and enforcement actions. Gas and oil exploration and production facilities may be
required to incur certain capital expenditures in the future for air pollution control equipment in connection with obtaining and maintaining operating permits and approvals for air emissions.

Health and safety.The Company’s operations are subject to the requirements of the federal
Occupational Safety and Health Act (the “OSH Act”) and comparable state statutes. These laws and the related regulations strictly govern the protection of the health and safety of employees. The OSH Act hazard communication standard, EPA
community right-to-know regulations under Title III of CERCLA and similar state statues require that the Company organize or disclose information about hazardous materials used or produced in the Company’s operations. The Company believes that
it is in substantial compliance with these applicable requirements and with other OSH Act and comparable requirements.

Global warming and climate change.In December 2009, the EPA officially published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other “greenhouse gases,” or
“GHGs,” present an endangerment to human health and welfare because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings by the EPA allow the
agency to proceed with the adoption and implementation of regulations that would restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the CAA Based on these findings, the EPA has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions
of







PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



GHGs under existing provisions of the CAA. The EPA recently adopted two sets of rules, which became effective January 2, 2011, that regulate greenhouse gas emissions under the CAA, one of
which requires a reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and the other of which regulates emissions of GHGs from certain large stationary sources. The EPA has also adopted rules requiring the reporting, on an annual basis, beginning in
2011 of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the United States, including petroleum refineries, for emissions occurring after January 1, 2010, as well as certain oil and gas production facilities, on
an annual basis, beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011.

In addition, the United States Congress
has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs and almost one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories
and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and gas processing plants, to acquire and
surrender emission allowances. The number of allowances available for purchase is reduced each year in an effort to achieve the overall GHG emission reduction goal.

The adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHGs could require the Company to incur
increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the
cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for oil and gas, which could reduce the demand for the oil and gas the Company produces. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHGs could have an adverse effect on the
Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. It should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant
physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events. If any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of
operations.

Finally, other nations have been seeking to reduce emissions of GHGs pursuant to the United
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, also known as the “Kyoto Protocol,” an international treaty pursuant to which participating countries (not including the United States) have agreed to reduce their emissions of GHGs to below
1990 levels by 2012. Depending on the particular jurisdiction in which the Company’s operations are located, it could be required to purchase and surrender allowances for GHG emissions resulting from the Company’s operations.

The Company believes it is in substantial compliance with all existing environmental laws and regulations applicable to
the Company’s current operations and that its continued compliance with existing requirements will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. For instance, the Company did not incur
any material capital expenditures for remediation or pollution control activities for the year ended December 31, 2010. Additionally, the Company is not aware of any environmental issues or claims that will require material capital expenditures
during 2011. However, accidental spills or releases may occur in the course of the Company’s operations, and the Company cannot give any assurance that it will not incur substantial costs and liabilities as a result of such spills or releases,
including those relating to claims for damage to property and persons. Moreover, the Company cannot give any assurance that the passage of more stringent laws or regulations in the future will not have a negative effect on the Company’s
business, financial condition and results of operations.

Other regulation of the oil and gas industry.The oil and gas industry is regulated by numerous foreign, federal, state and local authorities. Legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden.
Also, numerous federal, state and foreign departments and agencies are authorized by statute to issue rules and regulations binding on the oil and gas industry and its individual members, some of which carry substantial penalties for failure to
comply. Although the regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry may increase the Company’s cost of doing business by increasing the cost of production, these burdens generally do not affect the Company any differently or to any greater or
lesser extent than they affect other companies in the industry with similar types, quantities and locations of production.







PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



Development and production.Development and production operations
are subject to various types of regulation at foreign, federal, state and local levels. These types of regulation include requiring permits for the drilling of wells, the posting of bonds in connection with various types of activities and filing
reports concerning operations. Most states, and some counties and municipalities, in which the Company operates also regulate one or more of the following:



•the location of wells;



•the method of drilling and casing wells;



•the method and ability to fracture stimulate wells;



•the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled;



•the plugging and abandoning of wells; and



•notice to surface owners and other third parties.

State laws regulate the size and shape of drilling and spacing units or proration units governing the pooling of oil and
gas properties. Some states allow forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate exploration while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases. In some instances, forced pooling or unitization may be implemented by third
parties and may reduce the Company’s interest in the unitized properties. In addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production from oil and gas wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of gas and impose
requirements regarding the ratability of production. These laws and regulations may limit the amount of oil and gas the Company can produce from the Company’s wells or limit the number of wells or the locations at which the Company can drill.
Moreover, each state generally imposes a production or severance tax with respect to the production and sale of oil, NGL and gas within its jurisdiction. States do not regulate wellhead prices or engage in other similar direct regulation, but there
can be no assurance that they will not do so in the future. The effect of such future regulations may be to limit the amounts of oil and gas that may be produced from the Company’s wells, negatively affect the economics of production from these
wells, or to limit the number of locations the Company can drill.

Regulation of transportation and sale of
gas.







PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



In December 2007, the FERC issued rules (“Order 704”)
requiring that any market participant, including a producer such as the Company, that engages in wholesale sales or purchases of gas that equal or exceed 2.2 million MMBtus during a calendar year annually report such sales and purchases to the
FERC. Order 704 is intended to increase the transparency of the wholesale gas markets and to assist the FERC in monitoring those markets and in detecting market manipulation.

Although gas prices are currently unregulated, the United States Congress historically has been active in the area of gas
regulation. The Company cannot predict whether new legislation to regulate gas or gas prices might be proposed, what proposals, if any, might actually be enacted by the United States Congress or the various state legislatures and what effect, if
any, the proposals might have on the Company’s operations. Sales of condensate and gas liquids are not currently regulated and are made at market prices.

Gas gathering.While the Company owns or operates some gas gathering facilities, the Company also depends on gathering facilities owned and operated by third parties to gather production from its
properties, and therefore the Company is impacted by the rates charged by such third parties for gathering services. To the extent that changes in foreign, federal and/or state regulation affect the rates charged for gathering services, the Company
also may be affected by such changes. Accordingly, the Company does not anticipate that the Company would be affected any differently than similarly situated gas producers.

Transportation of hazardous materials. The federal Department of Transportation has adopted regulations requiring
that certain entities transporting designated hazardous materials develop plans to address security risks related to the transportation of hazardous materials. The Company does not believe that these requirements will have an adverse effect on the
Company or its operations. The Company cannot provide any assurance that the security plans required under these regulations would protect against all security risks and prevent an attack or other incident related to the Company’s
transportation of hazardous materials.



