ITEM 1.BUSINESS



General

The Company is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company with operations in the United States. Pioneer is a holding company whose assets consist of direct and indirect ownership interests in, and whose business is conducted substantially through, its subsidiaries.  Pioneer's common stock is listed and traded on the NYSE under the ticker symbol "PXD."

The Company is a Delaware corporation formed in 1997. The Company's executive offices are located at 5205 N. O'Connor Blvd., Suite 200, Irving, Texas 75039. The Company's telephone number is (972) 444-9001. The Company maintains other offices in Denver, Colorado and Midland, Texas. AtDecember 31, 2014, the Company had 4,075 employees, 1,795 of whom were employed in field and plant operations and 848 of whom were employed in vertical integration activities.



Available Information

Pioneer files or furnishes annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"). The public may read and copy any materials that Pioneer files with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, the SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Pioneer, that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that Pioneer files with the SEC athttp://www.sec.gov.

The Company also makes available free of charge through its Internet website (www.pxd.com) its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC.  In addition to the reports filed or furnished with the SEC, Pioneer publicly discloses material information from time to time in its press releases, at annual meetings of stockholders, in publicly accessible conferences and investor presentations, and through its website (principally in the Investors pages).



Mission and Strategies

The Company's mission is to enhance shareholder investment returns through strategies that maximize Pioneer's long-term profitability and net asset value. The strategies employed to achieve this mission are predicated on maintaining financial flexibility, capital allocation discipline and enhancing net asset value through accretive drilling programs, joint ventures and acquisitions. These strategies are anchored by the Company's interests in the long-lived Spraberry/Wolfcamp oil field; the liquid-rich Eagle Ford Shale play; the West Panhandle gas and liquids field; and the Raton gas field; which together have an estimated remaining productive life in excess of 40 years. Underlying these fields are 98 percent of the Company's total proved oil and gas reserves as ofDecember 31, 2014.



Business Activities

The Company is an independent oil and gas exploration and production company. Pioneer's purpose is to competitively and profitably explore for, develop and produce oil and gas reserves. In so doing, the Company sells homogenous oil, NGL and gas units that, except for geographic and relatively minor quality differences, cannot be significantly differentiated from units offered for sale by the Company's competitors. Competitive advantage is gained in the oil and gas exploration and development industry by employing well-trained and experienced personnel who make prudent capital investment decisions based on management direction, embrace technological innovation and are focused on price and cost management.

Petroleum industry.North American oil prices had been fairly stable during the past three years despite the significant increase in United States oil production from unconventional shale plays.  During such time, the growth in North American oil production had been offset by reduced oil imports, keeping supply and demand fairly balanced in the United States. On an international level, the geopolitical factors negatively impacting international oil supplies were offset by the decline in United States imports, resulting in generally stable world oil prices. During the second half of 2014, however, as United States production continued to surge, worldwide demand was sluggish, reflecting the decline in the Chinese growth rate, the lingering recession in Europe and weaker economic performance in other regions, resulting in a worldwide oversupply of oil and oil price weakness. During the fourth quarter of 2014, members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ("OPEC") decided to maintain production quotas at current levels despite production outpacing demand. This caused oil prices, which had already been declining, to decrease significantly in December 2014.  The market oversupply of oil is expected to continue in 2015, with oil prices expected to remain under pressure. The growth of unconventional shale drilling has also substantially increased the supply of NGLs, resulting






Table of ContentsPIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



Oil prices continue to be primarily driven by world supply and demand fundamentals. Recent increases in United States oil, NGL and gas production volumes from the Permian Basin, Eagle Ford, Bakken, Marcellus and Utica areas have been met with lower demand, the decades-old ban on oil exports, higher storage levels and pipeline, gas plant and NGL fractionation infrastructure capacity limitations. These factors have led to a reduction in United States NYMEX oil, NGL and gas prices compared to international prices for similar commodities, including Brent oil prices.

Since 2010, the economies in the United States and certain other countries have continued to stabilize with resulting improvements in industrial demand and consumer confidence. However, other economies, such as those of certain European and Asian nations, continue to face economic struggles or slowing economic growth. While the outlook for a continued worldwide economic recovery remains cautiously optimistic, its timing and strength is still uncertain; therefore, the likelihood of a sustained recovery in worldwide demand for energy is difficult to predict. As a result, the Company believes it is likely that commodity prices will continue to be volatile during 2015.

Significant factors that will affect 2015 commodity prices include: the impact of announced capital spending decreases on forecasted United States oil, NGL and gas supplies; the ongoing effect of economic stimulus initiatives; fiscal challenges facing the United States federal government and potential changes to the tax laws in the United States; continuing economic struggles in European and Asian nations; political and economic developments in North Africa and the Middle East; demand from Asian and European markets; the extent to which members of OPEC  and other oil exporting nations are able to manage oil supply through export quotas; the capacity of United States refiners to absorb increasing domestic supplies of oil and condensate; potential export regulatory changes in the United States; the supply and demand fundamentals for NGLs in the United States and the pace at which export capacity grows; and overall North American gas supply and demand fundamentals, including gas storage levels that are anticipated to be higher than normal at the end of the winter draw season.

Pioneer uses commodity derivative contracts to mitigate the effect of commodity price volatility on the Company's net cash provided by operating activities and its net asset value. Although the Company has entered into commodity derivative contracts for a large portion of its forecasted production through 2015, a sustained lower commodity price environment would result in lower realized prices for unprotected volumes and reduce the prices at which the Company could enter into derivative contracts on additional volumes in the future. As a result, the Company's internal cash flows would be reduced for affected periods. A sustained decline in commodity prices could result in a shortfall in expected cash flows, which could negatively affect the Company's liquidity, financial position and future results of operations. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" and Note E of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for information regarding the Company's open derivative positions as ofDecember 31, 2014, and subsequent changes to these positions.

The Company.The Company's growth plan is primarily anchored by horizontal drilling in the Spraberry/Wolfcamp oil field located in West Texas and the liquid-rich Eagle Ford Shale field located in South Texas. Complementing these growth areas, the Company has oil and gas production activities and development opportunities in the Raton gas field located in southern Colorado, the West Panhandle gas and liquids field located in the Texas Panhandle and the Edwards gas field located in South Texas. Combined, these assets create a portfolio of resources and opportunities that are well balanced and diversified among oil, NGL and gas, and that are also well balanced among long-lived, dependable production and lower-risk exploration and development opportunities. The Company has a team of dedicated employees who represent the professional disciplines and sciences that the Company believes are necessary to allow Pioneer to maximize the long-term profitability and net asset value inherent in its physical assets.

Production.The Company focuses its efforts towards maximizing its average daily production of oil, NGLs and gas through development drilling, production enhancement activities and acquisitions of producing properties, while minimizing the controllable costs associated with the production activities. For the year endedDecember 31, 2014, the Company's production






Table of ContentsPIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



from continuing operations of67MMBOE, excluding field fuel usage, represented an 18 percent increase over production from continuing operations during2013. Production, price and cost information with respect to the Company's properties for2014,2013and2012is set forth in "Item 2. Properties — Selected Oil and Gas Information — Production, price and cost data."

Development activities.The Company seeks to increase its proved oil and gas reserves, production and cash flow through development drilling and by conducting other production enhancement activities, such as well recompletions. During the three years endedDecember 31, 2014, the Company drilled 1,423 gross (1,242 net) development wells, 99 percent of which were successfully completed as productive wells, at a total drilling cost (net to the Company's interest) of $4.9 billion.

The Company believes that its current property base provides a substantial inventory of prospects for future reserve, production and cash flow growth. The Company's proved reserves as ofDecember 31, 2014include proved undeveloped reserves and proved developed reserves that are behind pipe of89MMBbls of oil,42MMBbls of NGLs and317Bcf of gas. The Company believes that its proved reserves represent a significant portfolio of development opportunities. The timing of the development of these reserves will be dependent upon commodity prices, drilling and operating costs and the Company's expected operating cash flows and financial condition.

Exploratory activities.The Company has devoted significant efforts and resources to hiring and developing a highly skilled geoscience staff as well as acquiring a significant portfolio of lower-risk exploration opportunities that are expected to be evaluated and tested over the next decade and beyond. Exploratory and extension drilling involve greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons than development drilling or enhanced recovery activities. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors — Exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves" below.

Integrated services.The Company continues to benefit from its integrated services to control drilling and operating costs and support the execution of its drilling program and operating activities.  The Company has Company-owned fracture stimulation fleets totaling approximately 360,000 horsepower supporting drilling operations in the Spraberry/Wolfcamp and Eagle Ford Shale areas.  The Company also owns other field service equipment, including pulling units, fracture stimulation tanks, water transport trucks, hot oilers, blowout preventers, construction equipment and fishing tools. In April 2012, Pioneer acquired a large U.S. industrial sands company, which was renamed Premier Silica (see Note C of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for more information about the acquisition of Premier Silica). That acquisition secured a high-quality, low-cost and logistically advantaged brown sand supply for Pioneer to use for its growing fracture stimulation requirements in the Spraberry/Wolfcamp field.

Acquisition activities.The Company regularly seeks to acquire properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. In addition, the Company pursues strategic acquisitions that will allow the Company to expand into new geographical areas that provide future exploration/exploitation opportunities. During2014,2013and2012, the Company spent$104 million, $76 million and $158 million, respectively, to purchase primarily undeveloped acreage for future exploitation and exploration activities.

In December 2014, the Company acquired the remaining limited partner interests infiveaffiliated partnerships for$54 millionand caused the partnerships to be merged with and into the Company. In addition, in December 2013, the Company completed the acquisition of all of the outstanding common units of Pioneer Southwest not already owned by the Company in exchange for 3.96 million shares of the Company's common stock through a merger of a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company into Pioneer Southwest, the result of which was that Pioneer Southwest became a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. The 2014 and 2013 mergers enhance the Company's (i) ability to fully and optimally develop the Company's Spraberry/Wolfcamp properties in the Midland Basin in West Texas utilizing horizontal drilling and (ii) organizational, operational and administrative efficiencies.

The Company periodically evaluates and pursues acquisition opportunities (including opportunities to acquire particular oil and gas assets or entities owning oil and gas assets and opportunities to engage in mergers, consolidations or other business combinations with such entities) and at any given time may be in various stages of evaluating such opportunities. Such stages may take the form of internal financial analyses, oil and gas reserve analyses, due diligence, the submission of indications of interest, preliminary negotiations, negotiation of letters of intent or negotiation of definitive agreements. The success of any acquisition is uncertain and depends on a number of factors, some of which are outside the Company's control. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors — The Company may be unable to make attractive acquisitions and any acquisition it completes is subject to substantial risks that could adversely affect its business."

Asset divestitures and discontinued operations.The Company regularly reviews its asset base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. While the Company generally does not dispose of assets solely for the purpose of reducing debt, such dispositions can have the result of furthering the Company's objective of increasing financial flexibility through reduced debt levels.






Table of ContentsPIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



EFS Midstream.In November 2014, the Company announced that it is pursuing the divestment of its 50.1 percent share of EFS Midstream LLC ("EFS Midstream"). The Company is marketing its equity investment in EFS Midstream and no assurance can be given that a sale will be completed in accordance with the Company's plans or on terms and at a price acceptable to the Company.

Hugoton.In September 2014, the Company completed the sale of its net assets in the Hugoton field in southwest Kansas for cash proceeds of$328 million, including normal closing adjustments.

Barnett Shale.During the fourth quarter of 2013, the Company committed to a plan to divest of its net assets in the Barnett Shale field in North Texas. In September 2014, the Company completed the sale of its Barnett Shale net assets for cash proceeds of$150 million, including normal closing adjustments.

Alaska.During the fourth quarter of 2013, the Company committed to a plan to sell 100 percent of the capital stock in Pioneer's Alaska subsidiary ("Pioneer Alaska").  In April 2014, the Company completed the sale of Pioneer Alaska for cash proceeds of$267 million, including normal closing and other adjustments.

South Africa.During the first quarter of 2012, the Company agreed to sell its net assets in South Africa ("Pioneer South Africa"), effective January 1, 2012, for$60 millionof cash proceeds before normal closing and other adjustments, and the buyer's assumption of certain liabilities of the Company's South Africa subsidiaries. In August 2012, the Company completed the sale of Pioneer South Africa for cash proceeds of$16 million, including normal closing adjustments for cash revenues and costs and expenses from the effective date through the date of the sale.

The Company has reflected its Hugoton, Barnett Shale, Pioneer Alaska and Pioneer South Africa results of operations as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.

Sendero.During December 2013, the Company committed to a plan to sell the Company's majority interest in Sendero Drilling Company, LLC ("Sendero") to Sendero's minority interest owner. At December 31, 2013, the assets and liabilities of Sendero were classified as held for sale at their estimated fair value. In March 2014, the Company completed the sale of Sendero for cash proceeds of$31 million. As part of the sales agreement, the Company committed to lease from Sendero12vertical rigs through December 31, 2015 andeightvertical rigs in 2016.

Southern Wolfcamp.In January 2013, the Company signed an agreement with Sinochem Petroleum USA LLC ("Sinochem") to sell 40 percent of Pioneer's interest in 207,000 net acres leased by the Company in the horizontal Wolfcamp Shale play in the southern portion of the Spraberry field in West Texas for consideration of $1.8 billion. In May 2013, the Company completed the sale for cash proceeds of $624 million, which resulted in a gain of $181 million related to the unproved property interests conveyed to Sinochem.  Sinochem is paying the remaining $1.2 billion of the transaction price by carrying 75 percent of Pioneer's portion of ongoing drilling and facilities costs attributable to the Company's joint operations with Sinochem in the southern portion of the horizontal Wolfcamp Shale play. At December 31, 2014, the unused carry balance totaled $575 million.

The Company anticipates that it will continue to sell nonstrategic properties or other assets from time to time to increase capital resources available for other activities, to achieve operating and administrative efficiencies and to improve profitability. See Notes C and D of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for specific information regarding the Company's asset divestitures, impairments and discontinued operations.  Also see "Item 1A. Risk Factors - The Company's ability to complete dispositions of assets, or interests in assets, may be subject to factors beyond its control, and in certain cases the Company may be required to retain liabilities for certain matters" for discussion of risk factors associated with the completion of divestitures.



Marketing of Production

General.Production from the Company's properties is marketed using methods that are consistent with industry practices. Sales prices for oil, NGL and gas production are negotiated based on factors normally considered in the industry, such as an index or spot price, price regulations, distance from the well to the pipeline, commodity quality and prevailing supply and demand conditions. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" for additional discussion of operations and price risk.

Significant purchasers.During 2014, the Company's significant purchasers of oil, NGLs and gas were Plains Marketing LP (24 percent), Occidental Energy Marketing Inc. (13 percent), Enterprise Products Partners L.P. (11 percent) and Valero Marketing and Supply Company (10 percent). The Company believes the loss of a significant purchaser or an inability to secure adequate pipeline, gas plant and NGL fractionation infrastructure in its key producing areas could have a material adverse effect on its ability to sell its oil, NGL and gas production. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors" and Note L of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements






Table of ContentsPIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for more information about significant customer and infrastructure capacity risks.

Derivative risk management activities.The Company primarily utilizes commodity swap contracts, collar contracts and collar contracts with short puts to (i) reduce the effect of price volatility on the commodities the Company produces and sells or consumes, (ii) support the Company's annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects. The Company also, from time to time, utilizes interest rate derivative contracts to reduce the effect of interest rate volatility on the Company's indebtedness. The Company accounts for its derivative contracts using the mark-to-market ("MTM") method of accounting. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for a description of the Company's derivative risk management activities, "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" and Note E of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for information about the impact of commodity derivative activities on oil, NGL and gas revenues and net derivative gains and losses during2014,2013and2012, as well as the Company's open commodity derivative positions atDecember 31, 2014, and subsequent changes to these positions.



Competition, Markets and Regulations

Competition.The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. A large number of companies, including major integrated and other independent companies, and individuals engage in the exploration for and development of oil and gas properties, and there is a high degree of competition for oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration. Acquisitions of oil and gas properties have been an important element of the Company's growth. The Company intends to continue acquiring oil and gas properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. The principal competitive factors in the acquisition of oil and gas properties include the staff and data necessary to identify, evaluate and acquire such properties and the financial resources necessary to acquire and develop the properties. Some of the Company's competitors are substantially larger and have financial and other resources greater than those of the Company.

Markets.The Company's ability to produce and market oil, NGLs and gas profitably depends on numerous factors beyond the Company's control.  The effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted or anticipated. Although the Company cannot predict the occurrence of events that may affect these commodity prices or the degree to which these prices will be affected, the prices for any commodity that the Company produces will generally approximate current market prices in the geographic region of the production.

Securities regulations.Enterprises that sell securities in public markets are subject to regulatory oversight by agencies such as the SEC and the NYSE. This regulatory oversight imposes on the Company the responsibility for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, and ensuring that the financial statements and other information included in submissions to the SEC do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made in such submissions not misleading. Failure to comply with the rules and regulations of the SEC could subject the Company to litigation from public or private plaintiffs. Failure to comply with the rules of the NYSE could result in the de-listing of the Company's common stock, which would have an adverse effect on the market price and liquidity of the Company's common stock. Compliance with some of these rules and regulations is costly, and regulations are subject to change or reinterpretation.

Environmental and occupational health and safety matters.The Company's operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing worker health and safety, the discharge of materials into the environment and environmental protection. Numerous governmental entities, including the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the "EPA") and analogous state agencies have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, often requiring difficult and costly actions to achieve and maintain compliance and imposing sanctions, including administrative, civil and criminal penalties, for any failure to comply.

These laws and regulations may, among other things:

•require the acquisition of various permits before drilling or other regulated activity commences;

•enjoin some or all of the operations of facilities deemed in noncompliance with permits;

•restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that may be released into the environment in connection with oil and gas drilling, production and transportation activities;

•limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas;

•impose specific criteria addressing worker protection;

•require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former and ongoing operations, such as requirements to close pits and plug abandoned wells; and






Table of ContentsPIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



•impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from operations.

These laws and regulations may also restrict the rate of oil and gas production below the rate that would otherwise be possible. The regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases the cost of doing business in the industry and consequently affects profitability. Additionally, the U.S. Congress, state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies frequently revise environmental laws and regulations, and the trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may adversely affect the environment. Any changes that result in more stringent and costly drilling, completion, construction or water management activities, or waste handling, disposal and cleanup requirements for the oil and gas industry could have a significant effect on the Company's capital and operating costs.

The following is a summary of some of the more significant laws and regulations to which the Company's business operations are or may be subject.  These laws may be amended from time to time.

Waste handling.The federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA") and comparable state statutes regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. Under the auspices of the EPA, the individual states administer some or all of the provisions of RCRA, sometimes in conjunction with their own, more stringent requirements. While drilling fluids, produced waters and most of the other wastes associated with the exploration, development and production of oil or gas are currently regulated under RCRA's non-hazardous waste provisions, it is possible that such exploration and production wastes may, in the future, be classified as hazardous wastes. Any such change could result in an increase in the Company's costs to manage and dispose of wastes, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial position. In the course of its operations, the Company generates some amounts of ordinary industrial wastes, such as paint wastes, waste solvents and waste oils that may be regulated as hazardous wastes.

Wastes containing naturally occurring radioactive materials ("NORM") may also be generated in connection with the Company's operations. NORM is subject primarily to individual state radiation control regulations. In addition, NORM handling and management activities are governed by regulations promulgated by the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration ("OSHA"). These state and OSHA regulations impose certain requirements concerning worker protection, with respect to NORM, the treatment, storage and disposal of NORM waste, the management of waste piles, containers and tanks containing NORM and restrictions on the uses of land with NORM contamination.

Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act.The federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA"), also known as the Superfund law, and analogous state laws impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault or legality of conduct, on classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a "hazardous substance" into the environment. These persons include the current and past owner or operator of the site where the release occurred, and anyone who disposed or arranged for the disposal of a hazardous substance released at the site. Under CERCLA, such persons may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. CERCLA also authorizes the EPA and, in some instances, third parties to act in response to threats to the public health or the environment and to seek to recover from the responsible classes of persons the costs they incur. In addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third-parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment.

Water discharges and use.The federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water Act (the "CWA"), and analogous state laws impose restrictions and strict controls with respect to the discharge of pollutants, including spills and leaks of oil and other substances, into waters of the United States and state waters. The discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by the EPA or an analogous state agency. The CWA and regulations






Table of ContentsPIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



implemented thereunder also prohibit the discharge of dredge and fill material into regulated waters, including wetlands, unless authorized by an appropriately issued permit. SPCC planning requirements of federal laws require appropriate containment berms and similar structures to help prevent the contamination of navigable waters by a petroleum hydrocarbon tank spill, rupture or leak. Federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance with discharge permits or other requirements of the CWA and analogous state laws and regulations.

The primary federal law imposing liability for oil spills is the Oil Pollution Act ("OPA"), which amends the CWA and sets minimum standards for prevention, containment and cleanup of oil spills. OPA applies to vessels, offshore facilities and onshore facilities, including exploration and production facilities that may affect waters of the United States. Under OPA, responsible parties, including owners and operators of onshore facilities, may be subject to oil spill cleanup costs and natural resource damages as well as a variety of public and private damages that may result from oil spills. If an oil spill subject to the requirements of OPA were to occur at a Company property, the Company expects that it would be controlled, contained and remediated in accordance with the applicable requirements of OPA and by using the Company's OPA spill response plan together with the assistance of trained first responders and any oil spill response contractor that the Company would have engaged pursuant to OPA to address such oil spills.

The Company also uses hydraulic fracturing techniques in virtually all of its drilling and completion programs, and development of its properties is dependent on the Company's ability to hydraulically fracture the producing formations. The process involves the injection of water, sand and additives under pressure into targeted subsurface formations to stimulate oil and gas production. The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions, but several federal agencies have asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process.  For example, the EPA has issued final Clean Air Act regulations governing performance standards, including standards for the capture of air emissions released during hydraulic fracturing; announced its intent to propose in the first half of 2015 effluent limit guidelines that wastewater from shale gas extraction operations must meet before discharging to a treatment plant; and issued in May 2014 a prepublication of its Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking regarding Toxic Substances Control Act reporting of the chemical substances and mixtures used in hydraulic fracturing.  Also, in May 2013, the federal Bureau of Land Management (the "BLM") issued a revised proposed rule containing disclosure requirements and other mandates for hydraulic fracturing on federal lands, and the agency is now analyzing comments to the proposed rulemaking and is expected to promulgate a final rule in the first half of 2015.

From time to time, the U.S. Congress has considered adopting legislation intended to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic-fracturing process. In addition to any actions by the U.S. Congress, certain states in which the Company operates, including Colorado and Texas, have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose new or more stringent permitting, disclosure and well-construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. States could elect to prohibit hydraulic fracturing altogether, as Governor Andrew Cuomo of the State of New York announced in December 2014 with regard to fracturing activities in New York. Also, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may restrict or prohibit drilling in general or hydraulic fracturing in particular. For example, in response to concerns regarding hydraulic fracturing, the city of Denton, Texas issued a moratorium on the issuance of new drilling permits inside the Denton city limits.The Company believes that it follows applicable standard industry practices and legal requirements for groundwater protection in its hydraulic fracturing activities. Nonetheless, in the event federal, state or local restrictions are adopted in areas where the Company is currently conducting, or in the future plans to conduct operations, the






Table of ContentsPIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



Company may incur additional costs to comply with such requirements that may be significant in nature, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities, and be limited or precluded in the drilling of wells or in the amounts that the Company is ultimately able to produce from its reserves.

Certain governmental reviews are underway that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. The White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices. Also, the EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater and a draft report is expected to be available for public comments and peer review in the first half of 2015. These existing or any future studies, depending on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing.

The water produced by the Company's CBM operations also may be subject to the state laws and regulations of regulatory bodies regarding the ownership and use of water. For example, in connection with the Company's CBM operations in the Raton Basin in Colorado, water is removed from coal seams to reduce pressure and allow the methane to be recovered. Historically, these operations have been regulated by the state agency responsible for regulating oil and gas activity in the state. Nevertheless,  in 2009, the Colorado Supreme Court affirmed a state court holding that water produced in connection with the CBM operations should be subject to state water-use regulations administered by a different agency that regulates other uses of water in the state, including requirements to obtain permits for diversion and use of surface and subsurface water, an evaluation of potential competing uses of the water, and a possible requirement to provide mitigation water for other water users. The Colorado legislature and state agency adopted laws and regulations in response to this ruling. These and other resulting changes in the regulation of water produced from CBM operations may have an adverse effect on the costs of doing business and the ability to expand operations by the Company or other CBM producers.

Air emissions.The Clean Air Act (the "CAA") and comparable state laws regulate emissions of various air pollutants through air emissions permitting programs and the imposition of other requirements. Such laws and regulations may require a facility to obtain pre-approval for the construction or modification of certain projects or facilities expected to produce air emissions or result in the increase of existing air emissions, obtain or strictly comply with air permits containing various emissions and operational limitations, or utilize specific emission control technologies to limit emissions of certain air pollutants. Moreover, states may impose their own air emissions limitations, which may be more stringent than the federal standards imposed by the EPA.  Federal and state regulatory agencies can also impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance with air permits or other requirements of the CAA and associated state laws and regulations. The adoption of laws, regulations, orders or other legally enforceable mandates governing oil and gas drilling and operating activities in the areas where the Company conducts business that result in more stringent emissions standards could increase the Company's costs or reduce its volume of production, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and cash flows.

Moreover, permits and related compliance obligations under the CAA, as well as changes to state implementation plans for controlling air emissions in regional non-attainment areas, may require the Company to incur future capital expenditures in connection with the addition or modification of existing air emission control equipment and strategies for oil and gas exploration and production operations. For example, in 2012, the EPA published final rules under the CAA that subject oil and gas production, processing, transmission and storage operations to regulation under the New Source Performance Standards and National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants programs. With regard to production activities, these final rules require, among other things, the reduction of volatile organic compound emissions from certain fractured and refractured gas wells by using reduced emission completions, also known as "green completions," after January 1, 2015.  These regulations also establish specific new requirements regarding emissions from certain production-related wet seal and reciprocating compressors, pneumatic controllers and storage vessels.  Compliance with these requirements could increase the Company's costs of development and production, which costs could be significant.

Endangered species.The federal Endangered Species Act (the "ESA") and analogous state laws regulate activities that could have an adverse effect on species listed as threatened or endangered under the ESA. Some of the Company's operations are conducted in areas where protected species or their habitats are known to exist. In these areas, the Company may be obligated to develop and implement plans to avoid potential adverse effects to protected species and their habitats, and the Company may be prohibited from conducting operations in certain locations or during certain seasons, such as breeding and nesting seasons, when the Company's operations could have an adverse effect on the species. It is also possible that a federal or state agency could order a complete halt to drilling activities in certain locations if it is determined that such activities may have a serious adverse effect on a protected species. The presence of a protected species in areas where the Company performs activities could result in increased costs or limitations on the Company's ability to perform operations and thus have an adverse effect on the Company's business.

Moreover, as a result of a settlement approved by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia in September 2011, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (the "FWS") is required to make a determination on the potential listing of numerous species as endangered or threatened under the ESA before completion of the agency's 2017 fiscal year. The designation of previously






Table of ContentsPIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



Activities on federal lands.Oil and gas exploration, development and production activities on federal lands, including Indian lands and lands administered by the BLM, are subject to the National Environmental Policy Act ("NEPA").  NEPA requires federal agencies, including the BLM, to evaluate major agency actions having the potential to significantly impact the environment. In the course of such evaluations, an agency will prepare an Environmental Assessment that assesses the potential direct, indirect and cumulative impacts of a proposed project and, if necessary, will prepare a more detailed Environmental Impact Statement that may be made available for public review and comment.  Currently, the Company has minimal exploration and production activities on federal lands.However, for those current activities as well as for future or proposed exploration and development plans on federal lands, governmental permits or authorizations that are subject to the requirements of NEPA are required. This process has the potential to delay or limit, or increase the cost of, the development of oil and gas projects.  Authorizations under NEPA are also subject to protest, appeal or litigation, any or all of which may delay or halt projects.

Occupational health and safety.The Company's operations are subject to the requirements of OSHA and comparable state statutes. These laws and the related regulations strictly govern the protection of the health and safety of employees. The OSHA hazard communication standard, EPA community right-to-know regulations under Title III of CERCLA and similar state statues require that the Company organize or disclose information about hazardous materials used or produced in the Company's operations. In addition, the Company's sand mining operations are subject to the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, as amended by the Mine Improvement and New Emergency Response Act of 2006, which imposes stringent health and safety standards on numerous aspects of mineral extraction and processing operations, including the training of personnel, operating procedures, operating equipment and other matters.  The Company believes that it is in substantial compliance with these applicable standards and with OSHA and comparable requirements.

Climate change.

While the U.S. Congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, there has not been significant activity in the form of adopted legislation to reduce GHG emissions at the federal level in recent years. In the absence of federal climate legislation in the United States, a number of state and regional efforts have emerged that are aimed at tracking or reducing GHG emissions by means of cap and trade programs that typically require major sources of GHG emissions to acquire and surrender emission allowances in return for emitting those GHGs.

The adoption of any legislation or regulations that require reporting of GHGs or otherwise restrict emissions of GHGs from the Company's equipment and operations could require the Company to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements including the imposition of a carbon tax. For example, pursuant to President Obama's Strategy to Reduce Methane Emissions, the Obama Administration announced on January 14, 2015 that the EPA is expected to propose in the summer of 2015 and finalize in 2016 new regulations that will set methane emission standards for new and modified oil and gas production and gas processing and transmission facilities as part of the Administration's efforts to reduce methane emissions from the oil and gas sector by up






Table of ContentsPIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



to 45 percent from 2012 levels by 2025. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost to the consumer, and thereby reduce demand for oil and gas, which could reduce the demand for the oil and gas the Company produces. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHGs could have an adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Finally, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, floods and other climatic events. If any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.

Other regulation of the oil and gas industry.The oil and gas industry is regulated by numerous federal, state and local authorities. Legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden. Also, numerous federal and state departments and agencies are authorized by statute to issue rules and regulations binding on the oil and gas industry and its individual members, some of which carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. Although the regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry may increase the Company's cost of doing business by increasing the cost of production, the Company believes that these burdens generally do not affect the Company any differently or to any greater or lesser extent than they affect other companies in the industry with similar types, quantities and locations of production.

Development and production.Development and production operations are subject to various types of regulation at federal, state and local levels. These types of regulation include requiring permits for the drilling of wells, the posting of bonds in connection with various types of activities and filing reports concerning operations. Most states, and some counties and municipalities, in which the Company operates also regulate one or more of the following:

•the location of wells;

•the method of drilling and casing wells;

•the method and ability to fracture stimulate wells;

•the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled;

•the plugging and abandoning of wells; and

•notice to surface owners and other third parties.

State laws regulate the size and shape of drilling and spacing units or proration units governing the pooling of oil and gas properties. Some states allow forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate development while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases. In some instances, forced pooling or unitization may be implemented by third parties and may reduce the Company's interest in the unitized properties. In addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production from oil and gas wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of gas and impose requirements regarding the ratability of production. These laws and regulations may limit the amount of oil and gas the Company can produce from the Company's wells or limit the number of wells or the locations at which the Company can drill. Moreover, each state generally imposes a production or severance tax with respect to the production and sale of oil, NGL and gas within its jurisdiction. States do not regulate wellhead prices or engage in other similar direct regulation, but there can be no assurance that they will not do so in the future. The effect of such future regulations may be to limit the amounts of oil and gas that may be produced from the Company's wells, negatively affect the economics of production from these wells, or limit the number of locations the Company can drill.

Regulation of transportation and sale of gas.The availability, terms and cost of transportation significantly affect sales of gas. Federal and state regulations govern the price and terms for access to gas pipeline transportation. Intrastate gas pipeline transportation activities are subject to various state laws and regulations, as well as orders of state regulatory bodies. The interstate transportation and sale of gas is subject to federal regulation, including regulation of the terms, conditions and rates for interstate transportation, storage and various other matters, primarily by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERC"). FERC endeavors to make gas transportation more accessible to gas buyers and sellers on an open-access and non-discriminatory basis.

Pursuant to the Energy Policy Act of 2005 ("EPAct 2005") it is unlawful for "any entity," including producers such as the Company, that are otherwise not subject to FERC's jurisdiction under the Natural Gas Act (the "NGA"), to use any deceptive or manipulative device or contrivance in connection with the purchase or sale of gas or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to regulation by FERC, in contravention of rules prescribed by FERC. FERC's rules implementing this provision make it unlawful, in connection with the purchase or sale of gas subject to the jurisdiction of FERC, or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to the jurisdiction of FERC, for any entity, directly or indirectly, to use or employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud; to make any untrue statement of material fact or omit to make any such statement necessary to make the statements made not misleading; or to engage in any act or practice that operates as a fraud or deceit upon any person. EPAct 2005 also gives FERC authority to impose civil penalties of up to $1.0 million per day for each violation of the NGA or the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978. The anti-manipulation rule applies to activities of entities not otherwise subject to FERC's jurisdiction to the extent the activities are conducted "in connection with" gas sales, purchases or transportation subject to FERC jurisdiction, which includes the annual reporting requirements under Order 704 (defined below).






Table of ContentsPIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



In December 2007, FERC issued a final rule on the annual gas transaction reporting requirements, as amended by subsequent orders on rehearing ("Order 704"). Under Order 704, any market participant, including a producer such as the Company, that engages in wholesale sales or purchases of gas that equal or exceed 2.2 million MMBtus of physical gas in the previous calendar year must annually report such sales and purchases to FERC on Form No. 552 on May 1 of each year. Form No. 552 contains aggregate volumes of gas purchased or sold at wholesale in the prior calendar year to the extent such transactions utilize, contribute to or may contribute to the formation of price indices.  It is the responsibility of the reporting entity to determine which individual transactions should be reported based on the guidance of Order 704. Order 704 is intended to increase the transparency of the wholesale gas markets and to assist FERC in monitoring those markets and in detecting market manipulation.

Additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the gas industry are considered from time to time by the U.S. Congress, FERC, state regulatory bodies and the courts.  The Company cannot predict when or if any such proposals might become effective or their effect, if any, on its operations.  The Company does not believe that it will be affected by any action taken in a materially different way than other gas producers, gatherers and marketers with which it competes.

Natural gas processing.  The Company's gas processing operations are not subject to FERC or state regulation.  There can be no assurance that the Company's processing operations will continue to be exempt from regulation in the future.  However, although the processing facilities may not be directly related, other laws and regulations may affect the availability of gas for processing, such as state regulation of production rates and maximum daily production allowable from gas wells, which could impact the Company's processing business.

Gas gathering.Section 1(b) of the NGA exempts gas gathering facilities from FERC's jurisdiction. The Company believes that its gathering facilities meet the traditional tests FERC has used to establish a pipeline system's status as a non-jurisdictional gatherer. There is, however, no bright-line test for determining the jurisdictional status of pipeline facilities. Moreover, the distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is the subject of litigation from time to time, so the classification and regulation of some of the Company's gathering facilities may be subject to change based on future determinations by FERC and the courts. Thus, the Company cannot guarantee that the jurisdictional status of its gas gathering facilities will remain unchanged.

While the Company owns or operates some gas gathering facilities, the Company also depends on gathering facilities owned and operated by third parties to gather production from its properties, and therefore the Company is affected by the rates charged by these third parties for gathering services. To the extent that changes in federal or state regulation affect the rates charged for gathering services, the Company also may be affected by these changes. Accordingly, the Company does not anticipate that the Company would be affected any differently than similarly situated gas producers.

Regulation of transportation and sale of oil and NGLs. The liquids industry is also extensively regulated by numerous federal, state and local authorities. In a number of instances, the ability to transport and sell such products on interstate pipelines is dependent on pipelines whose rates, terms and conditions of service are subject to FERC jurisdiction under the Interstate Commerce Act (the "ICA").  The Company does not believe these regulations affect it any differently than other producers.

The ICA requires that pipelines maintain a tariff on file with FERC. The tariff sets forth the established rates as well as the rules and regulations governing the service.  The ICA requires, among other things, that rates and terms and conditions of service on interstate common carrier pipelines be "just and reasonable."  Such pipelines must also provide jurisdictional service in a manner that is not unduly discriminatory or unduly preferential.  Shippers have the power to challenge new and existing rates and terms and conditions of service before FERC.

Rates of interstate liquids pipelines are currently regulated by FERC primarily through an annual indexing methodology, under which pipelines increase or decrease their rates in accordance with an index adjustment specified by FERC.  For the five-year period beginning in 2010, FERC established an annual index adjustment equal to the change in the producer price index for finished goods plus 2.65 percent.  This adjustment is subject to review every five years.  Under FERC's regulations, a liquids pipeline can request a rate increase that exceeds the rate obtained through application of the indexing methodology by using a cost-of-service approach, but only after the pipeline establishes that a substantial divergence exists between the actual costs experienced by the pipeline and the rates resulting from application of the indexing methodology.  Increases in liquids transportation rates may result in lower revenue and cash flows for the Company.

In addition, due to common carrier regulatory obligations of liquids pipelines, capacity must be prorated among shippers in an equitable manner in the event there are nominations in excess of capacity by current shippers or capacity requests are received from a new shipper.  Therefore, new shippers or increased volume by existing shippers may reduce the capacity available to the Company. Any prolonged interruption in the operation or curtailment of available capacity of the pipelines that the Company relies upon for liquids transportation could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  However, the Company believes that access to liquids pipeline transportation services generally will be available to it to the same extent as to its similarly-situated competitors.






Table of ContentsPIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



Intrastate liquids pipeline transportation rates are subject to regulation by state regulatory commissions.  The basis for intrastate liquids pipeline regulation, and the degree of regulatory oversight and scrutiny given to intrastate liquids pipeline rates, varies from state to state.  The Company believes that the regulation of liquids pipeline transportation rates will not affect its operations in any way that is materially different from the effects on its similarly-situated competitors.

In November 2009, the Federal Trade Commission (the "FTC") issued regulations pursuant to the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 intended to prohibit market manipulation in the petroleum industry.  Violators of the regulations face civil penalties of up to $1.0 million per violation per day.  In July 2010, the U.S. Congress passed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which incorporated an expansion of the authority of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the "CFTC") to prohibit market manipulation in the markets regulated by the CFTC. This authority, with respect to oil swaps and futures contracts, is similar to the anti-manipulation authority granted to the FERC with respect to anti-manipulation in the gas industry and the FTC with respect to oil purchases and sales, as described above.  In July 2011, the CFTC issued final rules to implement their new anti-manipulation authority.  The rules subject violators to a civil penalty of up to the greater of $1.0 million or triple the monetary gain to the person for each violation.

Energy commodity prices. Sales prices of oil, condensate, NGLs and gas are not currently regulated and are made at market prices. Although prices of these energy commodities are currently unregulated, the U.S. Congress historically has been active in their regulation. The Company cannot predict whether new legislation to regulate oil and gas might actually be enacted by the U.S. Congress or the various state legislatures, and what effect, if any, the proposals might have on the Company's operations.

Transportation of hazardous materials. The federal Department of Transportation has adopted regulations requiring that certain entities transporting designated hazardous materials develop plans to address security risks related to the transportation of hazardous materials. The Company does not believe that these requirements will have an adverse effect on the Company or its operations. The Company cannot provide any assurance that the security plans required under these regulations would protect against all security risks and prevent an attack or other incident related to the Company's transportation of hazardous materials.



