Item 1.Business

General

Pioneer is a Delaware corporation whose common stock is listed
and traded on the NYSE. The Company is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company with current operations in the United States, South Africa and Tunisia. Pioneer is a holding company whose assets consist of direct and
indirect ownership interests in, and whose business is conducted substantially through, its subsidiaries.

The
Company’s executive offices are located at 5205 N. O’Connor Blvd., Suite 200, Irving, Texas 75039. The Company’s telephone number is (972) 444-9001. The Company maintains other offices in Anchorage, Alaska; Denver, Colorado;
Midland, Texas; London, England; Capetown, South Africa and Tunis, Tunisia. At December 31, 2009, the Company had 1,888 employees, 1,151 of whom were employed in field and plant operations.

Available Information

Pioneer files or furnishes annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”). The public may
read and copy any materials that Pioneer files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at
1-800-SEC-0330. Also, the SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Pioneer, that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any
documents that Pioneer files with the SEC athttp://www.sec.gov.

The Company also makes available free
of charge through its internet website (www.pxd.com) its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a)
of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC.

Mission and Strategies

The Company’s mission is to enhance shareholder investment returns through
strategies that maximize Pioneer’s long-term profitability, net asset value and net asset value per share. The strategies employed to achieve this mission are predicated on maintaining financial flexibility and capital allocation discipline
while enhancing net asset value per share through accretive drilling programs, acquisitions, debt reduction, dividend distributions and share repurchases. These strategies are anchored by the Company’s long-lived Spraberry oil field and
Hugoton, Raton and West Panhandle gas fields, which have an estimated remaining productive life in excess of 40 years. Underlying these fields are approximately 88 percent of the Company’s proved oil and gas reserves as of December 31,
2009.

Business Activities

The Company is an independent oil and gas exploration and production company. Pioneer’s purpose is to competitively and profitably explore for, develop and produce oil and gas
reserves. In so doing, the Company sells homogenous oil, NGL and gas units that, except for geographic and relatively minor quality differences, cannot be significantly differentiated from units offered for sale by the Company’s competitors.
Competitive advantage is gained in the oil and gas exploration and development industry by employing well-trained experienced personnel who make prudent capital investment decisions, embrace technological innovation and are focused on price and cost
management.

Petroleum industry.Beginning in the second half of 2008 and continuing throughout
2009, the United States and other industrialized countries experienced a significant economic slowdown, which led to a substantial decline in worldwide energy demand. During this same time period, North American gas supply increased as a result of
the rise in domestic unconventional gas production. The combination of lower energy demand due to the economic slowdown and higher North American gas supply resulted in significant declines in oil, NGL and gas prices. While oil and NGL prices
started to steadily improve beginning in the second quarter of 2009, gas prices remained volatile throughout 2009 due to high storage levels and increasing gas supply. The outlook for a worldwide economic recovery in 2010 remains uncertain and,
therefore, the timing of a recovery in worldwide demand for energy is difficult to predict. As a result, it is likely that commodity prices during 2010 will continue to be volatile.







For the several years preceding the 2008 economic slowdown, the petroleum
industry had generally been characterized by volatile but upward-trending oil, NGL and gas commodity prices. During that period, world oil prices increased in response to increases in demand from developing economies and the perceived threat of
supply disruptions in the Middle East, Nigeria, Venezuela and other areas. In 2007 and the first half of 2008, oil prices increased due to supply uncertainty surrounding Middle East conflicts and increasing world demand for both oil and refined
products. A significant increase in refinery outages led to tightness in products markets, which was responsible for oil price strength throughout much of 2007 and the early part of 2008. North American gas prices increased during the first half of
2008 as a result of reduced inventory levels and a perceived shortage of North American gas supply and an anticipation that the United States would become a larger importer of LNG, which was selling at a substantial premium to United States gas
prices in the world market. However, by mid-year 2008 it became increasingly apparent that the capital investment in gas drilling and discoveries of significant gas reserves in United States’ shale plays would be more than sufficient to meet
the Unites States demand. Coupled with the economic slowdown experienced in the second half of 2008, the increased supply of gas resulted in a sharp decline in North American gas prices.

Significant factors that the Company expects to impact 2010 commodity prices include: the effect of economic stimulus
initiatives being implemented in the United States and worldwide in response to the worldwide economic slowdown; developments in the issues affecting the Middle East in general; demand of Asian and European markets; the extent to which members of
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) and other oil exporting nations are able to manage oil supply through export quotas; and overall North American gas supply and demand fundamentals.

To mitigate the impact of commodity price volatility on the Company’s net cash provided by operating activities and its
net asset value, Pioneer utilizes commodity derivative contracts. Although the Company has entered into derivative contracts on a large portion of its forecasted production through 2012, a sustained lower commodity price environment would result in
lower realized prices for unprotected volumes and reduce the prices at which the Company could enter into derivative contracts on additional volumes in the future. As a result, the Company’s internally-generated cash flows would be reduced for
affected periods. Significant or extended price declines could also adversely affect the amount of oil, NGL and gas that the Company can produce economically. The duration, timing and magnitude of any period of lower commodity prices cannot be
predicted. A sustained decline in commodity prices could result in a shortfall in expected cash flows, which could negatively affect the Company’s liquidity, financial position and future results of operations. See “Item 7A. Quantitative
and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” and Note J of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for information regarding the effect on oil, NGL and gas
revenues during 2009, 2008 and 2007 from the Company’s derivative price risk management activities and the Company’s open derivative positions at December 31, 2009.

The Company.The Company’s asset base is anchored by the Spraberry oil field located in West Texas, the
Raton gas field located in southern Colorado, the Hugoton gas field located in southwest Kansas and the West Panhandle gas field located in the Texas Panhandle. Complementing these areas, the Company has exploration and development opportunities
and/or oil and gas production activities in the Eagle Ford and Edwards Trend areas of South Texas, the Barnett Shale area of North Texas and Alaska, and internationally in South Africa and Tunisia. Combined, these assets create a portfolio of
resources and opportunities that are well- balanced among oil, NGLs and gas, and that are also well-balanced among long-lived, dependable production, lower-risk exploration and development opportunities and a limited number of higher-impact
exploration opportunities. Additionally, the Company has a team of dedicated employees that represent the professional disciplines and sciences that will allow Pioneer to maximize the long-term profitability and net asset value inherent in its
physical assets.

The Company provides administrative, financial, legal and management support to United
States and foreign subsidiaries that explore for, develop and produce proved reserves. Production operations are principally located domestically in Texas, Kansas, Colorado and Alaska, and internationally in South Africa and Tunisia.

Production.The Company focuses its efforts towards maximizing its average daily production of oil, NGLs and
gas through development drilling, production enhancement activities and acquisitions of producing properties, while minimizing the controllable costs associated with the production activities. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the
Company’s average daily production, on a BOE basis, increased three percent as compared to 2008 as a







result of a full year of production from the successful development drilling programs in the Spraberry field during 2008, the addition of the Sable gas well during the fourth quarter of 2008 to
production from the South Coast gas project in South Africa, development activities in Tunisia and a seven percent decrease in scheduled deliveries of VPP volumes. Production, price and cost information with respect to the Company’s properties
for 2009, 2008 and 2007 is set forth under “Item 2. Properties — Selected Oil and Gas Information — Production, Price and Cost Data.”

Development activities.The Company seeks to increase its oil and gas reserves, production and cash flow through development drilling and by conducting other production enhancement
activities, such as well recompletions. During the three years ended December 31, 2009, the Company drilled 1,203 gross (1,154 net) development wells, 99 percent of which were successfully completed as productive wells, at a total drilling cost
(net to the Company’s interest) of $2.4 billion.

The Company believes that its current property base
provides a substantial inventory of prospects for future reserve, production and cash flow growth. The Company’s proved reserves as of December 31, 2009 include proved undeveloped reserves and proved developed reserves that are behind pipe
of 186 MMBbls of oil, 66 MMBbls of NGLs and 870 Bcf of gas. The Company believes that its current portfolio of proved reserves provides attractive development opportunities for at least the next five years. The timing of the development of these
reserves will be dependent upon commodity prices, drilling and operating costs and the Company’s expected operating cash flows and financial condition.

Exploratory activities.The Company has devoted significant efforts and resources to hiring and developing a highly-skilled geoscience staff as well as acquiring a
portfolio of lower-risk exploration opportunities complemented by a limited number of higher-impact exploration opportunities. Exploratory and extension drilling involve greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of
hydrocarbons than development drilling or enhanced recovery activities. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors — Exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves” below.

Acquisition activities.The Company regularly seeks to acquire properties that complement its operations,
provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. In addition, the Company pursues strategic acquisitions that will allow the Company to expand into new geographical areas that feature
producing properties and provide exploration/exploitation opportunities. During 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company invested $88.9 million, $137.6 million and $536.7 million, respectively, of acquisition capital to purchase proved oil and gas
properties, including additional interests in its existing assets, and to acquire new prospects for future exploitation and exploration activities. See Note C of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data” for a description of the Company’s acquisitions of proved oil and gas properties during 2009, 2008 and 2007.

The Company periodically evaluates and pursues acquisition opportunities (including opportunities to acquire particular oil and gas assets or entities owning oil and gas assets and opportunities to engage
in mergers, consolidations or other business combinations with such entities) and at any given time may be in various stages of evaluating such opportunities. Such stages may take the form of internal financial analyses, oil and gas reserve
analyses, due diligence, the submission of indications of interest, preliminary negotiations, negotiation of letters of intent or negotiation of definitive agreements. The success of any acquisition is uncertain and depends on a number of factors,
some of which are outside the Company’s control. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors — The Company may be unable to make attractive acquisitions, and any acquisition it completes is subject to substantial risks that could adversely affect its
business.”

Asset divestitures.The Company regularly reviews its asset base for the
purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. While the Company generally does not dispose of assets
solely for the purpose of reducing debt, such dispositions can have the result of furthering the Company’s objective of increasing financial flexibility through reduced debt levels. See Notes N and V of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for specific information regarding the Company’s asset divestitures and discontinued operations during 2009, 2008 and 2007.

The Company anticipates that it will continue to sell nonstrategic properties or other assets from time to time to increase
capital resources available for other activities, to achieve operating and administrative efficiencies and to improve profitability.







Operations by Geographic Area

The Company operates in one industry segment, that being oil and gas exploration and production, in three geographic areas.
See Note R of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for geographic operating segment information, including results of operations and segment assets.

Marketing of Production

General.Production from the Company’s properties is marketed using methods that are consistent with industry practices. Sales prices for oil, NGL and gas production are negotiated
based on factors normally considered in the industry, such as the index or spot prices, price regulations, distance from the well to the pipeline, commodity quality and prevailing supply and demand conditions. See “Qualitative Disclosures”
in “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” for additional discussion of operations and price risk.

Significant purchasers.During 2009, the Company’s significant purchasers of oil, NGLs and gas were Plains Marketing LP (10 percent), ConocoPhillips (9 percent), Occidental Energy
Marketing, Inc. (7 percent), Enterprise Products Partners L.P. (6 percent) and Oneok Resources (5 percent). The Company believes that the loss of any one purchaser would not have a material adverse effect on its ability to sell its oil, NGL and gas
production.

Derivative risk management activities.The Company from time to time utilizes
commodity swap and collar contracts in order to (i) reduce the effect of price volatility on the commodities the Company produces and sells, (ii) support the Company’s annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and
(iii) reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects. As of January 31, 2009, the Company discontinued hedge accounting and began accounting for its derivative contracts using the mark-to-market (“MTM”)
method of accounting. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for a description of the Company’s derivative risk management activities, “Item 7A. Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” and Note J of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for information about the impact of commodity derivative activities
on oil, NGL and gas revenues and net derivative losses during 2009, 2008 and 2007, as well as the Company’s open and terminated commodity derivative positions at December 31, 2009.

Competition, Markets and Regulations

Competition.The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. A large number of companies, including major integrated and other independent companies, and individuals
engage in the exploration for and development of oil and gas properties, and there is a high degree of competition for oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration. Acquisitions of oil and gas properties have been an important
element of the Company’s growth. The Company intends to continue to acquire oil and gas properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. The
principal competitive factors in the acquisition of oil and gas properties include the staff and data necessary to identify, evaluate and acquire such properties and the financial resources necessary to acquire and develop the properties. Many of
the Company’s competitors are substantially larger and have financial and other resources greater than those of the Company.

Markets.The Company’s ability to produce and market oil, NGLs and gas profitably depends on numerous factors beyond the Company’s control. The effect of these factors cannot be
accurately predicted or anticipated. Although the Company cannot predict the occurrence of events that may affect these commodity prices or the degree to which these prices will be affected, the prices for any commodity that the Company produces
will generally approximate current market prices in the geographic region of the production.

Securities
regulations.Enterprises that sell securities in public markets are subject to regulatory oversight by agencies such as the SEC and the NYSE. This regulatory oversight imposes on the Company the responsibility for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, and ensuring that the financial statements and other information included in submissions to the SEC do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made in such submissions not misleading. Failure to comply with the rules and regulations of the SEC could subject the Company to litigation from public or private plaintiffs. Failure
to comply with the rules of the NYSE could result in the de-listing of the Company’s common stock, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of the Company’s commons stock. Compliance with some of these rules and regulations
is costly, and regulations are subject to change or reinterpretation.







Environmental matters and regulations.The Company’s
operations are subject to stringent and complex foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations governing environmental protection as well as the discharge of materials into the environment. These laws and regulations may, among other things:



•require the acquisition of various permits before drilling commences;



•enjoin some or all of the operations of facilities deemed in non-compliance with permits;



•restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with oil and gas
drilling, production and transportation activities;



•limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; and



•require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former and ongoing operations, such as requirements to close pits and plug abandoned wells.

These laws, rules and regulations may also restrict the rate of oil and gas production
below the rate that would otherwise be possible. The regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases the cost of doing business in the industry and consequently affects profitability. Additionally, the United States Congress and state
legislatures, federal and state regulatory agencies and foreign government and agencies frequently revise environmental laws and regulations, and the clear trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions and limitations on activities
that may affect the environment. Any changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, disposal and cleanup requirements for the oil and gas industry could have a significant impact on the Company’s operating costs.

The following is a summary of some of the existing laws, rules and regulations to which the Company’s business
operations are subject.

Waste handling.The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”)
and comparable state statutes regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. Under the auspices of the federal Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”), the
individual states administer some or all of the provisions of RCRA, sometimes in conjunction with their own, more stringent requirements. Drilling fluids, produced waters and most of the other wastes associated with the exploration, development and
production of oil or gas are currently regulated under RCRA’s non-hazardous waste provisions. It is possible that certain oil and gas exploration and production wastes now classified as non-hazardous could be classified as hazardous wastes in
the future. Any such change could result in an increase in the Company’s costs to manage and dispose of wastes, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. Also, in the course
of the Company’s operations, it generates some amounts of ordinary industrial wastes, such as paint wastes, waste solvents and waste oils that may be regulated as hazardous wastes.

Wastes containing naturally occurring radioactive materials (“NORM”) may also be generated in connection with the
Company’s operations. Certain processes used to produce oil and gas may enhance the radioactivity of NORM, which may be present in oilfield wastes. NORM is subject primarily to individual state radiation control regulations. In addition, NORM
handling and management activities are governed by regulations promulgated by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”). These state and OSHA regulations impose certain requirements concerning worker protection; the
treatment, storage and disposal of NORM waste; the management of waste piles, containers and tanks containing NORM; as well as restrictions on the uses of land with NORM contamination.

Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act.The Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), also known as the Superfund law, imposes joint and several liability, without regard to fault or legality of conduct, on classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of
a hazardous substance into the environment. These persons include the current and past owner or operator of the site where the release occurred, and anyone who disposed or arranged for the disposal of a hazardous substance released at the site.
Under CERCLA, such persons may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health
studies. In addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third-parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment.

The Company currently owns or leases numerous properties that have been used for oil and gas exploration and production for
many years. Although the Company believes it has used operating and waste disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hazardous substances, wastes or hydrocarbons may have been released







on or under the properties owned or leased by the Company, or on or under other locations, including off-site locations, where such substances have been taken for disposal. In addition, some of
the Company’s properties have been operated by third parties or by previous owners or operators whose treatment and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes or hydrocarbons were not under the Company’s control. In fact, there is evidence
that petroleum spills or releases have occurred in the past at some of the properties owned or leased by the Company. These properties and the substances disposed or released on them may be subject to CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws. Under
such laws, the Company could be required to remove previously disposed substances and wastes, remediate contaminated property or perform remedial plugging or pit closure operations to prevent future contamination.

Water discharges and use.The Clean Water Act (the “CWA”) and analogous state laws impose restrictions and
strict controls with respect to the discharge of pollutants, including spills and leaks of oil and other substances, into waters of the United States. The discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the
terms of a permit issued by EPA or an analogous state agency. The CWA and regulations implemented thereunder also prohibit the discharge of dredge and fill material into regulated waters, including wetlands, unless authorized by an appropriately
issued permit. Spill prevention, control and countermeasure requirements of federal laws require appropriate containment berms and similar structures to help prevent the contamination of navigable waters by a petroleum hydrocarbon tank spill,
rupture or leak. Federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non-compliance with discharge permits or other requirements of the CWA and analogous state laws and regulations.

The primary federal law imposing liability for oil spills is the Oil Pollution Act (“OPA”), which sets minimum
standards for prevention, containment and cleanup of oil spills. OPA applies to vessels, offshore facilities and onshore facilities, including exploration and production facilities that may affect waters of the United States. Under OPA, responsible
parties, including owners and operators of onshore facilities, may be subject to oil spill cleanup costs and natural resource damages as well as a variety of public and private damages that may result from oil spills.

Operations associated with the Company’s properties also produce wastewaters that are disposed via injection in
underground wells. These injection wells are regulated by the Safe Drinking Water Act (the “SDWA”) and analogous state and local laws. The underground injection well program under the SDWA requires permits from the EPA or analogous state
agency for the Company’s disposal wells, establishes minimum standards for injection well operations, and restricts the types and quantities of fluids that may be injected. Currently, the Company believes that disposal well operations on the
Company’s properties comply with all applicable requirements under the SDWA. However, a change in the regulations or the inability to obtain permits for new injection wells in the future may affect the Company’s ability to dispose of
produced waters and ultimately increase the cost of the Company’s operations. In addition, the United States Congress is considering amending the SDWA to require additional regulation of chemicals used by the oil and gas industry in the
hydraulic fracturing process, and some states are considering similar regulations.

The water produced by the
Company’s CBM operations also may be subject to the laws of various states and regulatory bodies regarding the ownership and use of water. For example, in connection with the Company’s CBM operations in the Raton Basin in Colorado, water
is removed from coal seams to reduce pressure and allow the methane to be recovered. Historically, these operations have been regulated by the state agency responsible for regulating oil and gas activity in the state. In a recent case brought by the
owners of ranch land involving a CBM competitor in a different CBM basin in Colorado, the Colorado Supreme Court held that water produced in connection with the CBM operations should be subject to state water-use regulations administered by a
different agency that regulates other uses of water in the state, including requirements to obtain permits for diversion and use of surface and subsurface water, an evaluation of potential competing uses of the water, and a possible requirement to
provide mitigation water for other water users. The Company’s CBM or other oil and gas operations and the Company’s ability to expand its operations could be adversely affected, and these changes in regulation could ultimately increase the
Company’s cost of doing business.

Air emissions.The Federal Clean Air Act (the “CAA”)
and comparable state laws regulate emissions of various air pollutants through air emissions permitting programs and the imposition of other requirements. Such laws and regulations may require a facility to obtain pre-approval for the construction
or modification of certain projects or facilities expected to produce air emissions or result in the increase of existing air emissions; obtain or strictly comply with air permits containing various emissions and operational limitations; or utilize
specific emission control technologies to limit emissions of certain air pollutants. In addition, the EPA has developed, and continues to







develop, stringent regulations governing emissions of toxic air pollutants at specified sources. Moreover, states can impose air emissions limitations that are more stringent than the federal
standards imposed by the EPA. Federal and state regulatory agencies can also impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non-compliance with air permits or other requirements of the federal CAA and associated state laws and regulations.

Permits and related compliance obligations under the CAA, as well as changes to state implementation plans
for controlling air emissions in regional non-attainment areas, may require the Company to incur future capital expenditures in connection with the addition or modification of existing air emission control equipment and strategies for gas and oil
exploration and production operations. In addition, some gas and oil production facilities may be included within the categories of hazardous air pollutant sources, which are subject to increasing regulation under the CAA. Failure to comply with
these requirements could subject a regulated entity to monetary penalties, injunctions, conditions or restrictions on operations and enforcement actions. Gas and oil exploration and production facilities may be required to incur certain capital
expenditures in the future for air pollution control equipment in connection with obtaining and maintaining operating permits and approvals for air emissions.

The Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (the “TCEQ”) recently concluded an analysis of air emissions of third-party operators in the Barnett Shale area in response to
reported concerns about high concentrations of benzene in the air near drilling sites and gas processing facilities. The TCEQ’s investigation revealed elevated levels of benzene and other emissions at certain locations. The agency has announced
that it will continue monitoring emissions and will investigate all complaints about oil and gas activities in the Barnett Shale area within 12 hours of receipt. The agency’s investigations could lead to more stringent air permitting, increased
regulation and possible enforcement actions against producers, including Pioneer, in the Barnett Shale area. In addition, environmental groups have advocated for increased regulation in the Barnett Shale area, and at least one state representative
has advocated a moratorium on the issuance of drilling permits for new gas wells in the area. Any adoption of laws, regulations, orders or other legally enforceable mandates governing gas drilling and operating activities in the Barnett Shale that
result in more stringent drilling or operating conditions or limit or prohibit the drilling of new gas wells for any extended period of time could increase the Company’s costs and/or reduce its production, which could have a material adverse
effect on the Company’s results of operations and cash flows.

Health and safety.The
Company’s operations are subject to the requirements of the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act (the “OSH Act”) and comparable state statutes. These laws and the related regulations strictly govern the protection of the health
and safety of employees. The OSH Act hazard communication standard, EPA community right-to-know regulations under Title III of CERCLA and similar state statues require that the Company organize or disclose information about hazardous materials used
or produced in the Company’s operations. The Company believes that it is in substantial compliance with these applicable requirements and with other OSH Act and comparable requirements.

Global warming and climate change.On December 15, 2009, the EPA officially published its findings that
emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other “greenhouse gases,” or “GHGs,” present an endangerment to human health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the
Earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings by the EPA allow the agency to proceed with the adoption and implementation of regulations that would restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the CAA. In late
September 2009, the EPA had proposed two sets of regulations in anticipation of finalizing its findings that would require a reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and that could also lead to the imposition of GHG emission limitations in
CAA permits for certain stationary sources. In addition, on September 22, 2009, the EPA issued a final rule requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources in the United States beginning in 2011 for emissions
occurring in 2010. The adoption and implementation of any regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of GHGs from, the Company’s equipment and operations could require the Company to incur costs to reduce emissions of
GHGs associated with the Company’s operations or could adversely affect demand for the oil, NGL and gas that the Company produces.

Also, on June 26, 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives approved adoption of the “American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009” (“ACESA”), which is also known as the
“Waxman-Markey cap-and-trade legislation.” The purpose of ACESA is to control and reduce emissions of greenhouse gases in the United States. ACESA would establish an economy-wide cap on emissions of GHGs in the United States and would
require an overall reduction in GHG emissions of 17% (from 2005 levels) by 2020, and by over 80% by 2050. Under ACESA, most sources of GHG emissions would be required to obtain GHG emission “allowances” corresponding to their annual
emissions of GHGs. The number of emission allowances issued each year would decline as necessary to meet ACESA’s overall emission reduction goals. As the number of GHG emission allowances permitted by ACESA declines each year, the







cost or value of allowances would be expected to escalate significantly. The net effect of ACESA would be to impose increasing costs on the combustion of carbon-based fuels such as oil, refined
petroleum products and gas. The U.S. Senate has begun work on its own legislation for controlling and reducing emissions of GHGs in the United States. If the Senate adopts GHG legislation that is different from ACESA, the Senate legislation would
need to be reconciled with ACESA and both chambers would be required to approve identical legislation before it could become law.

In addition, more than one-third of the states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, already have begun implementing legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs, primarily
through the planned development of emission inventories or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. Finally, other nations have been seeking to reduce emissions of GHGs pursuant to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change,
also known as the “Kyoto Protocol,” an international treaty pursuant to which participating countries (not including the United States) have agreed to reduce their emissions of GHGs to below 1990 levels by 2012. Depending on the particular
jurisdiction in which the Company’s operations are located, it could be required to purchase and surrender allowances for GHG emissions resulting from the Company’s operations.

The Company believes it is in substantial compliance with all existing environmental laws and regulations applicable to the
Company’s current operations and that its continued compliance with existing requirements will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. For instance, the Company did not incur any
material capital expenditures for remediation or pollution control activities for the year ended December 31, 2009. Additionally, the Company is not aware of any environmental issues or claims that will require material capital expenditures
during 2010. However, accidental spills or releases may occur in the course of the Company’s operations, and the Company cannot give any assurance that it will not incur substantial costs and liabilities as a result of such spills or releases,
including those relating to claims for damage to property and persons. Moreover, the Company cannot give any assurance that the passage of more stringent laws or regulations in the future will not have a negative effect on the Company’s
business, financial condition and results of operations.

Other regulation of the oil and gas industry.The oil and gas industry is regulated by numerous foreign, federal, state and local authorities. Legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden.
Also, numerous departments and agencies, foreign, federal and state, are authorized by statute to issue rules and regulations binding on the oil and gas industry and its individual members, some of which carry substantial penalties for failure to
comply. Although the regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry may increase the Company’s cost of doing business by increasing the cost of transporting its production to market, these burdens generally do not affect the Company any
differently or to any greater or lesser extent than they affect other companies in the industry with similar types, quantities and locations of production. For example, the Company’s properties located in Colorado are subject to the authority
of the Colorado Oil & Gas Conservation Commission (the “COGCC”). The COGCC has recently promulgated new rules that are likely to increase the Company’s costs of permitting and environmental compliance, and to extend waiting
periods for the acquisition of permits.

Development and production.Development and production
operations are subject to various types of regulation at foreign, federal, state and local levels. These types of regulation include requiring permits for the drilling of wells, the posting of bonds in connection with various types of activities and
filing reports concerning operations. Most states, and some counties and municipalities, in which the Company operates also regulate one or more of the following:



•the location of wells;



•the method of drilling and casing wells;



•the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled;



•the plugging and abandoning of wells; and



•notice to surface owners and other third parties.

State laws regulate the size and shape of drilling and spacing units or proration units governing the pooling of oil and gas properties. Some states allow forced pooling or
integration of tracts to facilitate exploration while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases. In some instances, forced pooling or unitization may be implemented by third parties and may reduce the Company’s interest in the
unitized properties. In addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production from oil and gas wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of gas and impose requirements regarding the ratability of production. These laws and
regulations may limit the amount of oil and gas the Company can produce from the Company’s wells or limit the number of wells or the







locations at which the Company can drill. Moreover, each state generally imposes a production or severance tax with respect to the production and sale of oil, NGL and gas within its jurisdiction.
States do not regulate wellhead prices or engage in other similar direct regulation, but there can be no assurance that they will not do so in the future. The effect of such future regulations may be to limit the amounts of oil and gas that may be
produced from the Company’s wells, negatively affect the economics of production from these wells, or to limit the number of locations the Company can drill.

Regulation of transportation and sale of gas.

In December 2007, the FERC issued rules (“Order 704”) requiring that any market participant, including a producer
such as the Company, that engages in wholesale sales or purchases of gas that equal or exceed 2.2 million MMBtus during a calendar year must annually report such sales and purchases to the FERC. Order 704 is intended to increase the
transparency of the wholesale gas markets and to assist the FERC in monitoring those markets and in detecting market manipulation.

Although gas prices are currently unregulated, Congress historically has been active in the area of gas regulation. The Company cannot predict whether new legislation to regulate gas or gas prices might
be proposed, what proposals, if any, might actually be enacted by Congress or the various state legislatures and what effect, if any, the proposals might have on the Company’s operations. Sales of condensate and gas liquids are not currently
regulated and are made at market prices.

Gas gathering.While the Company owns or operates some gas
gathering facilities, the Company also depends on gathering facilities owned and operated by third parties to gather production from its properties, and therefore the Company is impacted by the rates charged by such third parties for gathering
services. To the extent that changes in foreign, federal and/or state regulation affect the rates charged for gathering services, the Company also may be affected by such changes. Accordingly, the Company does not anticipate that the Company would
be affected any differently than similarly situated gas producers.







