ITEM 1.BUSINESS

General

Pioneer is a Delaware corporation whose common stock is listed and traded on the NYSE. The Company is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company with operations in the United
States and South Africa. Pioneer is a holding company whose assets consist of direct and indirect ownership interests in, and whose business is conducted substantially through, its subsidiaries.

The Company’s executive offices are located at 5205 N. O’Connor Blvd., Suite 200, Irving, Texas 75039. The
Company’s telephone number is (972) 444-9001. The Company maintains other offices in Anchorage, Alaska; Denver, Colorado; Midland, Texas and Capetown, South Africa. At December 31, 2011, the Company had 3,304 employees, 2,282 of whom
were employed in field and plant operations.

Available Information

Pioneer files or furnishes annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the SEC under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”). The public may read and copy any materials that Pioneer files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may
obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, the SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers,
including Pioneer, that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that Pioneer files with the SEC athttp://www.sec.gov.

The Company also makes available free of charge through its internet website (www.pxd.com) its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and, if
applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC.

Mission and Strategies

The Company’s mission is to enhance shareholder investment returns through strategies that maximize Pioneer’s long-term profitability and net asset value. The strategies employed to achieve this
mission are predicated on maintaining financial flexibility, capital allocation discipline and enhancing net asset value through accretive drilling programs, joint ventures and acquisitions. These strategies are anchored by the Company’s
interests in the long-lived Spraberry oil field; the liquid-rich Eagle Ford Shale, Barnett Shale Combo, Hugoton and West Panhandle fields; and the Raton gas field; which together have an estimated remaining productive life in excess of 40 years.
Underlying these fields are approximately 93 percent of the Company’s proved oil and gas reserves as of December 
31, 2011.

Business Activities

The Company is an independent oil and gas exploration and production company. Pioneer’s purpose is to competitively
and profitably explore for, develop and produce oil and gas reserves. In so doing, the Company sells homogenous oil, NGL and gas units that, except for geographic and relatively minor quality differences, cannot be significantly differentiated from
units offered for sale by the Company’s competitors. Competitive advantage is gained in the oil and gas exploration and development industry by employing well-trained and experienced personnel who make prudent capital investment decisions based
on management direction, embrace technological innovation and are focused on price and cost management.

Petroleum industry.Oil and NGL prices have steadily improved since the beginning of 2009, while gas prices
have remained volatile and have generally trended lower since 2009. The decline in gas prices is primarily a result of growing gas production associated with discoveries of significant gas reserves in United States shale plays, combined with the
warmer than normal 2011/2012 winter, which has resulted in gas storage levels being at historically high levels, and minimal economic demand growth in the United States.







PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



During 2009, 2010 and 2011, economic stimulus initiatives implemented in
the United States and worldwide served to stabilize the United States and certain other economies in the world with resulting improvements in industrial demand and consumer confidence. However, other economies, such as those of certain European
Union (or “Eurozone”) nations, continue to face economic struggles. The outlook for a continued worldwide economic recovery is cautiously optimistic, but remains uncertain; therefore, the sustainability of the recovery in worldwide demand
for energy is difficult to predict. As a result, the Company believes it is likely that commodity prices, especially North American gas prices, will continue to be volatile during 2012.

Significant factors that will impact 2012 commodity prices include: the ongoing impact of economic stimulus initiatives
in the United States and worldwide and continuing economic struggles in Eurozone nations’ economies; political and economic developments in North Africa and the Middle East; demand from Asian and European markets; the extent to which members of
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) and other oil exporting nations are able to manage oil supply through export quotas; and overall North American NGL and gas supply and demand fundamentals.

Pioneer uses commodity derivative contracts to mitigate the impact of commodity price volatility on the Company’s
net cash provided by operating activities and its net asset value. Although the Company has entered into commodity derivative contracts for a large portion of its forecasted production through 2014, a sustained lower commodity price environment
would result in lower realized prices for unprotected volumes and reduce the prices at which the Company could enter into derivative contracts on additional volumes in the future. As a result, the Company’s internal cash flows would be reduced
for affected periods. A sustained decline in commodity prices could result in a shortfall in expected cash flows, which could negatively impact the Company’s liquidity, financial position and future results of operations. See “Item 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” and Notes I and J of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for information regarding the impact to oil
and gas revenues during 2011, 2010 and 2009 from the Company’s derivative price risk management activities and the Company’s open derivative positions as of December 31, 2011.

The Company.The Company’s growth plan is anchored primarily by drilling in the Spraberry oil field
located in West Texas, the liquid-rich Eagle Ford Shale field located in South Texas, the liquid-rich Barnett Shale Combo field in North Texas and, to a lesser extent, Alaska. Complementing these growth areas, the Company has oil and gas production
activities and development opportunities in the Raton gas field located in southern Colorado, the Hugoton gas and liquid field located in southwest Kansas, the West Panhandle gas and liquid field located in the Texas Panhandle and the Edwards gas
field located in South Texas. Combined, these assets create a portfolio of resources and opportunities that are well balanced among oil, NGL and gas, and that are also well balanced among long-lived, dependable production and lower-risk exploration
and development opportunities. Additionally, the Company has a team of dedicated employees that represent the professional disciplines and sciences that are necessary to allow Pioneer to maximize the long-term profitability and net asset value
inherent in its physical assets.

The Company provides administrative, financial, legal and management support
to United States and South Africa subsidiaries that explore for, develop and produce proved reserves. The Company’s continuing operations are principally located in the United States in the states of Texas, Kansas, Colorado and Alaska.

Production.The Company focuses its efforts towards maximizing its average daily production of
oil, NGLs and gas through development drilling, production enhancement activities and acquisitions of producing properties, while minimizing the controllable costs associated with the production activities. For the year ended December 31, 2011,
the Company’s production from continuing operations, excluding field fuel usage, of 44.0 MMBOE represented a 16 percent increase over production from continuing operations during 2010. Production, price and cost information with respect to the
Company’s properties for 2011, 2010 and 2009 is set forth in “Item 2. Properties — Selected Oil and Gas Information — Production, price and cost data.”

Development activities.The Company seeks to increase its oil and gas reserves, production and cash flow
through development drilling and by conducting other production enhancement activities, such as well recompletions. During the three years ended December 31, 2011, the Company drilled 1,236 gross (1,112 net) development wells, 99 percent of
which were successfully completed as productive wells, at a total drilling cost (net to the Company’s interest) of $2.5 billion.

The Company believes that its current property base provides a substantial inventory of prospects for future reserve, production and cash flow growth. The Company’s proved reserves as of
December 31, 2011 include proved







PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



undeveloped reserves and proved developed reserves that are behind pipe of 259.0 MMBbls of oil, 98.7 MMBbls of NGLs and 850.8 Bcf of gas. The Company believes that its current portfolio of proved
reserves provides attractive development opportunities for at least the next five years. The timing of the development of these reserves will be dependent upon commodity prices, drilling and operating costs and the Company’s expected operating
cash flows and financial condition.

Exploratory activities.The Company has devoted significant
efforts and resources to hiring and developing a highly skilled geoscience staff as well as acquiring a portfolio of lower-risk exploration opportunities. Exploratory and extension drilling involve greater risks of dry holes or failure to find
commercial quantities of hydrocarbons than development drilling or enhanced recovery activities. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors — Exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves” below.

Integrated services.The Company continues to expand its integrated services to control drilling costs and
support the execution of its accelerating drilling program. The Company has 15 owned drilling rigs operating in the Spraberry field, and at the end of 2011, had Company-owned fracture stimulation fleets totaling 250,000 horsepower supporting
drilling operations in the Spraberry, Eagle Ford Shale and Barnett Shale Combo areas. The Company also owns other field service equipment, including pulling units, fracture stimulation tanks, water transport trucks, hot oilers, blowout preventers,
construction equipment and fishing tools.

Acquisition activities.The Company regularly seeks
to acquire properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. In addition, the Company pursues strategic acquisitions that will allow the Company to
expand into new geographical areas that provide future exploration/exploitation opportunities. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company spent $131.9 million, $181.6 million and $88.9 million, respectively, to purchase primarily undeveloped acreage
for future exploitation and exploration activities.

The Company periodically evaluates and pursues
acquisition opportunities (including opportunities to acquire particular oil and gas assets or entities owning oil and gas assets and opportunities to engage in mergers, consolidations or other business combinations with such entities) and at any
given time may be in various stages of evaluating such opportunities. Such stages may take the form of internal financial analyses, oil and gas reserve analyses, due diligence, the submission of indications of interest, preliminary negotiations,
negotiation of letters of intent or negotiation of definitive agreements. The success of any acquisition is uncertain and depends on a number of factors, some of which are outside the Company’s control. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors —
The Company may be unable to make attractive acquisitions and any acquisition it completes is subject to substantial risks that could adversely affect its business.”

Asset divestitures and discontinued operations.The Company regularly reviews its asset base for the
purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. While the Company generally does not dispose of assets
solely for the purpose of reducing debt, such dispositions can have the result of furthering the Company’s objective of increasing financial flexibility through reduced debt levels.

During December 2011, the Company committed to a plan to divest its South Africa assets (“Pioneer South
Africa”). The plan is expected to result in the sale of Pioneer South Africa assets during 2012. In accordance with GAAP, the Company has classified its South Africa assets and liabilities as discontinued operations held for sale in the
Company’s accompanying consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2011, and has recast Pioneer South Africa’s results of operations as income from discontinued operations, net of tax in the Company’s accompanying consolidated
statements of operations.

During February 2011, the Company completed the
sale of its share holdings in Pioneer Natural Resources Tunisia Ltd. and Pioneer Natural Resources Anaguid Ltd. (referred to in the aggregate as “Pioneer Tunisia”) for cash proceeds of $853.6 million, including normal closing adjustments.
As a result of having committed to a plan to sell the Tunisian subsidiaries during 2010, the Company classified its Tunisian assets and liabilities as discontinued operations held for sale in the Company’s accompanying consolidated balance
sheet as of December 31, 2010, and recorded the historical results of operations of its Tunisian assets as income from discontinued operations, net of tax in the Company’s accompanying consolidated statements of operations.

The Company anticipates that it will continue to sell nonstrategic properties or other assets from time to time to
increase capital resources available for other activities, to achieve operating and administrative efficiencies and to







PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



improve profitability. See Notes M and U of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for specific information
regarding the Company’s asset divestitures and discontinued operations, including the 2011 sale of Pioneer Tunisia and planned sale of Pioneer South Africa.

Marketing of Production

General.Production from the Company’s properties is marketed using methods that are consistent with
industry practices. Sales prices for oil, NGL and gas production are negotiated based on factors normally considered in the industry, such as an index or spot price, price regulations, distance from the well to the pipeline, commodity quality and
prevailing supply and demand conditions. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” for additional discussion of operations and price risk.

Significant purchasers.During 2011, the Company’s significant purchasers of oil, NGLs and gas were
Plains Marketing LP (16 percent), Occidental Energy Marketing Inc. (14 percent) and Enterprise Products Partners L.P. (12 percent). The Company believes that the loss of any one purchaser would not have an adverse effect on its ability to sell its
oil, NGL and gas production.

Derivative risk management activities.The Company utilizes
commodity swap contracts, collar contracts and collar contracts with short puts to (i) reduce the effect of price volatility on the commodities the Company produces and sells, (ii) support the Company’s annual capital budgeting and
expenditure plans and (iii) reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects. The Company also utilizes commodity swap contracts to reduce price volatility on the fuel that the Company’s drilling rigs and fracture
stimulation fleets consume. Effective February 1, 2009, the Company discontinued hedge accounting on all of its then-existing hedge contracts and began accounting for its derivative contracts using the mark-to-market (“MTM”) method of
accounting. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for a description of the Company’s derivative risk management activities, “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosures About Market Risk,” and Note I of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for information about the impact of commodity derivative activities on oil, NGL
and gas revenues and net derivative gains and losses during 2011, 2010 and 2009, as well as the Company’s open commodity derivative positions at December 31, 2011.

Competition, Markets and Regulations

Competition.The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. A large number of companies, including major integrated and other independent companies, and individuals engage in the
exploration for and development of oil and gas properties, and there is a high degree of competition for oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration. Acquisitions of oil and gas properties have been an important element of the
Company’s growth. The Company intends to continue acquiring oil and gas properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. The principal
competitive factors in the acquisition of oil and gas properties include the staff and data necessary to identify, evaluate and acquire such properties and the financial resources necessary to acquire and develop the properties. Many of the
Company’s competitors are substantially larger and have financial and other resources greater than those of the Company.

Markets.The Company’s ability to produce and market oil, NGLs and gas profitably depends on numerous factors beyond the Company’s control. The effect of these factors cannot be
accurately predicted or anticipated. Although the Company cannot predict the occurrence of events that may affect these commodity prices or the degree to which these prices will be affected, the prices for any commodity that the Company produces
will generally approximate current market prices in the geographic region of the production.

Securities regulations.Enterprises that sell securities in public markets
are subject to regulatory oversight by agencies such as the SEC and the NYSE. This regulatory oversight imposes on the Company the responsibility for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over
financial reporting, and ensuring that the financial statements and other information included in submissions to the SEC do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made in
such submissions not misleading. Failure to comply with the rules and regulations of the SEC could subject the Company to litigation from public or private plaintiffs. Failure to comply with the rules of the NYSE could result in the de-listing of
the Company’s common stock, which would have an adverse effect on the market price of the Company’s common stock. Compliance with some of these rules and regulations is costly, and regulations are subject to change or reinterpretation.







PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



Environmental matters and regulations.The Company’s
operations are subject to stringent and complex foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations governing environmental protection as well as the discharge of materials into the environment. These laws and regulations may, among other things:



•require the acquisition of various permits before drilling commences;



•enjoin some or all of the operations of facilities deemed in non-compliance with permits;



•restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with oil and gas
drilling, production and transportation activities;



•limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; and



•require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former and ongoing operations, such as requirements to close pits and plug abandoned wells.

These laws, rules and regulations may also restrict the rate of oil and gas production
below the rate that would otherwise be possible. The regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases the cost of doing business in the industry and consequently affects profitability. Additionally, the United States Congress and state
legislatures, federal and state regulatory agencies and foreign government and agencies frequently revise environmental laws and regulations, and the clear trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions and limitations on activities
that may affect the environment. Any changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, disposal and cleanup requirements for the oil and gas industry could have a significant impact on the Company’s operating costs.

The following is a summary of some of the laws, rules and regulations to which the Company’s business operations are
or may be subject.

Waste handling.The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”) and
comparable state statutes regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. Under the auspices of the federal Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”), the
individual states administer some or all of the provisions of RCRA, sometimes in conjunction with their own, more stringent requirements. Drilling fluids, produced waters and most of the other wastes associated with the exploration, development and
production of oil or gas are currently regulated under RCRA’s non-hazardous waste provisions. It is possible that certain oil and gas exploration and production wastes now classified as non-hazardous could be classified as hazardous wastes in
the future. Any such change could result in an increase in the Company’s costs to manage and dispose of wastes, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. Also, in the course
of the Company’s operations, it generates some amounts of ordinary industrial wastes, such as paint wastes, waste solvents and waste oils that may be regulated as hazardous wastes.

Wastes containing naturally occurring radioactive materials (“NORM”) may also be generated in connection with
the Company’s operations. Certain processes used to produce oil and gas may enhance the radioactivity of NORM, which may be present in oilfield wastes. NORM is subject primarily to individual state radiation control regulations. In addition,
NORM handling and management activities are governed by regulations promulgated by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”). These state and OSHA regulations impose certain requirements concerning worker protection; the
treatment, storage and disposal of NORM waste; the management of waste piles, containers and tanks containing NORM; as well as restrictions on the uses of land with NORM contamination.

Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act.The Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), also known as the Superfund law, imposes joint and several liability, without regard to fault or legality of conduct, on classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of
a hazardous substance into the environment. These persons include the current and past owner or operator of the site where the release occurred, and anyone who disposed or arranged for the disposal of a hazardous substance released at the site.
Under CERCLA, such persons may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health
studies. In addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third-parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment.







PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



The Company currently owns or leases numerous properties that have been
used for oil and gas exploration and production for many years. Although the Company believes it has used operating and waste disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hazardous substances, wastes or hydrocarbons may have
been released on or under the properties owned or leased by the Company, or on or under other locations, including off-site locations, where such substances have been taken for disposal. In addition, some of the Company’s properties have been
operated by third parties or by previous owners or operators whose treatment and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes or hydrocarbons were not under the Company’s control. In fact, there is evidence that petroleum spills or releases have
occurred in the past at some of the properties owned or leased by the Company. These properties and the substances disposed or released on them may be subject to CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws. Under such laws, the Company could be required
to remove previously disposed substances and wastes, remediate contaminated property or perform remedial plugging or pit closure operations to prevent future contamination.

Water discharges and use.The Clean Water Act (the “CWA”) and analogous state laws impose restrictions
and strict controls with respect to the discharge of pollutants, including spills and leaks of oil and other substances, into waters of the United States. The discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the
terms of a permit issued by the EPA or an analogous state agency. The CWA and regulations implemented thereunder also prohibit the discharge of dredge and fill material into regulated waters, including wetlands, unless authorized by an appropriately
issued permit. Spill prevention, control and countermeasure requirements of federal laws require appropriate containment berms and similar structures to help prevent the contamination of navigable waters by a petroleum hydrocarbon tank spill,
rupture or leak. Federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non-compliance with discharge permits or other requirements of the CWA and analogous state laws and regulations.

The primary federal law imposing liability for oil spills is the Oil Pollution Act (“OPA”), which sets minimum
standards for prevention, containment and cleanup of oil spills. OPA applies to vessels, offshore facilities and onshore facilities, including exploration and production facilities that may affect waters of the United States. Under OPA, responsible
parties, including owners and operators of onshore facilities, may be subject to oil spill cleanup costs and natural resource damages as well as a variety of public and private damages that may result from oil spills.

The Company also routinely uses hydraulic fracturing techniques in many of its drilling and completion programs. The
process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate oil and gas production. The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions. The EPA, however, recently asserted federal
regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing involving diesel fuels under the SDWA Underground Injection Control Program. In addition, legislation has been introduced before the United States Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic
fracturing under the SDWA and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the fracturing process. At the state level, several states have adopted or are considering legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and
well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. The Company believes that it follows applicable standard industry practices and legal requirements for groundwater protection in its hydraulic fracturing activities. Nonetheless, if
new or more stringent federal, state or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where the







PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



Company operates, the Company could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development or
production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells.

In addition, certain governmental
reviews are either underway or proposed that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. The White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices, and a
committee of the United States House of Representatives has conducted an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices. The EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater,
with initial results expected to be available by late 2012 and final results by 2014. Moreover, the EPA is developing effluent limitations for the treatment and discharge of wastewater resulting from hydraulic fracturing activities and plans to
propose these standards by 2014. Other governmental agencies, including the U.S. Department of Energy and the U.S. Department of the Interior, are evaluating various other aspects of hydraulic fracturing. These ongoing or proposed studies, depending
on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA or other regulatory mechanisms.

To the Company’s knowledge, there have been no citations, suits or contamination of potable drinking water arising
from its fracturing operations. The Company does not have insurance policies in effect that are intended to provide coverage for losses solely related to hydraulic fracturing operations; however, the Company believes its existing insurance policies
would cover third-party claims related to hydraulic fracturing operations and associated legal expenses, subject to the terms of such policies.

Air emissions.The Federal Clean Air Act (the “CAA”) and comparable state laws regulate emissions of
various air pollutants through air emissions permitting programs and the imposition of other requirements. Such laws and regulations may require a facility to obtain pre-approval for the construction or modification of certain projects or facilities
expected to produce air emissions or result in the increase of existing air emissions; obtain or strictly comply with air permits containing various emissions and operational limitations; or utilize specific emission control technologies to limit
emissions of certain air pollutants. In addition, the EPA has developed, and continues to develop, stringent regulations governing emissions of toxic air pollutants at specified sources. Moreover, states can impose air emissions limitations that are
more stringent than the federal standards imposed by the EPA. Federal and state regulatory agencies can also impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non-compliance with air permits or other requirements of the CAA and associated
state laws and regulations.

Permits and related compliance obligations under the CAA, as well as changes to
state implementation plans for controlling air emissions in regional non-attainment areas, may require the Company to incur future capital expenditures in connection with the addition or modification of existing air emission control equipment and
strategies for gas and oil exploration and production operations. In addition, some gas and oil production facilities may be included within the categories of hazardous air pollutant sources, which are subject to increasing regulation under the CAA.
Failure to comply with these requirements could subject a regulated entity to monetary penalties, injunctions, conditions or restrictions on operations and enforcement actions. Gas and oil exploration and production facilities may be required to
incur certain capital expenditures in the future for air pollution control equipment in connection with obtaining and maintaining operating permits and approvals for air emissions.







PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



Endangered species.The federal Endangered Species Act (the “ESA”) and analogous state laws regulate activities that could have an adverse effect on threatened or endangered species. Some
of the Company’s operations are conducted in areas where protected species and/or their habitats are known to exist. In these areas, the Company may be obligated to develop and implement plans to avoid potential adverse effects to protected
species and their habitats, and the Company may be prohibited from conducting operations in certain locations or during certain seasons, such as breeding and nesting seasons, when the Company’s operations could have an adverse effect on the
species. It is also possible that a federal or state agency could order a complete halt to drilling activities in certain locations if it is determined that such activities may have a serious adverse effect on a protected species. The presence of a
protected species in areas where the Company performs activities could result in increased costs of or limitations on the Company’s ability to perform operations and thus have an adverse effect on the Company’s business.

The United States Fish and Wildlife Service has proposed listing the Dunes Sagebrush Lizard as endangered under the ESA
and expects to make a final determination on the listing by June 2012. Some of the Company’s operations in the Permian Basin are located in or near areas that may potentially be designated as Dunes Sagebrush Lizard habitat. If
the lizard is classified as an endangered species, the Company’s operations in any area that is designated as the lizard’s habitat may be limited, delayed or, in some circumstances, prohibited, and the Company
may be required to comply with expensive mitigation measures intended to protect the lizard and its habitat. Moreover, as a result of a settlement approved by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia in September 2011, the U.S. Fish
and Wildlife Service is required to consider listing more than 250 species as endangered under the ESA and issue decisions with respect to the 250 candidate species over the next several years. The designation of previously unprotected species
in areas where the Company operates as threatened or endangered could cause the Company to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures or could result in limitations on the Company’s exploration and production activities that
could have an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to develop and produce its reserves.

Health and
safety.The Company’s operations are subject to the requirements of the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act (the “OSH Act”) and comparable state statutes. These laws and the related regulations strictly govern the
protection of the health and safety of employees. The OSH Act hazard communication standard, EPA community right-to-know regulations under Title III of CERCLA and similar state statues require that the Company organize or disclose information about
hazardous materials used or produced in the Company’s operations. The Company believes that it is in substantial compliance with these applicable requirements and with other OSH Act and comparable requirements.

Global warming and climate change.In December 2009, the EPA officially published its findings that emissions
of carbon dioxide, methane and other “greenhouse gases,” or “GHGs,” present an endangerment to public







PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings by the EPA
allow the agency to proceed with the adoption and implementation of regulations that would restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the CAA. Based on these findings, the EPA has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict
emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the CAA. The EPA adopted two sets of rules that regulate greenhouse gas emissions under the CAA, one of which requires a reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and the other of which
regulates emissions of GHGs from certain large stationary sources. The EPA has also adopted rules requiring the reporting, on an annual basis, of greenhouse gas emissions from specified greenhouse gas emission sources in the United States, including
petroleum refineries, as well as certain oil and gas production facilities. The Company is monitoring GHG emissions from its operations in accordance with the GHG emissions reporting rule and believes its monitoring activities are in substantial
compliance with applicable reporting obligations.

In addition, the United States Congress has from time to
time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs and almost one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional
GHG cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and gas processing plants, to acquire and surrender
emission allowances. The number of allowances available for purchase is reduced each year in an effort to achieve the overall GHG emission reduction goal.

The adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHGs could require the Company to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control
systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for oil and gas, which could reduce
the demand for the oil and gas the Company produces. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHGs could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. It should
be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and
floods and other climatic events. If any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.

Finally, other nations have been seeking to reduce emissions of GHGs pursuant to the United Nations Framework Convention
on Climate Change, also known as the “Kyoto Protocol,” an international treaty pursuant to which participating countries (not including the United States) have agreed to reduce their emissions of GHGs. Depending on the particular
jurisdiction in which the Company’s operations are located, it could be required to purchase and surrender allowances for GHG emissions resulting from the Company’s operations.

The Company believes it is in substantial compliance with all existing environmental laws and regulations applicable to
the Company’s current operations and that its continued compliance with existing requirements will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. For instance, the Company did not incur
any material capital expenditures for remediation or pollution control activities for the year ended December 31, 2011. Additionally, the Company is not aware of any environmental issues or claims that will require material capital expenditures
during 2012. However, accidental spills or releases may occur in the course of the Company’s operations, and the Company cannot give any assurance that it will not incur substantial costs and liabilities as a result of such spills or releases,
including those relating to claims for damage to property and persons. Moreover, the Company cannot give any assurance that the passage of more stringent laws or regulations in the future will not have a negative effect on the Company’s
business, financial condition and results of operations.

Other regulation of the oil and gas industry.The oil and gas industry is regulated by numerous foreign, federal, state and local authorities. Legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden.
Also, numerous federal, state and foreign departments and agencies are authorized by statute to issue rules and regulations binding on the oil and gas industry and its individual members, some of which carry substantial penalties for failure to
comply. Although the regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry may increase the Company’s cost of doing business by increasing the cost of production, these burdens generally do not affect the Company any differently or to any greater or
lesser extent than they affect other companies in the industry with similar types, quantities and locations of production.

Development and production.Development and production operations are subject to various types of regulation at foreign, federal, state and local levels. These types of regulation include requiring
permits for the







PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



drilling of wells, the posting of bonds in connection with various types of activities and filing reports concerning operations. Most states, and some counties and municipalities, in which the
Company operates, also regulate one or more of the following:



•the location of wells;



•the method of drilling and casing wells;



•the method and ability to fracture stimulate wells;



•the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled;



•the plugging and abandoning of wells; and



•notice to surface owners and other third parties.

State laws regulate the size and shape of drilling and spacing units or proration units governing the pooling of oil and
gas properties. Some states allow forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate exploration while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases. In some instances, forced pooling or unitization may be implemented by third
parties and may reduce the Company’s interest in the unitized properties. In addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production from oil and gas wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of gas and impose
requirements regarding the ratability of production. These laws and regulations may limit the amount of oil and gas the Company can produce from the Company’s wells or limit the number of wells or the locations at which the Company can drill.
Moreover, each state generally imposes a production or severance tax with respect to the production and sale of oil, NGL and gas within its jurisdiction. States do not regulate wellhead prices or engage in other similar direct regulation, but there
can be no assurance that they will not do so in the future. The effect of such future regulations may be to limit the amounts of oil and gas that may be produced from the Company’s wells, negatively affect the economics of production from these
wells, or limit the number of locations the Company can drill.

Regulation of transportation and sale of
gas.The availability, terms and cost of transportation significantly affect sales of gas. Foreign, federal and state regulations govern the price and terms for access to gas pipeline transportation. Intrastate gas pipeline transportation
activities are subject to various state laws and regulations, as well as orders of state regulatory bodies, including the Railroad Commission of Texas (the “TRRC”). The interstate transportation and sale of gas is subject to federal
regulation, including regulation of the terms, conditions and rates for interstate transportation, storage and various other matters, primarily by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”). Since 1985, FERC has endeavored to make
gas transportation more accessible to gas buyers and sellers on an open and non-discriminatory basis.

Pursuant to the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (“EPAct 2005”) it is unlawful for “any entity,” including
producers such as the Company, that are otherwise not subject to FERC’s jurisdiction under the Natural Gas Act (the “NGA”) to use any deceptive or manipulative device or contrivance in connection with the purchase or sale of gas or
the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to regulation by FERC, in contravention of rules prescribed by FERC. FERC’s rules implementing this provision make it unlawful, in connection with the purchase or sale of gas subject to
the jurisdiction of FERC, or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to the jurisdiction of FERC, for any entity, directly or indirectly, to use or employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud; to make any untrue statement of
material fact or omit to make any such statement necessary to make the statements made not misleading; or to engage in any act or practice that operates as a fraud or deceit upon any person. EPAct 2005 also gives FERC authority to impose civil
penalties for violations of the NGA up to $1.0 million per day per violation. The anti-manipulation rule applies to activities of otherwise non-jurisdictional entities to the extent the activities are conducted “in connection with” gas
sales, purchases or transportation subject to FERC jurisdiction, which includes the annual reporting requirements under Order 704 (defined below).

In December 2007, FERC issued rules (“Order 704”) requiring that any market participant, including a producer such as the Company, that engages in wholesale sales or purchases of gas that equal
or exceed 2.2 million MMBtus during a calendar year annually report such sales and purchases to FERC. Order 704 is intended to increase the transparency of the wholesale gas markets and to assist FERC in monitoring those markets and in
detecting market manipulation.

Gas gathering.Section 1(b) of the NGA exempts gas gathering
facilities from FERC’s jurisdiction. The Company believes that its gathering facilities meet the traditional tests FERC has used to establish a pipeline system’s status as a non-jurisdictional gatherer. There is, however, no bright-line
test for determining the jurisdictional status of pipeline facilities. Moreover, the distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is the subject of litigation from time to time, so the
classification and







PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



regulation of some of the Company’s gathering facilities may be subject to change based on future determinations by FERC and the courts. Thus, the Company cannot guarantee that the
jurisdictional status of its gas gathering facilities will remain unchanged.

While the Company owns or
operates some gas gathering facilities, the Company also depends on gathering facilities owned and operated by third parties to gather production from its properties, and therefore the Company is impacted by the rates charged by such third parties
for gathering services. To the extent that changes in foreign, federal and/or state regulation affect the rates charged for gathering services, the Company also may be affected by such changes. Accordingly, the Company does not anticipate that the
Company would be affected any differently than similarly situated gas producers.

Regulation of
transportation and sale of oil and NGLs. The availability, terms and cost of transportation significantly affect sales of oil and NGLs. Foreign, federal and state regulations govern the price and terms for access to pipeline transportation of
oil and NGLs. Intrastate pipeline transportation activities are subject to various state laws and regulations, as well as orders of state regulatory bodies, including the TRRC. Interstate common carrier pipeline operations are subject to rate
regulation by FERC under the Interstate Commerce Act (the “ICA”). The ICA requires that tariff rates for petroleum pipelines, which include both oil pipelines and refined products pipelines, be just and reasonable and non-discriminatory.

Energy commodity prices. Sales prices of gas, oil, condensate and NGLs are not currently regulated and
are made at market prices. Although prices of these energy commodities are currently unregulated, the United States Congress historically has been active in their regulation. The Company cannot predict whether new legislation to regulate oil and
gas, or the prices charged for these commodities might be proposed, what proposals, if any, might actually be enacted by the United States Congress or the various state legislatures and what effect, if any, the proposals might have on the
Company’s operations.

Transportation of hazardous materials. The federal Department of
Transportation has adopted regulations requiring that certain entities transporting designated hazardous materials develop plans to address security risks related to the transportation of hazardous materials. The Company does not believe that these
requirements will have an adverse effect on the Company or its operations. The Company cannot provide any assurance that the security plans required under these regulations would protect against all security risks and prevent an attack or other
incident related to the Company’s transportation of hazardous materials.



