ITEM 1.BUSINESS



General

The Company is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company with operations in the United States. Pioneer is a holding company whose assets consist of direct and indirect ownership interests in, and whose business is conducted substantially through, its subsidiaries.  Pioneer's common stock is listed and traded on the NYSE.

The Company is a Delaware corporation formed in 1997. The Company's executive offices are located at 5205 N. O'Connor Blvd., Suite 200, Irving, Texas 75039. The Company's telephone number is (972) 444-9001. The Company maintains other offices in Anchorage, Alaska; Denver, Colorado and Midland, Texas. AtDecember 31, 2012, the Company had 3,667 employees, 2,484 of whom were employed in field and plant operations.



Available Information

Pioneer files or furnishes annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"). The public may read and copy any materials that Pioneer files with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, the SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Pioneer, that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that Pioneer files with the SEC athttp://www.sec.gov.

The Company also makes available free of charge through its internet website (www.pxd.com) its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC.



Mission and Strategies

The Company's mission is to enhance shareholder investment returns through strategies that maximize Pioneer's long-term profitability and net asset value. The strategies employed to achieve this mission are predicated on maintaining financial flexibility, capital allocation discipline and enhancing net asset value through accretive drilling programs, joint ventures and acquisitions. These strategies are anchored by the Company's interests in the long-lived Spraberry oil field; the liquid-rich Eagle Ford Shale,  Barnett Shale Combo, Hugoton and West Panhandle fields; and the Raton gas field; which together have an estimated remaining productive life in excess of 40 years. Underlying these fields are 94 percent of the Company's proved oil and gas reserves as ofDecember 31, 2012.



Business Activities

The Company is an independent oil and gas exploration and production company. Pioneer's purpose is to competitively and profitably explore for, develop and produce oil and gas reserves. In so doing, the Company sells homogenous oil, NGL and gas units that, except for geographic and relatively minor quality differences, cannot be significantly differentiated from units offered for sale by the Company's competitors. Competitive advantage is gained in the oil and gas exploration and development industry by employing well-trained and experienced personnel who make prudent capital investment decisions based on management direction, embrace technological innovation and are focused on price and cost management.

Petroleum industry.While oil and NGL prices generally improved from 2009 through 2011, during 2012, oil and NGL production growth in the United States outpaced demand growth causing prices to become more volatile and decline during the year. North American gas prices have remained volatile and have generally trended lower since 2009. The decline in North American gas prices is primarily a result of growing gas supplies associated with discoveries of significant gas reserves in United States shale plays, combined with the warmer than normal recent winters, which has resulted in gas storage levels being at historically high levels, and minimal economic demand growth in the United States.  Oil prices continue to be primarily driven by world supply and demand fundamentals; however, recent increases in United States oil, NGL and gas production volumes from the Permian Basin, Eagle Ford, Bakken and Marcellus areas have been met with lower demand, higher storage levels and pipeline, gas plant and NGL fractionation infrastructure capacity limitations, which has led to a reduction in United States NYMEX oil, NGL and gas prices compared to international prices for similar commodities, including Brent oil prices.








Table of ContentsPIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



During 2010, 2011 and 2012, the economies in the United States and certain other countries stabilized with resulting improvements in industrial demand and consumer confidence. However, other economies, such as those of certain European and Asian nations, continue to face economic struggles or slowing economic growth. While the outlook for a continued worldwide economic recovery remains cautiously optimistic,  it is still uncertain; therefore, the sustainability of the recovery in worldwide demand for energy is difficult to predict. As a result, the Company believes it is likely that commodity prices will continue to be volatile during 2013.

Significant factors that will affect 2013 commodity prices include: the ongoing effect of economic stimulus initiatives; fiscal challenges facing the United States federal government and potential changes to the tax laws in the United States; continuing economic struggles in European and Asian nations; political and economic developments in North Africa and the Middle East; demand from Asian and European markets; the extent to which members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ("OPEC") and other oil exporting nations are able to manage oil supply through export quotas; and overall North American NGL and gas supply and demand fundamentals.

Pioneer uses commodity derivative contracts to mitigate the effect of commodity price volatility on the Company's net cash provided by operating activities and its net asset value. Although the Company has entered into commodity derivative contracts for a large portion of its forecasted production through 2014, a sustained lower commodity price environment would result in lower realized prices for unprotected volumes and reduce the prices at which the Company could enter into derivative contracts on additional volumes in the future. As a result, the Company's internal cash flows would be reduced for affected periods. A sustained decline in commodity prices could result in a shortfall in expected cash flows, which could negatively affect the Company's liquidity, financial position and future results of operations. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" and Note E of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for information regarding the Company's open derivative positions as ofDecember 31, 2012.

The Company.The Company's growth plan is anchored primarily by drilling in the Spraberry oil field located in West Texas, the liquid-rich Eagle Ford Shale field located in South Texas, the liquid-rich Barnett Shale Combo field in North Texas and, to a lesser extent, Alaska. Complementing these growth areas, the Company has oil and gas production activities and development opportunities in the Raton gas field located in southern Colorado, the Hugoton gas and liquid field located in southwest Kansas, the West Panhandle gas and liquid field located in the Texas Panhandle and the Edwards gas field located in South Texas. Combined, these assets create a portfolio of resources and opportunities that are well balanced among oil, NGL and gas, and that are also well balanced among long-lived, dependable production and lower-risk exploration and development opportunities. The Company has a team of dedicated employees who represent the professional disciplines and sciences that the Company believes are necessary to allow Pioneer to maximize the long-term profitability and net asset value inherent in its physical assets.

The Company provides administrative, financial, legal and management support to subsidiaries that explore for, develop and produce proved reserves. The Company's continuing operations are located in the United States, principally in the states of Texas, Kansas, Colorado and Alaska.

Production.The Company focuses its efforts towards maximizing its average daily production of oil, NGLs and gas through development drilling, production enhancement activities and acquisitions of producing properties, while minimizing the controllable costs associated with the production activities. For the year endedDecember 31, 2012, the Company's production from continuing operations of 56.9 MMBOE, excluding field fuel usage, represented a 29 percent increase over production from continuing operations during2011. Production, price and cost information with respect to the Company's properties for2012,2011and2010is set forth in "Item 2. Properties — Selected Oil and Gas Information — Production, price and cost data."

Development activities.The Company seeks to increase its oil and gas reserves, production and cash flow through development drilling and by conducting other production enhancement activities, such as well recompletions. During the three years endedDecember 31, 2012, the Company drilled 1,844 gross (1,655 net) development wells, 99 percent of which were successfully completed as productive wells, at a total drilling cost (net to the Company's interest) of $4.0 billion.

The Company believes that its current property base provides a substantial inventory of prospects for future reserve, production and cash flow growth. The Company's proved reserves as ofDecember 31, 2012include proved undeveloped reserves and proved developed reserves that are behind pipe of 271.4 MMBBLs of oil, 103.0 MMBBLs of NGLs and 714.6 Bcf of gas. The Company believes that its current portfolio of proved reserves provides attractive development opportunities for at least the next five years. The timing of the development of these reserves will be dependent upon commodity prices, drilling and operating costs and the Company's expected operating cash flows and financial condition.

Exploratory activities.The Company has devoted significant efforts and resources to hiring and developing a highly skilled geoscience staff as well as acquiring a significant portfolio of lower-risk exploration opportunities that are expected to be evaluated and tested over the next decade and beyond. Exploratory and extension drilling involve greater risks of dry holes or failure to find






Table of ContentsPIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



commercial quantities of hydrocarbons than development drilling or enhanced recovery activities. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors — Exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves" below.

Integrated services.The Company continues to expand its integrated services to control drilling and operating costs and support the execution of its drilling program and operating activities. The Company has15owned vertical drilling rigs operating in the Spraberry field, and at the end of2012, had Company-owned fracture stimulation fleets totaling 300,000 horsepower supporting drilling operations in the Spraberry, Eagle Ford Shale and Barnett Shale Combo areas. During April 2012, the Company acquired 100 percent of the share capital of Industrial Sands Holding Company and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Oglebay Norton Industry Sands, LLC, for an aggregate purchase price of$297.1 million.  The Company changed the name of the Oglebay Norton Industrial Sands LLC to Premier Silica LLC ("Premier Silica") in April 2012.  See Note C of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for more information about the acquisition of Premier Silica. The Company also owns other field service equipment, including pulling units, fracture stimulation tanks, water transport trucks, hot oilers, blowout preventers, construction equipment and fishing tools.

Acquisition activities.The Company regularly seeks to acquire properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. In addition, the Company pursues strategic acquisitions that will allow the Company to expand into new geographical areas that provide future exploration/exploitation opportunities. During2012,2011and2010, the Company spent$157.5 million, $131.9 million and $181.6 million, respectively, to purchase primarily undeveloped acreage for future exploitation and exploration activities.

The Company periodically evaluates and pursues acquisition opportunities (including opportunities to acquire particular oil and gas assets or entities owning oil and gas assets and opportunities to engage in mergers, consolidations or other business combinations with such entities) and at any given time may be in various stages of evaluating such opportunities. Such stages may take the form of internal financial analyses, oil and gas reserve analyses, due diligence, the submission of indications of interest, preliminary negotiations, negotiation of letters of intent or negotiation of definitive agreements. The success of any acquisition is uncertain and depends on a number of factors, some of which are outside the Company's control. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors — The Company may be unable to make attractive acquisitions and any acquisition it completes is subject to substantial risks that could adversely affect its business."

Asset divestitures and discontinued operations.The Company regularly reviews its asset base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. While the Company generally does not dispose of assets solely for the purpose of reducing debt, such dispositions can have the result of furthering the Company's objective of increasing financial flexibility through reduced debt levels.

In January 2013, the Company signed an agreement with Sinochem Petroleum USA LLC ("Sinochem"), a U.S. subsidiary of the Sinochem Group, an unaffiliated third party, to sell40 percentof Pioneer's interest in 207,000 net acres leased by the Company in the horizontal Wolfcamp Shale play in the southern portion of the Spraberry field for consideration of $1.7 billion.  At closing, Sinochem will pay $522.0 million in cash to Pioneer, before normal closing adjustments, and will pay the remaining $1.2 billion by carrying 75 percent of Pioneer's portion of future drilling and facilities costs attributable to the horizontal Wolfcamp Shale play. This transaction is expected to close during the second quarter of 2013, subject to governmental and third party approvals.

During December 2011, the Company committed to a plan to exit South Africa and initiated a process to divest its net assets in South Africa ("Pioneer South Africa").  During the first quarter of 2012, the Company agreed to sell Pioneer South Africa to an unaffiliated third party, effective January 1, 2012, for $60.0 million of cash proceeds before normal closing and other adjustments, and the buyer's assumption of certain liabilities of the Company's South Africa subsidiaries. In August 2012, the Company completed the sale of Pioneer South Africa for net cash proceeds of $15.9 million, including normal closing adjustments for cash revenues and costs and expenses from the effective date through the date of the sale, resulting in a pretax gain of $28.6 million.   The Company classified (i) Pioneer South Africa's assets and liabilities as discontinued operations held for sale in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2011 and (ii) Pioneer South Africa's results of operations as income from discontinued operations, net of tax, in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.

In February 2011, the Company sold 100 percent of the Company's share holdings in Pioneer Natural Resources Tunisia Ltd. and Pioneer Natural Resources Anaguid Ltd. (referred to in the aggregate as "Pioneer Tunisia") to an unaffiliated third party for cash proceeds of $802.5 million, excluding cash and cash equivalents sold, resulting in a pretax gain of $645.2 million.  Accordingly, the Company has classified the results of operations of Pioneer Tunisia, prior to its sale, as discontinued operations, net of tax, in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.

The Company anticipates that it will continue to sell nonstrategic properties or other assets from time to time to increase capital resources available for other activities, to achieve operating and administrative efficiencies and to improve profitability.






Table of ContentsPIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



See Note C of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for specific information regarding the Company's asset divestitures and discontinued operations, including the 2011 sale of Pioneer Tunisia and 2012 sale of Pioneer South Africa.



Marketing of Production

General.Production from the Company's properties is marketed using methods that are consistent with industry practices. Sales prices for oil, NGL and gas production are negotiated based on factors normally considered in the industry, such as an index or spot price, price regulations, distance from the well to the pipeline, commodity quality and prevailing supply and demand conditions. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" for additional discussion of operations and price risk.

Significant purchasers.During 2012, the Company's significant purchasers of oil, NGLs and gas were Plains Marketing LP (26 percent), Enterprise Products Partners L.P. (15 percent) and Occidental Energy Marketing Inc. (14 percent). The Company believes that the loss of a significant purchaser or an inability to secure adequate pipeline, gas plant and NGL fractionation infrastructure in its key producing areas could have a material adverse effect on its ability to sell its oil, NGL and gas production. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors" and Note L of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for more information about significant customer and infrastructure capacity risks.

Derivative risk management activities.The Company utilizes commodity swap contracts, collar contracts and collar contracts with short puts to (i) reduce the effect of price volatility on the commodities the Company produces and sells or consumes, (ii) support the Company's annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects. The Company also utilizes commodity swap contracts to reduce price volatility on the fuel that the Company's drilling rigs and fracture stimulation fleets consume. The Company accounts for its derivative contracts using the mark-to-market ("MTM") method of accounting. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for a description of the Company's derivative risk management activities, "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk," and Note E of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for information about the impact of commodity derivative activities on oil, NGL and gas revenues and net derivative gains and losses during2012,2011and2010, as well as the Company's open commodity derivative positions atDecember 31, 2012.



Competition, Markets and Regulations

Competition.The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. A large number of companies, including major integrated and other independent companies, and individuals engage in the exploration for and development of oil and gas properties, and there is a high degree of competition for oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration. Acquisitions of oil and gas properties have been an important element of the Company's growth. The Company intends to continue acquiring oil and gas properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. The principal competitive factors in the acquisition of oil and gas properties include the staff and data necessary to identify, evaluate and acquire such properties and the financial resources necessary to acquire and develop the properties. Many of the Company's competitors are substantially larger and have financial and other resources greater than those of the Company.

Markets.The Company's ability to produce and market oil, NGLs and gas profitably depends on numerous factors beyond the Company's control. The effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted or anticipated. Although the Company cannot predict the occurrence of events that may affect these commodity prices or the degree to which these prices will be affected, the prices for any commodity that the Company produces will generally approximate current market prices in the geographic region of the production.

Securities regulations.Enterprises that sell securities in public markets are subject to regulatory oversight by agencies such as the SEC and the NYSE. This regulatory oversight imposes on the Company the responsibility for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, and ensuring that the financial statements and other information included in submissions to the SEC do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made in such submissions not misleading. Failure to comply with the rules and regulations of the SEC could subject the Company to litigation from public or private plaintiffs. Failure to comply with the rules of the NYSE could result in the de-listing of the Company's common stock, which would have an adverse effect on the market price and liquidity of the Company's common stock. Compliance with some of these rules and regulations is costly, and regulations are subject to change or reinterpretation.








Table of ContentsPIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



Environmental and occupational health and safety matters.The Company's operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing environmental protection, worker health and safety, and the discharge of materials into the environment. These laws and regulations may, among other things:

•require the acquisition of various permits before drilling or other regulated activity commences;

•enjoin some or all of the operations of facilities deemed in noncompliance with permits;

•restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with oil and gas drilling, production and transportation activities;

•limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas;

•impose specific criteria addressing worker protection; and

•require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former and ongoing operations, such as requirements to close pits and plug abandoned wells.

These laws, rules and regulations may also restrict the rate of oil and gas production below the rate that would otherwise be possible. The regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases the cost of doing business in the industry and consequently affects profitability. Additionally, the U.S. Congress, state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies frequently revise environmental laws and regulations, and the trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may affect the environment. Any changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, disposal and cleanup requirements for the oil and gas industry could have a significant effect on the Company's operating costs.

The Company believes it is in substantial compliance with all existing environmental laws and regulations applicable to the Company's current operations and that its continued compliance with existing requirements will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. For example, the Company did not incur any material capital expenditures for remediation or pollution control activities for the year ended December 31, 2012. Additionally, the Company is not aware of any environmental issues or claims that will require material capital expenditures during 2013. Nevertheless, accidental spills or releases may occur in the course of the Company's operations, and the Company cannot give any assurance that it will not incur substantial costs and liabilities as a result of such spills or releases, including those relating to claims for damage to property and persons. Moreover, the Company cannot give any assurance that the passage of more stringent laws or regulations in the future will not have a negative effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.

The following is a summary of some of the more significant laws and regulations to which the Company's business operations are or may be subject.

Waste handling.The federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA") and comparable state statutes regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. Under the auspices of the federal Environmental Protection Agency (the "EPA"), the individual states administer some or all of the provisions of RCRA, sometimes in conjunction with their own, more stringent requirements. Drilling fluids, produced waters and most of the other wastes associated with the exploration, development and production of oil or gas are currently regulated under RCRA's non-hazardous waste provisions. It is possible that certain oil and gas exploration and production wastes now classified as non-hazardous could be classified as hazardous wastes in the future. Any such change could result in an increase in the Company's costs to manage and dispose of wastes, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial position. Also, in the course of the Company's operations, it generates some amounts of ordinary industrial wastes, such as paint wastes, waste solvents and waste oils that may be regulated as hazardous wastes.

Wastes containing naturally occurring radioactive materials ("NORM") may also be generated in connection with the Company's operations. NORM is subject primarily to individual state radiation control regulations. In addition, NORM handling and management activities are governed by regulations promulgated by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration ("OSHA"). These state and OSHA regulations impose certain requirements concerning worker protection; the treatment, storage and disposal of NORM waste; the management of waste piles, containers and tanks containing NORM; as well as restrictions on the uses of land with NORM contamination.

Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act.The federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA"), also known as the Superfund law, and analogous state laws impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault or legality of conduct, on classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. These persons include the current and past owner or operator of the site where the release occurred, and anyone who disposed or arranged for the disposal of a hazardous substance released at the site. Under CERCLA, such persons may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. In addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third-parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment.






Table of ContentsPIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



Water discharges and use.The federal Clean Water Act (the "CWA") and analogous state laws impose restrictions and strict controls with respect to the discharge of pollutants, including spills and leaks of oil and other substances, into waters of the United States and state waters. The discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by the EPA or an analogous state agency. The CWA and regulations implemented thereunder also prohibit the discharge of dredge and fill material into regulated waters, including wetlands, unless authorized by an appropriately issued permit. SPCC planning requirements of federal laws require appropriate containment berms and similar structures to help prevent the contamination of navigable waters by a petroleum hydrocarbon tank spill, rupture or leak. Federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance with discharge permits or other requirements of the CWA and analogous state laws and regulations.

The primary federal law imposing liability for oil spills is the Oil Pollution Act ("OPA"), which sets minimum standards for prevention, containment and cleanup of oil spills. OPA applies to vessels, offshore facilities and onshore facilities, including exploration and production facilities that may affect waters of the United States. Under OPA, responsible parties, including owners and operators of onshore facilities, may be subject to oil spill cleanup costs and natural resource damages as well as a variety of public and private damages that may result from oil spills. If an oil spill subject to the requirements of OPA were to occur at a Company property, the Company expects that it would be controlled, contained and remediated in accordance with the applicable requirements of OPA and by using the Company's OPA spill response plan together with the assistance of trained first responders and any oil spill response contractor that the Company would have been required to engage pursuant to OPA to address such oil spills.

The Company also routinely uses hydraulic fracturing techniques in the majority of its drilling and completion programs in Texas, Colorado and elsewhere, where development of most of the Company's properties are dependent on the Company's ability to hydraulically fracture the producing formations. The process involves the injection of water, sand and additives under pressure into targeted subsurface formations to stimulate oil and gas production. The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions; however, the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing involving diesel fuels under the SDWA Underground Injection Control Program and has published draft permitting guidance in May 2012 addressing the performance of such activities. In November 2011, the EPA announced its intent to develop and issue regulations under the Toxic Substances Control Act to require companies to disclose information regarding the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing, and the agency currently projects to issue an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking in May 2013 that would seek public input on the design and scope of such disclosure regulations. In August 2012, the EPA published final rules under the federal Clean Air Act ("CAA"), which became effective October 15, 2012, that, among other things, require producers to reduce volatile organic






Table of ContentsPIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



compound emissions from certain subcategories of fractured and refractured gas wells for which well completion operations are being conducted by routing flowback emissions to a gathering line or capturing and combusting flowback emissions using a combustion device, such as a flare, until January 1, 2015 or performing reduced emission completions, also known as "green completions," with or without combustion devices, on or after January 1, 2015.  In addition, the U.S. Congress, from time to time, has considered adopting legislation intended to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic-fracturing process. In the event that new federal restrictions relating to the hydraulic-fracturing process are adopted in areas where the Company currently operates or in the future plans to operate, the Company may incur additional costs to comply with such federal requirements that may be significant in nature, become subject to additional permitting requirements and experience added delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities.

Certain states in which the Company operates, including Colorado and Texas, have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose new or more stringent permitting, disclosure and well-construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. For example, Texas adopted a law in June 2011 requiring disclosure to the Railroad Commission of Texas (the "TRRC") and the public of certain information regarding the components used in the hydraulic-fracturing process. In addition to state laws, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may restrict or prohibit drilling in general or hydraulic fracturing in particular. The Company believes that it follows applicable standard industry practices and legal requirements for groundwater protection in its hydraulic fracturing activities. Nonetheless, in the event state or local restrictions are adopted in areas where the Company is currently conducting, or in the future plans to conduct operations, the Company may incur additional costs to comply with such requirements that may be significant in nature, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities, and be limited or precluded in the drilling of wells or in the amounts that the Company is ultimately able to produce from its reserves.

Certain governmental reviews were recently conducted or are underway that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. The White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices, and the EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater, with a first progress report released by the agency on December 21, 2012 and a final report expected to be available for public comments and peer review by 2014. Moreover, the EPA is developing effluent limitations for the treatment and discharge of wastewater resulting from hydraulic fracturing activities and plans to propose these standards by 2014. Other governmental agencies, including the U.S. Department of Energy and the U.S. Department of the Interior, are evaluating various other aspects of hydraulic fracturing. These studies, or future studies, depending on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA or other regulatory mechanisms.

Air emissions.The CAA and comparable state laws regulate emissions of various air pollutants through air emissions permitting programs and the imposition of other requirements. Such laws and regulations may require a facility to obtain pre-approval for the construction or modification of certain projects or facilities expected to produce air emissions or result in the increase of existing air emissions; obtain or strictly comply with air permits containing various emissions and operational limitations; or utilize specific emission control technologies to limit emissions of certain air pollutants. In addition, the EPA has developed, and continues to develop, stringent regulations governing emissions of toxic air pollutants at specified sources. Moreover, states can impose air emissions limitations that are more stringent than the federal standards imposed by the EPA. Federal and state regulatory agencies can also impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance with air permits or other requirements of the CAA and associated state laws and regulations.

Permits and related compliance obligations under the CAA, as well as changes to state implementation plans for controlling air emissions in regional non-attainment areas, may require the Company to incur future capital expenditures in connection with the addition or modification of existing air emission control equipment and strategies for gas and oil exploration and production operations. On August 16, 2012, the EPA published final rules under the CAA that subject oil and gas production, processing,






Table of ContentsPIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



transmission and storage operations to regulation under the New Source Performance Standards and National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants programs. With regards to production activities, these final rules require, among other things, the reduction of volatile organic compound emissions from three subcategories of fractured and refractured gas wells for which well completion operations are conducted:  wildcat (exploratory) and delineation gas wells; low reservoir pressure non-wildcat and non-delineation gas wells; and all "other" fractured and refractured gas wells.  All three subcategories of wells must route flowback emissions to a gathering line or capture and combust flowback emissions using a combustion device, such as a flare, after October 15, 2012.  However, the "other" wells must use reduced emission completions, also known as "green completions, " with or without combustion devices, on or after January 1, 2015.  These regulations also establish specific new requirements regarding emissions from production-related wet seal and reciprocating compressors, effective October 15, 2012 and from pneumatic controllers and storage vessels, effective October 15, 2013.  The Company is currently reviewing this new rule and assessing its potential effects on its operations.  Compliance with these requirements could increase the Company's costs of development and production, which costs could be significant.

In addition, in response to reported concerns about high concentrations of benzene in the air near certain drilling sites and gas processing facilities in the Barnett Shale area, the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (the "TCEQ") adopted new air emissions limitations and permitting requirements for oil and gas facilities in the state, which are applicable to facilities located in the Barnett Shale area. These new requirements could increase the cost and time associated with drilling wells in the Barnett Shale. The agency's investigations could lead to additional, more stringent air permitting requirements, increased regulation, and possible enforcement actions against producers, including Pioneer, in the Barnett Shale area. Any adoption of laws, regulations, orders or other legally enforceable mandates governing gas drilling and operating activities in the Barnett Shale or other areas of Texas that result in more stringent drilling or operating conditions or limit or prohibit the drilling of new wells for any extended period of time could increase the Company's costs or reduce its production, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and cash flows.

Some gas and oil production facilities may be included within the categories of hazardous air pollutant sources, which are subject to increasing regulation under the CAA. Failure to comply with these requirements could subject a regulated entity to monetary penalties, injunctions, conditions or restrictions on operations and enforcement actions.

Endangered species.The federal Endangered Species Act (the "ESA") and analogous state laws regulate activities that could have an adverse effect on threatened or endangered species. Some of the Company's operations are conducted in areas where protected species or their habitats are known to exist. In these areas, the Company may be obligated to develop and implement plans to avoid potential adverse effects to protected species and their habitats, and the Company may be prohibited from conducting operations in certain locations or during certain seasons, such as breeding and nesting seasons, when the Company's operations could have an adverse effect on the species. It is also possible that a federal or state agency could order a complete halt to drilling activities in certain locations if it is determined that such activities may have a serious adverse effect on a protected species. The presence of a protected species in areas where the Company performs activities could result in increased costs or limitations on the Company's ability to perform operations and thus have an adverse effect on the Company's business.

As a result of a settlement approved by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia in September 2011, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is required to consider listing more than 250 species as endangered under the ESA and issue decisions with respect to the 250 candidate species before completion of the agency's 2017 fiscal year. The designation of previously unprotected species as threatened or endangered in areas where the Company operates could cause the Company to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures or could result in limitations on the Company's exploration and production activities that could have an adverse effect on the Company's ability to develop and produce its proved reserves.

Occupational health and safety.The Company's operations are subject to the requirements of OSHA and comparable state statutes. These laws and the related regulations strictly govern the protection of the health and safety of employees. The OSHA hazard communication standard, EPA community right-to-know regulations under Title III of CERCLA and similar state statues require that the Company organize or disclose information about hazardous materials used or produced in the Company's operations. In addition, the Company's sand mining operations are subject to the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, as amended by the Mine Improvement and New Emergency Response Act of 2006, which imposes stringent health and safety standards on numerous aspects of mineral extraction and processing operations, including the training of personnel, operating procedures, operating equipment and other matters.  The Company believes that it is in substantial compliance with these applicable standards and with OSHA and comparable requirements.

Global warming and climate change.In December 2009, the EPA officially published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other "greenhouse gases" ("GHGs") present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the Earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes.  Based on these findings, the EPA adopted regulations under the CAA in 2010 establishing Title V and Prevention of Significant Deterioration permitting requirements for large sources of GHGs. The Company could become subject to these permitting






Table of ContentsPIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



requirements and be required to install "best available control technology" to limit emissions of GHGs from any new or significantly modified facilities that the Company may seek to construct in the future if they would otherwise emit large volumes of GHGs. The EPA has also adopted rules requiring the reporting of GHG emissions on an annual basis from specified GHG emission sources in the United States, including certain oil and gas production facilities, which includes certain of the Company's facilities. The Company is monitoring GHG emissions from its operations in accordance with these GHG emissions reporting rules and believes its monitoring activities are in substantial compliance with applicable reporting obligations.

While the U.S. Congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, there has not been significant activity in the form of adopted legislation to reduce GHG emissions at the federal level in recent years. In the absence of federal climate legislation in the United States, a number of state and regional efforts have emerged that are aimed at tracking or reducing GHG emissions by means of cap and trade programs that typically require major sources of GHG emissions, such as electric power plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances in return for emitting those GHGs.  If the U.S. Congress undertakes comprehensive tax reform in the coming year, it is possible that such reform may include a carbon tax, which could impose additional direct costs on the Company's operations.

Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions would affect the Company's business, any such future laws and regulations could require the Company to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements including the imposition of a carbon tax. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for oil and gas, which could reduce the demand for the oil and gas the Company produces. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHGs could have an adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.

Some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, floods and other climatic events. If any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.

Other regulation of the oil and gas industry.The oil and gas industry is regulated by numerous federal, state and local authorities. Legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden. Also, numerous federal and state departments and agencies are authorized by statute to issue rules and regulations binding on the oil and gas industry and its individual members, some of which carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. Although the regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry may increase the Company's cost of doing business by increasing the cost of production, these burdens generally do not affect the Company any differently or to any greater or lesser extent than they affect other companies in the industry with similar types, quantities and locations of production.

Development and production.Development and production operations are subject to various types of regulation at federal, state and local levels. These types of regulation include requiring permits for the drilling of wells, the posting of bonds in connection with various types of activities and filing reports concerning operations. Most states, and some counties and municipalities, in which the Company operates also regulate one or more of the following:

•the location of wells;

•the method of drilling and casing wells;

•the method and ability to fracture stimulate wells;

•the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled;

•the plugging and abandoning of wells; and

•notice to surface owners and other third parties.

State laws regulate the size and shape of drilling and spacing units or proration units governing the pooling of oil and gas properties. Some states allow forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate exploration while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases. In some instances, forced pooling or unitization may be implemented by third parties and may reduce the Company's interest in the unitized properties. In addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production from oil and gas wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of gas and impose requirements regarding the ratability of production. These laws and regulations may limit the amount of oil and gas the Company can produce from the Company's wells or limit the number of wells or the locations at which the Company can drill. Moreover, each state generally imposes a production or severance tax with respect to the production and sale of oil, NGL and gas within its jurisdiction. States do not regulate wellhead prices or engage in other similar direct regulation, but there can be no assurance that they will not do so in the future. The effect of such future regulations may be to limit the amounts of oil and gas that may be produced from the Company's wells, negatively affect the economics of production from these wells, or limit the number of locations the Company can drill.






Table of ContentsPIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



Regulation of transportation and sale of gas.The availability, terms and cost of transportation significantly affect sales of gas. Federal and state regulations govern the price and terms for access to gas pipeline transportation. Intrastate gas pipeline transportation activities are subject to various state laws and regulations, as well as orders of state regulatory bodies. The interstate transportation and sale of gas is subject to federal regulation, including regulation of the terms, conditions and rates for interstate transportation, storage and various other matters, primarily by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERC"). FERC endeavors to make gas transportation more accessible to gas buyers and sellers on an open-access and non-discriminatory basis.

Pursuant to the Energy Policy Act of 2005 ("EPAct 2005") it is unlawful for "any entity," including producers such as the Company, that are otherwise not subject to FERC's jurisdiction under the Natural Gas Act (the "NGA") to use any deceptive or manipulative device or contrivance in connection with the purchase or sale of gas or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to regulation by FERC, in contravention of rules prescribed by FERC. FERC's rules implementing this provision make it unlawful, in connection with the purchase or sale of gas subject to the jurisdiction of FERC, or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to the jurisdiction of FERC, for any entity, directly or indirectly, to use or employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud; to make any untrue statement of material fact or omit to make any such statement necessary to make the statements made not misleading; or to engage in any act or practice that operates as a fraud or deceit upon any person. EPAct 2005 also gives FERC authority to impose civil penalties up to $1.0 million per day per violation of the NGA and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978. The anti-manipulation rule applies to activities of entities not otherwise subject to FERC's jurisdiction to the extent the activities are conducted "in connection with" gas sales, purchases or transportation subject to FERC jurisdiction, which includes the annual reporting requirements under Order 704 (defined below).

In December 2007, FERC issued a final rule on the annual gas transaction reporting requirements, as amended by subsequent orders on rehearing ("Order 704"). Under Order 704,  any market participant, including a producer such as the Company, that engages in wholesale sales or purchases of gas that equal or exceed 2.2 million MMBTUs of physical gas in the previous calendar year must annually report such sales and purchases to FERC on Form No. 552 on May 1 of each year. Form No. 552 contains aggregate volumes of gas purchased or sold at wholesale in the prior calendar year to the extent such transactions utilize, contribute to or may contribute to the formation of price indices.  It is the responsibility of the reporting entity to determine which individual transactions should be reported based on the guidance of Order 704. Order 704 is intended to increase the transparency of the wholesale gas markets and to assist FERC in monitoring those markets and in detecting market manipulation.

Additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the gas industry are considered from time to time by the U.S. Congress, FERC, state regulatory bodies and the courts.  The Company cannot predict when or if any such proposals might become effective or their effect, if any, on its operations.  The Company does not believe that it will be affected by any action taken in a materially different way than other gas producers, gatherers and marketers with which it competes.

Gas gathering.Section 1(b) of the NGA exempts gas gathering facilities from FERC's jurisdiction. The Company believes that its gathering facilities meet the traditional tests FERC has used to establish a pipeline system's status as a non-jurisdictional gatherer. There is, however, no bright-line test for determining the jurisdictional status of pipeline facilities. Moreover, the distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is the subject of litigation from time to time, so the classification and regulation of some of the Company's gathering facilities may be subject to change based on future determinations by FERC and the courts. Thus, the Company cannot guarantee that the jurisdictional status of its gas gathering facilities will remain unchanged.

While the Company owns or operates some gas gathering facilities, the Company also depends on gathering facilities owned and operated by third parties to gather production from its properties, and therefore the Company is affected by the rates charged by these third parties for gathering services. To the extent that changes in federal or state regulation affect the rates charged for gathering services, the Company also may be affected by these changes. Accordingly, the Company does not anticipate that the Company would be affected any differently than similarly situated gas producers.

Regulation of transportation and sale of oil and NGLs. The liquids industry is also extensively regulated by numerous federal, state and local authorities. In a number of instances, the ability to transport and sell such products on interstate pipelines is dependent on pipelines whose rates, terms and conditions of service are subject to FERC jurisdiction under the Interstate Commerce Act (the "ICA").  The Company does not believe these regulations affect it any differently than other producers.

The ICA requires that pipelines maintain a tariff on file with FERC. The tariff sets forth the established rates as well as the rules and regulations governing the service.  The ICA requires, among other things, that rates and terms and conditions of service on interstate common carrier pipelines be "just and reasonable."  Such pipelines must also provide jurisdictional service in a manner that is not unduly discriminatory or unduly preferential.  Shippers have the power to challenge new and existing rates and terms and conditions of service before FERC.

Rates of interstate liquids pipelines are currently regulated by FERC primarily through an annual indexing methodology, under which pipelines increase or decrease their rates in accordance with an index adjustment specified by FERC.  For the five-






Table of ContentsPIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



year period beginning in 2010, FERC established an annual index adjustment equal to the change in the producer price index for finished goods plus 2.65 percent.  This adjustment is subject to review every five years.  Under FERC's regulations, a liquids pipeline can request a rate increase that exceeds the rate obtained through application of the indexing methodology by using a cost-of-service approach, but only after the pipeline establishes that a substantial divergence exists between the actual costs experienced by the pipeline and the rates resulting from application of the indexing methodology.  Increases in liquids transportation rates may result in lower revenue and cash flows for the Company.

In addition, due to common carrier regulatory obligations of liquids pipelines, capacity must be prorated among shippers in an equitable manner in the event there are nominations in excess of capacity.  Therefore, new shippers or increased volume by existing shippers may reduce the capacity available to the Company. Any prolonged interruption in the operation or curtailment of available capacity of the pipelines that the Company relies upon for liquids transportation could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  However, the Company believes that access to liquids pipeline transportation services generally will be available to it to the same extent as to its similarly-situated competitors.

Intrastate liquids pipeline transportation rates are subject to regulation by state regulatory commissions.  The basis for intrastate liquids pipeline regulation, and the degree of regulatory oversight and scrutiny given to intrastate liquids pipeline rates, varies from state to state.  The Company believes that the regulation of liquids pipeline transportation rates will not affect its operations in any way that is materially different from the effects on its similarly-situated competitors.

In November 2009, the Federal Trade Commission ("FTC") issued regulations pursuant to the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 intended to prohibit market manipulation in the petroleum industry.  Violators of the regulations face civil penalties of up to $1.0 million per violation per day.  In July 2010, the U.S. Congress passed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which incorporated an expansion of the authority of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission ("CFTC") to prohibit market manipulation in the markets regulated by the CFTC.  This authority, with respect to oil swaps and futures contracts, is similar to the anti-manipulation authority granted to the FERC and the FTC as described above.  In July 2011, the CFTC issued final rules to implement their new anti-manipulation authority.  The rules subject violators to a civil penalty of up to the greater of $1.0 million or triple the monetary gain to the person for each violation.

Energy commodity prices. Sales prices of gas, oil, condensate and NGLs are not currently regulated and are made at market prices. Although prices of these energy commodities are currently unregulated, the U.S. Congress historically has been active in their regulation. The Company cannot predict whether new legislation to regulate oil and gas, or the prices charged for these commodities might be proposed, what proposals, if any, might actually be enacted by the U.S. Congress or the various state legislatures and what effect, if any, the proposals might have on the Company's operations.

Transportation of hazardous materials. The federal Department of Transportation has adopted regulations requiring that certain entities transporting designated hazardous materials develop plans to address security risks related to the transportation of hazardous materials. The Company does not believe that these requirements will have an adverse effect on the Company or its operations. The Company cannot provide any assurance that the security plans required under these regulations would protect against all security risks and prevent an attack or other incident related to the Company's transportation of hazardous materials.





