10-K


ps10k_123109.htm

PUBLIC STORAGE FORM 10K

ps10k_123109.htm

UNITED
STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON,
D.C.  20549

FORM
10-K

[X]  Annual
      Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of

For
the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009.

or

[  ]  Transition
      Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of

For
the transition period from

to

.

Commission
      File Number:  001-33519

PUBLIC
      STORAGE

(

Exact name of Registrant as
      specified in its charter)

Maryland

95-3551121

(

State or other
      jurisdiction of incorporation or organization

)

(

I.R.S. Employer Identification
      Number

)

      Western Avenue, Glendale,
      California  91201-2349

(

Address of principal executive
      offices

) (

Zip
      Code

)

(818)
      244-8080

(

Registrant's telephone number,
      including area code)

Securities
      registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
Act:

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act: None

(Title of
class)


Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in
Rule 405 of the Securities Act.

Yes [X]

No [   ]

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act.

Yes [   ]

No [X]

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be
filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required
to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days.

Yes
[X]                      No
[   ]

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on
its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be
submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this
chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to submit and post such files).

Yes
[X]                      No
[   ]

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  [   ]

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting
company.  See the definitions of “large accelerated filer”,
“accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act.

Large
Accelerated Filer
[X]                                                              Accelerated
Filer
[   ]                                              Non-accelerated
Filer [   ]

Smaller
Reporting Company [   ]

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
12b-2 of the Exchange Act).

Yes
[   ]                      No
[X]

The
aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common shares held by
non-affiliates of the Registrant as of June 30, 2009:

Common
Shares, $0.10 Par Value - $8,811,049,000 (computed on the basis of $65.48 per
share which was the reported closing sale price of the Company's Common Shares
on the New York Stock Exchange on June 30, 2009).

Depositary
Shares Each Representing 1/1,000 of an Equity Share, Series A, $.01 Par Value -
$176,548,000 (computed on the basis of $24.94 per share which was the reported
closing sale price of the Depositary Shares each Representing 1/1,000 of an
Equity Share, Series A on the New York Stock Exchange on June 30,
2009).

As of
February 25, 2010, the number of outstanding Common Shares, $.10 par value, was
169,597,834 shares and the number of outstanding Depositary Shares Each
Representing 1/1,000 of an Equity Share, Series A, $.01 par value, was 8,377,193
(representing 8,377.193 Equity Shares, Series A).


DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions
of the definitive proxy statement to be filed in connection with the Annual
Meeting of Shareholders to be held in 2010 are incorporated by reference into
Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


PART I

ITEM
      1.

Business

Forward Looking
Statements

This
Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the
meaning of the federal securities laws.

All statements in this
document, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking
statements which may be identified by the use of the words
"expects,"   "believes,"  
"anticipates,"  "plans," "would," "should," "may," "estimates"
and similar expressions.  These forward-looking statements involve
known and unknown risks and uncertainties, which may cause Public Storage's
actual results and performance to be materially different from those expressed
or implied in the forward-looking statements.  As a result, you should
not rely on any forward-looking statements in this report, or which management
may make orally or in writing from time to time, as predictions of future events
nor guarantees of future performance.  We caution you not to place
undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as the date of
this report or as of the dates indicated in the statements.  All of
our forward-looking statements, including those in this report, are qualified in
their entirety by this statement. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update
publicly or otherwise revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result
of new information, new estimates, or other factors, events or circumstances
after the date of this document, except where expressly required by
law.  Accordingly, you should use caution in relying on past
forward-looking statements to anticipate future results.  Factors and
risks that may impact our future results and performance include, but are not
limited to, those described in Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and in our other filings
with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).

General

Public
Storage was organized in 1980.  Effective June 1, 2007, we reorganized
Public Storage, Inc. into Public Storage (referred to herein as “the Company”,
“the Trust”, “we”, “us”, or “our”), a Maryland real estate investment trust
(“REIT”).  Our principal business activities include the acquisition,
development, ownership and operation of self-storage facilities which offer
storage spaces for lease, generally on a month-to-month basis, for personal and
business use.  We are the largest owner and operator of self-storage
facilities in the United States (“U.S.”), and we have an equity interest in
Shurgard Europe, a private company that we believe is the largest owner and
operator of self-storage facilities in Europe and we have an equity interest in
PS Business Parks, Inc. whose business activities primarily include the
ownership and operations of commercial properties.  At December 31,
2009, we operate within three reportable segments described below: (i) Domestic
Self-Storage, (ii) Europe Self-Storage and (iii) Commercial.  See also
Note 11 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements for further
discussion with respect to our reportable segments.

The
Domestic Self-Storage segment, at December 31, 2009, includes our direct and
indirect equity interests in 2,010 self-storage facilities (127 million net
rentable square feet of space) located in 38 states within the U.S. operating
under the “Public Storage” brand name.

The
Europe Self-Storage segment, at December 31, 2009, comprises our 49% equity
interest in Shurgard Europe which owns 187 self-storage facilities (10 million
net rentable square feet of space) located in seven countries in Europe which
operate under the “Shurgard Storage Centers” brand name and manages one facility
located in the United Kingdom that we wholly own.

The
Commercial segment, at December 31, 2009, includes direct and indirect equity
interests in approximately 21 million net rentable square feet of commercial
space located in 11 states in the U.S., including our 41% ownership interest in
PS Business Parks, Inc. (“PSB”), a publicly traded REIT whose common stock
trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “PSB” (see “Investment in
PSB” under “Equity in Earnings of Real Estate Entities” included in Item 7.
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations” below for further information regarding our investment in
PSB).  This commercial space is primarily operated under the “PS
Business Parks” brand name.


Certain
other activities, due to their insignificant scale and dissimilarity in
operating characteristics to our existing segments, are not allocated to any
segment.  These activities include (i) the reinsurance of policies
against losses to goods stored by tenants in our self-storage facilities, (ii)
the sale of merchandise at our self-storage facilities and (iii) management of
self-storage facilities owned by third-party owners and entities that we have an
ownership interest in but are not consolidated.  We previously had
truck rental and containerized storage operations, which we ceased operations in
2009.

We
significantly increased the scope and scale of our operations on August 22,
2006, when we merged with Shurgard Storage Centers, Inc. (“Shurgard” and the
merger referred to as the “Shurgard Merger”), a REIT which had an interest in
487 self-storage facilities located in the U.S. and an interest in 160
facilities in Europe.  On March 31, 2008, we entered into a
transaction with an institutional investor (the transaction referred to as the
“Europe Transaction”) whereby the investor acquired a 51% equity interest in our
European operations (“Shurgard Europe”).  Shurgard Europe held
substantially all of the operations in which we have an interest in
Europe.  Since March 31, 2008, we own the remaining 49% interest
and are the managing member of Shurgard European Holdings LLC, a joint venture
formed to own Shurgard Europe’s operations.

For all
taxable years subsequent to 1980, we qualified and intend to continue to qualify
as a REIT, as defined in Section 856 of the Internal Revenue Code.  As
a REIT, we do not incur federal or significant state tax on that portion of our
taxable income which is distributed to our shareholders, provided that we meet
certain tests.  To the extent that we continue to qualify as a REIT,
we will not be subject to tax, with certain limited exceptions, on the taxable
income that is distributed to our shareholders.

We have
reported annually to the SEC on Form 10-K, which includes financial statements
certified by our independent registered public accountants.  We have
also reported quarterly to the SEC on Form 10-Q, which includes unaudited
financial statements with such filings.  We expect to continue such
reporting.

On our
website,

www.publicstorage.com

,
we make available, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to
those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports and amendments
are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC.

The Impact of Current
Economic Factors

The
recessionary trends experienced in 2008 and 2009, including the contraction in
economic activity and elevation in unemployment rates experienced in the U.S.
and Europe, have had a negative impact upon our business, and we have responded
with what we believe are short-term revisions to our long-term growth
strategies.

Operationally,
our occupancies and rental rates have come under pressure as demand for
self-storage space has softened.  We have responded by reducing rental
rates, increasing promotional discounts, and increasing our marketing activities
to stimulate additional demand for our storage space and increase our market
share.

We have
shut down our development activities, both in the U.S. and Europe due to the
current level of risk inherent in development, uncertain consumer demand for
when such facilities open for operation, and to preserve capital.  We
have increased our earnings yield or capitalization rate requirements with
respect to the acquisition of existing self-storage facilities.  We
believe that existing self-storage properties may be marketed, at attractive
prices, due to financial or operating stress of their owners which may create
acquisition opportunities for us.  We have taken advantage of capital
market dislocations with respect to our own securities through the repurchase of
our own preferred shares and our unsecured debt.  While capital
markets have improved recently from the severe stress incurred in late 2008 and
early 2009, they are still relatively constrained and in flux compared to
historical norms.  We believe under current capital market conditions
our ability to issue preferred securities at reasonable rates is
limited.  Despite the difficult capital markets, we believe that we
are well-positioned with significant cash balances on hand, have an expectation
of continued internally generated cash flow that can be used for reinvestment,
and relatively modest debt maturities as described in Item 7. “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations –
Liquidity and Capital Resources.”


While we
believe that these actions are the appropriate response to the existing economic
environment, and that they will best position us to take advantage of the
current environment in the short-term and then resume our traditional growth
strategy in the future, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do
so.

See

“Growth
and Investment Strategies”

and “

Financing
of the Company’s Growth Strategies”

below for more information regarding
our traditional long-term strategy to grow the cash flows and equity values of
the Company.

Competition

Self-storage
facilities generally draw customers from residents within a three to five mile
radius.  Many of our facilities operate within three to five miles of
well-located and well-managed competitors that seek the same group of customers
through many of the same marketing channels we use, including yellow page
advertising, Internet advertising, as well as signage and banners.  As
a result, competition is significant and affects the occupancy levels, rental
rates, rental income and operating expenses of our facilities.

While
competition is significant, the self-storage industry remains fragmented in the
U.S.  We believe that we own approximately 5% of the aggregate
self-storage square footage in the U.S., and that collectively the five largest
self-storage operators in the U.S. own only approximately 10% of the aggregate
self-storage space in the U.S., with the remaining 90% owned by numerous private
regional and local operators.  This market fragmentation enhances the
advantage of our economies of scale and our brand relative to other operators
(see “Business Attributes – Economies of Scale” below), and could result in
potential growth in our platform through acquisitions over the long
term.

In
seeking investments, we compete with a wide variety of institutions and other
investors.  The amount of funds available for real estate investments
greatly influences the competition for ownership interests in facilities and, by
extension, the yields that we can achieve on newly acquired
investments.

Business
Attributes

We
believe that we possess several primary business attributes that permit us to
compete effectively:

Centralized
information networks:

Our facilities are part of comprehensive
centralized reporting and information networks which enable the management team
to identify changing market conditions and operating trends as well as analyze
customer data, and quickly change our properties’ pricing and promotional mix on
an automated basis.

National
Telephone Reservation System

:

We operate a
centralized telephone reservation system, which provides added customer service
and helps to maximize utilization of available self-storage
space.  Customers calling either the toll-free telephone referral
system, (800) 44-STORE, or a storage facility, are directed to the national
reservation system.  A representative discusses with the customer
space requirements, price and location preferences and also informs the customer
of other products and services provided by the Company and its
subsidiaries.  We believe that the centralized telephone reservation
system enhances our ability to market storage space in the U.S. relative to
handling these calls at individual properties, because it allows us to more
effectively offer all spaces at all facilities in the vicinity of a customer and
to provide higher-quality selling efforts through dedicated sales
specialists.  We also provide customers the opportunity to review
space availability and make reservations online through our website,
www.publicstorage.com.

Economies of
scale:

We are the largest provider of self-storage space in the
U.S.  As of December 31, 2009, we operated 2,010 self-storage
facilities in which we had an interest and managed 32 self-storage facilities
for third parties.  These facilities are generally located in major
markets within 38 states in the U.S.  At December 31, 2009, we had
over one million self-storage spaces rented.  The size and scope of
our operations have enabled us to achieve high operating margins and a low level
of administrative costs relative to revenues through the centralization of many
functions with specialists, such as facility maintenance, employee compensation
and benefits programs, pricing of our product, as well as the development and
documentation of standardized operating procedures.  We also believe
that our major market concentration provides managerial efficiencies stemming
from having a large number of facilities in close proximity to each
other.


We can
economically purchase large, prominent, well-placed yellow page ads that allow
us to reach the consumer more effectively than smaller operators.  We
are also able to purchase and bid aggressively for multiple-keyword advertising
on national Internet search engines.  In addition, we are able to
market efficiently using television as a media source.  The
concentration of most of our properties in major metropolitan centers makes
various promotional and media programs, such as television, yellow pages, and
Internet keyword bidding, far more economical for us than for our
competitors.

Brand name
recognition:

Our operations in the U.S. are conducted under the “Public
Storage” brand name, which we believe is the most recognized and established
name in the self-storage industry in the U.S.  Our storage operations
within the U.S. are conducted in major markets in 38 states, giving us national
recognition and prominence.  Our facilities tend to be highly visible
and located in heavily populated areas, improving the local awareness of our
brand.  We believe that the “Shurgard” brand, used by Shurgard Europe,
is a similarly established and valuable brand.

Complementary
ancillary operations

: Through a taxable REIT subsidiary, we sell retail
items associated with the storage business and reinsure policies issued to our
tenants against lost or damaged goods stored by tenants in our storage
facilities.  We believe these activities supplement and strengthen our
existing self-storage business by further meeting the needs of storage
customers.

Growth and Investment
Strategies

As
described more specifically in “

The
Impact of Current Economic Factors”

above, our growth strategies have
been revised in the short-run to respond to current market
conditions.

Over the
long-run, our growth strategies have consisted of: (i) improving the operating
performance of our existing self-storage properties, (ii) acquiring properties
that are owned or operated by others in the U.S., (iii) developing or
redeveloping existing U.S. real estate facilities, (iv) participating in the
growth of commercial facilities owned primarily by PSB, and (v) capitalizing on
the growth of facilities owned by Shurgard Europe in the European
market.  In addition to certain revisions to these strategies
described below, our strategy has been revised in the short-run to take
advantage of dislocation in current capital markets.

Improve the
operating performance of existing properties:

Demand for our self-storage
facilities has been negatively impacted over the past two years by the current
recessionary trends, and revenue and net operating income have both declined in
2009.  Over the long-run we seek to increase the net cash flow
generated by our existing self-storage properties by a) regularly evaluating our
call volume, reservation activity, and move-in/move-out rates for each of our
properties relative to our marketing activities, b) evaluating market supply and
demand factors and, based upon these analyses, adjusting our marketing
activities and rental rates, c) attempting to maximize revenues through
evaluating the appropriate balance between occupancy, rental rates, and
promotional discounting and d) controlling expense levels.  We believe
that our property management personnel and systems, combined with our national
telephone reservation system and media advertising programs will continue to
enhance our ability to meet these goals.  See Item 7. “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis” below for further information regarding our expectation
in the short-run with respect to our operating results.

Acquire
properties owned or operated by others in the U.S.:

Our long-run strategy
has included acquiring well-located facilities owned or operated by others in
the U.S. that fit well within our geographic profile, at generally attractive
pricing.  We believe our presence in and knowledge of substantially
all of the major markets in the U.S. enhances our ability to identify attractive
acquisition opportunities and capitalize on the overall fragmentation in the
self-storage industry.  Data on the rental rates and occupancy levels
of our existing facilities, which are often located in proximity to potential
acquisition candidates, provide us an advantage in evaluating the potential of
acquisition opportunities.  In the short-run,

we believe that there
may be more attractive opportunities for the acquisition of facilities from
distressed sellers who, due to the constrained credit environment and pressure
on cash flows due to the current difficult operating environment, face loan
covenant violations or cannot refinance their existing debt as it comes
due.  The timing and amount of these opportunities will be at least
partially dependent upon whether the banks and other lenders elect to pursue
foreclosure, acceleration, or other remedies which would force a sale of the
properties of these distressed owners, rather than extending existing loans or
waiving covenant violations.  It is our belief that opportunities in
2009 have been limited due at least in part to lenders’ desire to extend these
loans rather than foreclose.  There can be no assurance that any such
opportunities may materialize in the future.


Development of
real estate facilities:

We believe that in the long-run, development of
new storage locations and expansion of our existing self-storage facilities
represent an important part of our growth strategy.  New locations can
be developed to meet customer needs and expand our geographic reach, generally
within our existing markets.  In addition, existing facilities can be
expanded or enhanced to provide additional amenities such as climate control, to
better capitalize on increased population density in certain facilities’ local
market area.    However, in light of current capital market
conditions, doubt as to the potential lease-up of new storage space in the face
of reduced demand, and the increased potential in the short-run for attractive
acquisitions of existing facilities described above, we substantially curtailed
our development pipeline.  Accordingly, in 2009 our investment in the
development of real estate facilities was minimal, and we continue to have
nominal development pipeline at December 31, 2009.  Shurgard Europe
has similarly reduced its development activities (see “Capitalize on the
Potential for Growth in Europe” below).

Participate in
the growth of commercial facilities primarily through our ownership in PS
Business Parks, Inc.:

At December 31, 2009,
we had a 41% common equity interest in PSB and its operating partnership which
consisted of 5,801,606 shares of common stock and 7,305,355 limited partnership
units in the Operating Partnership.  The limited partnership units are
convertible at our option, subject to certain conditions, on a one-for-one basis
into PSB common stock.  At December 31, 2009, PSB owned and operated
approximately 19.6 million net rentable square feet of commercial space located
in eight states in the U.S.  During 2009 and 2008, the recession in
the U.S. impacted PSB resulting in a decrease in new rental rates over expiring
rents, as well as declining occupancy levels in 2009 and in the last six months
of 2008.  It is uncertain what impact the current recessionary trends
will have on PSB’s future occupancy levels and rental rents.  PSB may
continue to experience downward pressure on its occupancy levels and rental
rates.  Due to capital market dislocations and other factors, PSB did
not acquire any new commercial space in 2009 and 2008.

Capitalize on the
potential for growth in Europe:

On March 31, 2008, we entered
into the Europe Transaction with an institutional investor whereby the investor
acquired a 51% interest in Shurgard Europe.  Shurgard Europe held
substantially all of our operations in Europe.  Since March 31, 2008,
we own the remaining 49% interest and are the managing member of Shurgard
European Holdings LLC, a new joint venture formed to own Shurgard Europe’s
operations.

We
believe that Shurgard Europe is the largest owner and operator of self-storage
facilities in Western Europe.  At December 31, 2009, Shurgard Europe’s
operations comprise 187 facilities with an aggregate of approximately 10 million
net rentable square feet.  The portfolio consists of 115 wholly owned
facilities and 72 facilities owned by two joint venture partnerships, in which
Shurgard Europe has a 20% equity interest.

Shurgard
Europe operates in seven markets in Western Europe:  the French market
(principally Paris), the Swedish market (principally Stockholm), the United
Kingdom market (principally London), the Dutch market, the Belgian market, the
Danish market (principally Copenhagen) and the German market.

In
contrast to the U.S., the European self-storage industry is relatively
immature.  In each of the markets that Shurgard Europe operates
customer awareness of the product is relatively low and ownership of
self-storage facilities remains fragmented.  Although many European
consumers are not yet aware of the self-storage concept, they tend to live in
more densely populated areas in smaller living spaces (as compared to the U.S.)
that, we believe, should make self-storage an attractive option as product
knowledge and availability of additional self-storage facilities
grows.  Most Europeans are familiar with the concept of storage only
as an ancillary service provided by moving companies, and more consumer
familiarity could result in a significant increase in demand in the
long-term.


In the
longer term, we believe that there is significant growth potential in Europe to
expand the number of facilities owned either through development, acquisition,
and consolidation, even if the density of self-storage in Europe does not
ultimately approach the levels in the U.S.  However, ultimately
capitalizing on this opportunity will require a significant amount of capital to
develop new self-storage facilities in what could be a process extending through
a few decades in time frame, similar to the trajectory of the U.S. self-storage
industry since its inception in the mid 1960’s.

Shurgard
Europe, and its ability and wherewithal to take advantage of these
opportunities, has been impacted by the same economic trends that have
negatively impacted our domestic self-storage operations and capital
markets.  In addition to the operating uncertainties that we face,
Shurgard Europe faces refinancing risk, as approximately $168 million (€117
million) and $153 million (€107 million) of debt owed by joint ventures matures
in July 2010 and May 2011, respectively, and approximately $561.7 million
(€391.9 million) in a loan payable to us becomes due in March
2013.  Accordingly, Shurgard Europe has taken many of the same steps
that we have domestically, by curtailing its development
activities.  At such time that public market capital or bank debt
becomes available to Shurgard Europe to refinance its existing debt and economic
trends improve, development and growth may recommence; however, there can be no
assurance that such development and growth will ultimately recommence and at
what levels.

Take advantage of
dislocation in capital markets

:  At December 31, 2009, we have
cash balances on hand of approximately $763.8 million.  On
February 12, 2009, in accordance with an “any and all” tender offer, we
acquired $110.2 million (face amount) of our Senior Unsecured
Debt.  In addition, during the fourth quarter of 2008 and the first
quarter of 2009, we acquired $352.7 million (face amount) of our preferred
shares and units on the open market and in privately negotiated transactions for
an aggregate acquisition cost of $237.4 million.  There could be
opportunities for future acquisition of our own outstanding debt and equity
securities, particularly if there were a return to the same acute turbulence in
the credit and equity markets which occurred in late 2008 and early
2009.  Any future such transactions will depend upon our evaluation of
the return of such investments relative to our other investment
alternatives.  There can be no assurance that any future such
transactions will occur or the potential yield on such
transactions.

Financing of the Company’s
Growth Strategies

Impact of Current
Capital Markets

: As described above in “The Impact of Current Economic
Factors”, one of our traditional sources of external capital is, through the
issuance of preferred securities and, although we have not attempted to issue
additional preferred securities over the past twelve months, we believe that we
could issue additional preferred securities on a limited basis.  While
we expect continued improvement in the capital markets to issue preferred
securities, there can be no assurance as to when market conditions will improve
for preferred securities issuances at amounts and at rates that we will find
reasonable.

Overview of
financing strategy

: Over the past three years we have funded
substantially all the cash portion of our acquisition and development activities
with permanent capital (predominantly retained cash flow and the net proceeds
from the issuance of preferred securities).  We have elected to use
preferred securities as a form of leverage despite the fact that the dividend
rates of our preferred securities exceed the prevailing market interest rates on
conventional debt, because of certain benefits described in Item 7.
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources.’’  Our present intention
is to continue to finance substantially all our growth with cash on hand ($763.8
million at December 31, 2009), internally generated cash flows and permanent
capital.

Borrowing

:
We have in the past used our $300 million revolving line of credit as temporary
“bridge” financing, and repaid those amounts with permanent
capital.  Our debt outstanding currently represents debt that was
assumed either in connection with property acquisitions or in connection with
the Shurgard Merger.  When we have assumed such debt in the past, we
have generally prepaid such amounts except in cases where the nature of the loan
terms did not allow such prepayment, or where a prepayment penalty made it
economically disadvantageous to prepay.  While it is not our present
intention to issue additional debt as a long-term financing strategy, we have
broad powers to borrow in furtherance of our objectives without a vote of our
shareholders.  Our senior debt has an “A-” credit rating by Standard
and Poor’s combined with our low level of debt, we believe we could issue a
significant amount of unsecured debt, at attractive rates, in the current
markets.  These powers are subject to a limitation on unsecured
borrowings in our Bylaws described in “Limitations on Debt” below.


Issuance of
securities in exchange for property

:

We have issued both our
common and preferred securities in exchange for real estate and other
investments in the past, most notably the issuance of 38,913,187 common shares
in connection with the Shurgard Merger in 2006.  Future issuances will
be dependent upon our financing needs and capital market conditions at the time,
including the market prices of our equity securities.

Joint Venture
financing:

We have historically formed and may form additional joint
ventures to facilitate the funding of future developments or
acquisitions.

Disposition of
properties

: We historically have disposed of self-storage facilities only
because of condemnation proceedings, which compel us to sell.  We do
not presently intend to sell any significant number of self-storage facilities
in the future, though there can be no assurance that we will not.

Investments in Real Estate
and Real Estate Entities

Investment
Policies and Practices with respect to our investments

: Following are our
investment practices and policies which, though we do not anticipate any
significant alteration, can be changed by our Board of Trustees without a
shareholder vote:

·

Our
      investments primarily consist of direct ownership of self-storage
      properties (the nature of our self-storage properties is described in Item
      2, “Properties”), as well as partial interests in entities that own
      self-storage properties.

·

Our
      partial ownership interests primarily reflect general and limited
      partnership interests in entities that own self-storage facilities that
      are managed by us under the “Public Storage” brand name in the U.S., as
      well as storage facilities managed in Europe under the “Shurgard Storage
      Centers” brand name which are owned by Shurgard
  Europe.

·

Additional
      acquired interests in real estate (other than the acquisition of
      properties from third parties) will include common equity interests in
      entities in which we already have an
interest.

·

To
      a lesser extent, we have interests in existing commercial properties
      (described in Item 2, “Properties”), containing commercial and industrial
      rental space, primarily through our investment in
  PSB.

Facilities Owned by
Subsidiaries

In
addition to our direct ownership of 1,523 self-storage facilities in the U.S.
and one self-storage facility in London, England at December 31, 2009 with an
aggregate of approximately 98 million net rentable square feet, we have
controlling indirect interests in entities that own 468 self-storage facilities
in the U.S. with approximately 28 million net rentable square
feet.  In addition to our self-storage space, we own approximately 1.8
million net rentable square feet of commercial space primarily located adjacent
to our self-storage facilities.  Because of our controlling interest
in each of these entities, we consolidate the assets, liabilities, and results
of operations of these entities in our financial statements.

Facilities Owned by
Unconsolidated Entities

At
December 31, 2009, we had ownership interests in PSB, which owned approximately
19.6 million net rentable square feet of commercial space at December 31, 2009,
Shurgard Europe, which had ownership interests in 187 facilities with
approximately 10 million net rentable square feet of storage space, and certain
limited partnerships owning an aggregate of 19 self-storage facilities with
approximately 1 million net rentable square feet of storage
space.  Collectively these entities are referred to as the
“Unconsolidated Entities.”


PSB,
which files financial statements with the SEC, and Shurgard Europe, have debt
and other obligations that are not included in our consolidated financial
statements.  The limited partnerships have no significant amounts of
debt or other obligations.  See Note 5 to our December 31, 2009
consolidated financial statements for further disclosure regarding the assets,
liabilities and operating results of the Unconsolidated Entities.

Limitations on
Debt

Without
the consent of holders of the various series of Senior Preferred Shares, we may
not take any action that would result in a ratio of ''Debt'' to ''Assets'' (the
''Debt Ratio'') in excess of 50%.  As of December 31, 2009, the Debt
Ratio was approximately 4%.  ''Debt'' means the liabilities (other
than ''accrued and other liabilities'' and “redeemable noncontrolling
interests'') that should, in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles, be reflected on our consolidated balance sheet at the time of
determination.  ''Assets'' means our total assets before a reduction
for accumulated depreciation and amortization that should, in accordance with
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, be reflected on the consolidated
balance sheet at the time of determination.

Our bank
and senior unsecured debt agreements contain various customary financial
covenants, including limitations on the level of indebtedness and the
prohibition of the payment of dividends upon the occurrence of defined events of
default.

Employees

We have
approximately 4,900 employees in the U.S. at December 31, 2009 who render
services on behalf of the Company, primarily personnel engaged in property
operations.  None of our employees in the U.S. are covered by a
collective bargaining agreement.  We believe that our relations with
our employees are generally amicable.

Seasonality

We
experience minor seasonal fluctuations in the occupancy levels of self-storage
facilities with occupancies generally higher in the summer months than in the
winter months.  We believe that these fluctuations result in part from
increased moving activity during the summer months.

Insurance

We have
historically carried customary property, earthquake, general liability and
workers compensation coverage through internationally recognized insurance
carriers, subject to customary levels of deductibles.  The aggregate
limits on these policies of $75 million for property coverage and
$102 million for general liability are higher than estimates of maximum
probable loss that could occur from individual catastrophic events determined in
recent engineering and actuarial studies; however, in case of multiple
catastrophic events, these limits could be exhausted.

Our
tenant insurance program reinsures a program that provides insurance to
certificate holders against claims for property losses due to specific named
perils (earthquakes and floods are not covered by these policies) to goods
stored by tenants at our self-storage facilities for individual limits up to a
maximum of $5,000.  We have third-party insurance coverage for claims paid
exceeding $1,000,000 resulting from any one individual event, to a limit of
$25,000,000.  At December 31, 2009, there were approximately 585,000
certificate holders held by our tenants, participating in this program
representing aggregate coverage of approximately $1.3
billion.  Because each certificate represents insurance of goods held
by a tenant at our self-storage facilities, the geographic concentration of this
$1.3 billion in coverage is dispersed throughout all of our U.S.
facilities.  We rely on a third-party insurance company to provide the
insurance and are subject to licensing requirements and regulations in several
states.


ITEM
1A.

Risk
Factors

In
addition to the other information in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should
consider the risks described below that we believe may be material to investors
in evaluating the Company.  This section contains forward-looking
statements, and in considering these statements, you should refer to the
qualifications and limitations on our forward-looking statements that are
described in

Forward
Looking Statements

at the beginning of Item 1.

Since
our business consists primarily of acquiring and operating real estate, we are
subject to the risks related to the ownership and operation of real estate that
can adversely impact our business and financial condition.

The value of our investments may be
reduced by general risks of real estate
ownership.

Since we derive substantially all of
our income from real estate operations, we are subject to the general risks of
acquiring and owning real estate-related assets, including:

•

lack
      of demand for rental spaces or units in a locale;

•

changes
      in general economic or local conditions;

•

natural
      disasters, such as earthquakes and floods; which could exceed the
      aggregate limits of our insurance
  coverage;

•

potential
      terrorist attacks;

•

changes
      in supply of or demand for similar or competing facilities in an area;

•

the
      impact of environmental protection laws;

•

changes
      in interest rates and availability of permanent mortgage funds which may
      render the sale of a nonstrategic property difficult or unattractive
      including the impact of the current turmoil in the credit markets;

•

increases
      in insurance premiums, property tax assessments and other operating and
      maintenance expenses;

•

transactional
      costs and liabilities, including transfer
taxes;

•

adverse
      changes in tax, real estate and zoning laws and regulations; and

•

tenant
      and employment-related claims.

In
addition, we self-insure certain of our property loss, liability, and workers
compensation risks for which other real estate companies may use third-party
insurers.  This results in a higher risk of losses that are not
covered by third-party insurance contracts, as described in Note 13 under
“Insurance and Loss Exposure” to our December 31, 2009 consolidated
financial statements.

There is significant competition
among self-storage facilities and from other storage
alternatives.

Most of our properties are
self-storage facilities, which generated most of our revenue for the year ended
December 31, 2009.  Local market conditions will play a significant
part in how competition will affect us. Competition in the market areas in which
many of our properties are located from other self-storage facilities and other
storage alternatives is significant and has affected the occupancy levels,
rental rates and operating expenses of most of our properties.  Any
increase in availability of funds for investment in real estate may accelerate
competition.  Further development of self-storage facilities may
intensify competition among operators of self-storage facilities in the market
areas in which we operate.


We may incur significant
environmental costs and liabilities

.    As an owner
and operator of real properties, under various federal, state and local
environmental laws, we are required to clean up spills or other releases of
hazardous or toxic substances on or from our properties.  Certain
environmental laws impose liability whether or not the owner knew of, or was
responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic
substances.  In some cases, liability may not be limited to the value
of the property.  The presence of these substances, or the failure to
properly remediate any resulting contamination, whether from environmental or
microbial issues, also may adversely affect the owner’s or operator’s ability to
sell, lease or operate its property or to borrow using its property as
collateral.

We have
conducted preliminary environmental assessments of most of our properties (and
intend to conduct these assessments in connection with property acquisitions) to
evaluate the environmental condition of, and potential environmental liabilities
associated with, our properties.  These assessments generally consist
of an investigation of environmental conditions at the property (not including
soil or groundwater sampling or analysis), as well as a review of available
information regarding the site and publicly available data regarding conditions
at other sites in the vicinity.  In connection with these property
assessments, our operations and recent property acquisitions, we have become
aware that prior operations or activities at some facilities or from nearby
locations have or may have resulted in contamination to the soil or groundwater
at these facilities.  In this regard, some of our facilities are or
may be the subject of federal or state environmental investigations or remedial
actions.  We have obtained, with respect to recent acquisitions, and
intend to obtain with respect to pending or future acquisitions, appropriate
purchase price adjustments or indemnifications that we believe are sufficient to
cover any related potential liability.  Although we cannot provide any
assurance, based on the preliminary environmental assessments, we believe we
have funds available to cover any liability from environmental contamination or
potential contamination and we are not aware of any environmental contamination
of our facilities material to our overall business, financial condition or
results of operations.

There has
been an increasing number of claims and litigation against owners and managers
of rental properties relating to moisture infiltration, which can result in mold
or other property damage.  When we receive a complaint concerning
moisture infiltration, condensation or mold problems and/or become aware that an
air quality concern exists, we implement corrective measures in accordance with
guidelines and protocols we have developed with the assistance of outside
experts.  We seek to work proactively with our tenants to resolve
moisture infiltration and mold-related issues, subject to our contractual
limitations on liability for such claims.  However, we can give no
assurance that material legal claims relating to moisture infiltration and the
presence of, or exposure to, mold will not arise in the future.

Delays in development and fill-up of
our properties would reduce our
profitability.

From January 1, 2005, through
December 31, 2009, we opened 17 newly developed self-storage facilities in the
U.S. at a cost of approximately $142 million.  Shurgard Europe
has developed and opened 55 facilities since January 1, 2005 at a cost of
approximately $426 million, and has two development projects under construction
with total estimated costs of $24 million.  Delays in the rent-up
of newly developed storage space as a result of competition or other factors,
including the slowdown in the general economy which has negatively impacted
storage demand, would adversely impact our profitability.  If we or
Shurgard Europe were to commence significant development of facilities,
construction delays due to weather, unforeseen site conditions, personnel
problems, and other factors, as well as cost overruns, would adversely affect
our profitability.

Property taxes can increase and
cause a decline in yields on investments.

Each of
our properties is subject to real property taxes.  These real property
taxes may increase in the future as property tax rates change and as our
properties are assessed or reassessed by tax authorities.  Recent
local government shortfalls in tax revenue may cause pressure to increase tax
rates or assessment levels.  Such increases could adversely impact our
profitability.


We must comply with the Americans
with Disabilities Act and fire and safety regulations, which can require
significant expenditures.

All our properties must
comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and with related regulations
(the “ADA”).  The ADA has separate compliance requirements for “public
accommodations” and “commercial facilities,” but generally requires that
buildings be made accessible to persons with disabilities.  Various
state laws impose similar requirements.  A failure to comply with the
ADA or similar state laws could result in government imposed fines on us and
could award damages to individuals affected by the failure.  In
addition, we must operate our properties in compliance with numerous local fire
and safety regulations, building codes, and other land use
regulations.  Compliance with these requirements can require us to
spend substantial amounts of money, which would reduce cash otherwise available
for distribution to shareholders.  Failure to comply with these
requirements could also affect the marketability of our real estate
facilities.

We incur liability from tenant and
employment-related claims.

From time to time
we must resolve tenant claims and employment-related claims by corporate level
and field personnel.

Global
economic conditions could adversely affect our business, financial condition,
growth and access to capital.

There
continues to be global economic uncertainty, elevated levels of unemployment,
reduced levels of economic activity, and it is uncertain as to when economic
conditions will improve.  These negative economic conditions in the
markets where we operate facilities, and other events or factors that adversely
affect disposable incomes, have and are likely to continue to adversely affect
our business.

As a
further result of the current global financial crisis, our ability to issue
preferred shares or borrow at reasonable rates has been and may continue to be
adversely affected by challenging credit market conditions.  The
issuance of perpetual preferred securities historically has been a significant
source of capital to grow our business.  While we currently believe
that we have sufficient working capital and capacity under our credit facilities
and our retained cash flow from operations to continue to operate our business
as usual, long-term continued turbulence in the credit markets and in the
national economy may adversely affect our access to capital and adversely impact
earnings growth that might otherwise result from the acquisition and development
of real estate facilities.

We
grow our business primarily through acquisitions of existing properties and are
subject to risks related to acquisitions that may adversely affect our growth
and financial results.

We grow
our business in large part through the acquisition of existing properties,
including acquisitions of businesses owned by other storage
operators.  In addition to the general risks related to real estate
described above which may also adversely impact operations at acquired
properties, we are also subject to the following risks in connection with
property acquisitions and the integration of acquired properties into our
operations.

Any failure by us to manage
acquisitions and other significant transactions successfully could negatively
impact our financial results.

If acquired facilities are not
properly integrated into our system, our financial results may
suffer.

Any failure to successfully
integrate acquired operations with our existing business could negatively impact
our financial results.

To fully realize any anticipated benefits from an
acquisition, we must successfully complete the combination of the businesses of
Public Storage and acquired properties in a manner that permits cost savings to
be realized.  It is possible that the integration process could result
in a decline in occupancy and/or rental rates, the disruption of ongoing
businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices,
policies and compensation arrangements that adversely affect our ability to
maintain relationships with tenants and employees or to achieve anticipated
benefits, particularly with large acquisitions.

Acquired properties are subject to
property tax reappraisals which may increase our property tax expense.

Facilities that we acquire are subject to property tax reappraisal, which
can increase property tax expense.  There is a degree of uncertainty
involved in estimating the property tax expense of an acquired
property.  In future acquisitions of properties, if actual property
tax expenses following reappraisal are significantly greater than we expected,
our operating results could be negatively impacted.


As a result of our ownership of 49%
of the international operations of Shurgard Europe with a book value of $272.3
million at December 31, 2009, and our loan to Shurgard Europe aggregating $561.7
million at December 31, 2009, we are exposed to additional risks related to
international businesses that may adversely impact our business and financial
results

.

We have
limited experience in European operations, which may adversely impact our
ability to operate profitably in Europe.  In addition, European
operations have specific inherent risks, including without limitation the
following:

·

currency
      risks, including currency fluctuations, which can impact the fair value of
      our $272.3 million book value equity investment in Shurgard Europe, as
      well as interest payments and the net proceeds to be received upon
      repayment of our loan to Shurgard
Europe;

·

•       unexpected
      changes in legislative and regulatory requirements;

·

•       potentially
      adverse tax burdens;

·

•       burdens
      of complying with different permitting standards, environmental and labor
      laws and a wide variety of foreign
laws;

·

•       the
      potential impact of collective
bargaining;

·

•       obstacles
      to the repatriation of earnings and cash;

·

•       regional,
      national and local political uncertainty;

·

•       economic
      slowdown and/or downturn in foreign markets;

·

•       difficulties
      in staffing and managing international operations;

·

•       reduced
      protection for intellectual property in some countries;

·

•       inability
      to effectively control less than wholly-owned partnerships and joint
      ventures; and

·

•       the
      importance of local senior management and the potential negative
      ramifications of the departure of key
  executives.

Based
upon current market conditions and recent operating result trends of Shurgard
Europe, the following specific risks apply with respect to our investment in,
and loan to, Shurgard Europe:


·

We have an obligation to loan
      up to an additional €185 million ($265.2 million at December 31, 2009) to
      Shurgard Europe, and provide additional equity contributions of up to
      $66.4 million.

We have a commitment, which expires March
      31, 2010, to provide up to €185 million of additional loans to Shurgard
      Europe under the same terms as the existing loans, to fund the possible
      acquisition of Shurgard Europe’s joint venture partner’s interest in the
      joint ventures and/or repay Shurgard Europe’s pro-rata share of the joint
      venture debt.  In addition, we are committed to provide up to
      $66.4 million of additional equity contributions to Shurgard Europe to
      fund certain other investing activities.  While the acquisition
      of the joint venture partners’ interests are subject to our approval,
      Shurgard Europe has no obligation to acquire these interests, and any
      other investing activities generally require our approval, these
      commitments may require us to provide additional funds to Shurgard Europe
      in amounts or under terms that we may not have otherwise agreed
      to.

·

Joint Ventures that Shurgard
      Europe has a 20% interest in have significant refinancing
      requirements.

Shurgard Europe’s two joint ventures
      collectively had approximately €224 million ($321 million) of outstanding
      debt payable to third parties at December 31, 2009.  These loans
      are secured by the joint ventures’ respective facilities, and are not
      guaranteed by Public Storage, Shurgard Europe, or any third
      party.  One of the joint venture loans, totaling €107 million
      ($153 million), is due May 2011 and the other joint venture loan,
      totaling €117 million ($168 million), is due in July
      2010.

If
Shurgard Europe’s joint ventures were unable to refinance or otherwise repay
these loans when due, it is our expectation that the loans would be

repaid
with each joint venture partner contributing their pro rata share towards
repayment.  Shurgard Europe’s pro rata share, in the aggregate, would
be approximately €50 million ($72 million) which Shurgard Europe fund
either from available cash on hand or equity contributions from Public Storage
and our joint venture partner.  Further, it is also possible that
Shurgard Europe’s joint venture partner would be unable to contribute its pro
rata share to repay the loans and may trigger, through its rights under the
related partnership documents, the liquidation of the partnership, which could
result in Shurgard Europe’s acquisition of its joint venture partner’s interest
or the sale of the properties to third parties, with potential loss or reduction
to our investment if the liquidation proceeds were not sufficient.  If
Shurgard Europe were to acquire its joint venture partner’s interest by March
31, 2010, it could borrow on the aforementioned €185 million loan commitment we
have provided to fund the purchase of the joint venture partner’s interest and
repayment of the loans.

·

Shurgard Europe’s ability to
      refinance its $561.7 million loan from us, which is due in March 2013, may
      be limited if current market conditions persist.

We have
      loaned Shurgard Europe €391.9 million ($561.7 million at December 31,
      2009), and this loan is due in March 2013.  If the currently
      constrained capital market and bank loan availability persists, it is
      likely that Shurgard Europe may be unable to refinance the entire
      loan.  If Shurgard Europe is unable to obtain financing to raise
      funds to repay our loan, we may have to negotiate an equity or debt
      contribution by our joint venture partner to Shurgard Europe, extend the
      loan, or otherwise take steps under our lender
      rights.   Any of these steps could negatively impact our
      investment and the liquidity of Shurgard
Europe.

·

Shurgard Europe’s operating
      trends are negative.

Shurgard Europe’s same-store
      revenue is down 3.6% in the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to
      2008 on a constant exchange rate basis.  Shurgard Europe may
      have continued reductions in same-store revenues, which will adversely
      impact their operating results and, as a result, the value of our
      investment in Shurgard Europe.  Such reductions may negatively
      impact Shurgard Europe’s liquidity and ability to repay its debt,
      including the debt owed to Public Storage, due to declining interest
      coverage ratios and other similar metrics upon which potential lenders
      typically base their lending
decisions.

We
are subject to risks related to our ownership of assets in joint venture
structures.

In
connection with our 2006 acquisition of Shurgard and the acquisition of a 51%
interest in Shurgard Europe by an institutional investor on March 31, 2008, we
have interests in several joint ventures.  Joint ventures may present
additional risks, including without limitation, the following:


·

Risks
      related to the financial strength, common business goals and strategies
      and cooperation of the venture
partner.

·

The
      inability to take some actions with respect to the joint venture
      activities that we may believe are favorable, if our joint venture partner
      does not agree.

·

The
      risk that we could lose our REIT status based upon actions of the joint
      ventures if we are unable to effectively control these indirect
      investments.

·

The
      risk that we may not control the legal entity that has title to the real
      estate.

·

The
      risk that our investments in these entities may not be easily sold or
      readily accepted as collateral by our lenders, or that lenders may view
      assets held in joint ventures as less favorable as
    collateral.

·

The
      risk that the joint ventures could take actions which may negatively
      impact our preferred shares and debt ratings, to the extent that we could
      not prevent these actions.

·

The
      risk that we may be constrained from certain activities of our own that we
      would otherwise deem favorable, due to non-compete clauses in our joint
      venture arrangements.

·

The
      risk that we will be unable to resolve disputes with our joint venture
      partners.

The Hughes Family could control us
and take actions adverse to other shareholders.

At
December 31, 2009, B. Wayne Hughes, Chairman of the Board of Trustees and his
family (the “Hughes Family”) owned approximately 17.3% of our aggregate
outstanding common shares.  Our declaration of trust permits the
Hughes Family to own up to 47.66% of our outstanding common shares and also
allows for cumulative voting in the election of
trustees.  Consequently, the Hughes Family may significantly influence
matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including electing trustees,
amending our organizational documents, dissolving and approving other
extraordinary transactions, such as a takeover attempt, even though such actions
may not be favorable to other shareholders.

Certain
provisions of Maryland law and in our declaration of trust and bylaws may
prevent changes in control or otherwise discourage takeover attempts beneficial
to shareholders.

Certain
provisions of Maryland law may have the effect of deterring a third party from
making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change in control under
circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of our shares with the
opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our
shares.  Currently, the Board has opted not to subject the Company to
the statutory limitations of either the business combination provisions or the
control share acquisitions provisions of Maryland law, but the Board may change
this option as to either statute in the future.  If the Board chooses
to make them applicable to us, these provisions could delay, deter or prevent a
transaction or change of control that might involve a premium price for holders
of common shares or might otherwise be in their best
interest.  Similarly, (1) limitations on removal of trustees in our
declaration of trust, (2) restrictions on the acquisition of our shares of
beneficial interest, (3) the power to issue additional common shares, preferred
shares or equity shares, (4)  the advance notice provisions of our bylaws
and (5) the Board’s ability under Maryland law, without obtaining shareholder
approval, to implement takeover defenses that we may not yet have and to take,
or refrain from taking, other actions without those decisions being subject to
any heightened standard of conduct or standard of review, could have the same
effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a transaction or a change in control
that might involve a premium price for holders of the common shares or might
otherwise be in common shareholders’ best interest.


To
preserve our status as a REIT under the Code, our declaration of trust contains
limitations on the number and value of shares of beneficial interest that any
person may own.  These ownership limitations generally limit the
ability of a person, other than the Hughes Family (as defined in our declaration
of trust) and other than “designated investment entities” (as defined in our
declaration of trust), to own more than 3% of our outstanding common shares or
9.9% of the outstanding shares of any class or series of preferred or equity
shares, in each case, in value or number of shares, whichever is more
restrictive, unless an exemption is granted by our board of
trustees.  These limitations could discourage, delay or prevent a
transaction involving a change in control of our company not approved by our
board of trustees.

If
we failed to qualify as a REIT for income tax purposes, we would be taxed as a
corporation, which would substantially reduce funds available for payment of
dividends.

Investors
are subject to the risk that we may not qualify as a REIT for income tax
purposes. REITs are subject to a range of complex organizational and operational
requirements.  As a REIT, we must distribute with respect to each year
at least 90% of our REIT taxable income to our shareholders (which may take into
account certain dividends paid in the subsequent year).  Other
restrictions apply to our income and assets.  Our REIT status is also
dependent upon the ongoing qualification of our affiliate, PSB, as a REIT, as a
result of our substantial ownership interest in that company.

For any
taxable year that we fail to qualify as a REIT and are unable to avail ourselves
of relief provisions set forth in the Code, we would be subject to federal
income tax at the regular corporate rates on all of our taxable income, whether
or not we make any distributions to our shareholders.  Those taxes
would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders
or for reinvestment and would adversely affect our earnings.  As a
result, our failure to qualify as a REIT during any taxable year could have a
material adverse effect upon us and our shareholders.  Furthermore,
unless certain relief provisions apply, we would not be eligible to elect REIT
status again until the fifth taxable year that begins after the first year for
which we fail to qualify.

We have
also assumed, based on Shurgard Storage Center, Inc.’s public filings and due
diligence performed in connection with our acquisition of Shurgard, that
Shurgard qualified as a REIT through the date of the Shurgard Merger on August
22, 2006.  However, if Shurgard failed to qualify as a REIT, we
generally would have succeeded to or incurred significant tax liabilities
(including the significant tax liability that would have resulted from the
deemed sale of assets by Shurgard to us as part of the Shurgard
Merger).

We
may pay some taxes, reducing cash available for shareholders.

Even if
we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we are required to pay
some federal, foreign, state and local taxes on our income and
property.  Since January 1, 2001, certain corporate subsidiaries of
the Company have elected to be treated as “taxable REIT subsidiaries” of the
Company for federal income tax purposes. A taxable REIT subsidiary is taxable as
a regular corporation and may be limited in its ability to deduct interest
payments made to us in excess of a certain amount.  In addition, if we
receive or accrue certain amounts and the underlying economic arrangements among
our taxable REIT subsidiaries and us are not comparable to similar arrangements
among unrelated parties, we could be subject to a 100% penalty tax on those
payments in excess of amounts the Internal Revenue Service deems reasonable
between unrelated parties.  To the extent that the Company is required
to pay federal, foreign, state or local taxes, we will have less cash available
for distribution to shareholders.

We
have become increasingly dependent upon automated processes, telecommunications,
and the Internet and are faced with system security risks.

We have
become increasingly centralized and dependent upon automated information
technology processes, and certain critical components of our operating systems
are dependent upon third party providers.  As a result, we could be
severely impacted by a catastrophic occurrence, such as a natural disaster or a
terrorist attack, or a circumstance that disrupted operations at our third party
providers.  Even though we believe we utilize appropriate duplication
and back-up procedures, a significant outage in our third party providers could
negatively impact our operations.  In addition, a portion of our
business operations are conducted over the Internet, increasing the risk of
viruses that could cause system failures and disruptions of
operations.  Experienced computer programmers may be able to penetrate
our network security and misappropriate our confidential information, create
system disruptions or cause shutdowns.  Nearly half of our move-ins
comes from sales channels dependent upon telecommunications (telephone or
Internet).


We
have no interest in Canadian self-storage facilities owned by the Hughes
Family.

The
Hughes Family has ownership interests in, and operates, 52 self-storage
facilities in Canada under the name “Public Storage”, which name we license to
the Hughes Family for use in Canada on a non-exclusive basis.  We
currently do not own any interests in these facilities nor do we own any
facilities in Canada.  We have a right of first refusal to acquire the
stock or assets of the corporation engaged in the operation of the self-storage
facilities in Canada if the Hughes Family or the corporation agrees to sell
them.  However, we have no ownership interest in the operations of
this corporation, have no right to acquire their stock or assets unless the
Hughes family decides to sell, and receive no benefit from the profits and
increases in value of the Canadian self-storage facilities.  Although
we have no current plans to enter the Canadian self-storage market, if we choose
to do so without acquiring the Hughes Family interests in their Canadian
self-storage properties, our right to use the Public Storage name in Canada may
be shared with the Hughes Family unless we are able to terminate the license
agreement.

Through
our subsidiaries, we continue to reinsure risks relating to loss of goods stored
by tenants in the self-storage facilities in Canada in which the Hughes Family
has ownership interests.  We acquired the tenant insurance business on
December 31, 2001 through our acquisition of PS Insurance Company, or
PSICH.  For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, PSICH received
$642,000 and $768,000, respectively, in reinsurance premiums attributable to the
Canadian Facilities.  Since PSICH’s right to provide tenant
reinsurance to the Canadian Facilities may be qualified, there is no assurance
that these premiums will continue.

We
are subject to laws and governmental regulations and actions that affect our
operating results and financial condition.

Our
business is subject to regulation under a wide variety of U.S. federal, state
and local laws, regulations and policies including those imposed by the SEC, the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and New York Stock Exchange, as well as applicable
labor laws. Although we have policies and procedures designed to comply with
applicable laws and regulations, failure to comply with the various laws and
regulations may result in civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties,
increased costs of compliance and restatement of our financial
statements.

There can
also be no assurance that, in response to current economic conditions or the
current political environment or otherwise, laws and regulations will not be
implemented or changed in ways that adversely affect our operating results and
financial condition, such as current federal legislative proposals to expand
health care coverage costs or facilitate union activity or otherwise increase
operating costs.

Our
tenant insurance business is subject to governmental regulation which could
reduce our profitability or limit our growth.

We hold
Limited Lines Self Storage Insurance Agent licenses from a number of individual
state Departments of Insurance and are subject to state governmental regulation
and supervision.  This state governmental supervision could reduce our
profitability or limit our growth by increasing the costs of regulatory
compliance, limiting or restricting the products or services we provide or the
methods by which we provide products and services, or subjecting our businesses
to the possibility of regulatory actions or proceedings.  Our
continued ability to maintain these Limited Lines Self Storage Insurance Agent
licenses in the jurisdictions in which we are licensed depends on our compliance
with the rules and regulations promulgated from time to time by the regulatory
authorities in each of these jurisdictions.  Furthermore, state
insurance departments conduct periodic examinations, audits and investigations
of the affairs of insurance agents.

In all
jurisdictions, the applicable laws and regulations are subject to amendment or
interpretation by regulatory authorities.  Generally, such authorities
are vested with relatively broad discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses
and approvals and to implement regulations.  Accordingly, we may be
precluded or temporarily suspended from carrying on some or all of our
activities or otherwise fined or penalized in a given
jurisdiction.  No assurances can be given that our businesses can
continue to be conducted in any given jurisdiction as it has been conducted in
the past.  For the year ended December 31, 2009, revenues from our
tenant reinsurance business represented approximately 4% of our
revenues.


Terrorist
attacks and the possibility of wider armed conflict may have an adverse impact
on our business and operating results and could decrease the value of our
assets.

Terrorist
attacks and other acts of violence or war could have a material adverse impact
on our business and operating results.  There can be no assurance that
there will not be further terrorist attacks against the U.S., the European
Community, or their businesses or interests.  Attacks or armed
conflicts that directly impact one or more of our properties could significantly
affect our ability to operate those properties and thereby impair our operating
results.  Further, we may not have insurance coverage for losses
caused by a terrorist attack.  Such insurance may not be available, or
if it is available and we decide to obtain such terrorist coverage, the cost for
the insurance may be significant in relationship to the risk
overall.  In addition, the adverse effects that such violent acts and
threats of future attacks could have on the U.S. economy could similarly have a
material adverse effect on our business and results of
operations.  Finally, further terrorist acts could cause the U.S. to
enter into a wider armed conflict, which could further impact our business and
operating results.

Developments
in California may have an adverse impact on our business and financial
results.

We are
headquartered in, and approximately one-fifth of our properties in the U.S. are
located in California. The state of California and many local jurisdictions are
facing severe budgetary problems and deficits.  Action that may be
taken in response to these problems, such as increases in property taxes on
commercial properties, changes to sales taxes, adoption of a proposed “Business
Net Receipts Tax” or other governmental efforts to raise revenues could
adversely impact our business and results of operations.  In addition,
we could be adversely impacted by efforts to reenact legislation mandating
medical insurance for employees of California businesses and members of their
families.

ITEM
1B.

Unresolved Staff
Comments

Not
applicable.


ITEM
2.

Properties

At
December 31, 2009, we had direct and indirect ownership interests in 2,010 and
188 storage facilities located in 38 states within the U.S. and seven Western
European nations, respectively:

(a)

See
Schedule III:  Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation in the
Company’s 2009 financials, for a complete list of properties consolidated by the
Company.

(b)

The
facilities located in Europe include one facility in the United Kingdom that we
wholly own, as well as the facilities in which Shurgard Europe has an ownership
interest.


Our
facilities are generally operated to maximize cash flow through the regular
review and adjustment of rents charged to our tenants.  For the year
ended December 31, 2009, the weighted average occupancy level and the average
realized rent per occupied square foot for our self-storage facilities were
approximately 88% and $12.77, respectively, in the U.S. and 79% and $25.43,
respectively, in Europe.

At
December 31, 2009, 89 of our U.S. facilities were encumbered by an aggregate of
$227 million in secured notes payable.

We have
no specific policy as to the maximum size of any one particular self-storage
facility.  However, none of our facilities involves, or is expected to
involve, 1% or more of our total assets, gross revenues or net
income.

Description of
Self-Storage Facilities:

Self-storage
facilities, which comprise the majority of our investments, are designed to
offer accessible storage space for personal and business use at a relatively low
cost.  A user rents a fully enclosed space, securing the space with
their own lock, which is for the user's exclusive use and to which only the user
has access on an unrestricted basis during business hours.  On-site
operation is the responsibility of property managers who are supervised by
district managers.  Some self-storage facilities also include rentable
uncovered parking areas for vehicle storage.  Storage facility spaces
are rented on a month-to-month basis.  Rental rates vary according to
the location of the property, the size of the storage space, and other
characteristics that affect the relative attractiveness of each particular
space, such as whether the space has drive-up access or its proximity to
elevators.  All of our self-storage facilities in the U.S. are
operated under the "Public Storage" brand name, while our facilities in Europe
are operated under the “Shurgard Storage Centers” brand name.

Users of
space in self-storage facilities include individuals from virtually all
demographic groups, as well as businesses.  Individuals usually obtain
this space for storage of furniture, household appliances, personal belongings,
motor vehicles, boats, campers, motorcycles and other household
goods.  Businesses normally employ this space for storage of excess
inventory, business records, seasonal goods, equipment and
fixtures.

Our
self-storage facilities generally consist of three to seven buildings containing
an aggregate of between 350 to 750 storage spaces, most of which have between 25
and 400 square feet and an interior height of approximately eight to 12
feet.

We
experience minor seasonal fluctuations in the occupancy levels of self-storage
facilities with occupancies generally higher in the summer months than in the
winter months.  We believe that these fluctuations result in part from
increased moving activity during the summer months.

Our
self-storage facilities are geographically diversified and are located primarily
in or near major metropolitan markets in 38 states in the U.S. and seven Western
European nations.  Generally our self-storage facilities are located
in heavily populated areas and close to concentrations of apartment complexes,
single family residences and commercial developments.  However, there
may be circumstances in which it may be appropriate to own a property in a less
populated area, for example, in an area that is highly visible from a major
thoroughfare and close to, although not in, a heavily populated
area.  Moreover, in certain population centers, land costs and zoning
restrictions may create a demand for space in nearby less populated
areas.

Competition
from other self-storage facilities as well as other forms of storage in the
market areas in which most of our properties are located in the U.S., and
certain of our properties in Western Europe, is significant and has affected the
occupancy levels, rental rates, and operating expenses of many of our
properties.

Since our
investments are primarily self-storage facilities, our ability to preserve our
investments and achieve our objectives is dependent in large part upon success
in this field.  We believe that self-storage facilities, upon
stabilization, have attractive characteristics consisting of high profit
margins, a broad tenant base and low levels of capital expenditures to maintain
their condition and appearance.  While we have seen a decrease in cash
flow generation at our same-store facilities in 2009 due primarily to the high
unemployment, historically, upon stabilization after an initial fill-up period,
the U.S. self-storage facilities we have an interest in have generally shown a
high degree of consistency in generating cash flows.


Commercial
Properties

: In addition to our interests in 2,198 self-storage
facilities, we have an interest in PSB, which, as of December 31, 2009, owns and
operates approximately 19.6 million net rentable square feet of commercial space
in eight states.  At December 31, 2009, the $326 million book value of
our investment in PSB represents approximately 3% of our total
assets.  The $656 million market value of our investment in PSB at
December 31, 2009 represents approximately 7% of the book value of our total
assets.  We also directly own 1.8 million net rentable square
feet of commercial space, primarily located at our existing self-storage
locations, comprised primarily of individual retail locations.  This
space is managed for us by PSB.

The
commercial properties owned by PSB consist primarily of flex, multi-tenant
office and industrial space.  Flex space is defined as buildings that
are configured with a combination of office and warehouse space and can be
designed to fit a wide variety of uses (including office, assembly, showroom,
laboratory, light manufacturing and warehouse space).

Environmental
Matters:

Our policy is to accrue environmental assessments and estimated
remediation cost when it is probable that such efforts will be required and the
related costs can be reasonably estimated.  Our current practice is to
conduct environmental investigations in connection with property
acquisitions.  Although there can be no assurance, we are not aware of
any environmental contamination of any of our facilities, which individually or
in the aggregate would be material to our overall business, financial condition,
or results of operations.

ITEM
3.

Legal
Proceedings

Brinkley v. Public Storage,
Inc. (filed April 2005) (Superior Court of California – Los Angeles
County)

The
plaintiff sued the Company on behalf of a purported class of California
non-exempt employees based on various California wage and hour
laws.  Plaintiff sought certification for alleged meal period
violations, rest period violations, failure to pay for travel time, failure to
pay for mileage reimbursement, and for wage statement violations.  The
Court certified subclasses based only on alleged meal period and wage statement
violations.  In June 2007, the Court granted the Company’s summary
judgment motion as to the causes of action relating to the subclasses certified
and dismissed those claims.  Plaintiff appealed.  The Court
of Appeals sustained the dismissal.  The California Supreme Court
granted review but deferred the matter pending disposition of a related issue in
another case.

Other
Items

We are a
party to various claims, complaints, and other legal actions that have arisen in
the normal course of business from time to time that are not described
above.  We believe that it is unlikely that the outcome of these other
pending legal proceedings including employment and tenant claims, in the
aggregate, will have a material adverse impact upon our operations or financial
position.


PART II

ITEM
5.

Market for Registrant’s
Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities

a.

Market
      Information of the Registrant’s Common
Equity:

Our
Common Shares (NYSE: PSA), including those of Public Storage, Inc. prior to our
reorganization in June 2007, have been listed on the New York Stock Exchange
since October 19, 1984.  Our Depositary Shares each representing
1/1,000 of an Equity Share, Series A (NYSE:PSAA) (see section c. below),
including those of Public Storage, Inc. prior to our reorganization in June 2007
have been listed on the New York Stock Exchange since February 14,
2000.

The
following table sets forth the high and low sales prices of our Common Shares on
the New York Stock Exchange composite tapes for the applicable
periods.

Range

Year

Quarter

High

Low



st

$

94.98

$

65.66


nd

98.01

78.85


rd

102.48

75.00


th

105.87

52.52



st

79.88

45.35


nd

68.97

53.32


rd

79.47

61.35


th

85.10

70.76

The
following table sets forth the high and low sales prices of our Depositary
Shares Each Representing 1/1,000 of an Equity Share, Series A on the New York
Stock Exchange composite tapes for the applicable periods.

Range

Year

Quarter

High

Low


1st

$

26.00

$

24.14

2nd

26.33

25.05

3rd

26.50

24.50

4th

26.05

18.12


1st

25.00

21.38

2nd

25.40

21.39

3rd

25.68

24.17

4th

32.35

25.10

As of
February 15, 2010, there were approximately 18,788 holders of record of Common
Shares and approximately 9,190 holders of Depositary Shares Each Representing
1/1,000 of an Equity Share, Series A.

b.

Dividends

We have
paid quarterly distributions to our shareholders since 1981, our first full year
of operations.  During 2009, we paid distributions to our common
shareholders of $0.55 per common share for each of the quarters ended March 31,
June 30, September 30 and December 31.  Total distributions on common
shares for 2009 amounted to $370.4 million or $2.20 per share.  During
2008, we paid distributions to our common shareholders of $0.55 per common share
for each of the quarters ended March 31, June 30 and September 30, and a
distribution of $1.15 per common share (including a $0.60 per share special
dividend) for the quarter ended December 31.  Total distributions on
common shares for 2008 amounted to $470.8 million or $2.80 per
share.  Included in these amounts are $101.0 million or $0.60 per
common share with respect to a special cash dividend paid in December
2008.  During 2007, we paid distributions to our common shareholders
of $0.50 per common share for each of the quarters ended March 31, June 30,
September 30 and December 31.  Total distributions on common shares
for 2007 amounted to $338.7 million or $2.00 per share.


Holders
of common shares are entitled to receive distributions when and if declared by
our Board of Trustees out of any funds legally available for that
purpose.  In order to maintain our REIT status for federal income tax
purposes, we are generally required to pay dividends at least equal to 90% of
our real estate investment trust taxable income for the taxable year (for this
purpose, certain dividends paid in the subsequent year may be taken into
account). We intend to continue to pay distributions sufficient to permit us to
maintain our REIT status.

For
Federal income tax purposes, distributions to shareholders are treated as
ordinary income, capital gains, return of capital or a combination
thereof.  For 2009, the dividends paid on common shares ($2.20 per
share), on all the various classes of preferred shares, and on our Equity
Shares, Series A were classified as follows:


st

Quarter


nd

Quarter


rd

Quarter


th

Quarter

Ordinary
      Income

100.0000

%

100.0000

%

98.5716

%

100.0000

%

Long-term
      Capital Gain

0.0000

%

0.0000

%

1.4284

%

0.0000

%

Total

100.0000

%

100.0000

%

100.0000

%

100.0000

%

For 2008,
the dividends paid on common shares ($2.80 per share), on all the various
classes of preferred shares, and on our Equity Shares, Series A were classified
as follows:


st

Quarter


nd

Quarter


rd

Quarter


th

Quarter

Ordinary
      Income

99.9668

%

99.6512

%

99.8319

%

100.0000

%

Long-term
      Capital Gain

0.0332

%

0.3488

%

0.1681

%

0.0000

%

Total

100.0000

%

100.0000

%

100.0000

%

100.0000

%

c.

Equity
      Shares

The
Company is authorized to issue 100,000,000 Equity Shares.  Our
declaration of trust provides that the Equity Shares may be issued from time to
time in one or more series and gives the Board of Trustees broad authority to
fix the dividend and distribution rights, conversion and voting rights,
redemption provisions and liquidation rights of each series of Equity
Shares.

At
December 31, 2009, we had 8,377,193 Depositary Shares outstanding, each
representing 1/1,000 of an Equity Share, Series A.  The Equity Shares,
Series A rank on a parity with our common shares and junior to the Senior
Preferred Shares with respect to distributions and liquidation and has a
liquidation amount which cannot exceed $24.50 per
share.  Distributions with respect to each depositary share shall be
the lesser of: a) five times the per share dividend on the Common Shares or b)
$2.45 per annum.  Except in order to preserve the Company’s Federal
income tax status as a REIT, we may not redeem the depositary shares before
March 31, 2010.  If the Company fails to preserve its Federal income
tax status as a REIT, each depositary share will be convertible into 0.956 of
our common shares.  The depositary shares are otherwise not
convertible into common shares.  Holders of depositary shares vote as
a single class with our holders of common shares on shareholder matters, but the
depositary shares have the equivalent of one-tenth of a vote per depositary
share.  We have no obligation to pay distributions on the depositary
shares if no distributions are paid to common shareholders.  During
2009, 2008 and 2007, we paid quarterly distributions to the holders of the
Equity Shares, Series A of $0.6125 per share for each of the quarters ended
March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31.  Pursuant to our
option to redeem the security after March 31, 2010, on April 15, 2010, we will
be redeeming all of our outstanding shares of Equity Shares, Series A at a cash
redemption price of $24.50 per depositary share, or an aggregate of $205.2
million.  Since the initial issuance of these securities, the annual
dividend paid has been $2.45 per depository share, representing an implied yield
of 10%.


In
November 1999, we sold $100,000,000 (4,289,544 shares) of Equity Shares, Series
AAA (“Equity Shares AAA”) to a newly formed joint venture.  The Equity
Shares AAA ranks on a parity with common shares and junior to the Senior
Preferred Shares with respect to general preference rights, and has a
liquidation amount equal to 120% of the amount distributed to each common share.
Annual distributions per share are equal to the lesser of (i) five times the
amount paid per common share or (ii) $2.1564. We have no obligation to pay
distributions if no distributions are paid to common
shareholders.  During 2009, 2008 and 2007, we paid quarterly
distributions to one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, which is the holder of
the Equity Shares, Series AAA of $0.5391 per share for each of the quarters
ended March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31.

d.

Common
      Share Repurchases

Our Board
of Trustees has authorized the repurchase from time to time of up to 35,000,000
of our common shares on the open market or in privately negotiated
transactions.  During 2007 and 2009, we did not repurchase any of our
common shares.  During 2008, we repurchased 1,520,196 common shares
for approximately $111.9 million.  From the inception of the
repurchase program through February 26, 2010, we have repurchased a total of
23,721,916 common shares at an aggregate cost of approximately
$679.1 million.  Our common share repurchase program does not
have an expiration date and there are 11,278,084 common shares that may yet be
repurchased under our repurchase program as of December 31,
2009.  During the year ended December 31, 2009, we did not
repurchase any of our common shares outside our publicly announced repurchase
program.  Future levels of common share repurchases will be dependent
upon our available capital, investment alternatives, and the trading price of
our common shares.


ITEM
6.

Selected Financial
Data

(1)

The
      significant increase in our revenues, cost of operations, depreciation and
      amortization, and interest expense in 2006 and 2007, and the significant
      increase in total assets, total debt and shareholders’ equity in 2006, is
      due to our acquisition of Shurgard Storage Centers in August
      2006.  The significant decrease in our revenues, cost of
      operations, depreciation and amortization, and interest expense in 2008,
      and the significant decrease in total assets, total debt and other equity
      in 2008, is due to our disposition of an interest in Shurgard Europe on
      March 31, 2008.  See Note 3 to our December 31, 2009
      consolidated financial statements for further
  information.

(2)

As
      further discussed in Note 2 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated
      financial statements, certain amounts have been restated as a result of
      the application of certain new accounting standards on January 1, 2009,
      which standards required retroactive
  application.


ITEM
      7.

Management’s
      Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
      Operations

The
following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our
consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.

Forward Looking
Statements:

This
Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the
meaning of the federal securities laws.

All statements in this
document, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking
statements which may be identified by the use of the words
"expects,"   "believes,"  
"anticipates,"  "plans," "would," "should," "may," "estimates"
and similar expressions.  These forward-looking statements involve
known and unknown risks and uncertainties, which may cause Public Storage's
actual results and performance to be materially different from those expressed
or implied in the forward-looking statements.  As a result, you should
not rely on any forward-looking statements in this report, or which management
may make orally or in writing from time to time, as predictions of future events
nor guarantees of future performance.  We caution you not to place
undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as the date of
this report or as of the dates indicated in the statements.  All of
our forward-looking statements, including those in this report, are qualified in
their entirety by this statement.  We expressly disclaim any
obligation to update publicly or otherwise revise any forward-looking
statements, whether as a result of new information, new estimates, or other
factors, events or circumstances after the date of this document, except where
expressly required by law.  Accordingly, you should use caution in
relying on past forward-looking statements to anticipate future
results.

Factors
and risks that may impact our future results and performance include, but are
not limited to, those described in Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and in our other
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. (“SEC”).

Critical
Accounting Policies

Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
discusses our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in
accordance with United States (“U.S.”) generally accepted accounting principles
(“GAAP”).  The preparation of our financial statements and related
disclosures in conformity with GAAP and our discussion and analysis of our
financial condition and results of operations requires management to make
judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in our
consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes.  The notes
to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements, primarily Note 2,
summarize the significant accounting policies and methods used in the
preparation of our consolidated financial statements and related
disclosures.

Management
believes the following are critical accounting policies, the application of
which has a material impact on the Company’s financial
presentation.  That is, they are both important to the portrayal of
our financial condition and results, and they require management to make
judgments and estimates about matters that are inherently
uncertain.

Qualification as
a REIT – Income Tax Expense:

We believe that we have been
organized and operated, and we intend to continue to operate, as a qualifying
REIT under the Internal Revenue Code and applicable state laws.  We
also believe that Shurgard, prior to merging with us, qualified as a
REIT.  A REIT generally does not pay corporate level federal income
taxes on its REIT taxable income that is distributed to its shareholders, and
accordingly, we do not pay federal income tax on the share of our REIT taxable
income that is distributed to our shareholders.

We
therefore do not estimate or accrue any federal income tax expense for income
earned and distributed related to REIT operations.  This estimate
could be incorrect, because due to the complex nature of the REIT qualification
requirements, the ongoing importance of factual determinations and the
possibility of future changes in our circumstances, we cannot be assured that we
actually have satisfied or will satisfy the requirements for taxation as a REIT
for any particular taxable year.  For any taxable year that we fail or
have failed to qualify as a REIT and for which applicable relief provisions did
not apply, we would be taxed at the regular corporate rates on all of our
taxable income, whether or not we made or make any distributions to our
shareholders.  Any resulting requirement to pay corporate income tax,
including any applicable penalties or interest, could have a material adverse
impact on our financial condition or results of operations.  Unless
entitled to relief under specific statutory provisions, we also would not be
eligible to elect REIT status for any taxable year prior to the fifth taxable
year which begins after the first taxable year for which a REIT status was
terminated.  There can be no assurance that we would be entitled to
any statutory relief.  In addition, if Shurgard failed to qualify as a
REIT, we would succeed to significant tax liabilities.


Impairment of
Long-Lived Assets:

Substantially all of our assets consist of
real estate which are long-lived assets.  The evaluation of our
long-lived assets for impairment includes determining whether indicators of
impairment exist, which is a subjective process.  When any indicators
of impairment are found, the evaluation of such long-lived assets then entails
projections of future operating cash flows, which also involves significant
judgment.  Future events, or facts and circumstances that currently
exist, that we have not yet identified, could cause us to conclude in the future
that our long-lived assets are impaired.  Any resulting impairment
loss could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results
of operations.

Estimated Useful
Lives of Long-Lived Assets:

Substantially all of
our assets consist of depreciable or amortizable long-lived
assets.  We record depreciation and amortization expense with respect
to these assets based upon their estimated useful lives.  Any change
in the estimated useful lives of those assets, caused by functional or economic
obsolescence or other factors, could have a material adverse impact on our
financial condition or results of operations.

Accruals for
Contingencies:

We are exposed to
business and legal liability risks with respect to events that have occurred,
but in accordance with GAAP, we have not accrued for certain potential
liabilities because the loss is either not probable or not estimable or because
we are not aware of the event.  Future events and the results of
pending litigation could result in such potential losses becoming probable and
estimable, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition
or results of operations.  Significant unaccrued losses that we have
determined are at least reasonably possible are described in Note 13 to our
December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements.

Accruals for
Operating Expenses:

Certain of our expenses are estimated
based upon assumptions regarding past and future trends, such as losses for
workers compensation and employee health plans, and estimated claims for our
tenant reinsurance program.  Our property tax expense, which as a real
estate operator represents one of our largest expenses totaling approximately
$150 million in the year ended December 31, 2009, has significant estimated
components.  Most notably, in certain jurisdictions we do not receive
tax bills for the current fiscal year until after our earnings are finalized,
and as a result, we must estimate tax expense based upon anticipated
implementation of regulations and trends.  If these estimates and
assumptions were incorrect, our expenses could be misstated.

Valuation of
assets and liabilities acquired in business combinations:

We have estimated the
fair value of real estate, intangible assets, debt, and the other assets and
other liabilities acquired in business combinations, most notably the Shurgard
Merger.  We have acquired these assets, in certain cases, with
non-cash assets, most notably the 38.9 million shares that we issued to the
Shurgard shareholders.  These estimates are based upon many
assumptions, including interest rates, market values of land and buildings in
the U.S. and Europe, estimated future cash flows from the tenant base in place
at the time of the merger, and the recoverability of certain
assets.  We believe that the assumptions used were reasonable,
however, these assumptions were subject to a significant degree of judgment, and
others could use different assumptions and therefore come to materially
different conclusions as to the estimated values.  If estimated values
had been different, our depreciation and amortization expense, interest expense,
gain on disposition of an interest in Shurgard Europe, investments in real
estate entities, real estate, debt, and intangible assets could be materially
different.

Overview
of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Operations

Our
principal business activities include the acquisition, development, ownership
and operation of self-storage facilities which offer storage spaces for lease,
generally on a month-to-month basis, for personal and business
use.  We are the largest owner and operator of self-storage facilities
in the U.S., and we have a 49% interest in Shurgard Europe, which we believe is
the largest owner and operator of self-storage facilities in
Europe.


We
currently operate within three reportable segments: (i) Domestic Self-Storage,
(ii) Europe Self-Storage and (iii) Commercial.  The Domestic
Self-Storage segment comprises the direct and indirect ownership, development,
and operation of storage facilities in the U.S.  Our Europe
Self-Storage segment comprises our equity interest in the self-storage
operations in Europe through our 49% ownership in Shurgard Europe and its
associated activities in seven countries in Western Europe.  Our
Commercial segment includes our commercial property operations, directly and
through our 41% ownership interest in PS Business Parks, Inc. (“PSB”), a
publicly traded REIT whose common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange
under the symbol “PSB” (as of December 31, 2009, PSB owned and operated
19.6 million rentable square feet of commercial space).  See
“Investment in PSB” under “Equity in Earnings of Real Estate Entities” below for
information regarding transactions related to our investment in PSB recorded
during the year ended December 31, 2009.  Our other activities not
allocated to any segment include (i) the reinsurance of policies against losses
to goods stored by tenants in our self-storage facilities, (ii) merchandise
sales at our self-storage facilities and (iii) management of self-storage
facilities owned by third-party owners and domestic facilities owned by the
affiliated entities that are not consolidated.  During 2009, we
decided to terminate our containerized storage and truck rental
operations.  Accordingly, the related results of operations have been
included in discontinued operations on our consolidated statements of
income.

Our
self-storage facilities in the U.S. comprise approximately 93% of our operating
revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009, and represent the primary driver
of growth in our net income and cash flows from operations.  In
addition, most of our ancillary revenues are derived at our self-storage
facility locations, either from our existing self-storage customer base or from
the customer traffic within our self-storage facilities.  Accordingly,
a large portion of management time and focus is placed upon maximizing revenues
and effectively managing expenses in our self-storage facilities.

The
self-storage industry is subject to general economic conditions, particularly
those that affect the disposable income and spending of consumers, as well as
those that affect moving trends.  Due to the recessionary pressures in
the U.S. and Europe, demand for self-storage space was soft in 2009 and
continues to be soft.  As a result, we are experiencing downward
pressure on occupancy levels, rental rates, and revenues in our self-storage
facilities.

An
important determinant of our long-term growth is the expansion of our asset base
and deployment of capital.  Acquisitions of self-storage facilities
have been minimal over the past two years as we continue to monitor seller
expectations.  However, we believe that there may be more
opportunities to acquire facilities from distressed sellers who, due to the
constrained credit environment and pressure on cash flows due to the current
difficult operating environment, face covenant violations or cannot refinance
their existing debt as it comes due.  The timing and amount of these
opportunities will be at least partially dependent upon whether lenders elect to
pursue foreclosure, acceleration, or other remedies which could force a sale of
the properties.  It is our belief that opportunities in 2009 have been
limited due at least in part to lenders’ desire to extend loans rather than
foreclose or accelerate.  There can be no assurance that any such
opportunities will materialize in the future.

Historically
we have developed and redeveloped self-storage facilities.  Our
development activities have substantially ceased due to the existing economic
environment and our belief that our capital can be more effectively put to use
in other ways.

On
February 12, 2009, we acquired $110.2 million (face amount) of our senior
unsecured debt.  In addition, during the fourth quarter of 2008 and
the first quarter of 2009, we acquired $352.7 million (face amount) of our
preferred shares and units on the open market and in privately negotiated
transactions for an aggregate acquisition cost of $237.4
million.  There could be opportunities for future acquisition of our
own outstanding debt and equity securities, particularly if there were a return
to the same acute turbulence in the credit and equity markets which occurred in
late 2008 and early 2009.  Any future such transactions will depend
upon our evaluation of the return of such investments relative to our other
investment alternatives.  There can be no assurance that any future
such transactions will occur or the potential yield on such
transactions.

We have
$763.8 million in cash and cash equivalents on hand at December 31, 2009, and
continue to evaluate opportunities to effectively deploy this
capital.


Results
of Operations

Operating results
for 2009 as compared to 2008:

Net income for the year ended December 31,
2009 was $790.5 million compared to $973.9 million for the same period in
2008, representing a decrease of $183.4 million.  This decrease is
primarily due to (i) a gain of $344.7 million in the year ended December 31,
2008 related to our disposition of an interest in Shurgard Europe, (ii) a $37.9
million reduction in net operating income with respect to our Same Store
Facilities described below, and (iii) an impairment charge included in
discontinued operations with respect to intangible assets totaling $8.2 million
in the year ended December 31, 2009, partially offset by (iv) a $49.9 million
reduction in depreciation and amortization related to our domestic assets,
primarily representing reduced intangible amortization, (v) a foreign exchange
gain of $9.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to
a loss of $25.4 million during the same period in 2008, (vi) a gain on
disposition of $30.3 million related to an equity offering by PSB, and
(vii) a reduction in general and administrative expenses due to $27.9 million in
incentive compensation incurred in the year ended December 31, 2008 related to
our disposition of an interest in Shurgard Europe.

Revenues
for the Same Store Facilities decreased 3.2% or $46.1 million in the year ended
December 31, 2009 as compared to the same period in 2008, due to a 2.8%
reduction in realized rent per occupied square foot, combined with a 0.9%
reduction in average occupancies.  Cost of operations for the Same
Store Facilities decreased 1.8% or $8.2 million in the year ended
December 31, 2009 as compared to the same period in 2008.  Net
operating income for our Same Store Facilities decreased 3.9% or $37.9 million
for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the same period in
2008.

For the
year ended December 31, 2009, net income allocable to our common shareholders
was $586.0 million or $3.47 per common share on a diluted basis compared to
$705.8 million or $4.18 per common share for the same period in 2008,
representing a decrease of $119.8 million or $0.71 per common share on a diluted
basis.  These decreases are primarily due to the net impact of the
factors described above, offset by a $44.4 million reduction in earnings
allocated to our preferred  unitholders and preferred shareholders in the
year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the same period in 2008 associated
with the redemption of preferred securities occurring in both
periods.

Operating results
for 2008 as compared to 2007:

Net income for the year ended December 31,
2008 was $973.9 million compared to $487.1 million for the same period in
2007, representing an improvement of $486.8 million.  This
improvement is primarily due to a gain of $344.7 million recognized on the
disposition of a 51% interest in Shurgard Europe on March 31, 2008, improvements
in net operating income with respect to our domestic self-storage facilities and
a reduction in amortization of intangible assets, offset by a foreign currency
exchange loss of $25.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 as compared
to a foreign exchange gain of $58.4 million in 2007.

Comparisons
of our revenues and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2008 to the year
ended December 31, 2007 are significantly impacted by the acquisition by an
institutional investor of a 51% interest in Shurgard Europe on March 31, 2008,
which resulted in the deconsolidation of Shurgard Europe.  Shurgard
Europe’s revenues and expenses after March 31, 2008 are excluded from our
statement of operations and, instead, our 49% equity share of Shurgard Europe’s
operating results are included in the line item “equity in earnings of real
estate entities” and we also record interest and other income with respect to
(i) the interest received on our intercompany loan from Shurgard Europe and (ii)
license fee income.

For the
year ended December 31, 2008, net income allocable to our common shareholders
was $705.8 million or $4.18 per common share on a diluted basis compared to
$199.0 million or $1.17 per common share for the same period in 2007,
representing an increase of $506.8 million or $3.01 per common share on a
diluted basis.  These increases are primarily due to the net impact of
the factors described above, partially offset by a $33.9 million reduction
in earnings allocated to our preferred shareholders in the year ended December
31, 2008 associated with the repurchase of securities.


Real
Estate Operations

Self-Storage
Operations:

Our self-storage operations are by far the largest component
of our operating activities, representing more than 90% of our revenues for the
years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

To
enhance year-over-year comparisons, the table that follows summarizes, and the
ensuing discussion describes, the operating results of three groups of
facilities that management analyzes: (i) the Same Store group, representing the
facilities in the Domestic Self-Storage Segment that we have owned and have been
operating on a stabilized basis since January 1, 2007, (ii) all other facilities
in the Domestic Self-Storage Segment, which are primarily those consolidated
facilities that we have not owned and operated at a stabilized basis since
January 1, 2007 such as newly acquired, newly developed, or recently expanded
facilities, and (iii) the facilities operated by Shurgard Europe which were
deconsolidated effective March 31, 2008.


(a)

Represents
      the results with respect to Shurgard Europe’s properties for the periods
      consolidated in our financial statements.  As described in Note
      3 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements, effective
      March 31, 2008, we deconsolidated Shurgard Europe.  See
      also “Equity in Earnings of Real Estate Entities – Investment in Shurgard
      Europe” for further analysis of the historical same store property
      operations of Shurgard Europe.

(b)

See
      “Net Operating Income or NOI”
below.

(c)

Realized
      annual rent per occupied square foot is computed by annualizing the result
      of dividing rental income (which excludes late charges and administrative
      fees) by the weighted average occupied square feet for
      period.  Realized annual rent per occupied square foot takes
      into consideration promotional discounts and other items that reduce
      rental income from the contractual amounts due. Late charges and
      administrative fees are excluded from the computation of realized annual
      rent per occupied square foot.  Exclusion of these amounts
      provides a better measure of our ongoing level of revenue by excluding the
      volatility of late charges, which are dependent principally upon the level
      of tenant delinquency, and administrative fees, which are dependent
      principally upon the absolute level of move-ins for a
    period.

(d)

In
      place annual rent per occupied square foot represents annualized
      contractual rents per occupied square foot without reductions for
      promotional discounts and excludes late charges and administrative
      fees.

Net
income with respect to our self-storage operations increased by
$15.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2009, when compared
to the same period in 2008.  This was due to a) declining amortization
of tenant intangible assets, b) a 1.8% reduction in cost of operations for the
Same Store facilities, and c) a $12.1 million increase in revenues with respect
to the Other Facilities, offset by d) a 3.2% decrease in revenues for our Same
Store facilities and e) the deconsolidation of the facilities owned by Shurgard
Europe effective April 1, 2008.  Net income with respect to our
self-storage operations increased by $186.8 million during the year ended
December 31, 2008, when compared to 2007 due to decreased amortization of
tenant intangible assets and increased revenues for the Same Store facilities
and the Other Facilities, offset partially by the deconsolidation of Shurgard
Europe effective April 1, 2008.


Net Operating
Income

We refer
herein to net operating income (“NOI”) of our self-storage facilities, which is
a non-GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles) financial measure that
excludes the impact of depreciation and amortization
expense.  Although depreciation and amortization are a component of
GAAP net income, we believe that NOI is a meaningful measure of operating
performance, because we utilize NOI in making decisions with respect to capital
allocations, property performance, and comparing period-to-period and
market-to-market property operating results.  In addition, we believe
the investment community utilizes NOI in determining operating performance and
real estate values, and does not consider depreciation expense as it is based
upon historical cost.  NOI is not a substitute for net operating
income after depreciation and amortization or net income in evaluating our
operating results.  The following reconciles NOI generated by our
self-storage and Shurgard Europe segments to our consolidated net income in our
December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements.


Same
Store Facilities

The “Same
Store Facilities” represents those 1,899 facilities that we have owned, and have
been operated on a stabilized basis, since January 1, 2007 and therefore provide
meaningful comparisons for 2007, 2008, and 2009.  The following table
summarizes the historical operating results of these 1,899 facilities
(117.5 million net rentable square feet) that represent approximately 93%
of the aggregate net rentable square feet of our U.S. consolidated self-storage
portfolio at December 31, 2009.

SAME
      STORE FACILITIES

Year
      Ended December 31,

Year
      Ended December 31,



Percentage

Change



Percentage

Change

Revenues:

(Dollar
      amounts in thousands, except weighted average amounts)

Rental
      income

$

1,324,747

$

1,375,484

(3.7

)%

$

1,375,484

$

1,339,637

2.7

%

Late
      charges and admin fees collected

64,768

60,146

7.7

%

60,146

57,121

5.3

%

Total
      revenues (a)

1,389,515

1,435,630

(3.2

)%

1,435,630

1,396,758

2.8

%

Cost
      of operations:

Property
      taxes

139,776

135,825

2.9

%

135,825

132,411

2.6

%

Direct
      property payroll

94,262

94,303

0.0

%

94,303

93,152

1.2

%

Media
      advertising

19,795

19,853

(0.3

)%

19,853

20,917

(5.1

)%

Other
      advertising and promotion

20,079

18,235

10.1

%

18,235

18,778

(2.9

)%

Utilities

34,636

36,411

(4.9

)%

36,411

35,094

3.8

%

Repairs
      and maintenance

38,356

42,696

(10.2

)%

42,696

43,332

(1.5

)%

Telephone
      reservation center

11,040

12,580

(12.2

)%

12,580

12,642

(0.5

)%

Property
      insurance

9,761

11,391

(14.3

)%

11,391

13,498

(15.6

)%

Other
      cost of management

86,908

91,502

(5.0

)%

91,502

89,744

2.0

%

Total
      cost of operations (a)

454,613

462,796

(1.8

)%

462,796

459,568

0.7

%

Net
      operating income (b)

934,902

972,834

(3.9

)%

972,834

937,190

3.8

%

Depreciation
      and amortization expense (c)

(301,647

)

(344,905

)

(12.5

)%

(344,905

)

(447,245

)

(22.9

)%

Net
      income

$

633,255

$

627,929

0.8

%

$

627,929

$

489,945

28.2

%

Gross
      margin (before depreciation and amortization expense)

67.3

%

67.8

%

(0.7

)%

67.8

%

67.1

%

1.0

%

Weighted
      average for the period:

Square
      foot occupancy (d)

88.7

%

89.5

%

(0.9

)%

89.5

%

89.3

%

0.2

%

Realized
      annual rent per occupied square foot (e)(f)

$

12.71

$

13.08

(2.8

)%

$

13.08

$

12.77

2.4

%

REVPAF
      (f)(g)

$

11.28

$

11.71

(3.7

)%

$

11.71

$

11.40

2.7

%

Weighted
      average at December 31:

Square
      foot occupancy

87.1

%

87.1

%

-

87.1

%

87.9

%

(0.9

)%

In
      place annual rent per occupied square foot (h)

$

13.46

$

14.02

(4.0

)%

$

14.02

$

13.89

0.9

%

Total
      net rentable square feet (in thousands)

117,462

117,462

-

117,462

117,462

-

Number
      of facilities

1,899

1,899

-

1,899

1,899

-

(a)

Revenues
      and cost of operations do not include ancillary revenues and expenses
      generated at the facilities with respect to tenant reinsurance, retail
      sales and truck rentals.  “Other costs of management” included
      in cost of operations principally represents all the indirect costs
      incurred in the operations of the facilities.  Indirect costs
      principally include supervisory costs and corporate overhead cost incurred
      to support the operating activities of the
  facilities.

(b)      See
“Net Operating Income” above.

(c)

Depreciation
      and amortization expense for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008
      decreased, as compared to the year prior, primarily due to a reduction in
      amortization expense related to intangible assets that we obtained in the
      Shurgard Merger.


(d)   Square
foot occupancies represent weighted average occupancy levels over the entire
period.

(e)

Realized
      annual rent per occupied square foot is computed by annualizing the result
      of dividing rental income (which excludes late charges and administrative
      fees) by the weighted average occupied square feet for the
      period.  Realized annual rent per occupied square foot takes
      into consideration promotional discounts and other items that reduce
      rental income from the contractual amounts
due.

(f)

Late
      charges and administrative fees are excluded from the computation of
      realized annual rent per occupied square foot and
      REVPAF.  Exclusion of these amounts provides a better measure of
      our ongoing level of revenue, by excluding the volatility of late charges,
      which are dependent principally upon the level of tenant delinquency, and
      administrative fees, which are dependent principally upon the absolute
      level of move-ins for a period.

(g)

Realized
      annual rent per available foot or “REVPAF” is computed by dividing rental
      income (which excludes late charges and administrative fees) by the total
      available net rentable square feet for the
  period.

(h)

In
      place annual rent per occupied square foot represents annualized
      contractual rents per occupied square foot without reductions for
      promotional discounts and excludes late charges and administrative
      fees.

Revenues
generated by our Same Store facilities decreased approximately 3.2% for the year
ended December 31, 2009 compared to the same period in 2008.  This
decrease was primarily caused by lower rental income as a result of lower
average realized annual rental rates per occupied square foot combined with
lower average occupancy levels.  For 2009, average realized annual
rental rates per occupied square foot were 2.8% lower and average occupancy
levels were 0.9% lower as compared to the same period in 2008, resulting in a
3.7% reduction in rental income.

Revenues
generated by our Same Store facilities increased approximately 2.8% for the year
ended December 31, 2008 compared to the same period in 2007.  This
increase was primarily caused by higher rental income as a result of higher
average realized annual rental rates per occupied square foot combined with
higher average occupancy levels.  For 2008, average realized annual
rental rates per occupied square foot were 2.4% higher and average occupancy
levels were 0.2% higher as compared to the same period in 2008, resulting in a
2.7% increase in rental income.

Our
operating strategy is to maintain occupancy levels for our Same Store facilities
at approximately 90% throughout the year.  In order to achieve this
strategy, we adjusted rental rates and promotional discounts offered to new
tenants as well as the frequency of television advertising, increasing or
decreasing each, depending on traffic patterns of new tenants renting space
offset by existing tenants vacating.  We experience seasonal
fluctuations in the occupancy levels with occupancies generally higher in the
summer months than in the winter months.  Consequently, rates charged
new tenants are typically higher in the summer months than in the winter
months.

Over the
past two years, demand for self-storage space has been negatively impacted by
recessionary pressures, including increased unemployment, reduced housing sales,
and reduced moving activity, in each of the markets in which we
operate.

As
indicated in the table below, during the first three quarters of 2008, we
generated relatively strong year-over-year revenue growth.  Beginning
in September 2008, we began to experience a notable decline in year-over-year
move-ins that continued through October 2008, which we believe reflected general
economic conditions.  To offset the decline in new rentals, we
significantly reduced rental rates, increased promotional discounts to new
incoming tenants, and increased marketing efforts.  We believe these
actions have stabilized move-in volumes on a year-over-year basis; however, we
have not yet been able to restore rental rates to the levels experienced in the
prior year.  We believe overall demand for self-storage space in
virtually all of our markets in which we operate has decreased due to current
economic conditions, and coupled with an increase in the number of self-storage
operators over the past 10 years, will continue to foster a very difficult
operating environment, at least in the near term.  In addition,
increased move-out activity beginning in August 2008 exacerbated the downward
pressure on occupancy levels created by reduced demand.  In March
2009, the increase in move-out activity began to subside to more normalized
levels.


Same
      Store Year-over-Year Change

Three
      Months Ended:

Rental

income

Realized
      rent

per
      occupied

square
      foot

Square
      foot occupancy

March
      31, 2008

3.4

%

3.0

%

0.3

%

June
      30, 2008

3.4

%

3.0

%

0.4

%

September
      30, 2008

2.5

%

1.9

%

0.6

%

December
      31, 2008

1.5

%

1.9

%

(0.5

)%

For
      entire year: 2008

2.7

%

2.4

%

0.2

%

March
      31, 2009

(1.2

)%

(0.2

)%

(1.0

)%

June
      30, 2009

(4.0

)%

(2.9

)%

(1.1

)%

September
      30, 2009

(5.2

)%

(4.2

)%

(1.0

)%

December
      31, 2009

(4.3

)%

(3.8

)%

(0.5

)%

For
      entire year: 2009

(3.7

)%

(2.8

)%

(0.9

)%

Based
upon our evaluation of certain comparative key operating metrics as of December
31, 2009, we believe that revenue for the three months ending March 31, 2010
will be lower than the same period in 2009.  Our operating strategy
will be to continue to focus on maintaining occupancy levels by adjusting rental
rates, promotional discounts and marketing activities.  It is unclear
to us how much the above mentioned factors will impact our revenues beyond the
first quarter of 2010.

From a
geographic standpoint, we are experiencing the greatest year-over-year revenue
declines in our Southeast markets, located in North and South Carolina, Georgia,
and Florida, as well as the West Coast, which includes Seattle, Portland, San
Francisco and Los Angeles.  See Analysis of Regional Trends table that
follows.

Cost of
operations (excluding depreciation and amortization) decreased by 1.8% in 2009
as compared to 2008, and increased by 0.7% in 2008 as compared to
2007.  The decrease in 2009 as compared to 2008 was due to reduced
utilities, repairs and maintenance, telephone reservation center, property
insurance and other cost of management which were offset in part by increases in
property taxes and other advertising and promotion expenses.  The
small increase in 2008 as compared to 2007 was due primarily to higher property
tax and utilities expenses which were partially offset by lower property
insurance expense.

Property
tax expense increased 2.9% in 2009 as compared to 2008, and 2.6% in 2008 as
compared to 2007.  These increases are primarily due to increases in
assessments of property values and to a lesser degree increases in tax
rates.  We expect property tax expense growth of approximately 3.5% in
2010.

Direct
property payroll expense was flat in 2009 as compared to 2008 and increased by
1.2% in 2008 as compared to 2007.  The increase in 2008 reflects
higher hours incurred due to adjustments in staffing levels, offset by lower
incentive pay and stagnant growth in average wage rates.  For 2010, we
expect moderate growth trends in payroll.

Media
advertising for the Same Store Facilities was flat in 2009 as compared to 2008
and decreased 5.1% in 2008 as compared to 2007.  Media advertising
primarily includes the cost of advertising on television and will vary depending
on a number of factors, including our occupancy levels and
demand.   Other advertising and promotion is comprised
principally of yellow page and internet advertising, which increased 10.1%
during 2009 as compared to 2008, and decreased 2.9% during 2008 as compared to
2007.  Our future spending on yellow page, media, and internet
advertising expenditures will be driven in part by demand for our self-storage
spaces, our current occupancy levels, and the relative efficacy of each type of
advertising.  Media advertising in particular can be volatile and
increase or decrease significantly in the short-term.


Utility
expenses decreased 4.9% in 2009 as compared to 2008, and increased 3.8% in 2008
as compared to 2007.  The increase in 2008 was due primarily to higher
electrical costs, which we believe in part was caused by rapid increase in
energy prices, and in particular oil, used by local utility companies to produce
electricity during 2008.  Similarly, the decrease utility expense
experienced in 2009, was due primarily to reduced year-over-year energy
prices.  It is difficult to estimate future utility cost levels
because utility costs are dependent upon changes in demand driven by weather and
temperature, as well as fuel prices, both of which are volatile and not
predictable.

Repairs
and maintenance expenditures decreased 10.2% in 2009 as compared to 2008 and
1.5% in 2008 as compared to 2007.  Repairs and maintenance
expenditures are dependent upon several factors, such as weather, the timing of
periodic needs throughout our portfolio, inflation, and random events and
accordingly are difficult to project from year to year.  Due to severe
weather, we expect snow removal expenses to be approximately $2 million higher
in the three months ending March 31, 2010 as compared to the same period in
2009.  However, we expect overall repairs and maintenance expenditures
to grow moderately in 2010.

Telephone
reservation center costs decreased 12.2% in 2009 as compared to 2008 and were
flat in 2008 compared to 2007.  The reduction in 2009 was primarily
due to lower call volumes, resulting in less staffing hours, as well as a shift
from our California to our Arizona call center, resulting in lower average
compensation rates.  We expect future increases in our telephone
reservation center to be based primarily upon general inflation.

Insurance
expense decreased 14.3% in 2009 as compared to 2008 and 15.6% in 2008 as
compared to 2007.  These declines reflect significant decreases in
property insurance resulting primarily from the softer insurance markets as lack
of hurricane activity and additional competition from insurance providers has
benefited us.  We expect insurance expense to be down slightly in 2010
as compared to 2009.


The
following table summarizes selected quarterly financial data with respect to the
Same Store Facilities:


Analysis of Regional
Trends

The
following table sets forth regional trends in our Same Store
Facilities:


(a)

See
      “Same Store Facilities” table above for further information regarding
      these measures, which represent or are derived from non-GAAP
      measures.

We
believe that our geographic diversification and scale provide some insulation
from localized economic effects and add to the stability of our cash
flows.  It is difficult to predict localized trends in short-term
self-storage demand and operating results.  We believe that each
market has been negatively impacted to some degree by general economic trends
and may continue to experience negative operating trends until such time that
general economic trends improve.


Other
Facilities

In
addition to the Same Store facilities, at December 31, 2009, we had an
additional 92 self-storage facilities.  These facilities include
recently acquired facilities, recently developed facilities and facilities that
were recently expanded by adding additional storage units.  In
general, these facilities are not stabilized with respect to occupancies or
rental rates.  As a result of the fill-up process and timing of when
the facilities were put into place, year-over-year changes can be
significant.

Rental
income, cost of operations, depreciation, net operating income, weighted average
square foot occupancies and realized rents per square foot in the table above
represent the operating results following the date each particular facility
began to be included in our consolidated operating results, and in the case of
acquired facilities, do not include any operating results prior to our
acquisition of these facilities.

In 2009,
we completed one newly developed facility with 64,000 net rentable square feet
at a total cost of $11.9 million and four expansion projects to existing real
estate facilities (76,000 net rentable square feet) for an aggregate cost of
$19.1 million, and did not acquire any new properties.

Our
acquisitions consist of facilities that have been operating for a number of
years as well as newly constructed facilities that were in the process of
filling up to stabilized occupancy levels.  In either case, we have
been able to leverage off of our operating strategies and improve the occupancy
levels of the facilities or, with respect to the newly developed facilities, we
have been able to accelerate the fill-up pace.

We expect
that the Other Facilities will continue to provide earnings growth during 2010,
though at a lower level of growth than that experienced in 2009 and 2008, as
these facilities reach stabilization.  However, the Other Facilities
are subject to the same occupancy and rate pressures that our Same Store
facilities are facing, and accordingly the pace at which these facilities reach
stabilization, and the ultimate level of cash flows to be reached upon
stabilization, may be negatively impacted by the current economic
trends.

Because
of reduced self-storage demand, and our belief that our capital could be put to
use in a more advantageous manner, our development activities throughout 2009
have been nominal, and we have a nominal pipeline of new development at December
31, 2009.  It is unclear when we might change our strategy with
respect to development activities.

We
believe our presence in and knowledge of substantially all of the major markets
in the U.S. enhances our ability to identify attractive acquisition
opportunities and capitalize on the overall fragmentation in the storage
industry.  We believe that there may be more opportunities for the
acquisition of facilities from distressed sellers who, due to the constrained
credit environment and pressure on cash flows due to the current difficult
operating environment, face covenant violations or cannot refinance their
existing debt as it comes due.  The timing and amount of these
opportunities will be at least partially dependent upon whether the banks and
other lenders elect to pursue foreclosure, acceleration, or other remedies which
would force a sale of the properties of these distressed owners, rather than
extending existing loans or waiving covenant violations.  It is our
belief that opportunities in 2009 have been limited due at least in part to
lenders’ desire to extend these loans rather than foreclose or accelerate. There
can be no assurance that any such opportunities will materialize in the
future.


Equity in earnings of real
estate entities

At
December 31, 2009, we have equity investments in PSB, Shurgard Europe and five
affiliated limited partnerships.  Due to our limited ownership
interest and limited control of these entities, we do not consolidate the
accounts of these entities for financial reporting purposes, and account for
such investments using the equity method.

Equity in
earnings of real estate entities for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and
2007, consists of our pro-rata share of the net income of these Unconsolidated
Entities based upon our ownership interest for the period.  The
following table sets forth the significant components of equity in earnings of
real estate entities.  Amounts with respect to PSB, Shurgard Europe,
and Other Investments are included in our Commercial segment, Europe
Self-Storage segment, and other items not allocated to segments, respectively,
as described in Note 11 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial
statements.

(1)

These
      amounts represent our pro-rata share of the net operating income of the
      Unconsolidated Entities.  See also “net operating income” above
      for a discussion of this non-GAAP
measure.

(2)

“Other”
      reflects our share of general and administrative expense, interest
      expense, interest income, gains on sale of real estate assets, and other
      non-property; non-depreciation related operating results of these
      entities.

(3)

Includes
      our pro rata share of benefit totaling $16.3 million and $1.9 million from
      PSB’s preferred stock and preferred unit repurchases for the years ended
      December 31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively.

Investment
in PSB

:

At December 31,
we have a 41% common equity interest in PSB (46% as of December 31, 2008),
comprised of our ownership of 5,801,606 shares of PSB’s common stock and
7,305,355 limited partnership units in PSB’s underlying operating partnership.
The limited partnership units are convertible at our option, subject to certain
conditions, on a one-for-one basis into PSB common stock.  Our
ownership interest was reduced during 2009 as PSB sold 3,833,333 shares of its
common stock, of which we purchased 383,333 shares or 10% of the shares
issued.


At
December 31 2009, PSB owned and operated 19.6 million rentable square feet
of commercial space located in eight states.  PSB also manages
commercial space owned by the Company and affiliated entities at December 31,
2009 pursuant to property management agreements.

Equity in
earnings from PSB increased to $35,108,000 in 2009 as compared to $14,325,000 in
2008.  This increase was primarily the result of recognizing our pro
rata share, $16.3 million, of the benefit that PSB recognized during 2009 as a
result of PSB’s preferred stock and preferred partnership unit repurchases
combined with our $8.3 million pro rata share of reduced depreciation
expense.  These items were partially offset by our $7.5 million pro
rata share of reduced property net operating income.  The reduction in
property net operating income is primarily the result of reduced property
revenues at PSB’s facilities due to a 3.2% decline in the weighted average
occupancy level for 2009 as compared to 2008.

Our
future equity income from PSB will be dependent entirely upon PSB’s operating
results.  Our investment in PSB provides us with some diversification
into another asset type.  We have no plans of disposing of our
investment in PSB.  PSB’s filings and selected financial information
can be accessed through the Securities and Exchange Commission, and on its
website, www.psbusinessparks.com.  See Note 5 to our December 31, 2009
consolidated financial statements for additional financial information on
PSB.

Investment
in Shurgard Europe:

As
described in Note 3 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements,
due to our March 31, 2008 disposition of a 51% interest in Shurgard Europe,
beginning for periods after March 31, 2008 we no longer consolidate the revenues
and expenses of Shurgard Europe on our consolidated statements of income, and
our pro-rata share of the operating results of Shurgard Europe is included in
“equity in earnings of real estate entities.” Selected financial data for
Shurgard Europe for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 is included
in Note 5 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial
statements.

We
originally acquired our 100% interest in Shurgard Europe during our merger with
Shurgard, which occurred in August 2006.  Our primary objective for
merging with Shurgard was to acquire Shurgard’s U.S. domestic assets which
accounted for approximately 487 facilities in the U.S. as compared to 160
facilities in Europe at the time of the Shurgard Merger.  Subsequent
to the Shurgard Merger, management of Public Storage determined that it was in
our best interests to reduce our investment in Shurgard Europe.  There
were many reasons for that determination, most relating to the fact that
continued growth of Shurgard Europe would require a significant capital
commitment.  Movement of capital from Public Storage (in the U.S.) to
various European countries would have exposed Public Storage to currency
fluctuation risks and to potential tax burdens when Public Storage wished to
repatriate its capital investment.  Accordingly, in March 2008, we
sold 51% of our ownership interest in Shurgard Europe, which helped to limit our
capital requirements to continue to grow Shurgard Europe and to limit our
exposure to other risks of owning operations in foreign countries.  We
do not intend to sell any of our remaining interest in Shurgard
Europe.  In the future, we expect Shurgard Europe to function as a
stand-alone entity and to fund its capital requirements primarily with its
retained operating cash flow, bank borrowings and, to the extent available,
public or private equity.

This
transaction has resulted in the operations of Shurgard Europe having a less
significant impact on our operating results, as we have a 49% interest and a
loan receivable from Shurgard Europe upon which we receive interest income,
rather than the 100% equity interest in Shurgard Europe we held prior to the
transaction.  Our future operating results will also be impacted by
the ultimate returns realized on the reinvestment of the cash proceeds received
in connection with this transaction, including the proceeds from the collection
of the loan receivable and the timing thereof.

At
December 31, 2009, Shurgard Europe’s operations comprise 187 facilities with an
aggregate of approximately 10 million net rentable square feet.  The
portfolio consists of 115 wholly owned facilities and 72 facilities owned by two
joint venture partnerships, in which Shurgard Europe has a 20% equity
interest.

Our
equity in earnings from Shurgard Europe is comprised of our 49% equity share in
the net income of Shurgard Europe, as well as 49% of the interest earned with
respect to the note receivable from Shurgard Europe, as well as 49% of
trademark license fees received from Shurgard Europe, which are reclassified in
consolidation from interest income to equity in earnings of Shurgard
Europe.  The amount of interest reclassified was approximately
$23.9 million in 2009, $17.8 million in 2008 and none in 2007.


Equity in
earnings from our investment in Shurgard Europe for the year ended December 31,
2009 was $16,269,000 compared to $4,134,000 for the same period in 2008,
representing an increase of $12,135,000.  This increase includes i) a
reduction in our pro-rata share of Shurgard Europe’s depreciation expense,
primarily due to declines in tenant intangible amortization, ii) our pro-rata
share of a reduction in Shurgard Europe’s third party interest expense (joint
ventures in which Shurgard Europe has a 20% interest recently refinanced their
outstanding debt at substantially lower interest rates), (iii)  the
timing of our disposition of the 51% interest in Shurgard Europe as equity in
earnings for 2008 only includes amounts for the period of April 1, 2008
through December 31, 2008 while the 2009 includes amounts for the entire year,
offset by iv) our pro-rata share of Shurgard Europe’s same-store properties’
decline in net operating income, on a constant exchange rate basis, and (v) the
effect of a change in the average exchange rate of the Euro relative to the U.S.
Dollar to 1.393 for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to 1.470 for
the same period in 2008.

We
evaluate the performance metrics of Shurgard Europe’s Same Store Facilities in
order to evaluate the performance of our investment in Shurgard Europe, because
the Shurgard Europe Same Store Facilities represent the primary driver of our
pro-rata share of earnings of Shurgard Europe.

The
Shurgard Europe Same Store Facilities represent those 94 facilities that are
stabilized and owned since January 1, 2007 and therefore provide meaningful
comparisons for 2007, 2008, and 2009.  The following table reflects
the operating results of these 94 facilities.


(a)

In
      order to isolate changes in the underlying operations from the impact of
      exchange rates, the amounts in this table are presented on a constant
      exchange rate basis.  The amounts for the years ended December
      31, 2008 and 2007 have been restated using the actual exchange rate for
      2009.  The exchange rate for the Euro relative to the U.S.
      Dollar averaged 1.393 during the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared
      to 1.470 and 1.370 for the same periods in 2008 and 2007,
      respectively.

(b)

Only
      the amounts for periods before March 31, 2008 are included in our
      consolidated financial statements.  We include our pro-rata
      share of these operating results for periods after March 31, 2008 in
      Equity in Earnings of Real Estate Entities.  The amounts
      incorporated in our financial statements, either consolidated or equity
      method amounts, are based upon the actual weighted average exchange rates
      for each period.

(c)

We
      present net operating income “NOI” of the Shurgard Europe Same-Store
      Facilities, which is a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes the impact
      of depreciation and amortization expense.  Although depreciation
      and amortization is a component of GAAP net income, we believe that NOI is
      a meaningful measure of operating performance, because we utilize NOI in
      making decisions with respect to capital allocations, segment performance,
      and comparing period-to-period and market-to-market property operating
      results.  In addition, the investment community utilizes NOI in
      determining real estate values, and does not consider depreciation expense
      as it is based upon historical cost.  NOI is not a substitute
      for net operating income after depreciation and amortization in evaluating
      our operating results.

(d)

Square
      foot occupancies represent weighted average occupancy levels over the
      entire period.

(e)

Realized
      annual rent per occupied square foot is computed by annualizing the result
      of dividing rental income before late charges and administrative fees by
      the weighted average occupied square feet for the
      period.  Realized annual rent per occupied square foot takes
      into consideration promotional discounts and other items that reduce
      rental income from the contractual amounts
due.

(f)

Late
      charges and administrative fees are excluded from the computation of
      realized annual rent per occupied square foot and
      REVPAF.  Exclusion of these amounts provides a better measure of
      our ongoing level of revenue, by excluding the volatility of late charges,
      which are dependent principally upon the level of tenant delinquency, and
      administrative fees, which are dependent principally upon the absolute
      level of move-ins for a period.

(g)

Realized
      annual rent per available foot or “REVPAF” is computed by dividing rental
      income before late charges and administrative fees by the total available
      net rentable square feet for the
period.

(h)

In
      place annual rent per occupied square foot represents annualized
      contractual rents per occupied square foot without reductions for
      promotional discounts and excludes late charges and administrative
      fees.

Shurgard
Europe’s operations have been impacted by the same trends in self-storage demand
that our domestic facilities are facing.  However, trends in Europe
improved somewhat in the last half of 2009, with year-over-year revenue declines
of 1.9% in the quarter ended December 31, 2009, as compared to 3.2% in the
quarter ended September 30, 2009 and 4.7% in the first half of
2009.  Despite the recent improved trends and reduced year-over year
declines in revenues and net operating income, we expect continued
year-over-year declines in revenues during at least the first quarter of
2010.

Shurgard
Europe, similar to our Domestic Self-Storage segment, has a nominal development
pipeline.  Accordingly, at least in the short-term, we do not expect
any significant impact to our earnings from Shurgard Europe’s development
activities.

In Note 5
to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements, we disclose Shurgard
Europe’s consolidated operating results for the years ended December 31, 2009,
2008 and 2007.  Shurgard Europe’s condensed consolidated operating
results include additional facilities that are not Europe Same Store Facilities,
and are based upon historical exchange rates rather than constant exchange rates
for each of the respective periods.

Other
Investments:

The
“Other Investments” at December 31, 2009 are comprised primarily of our equity
in earnings from various limited partnerships that collectively own 19
self-storage facilities.  Amounts included in the tables above also
include our equity in earnings with respect to three facilities owned by the
Unconsolidated Entities, until we acquired the remaining interest we did not own
in these entities during 2008, and commenced consolidating these
facilities.  Our future earnings with respect to the Other Investments
will be dependent upon the operating results of the facilities that these
entities own.  See Note 5 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated
financial statements for the operating results of these 19 facilities under the
“Other Investments.”


Ancillary
Operations

Ancillary
revenues and expenses include amounts associated with (i) the reinsurance of
policies against losses to goods stored by tenants in our self-storage
facilities in the U.S., (ii) merchandise sales in the U.S., (iii) commercial
property operations, (iv) merchandise sales and tenant reinsurance operations
conducted by Shurgard Europe, and (v) management of facilities for third parties
and facilities owned by the Unconsolidated Entities.

Commercial
property operations are included in our Commercial segment, and the merchandise
and tenant reinsurance operations conducted by Shurgard Europe are included in
our Europe Self-Storage segment.  All other ancillary revenues and
costs of operations are not allocated to any segment.  See Note 11 to
our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements for further information
regarding our segments and for a reconciliation of these ancillary revenues and
cost of operations to our net income.

During
2009, we decided to discontinue the operations of our truck rental and
containerized businesses.  Accordingly, the revenues and expenses of
these operations are included in discontinued operations on our consolidated
statements of income for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and
2007.

The
following table sets forth our ancillary operations as presented on our
consolidated statements of income.

Tenant
reinsurance operations:

We reinsure policies
offered through a non-affiliated insurance company against losses to goods
stored by tenants, primarily in our domestic self-storage
facilities.  The revenues that we record are based upon premiums that
we reinsure.  Cost of operations primarily includes claims paid that
are not covered by our outside third-party insurers, as well as claims
adjustment expenses.  Cost of operations includes reductions of $2.0
million and $5.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively, representing adjustments to accounting estimates that are not
expected to recur.


The
increase in tenant reinsurance revenues over the past year was attributable to
higher rates combined with an increase in the percentage of our existing tenants
retaining such policies.  Approximately 58% and 53% of our tenants had
such policies at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  We believe
that the level of tenant reinsurance revenues in 2010 may not increase to the
same degree as was experienced in 2009 as customer penetration reaches the
percentage of tenants that could be expected to retain such
policies.

The
future level of tenant reinsurance revenues is largely dependent upon the number
of new tenants electing to purchase policies, the level of premiums charged for
such insurance, and the number of tenants that continue participating in the
insurance program.  Future cost of operations will be dependent
primarily upon the level of losses incurred, including the level of catastrophic
events, such as hurricanes, that occur and affect our properties thereby
increasing tenant insurance claims.

Commercial
operations:

We also operate
commercial facilities, primarily small storefronts and office space located on
or near our existing self-storage facilities that are rented to third
parties.  We do not expect any significant changes in revenues or
profitability from our commercial operations.

Merchandise sales
and other:

We sell locks, boxes,
and packing supplies at the self-storage facilities that we
operate.  The primary factor impacting the level of merchandise sales
is the level of customer traffic at our self-storage facilities, including the
level of move-ins.  In addition, to a much lesser extent, we also
manage self-storage facilities within our existing management infrastructure,
for third party owners as well as for the Unconsolidated Entities.

Other Income and Expense
Items

Interest and
other income:

Interest and other income was $29,813,000 in 2009,
$36,155,000 in 2008, and $11,417,000 in 2007.  The decrease in 2009 as
compared to 2008 is principally due to lower interest income on our cash reserve
balances, offset by higher interest income with respect to our loan receivable
from Shurgard Europe (described below).  Interest earned on our cash
balances totaled $5.0 million in 2009 as compared to $17.7 million in
2008.  This reduction was due primarily to significantly lower
interest rates in 2009 as compared to 2008.  We have $763.8 million in
cash on hand at December 31, 2009 invested primarily in money-market
funds.  Future interest income will depend upon the level of interest
rates and the timing of when the cash on hand is ultimately invested; however,
based upon current interest rates on our outstanding money-market fund
investments of approximately 0.2%, earned interest is expected to be
minimal.

We have a
loan receivable, denominated in Euros, from Shurgard Europe totaling
€391.9 million ($561.7 million) as of December 31, 2009. Effective
October 31, 2009, we extended the maturity date to March 31, 2013, and the rate
of interest increased from 7.5% to 9.0% per annum (effective November 1,
2009).  In addition, we receive trademark license fees from Shurgard
Europe.

We
recorded interest income with respect to this loan, representing 51% of the
amount earned (the remaining 49% is recorded as additional equity in earnings)
combined with 51% of the trademark license fees received from Shurgard Europe,
aggregating $24.8 million and $18.5 million for the years ended December
31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  No interest income in connection
with the loan or trademark fees was recorded prior to March 31, 2008, as any
such income received was fully eliminated in consolidation until March 31,
2008.  All other variances in interest income from our note receivable
are attributable principally to changes in average exchange rates as well as the
change in interest rate from 7.5% to 9.0% effective November 1,
2009.  Future interest income recorded in connection with this loan
will be dependent upon the average outstanding balance as well as the exchange
rate of the Euro versus the U.S. Dollar.  All such interest has been
paid currently when due and we expect the interest to continue to be paid when
due with Shurgard Europe’s operating cash flow.


Interest
and other income increased in 2008 as compared to 2007 principally as a result
of (i) higher average cash balances invested in interest bearing accounts and
(ii) interest income with respect to our loan receivable from Shurgard
Europe.

Depreciation and
amortization:

Depreciation and amortization expense was $340,233,000,
$411,981,000 and $619,598,000 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and
2007, respectively.

The
decreases in depreciation and amortization expense in 2009 as compared to 2008,
and in 2008 as compared to 2007, are due principally to declines in amortization
of tenant intangible assets that were acquired in connection with the 2006
Shurgard Merger.  Amortization expense with respect to tenant
intangible assets was $5,530,000 in 2009, $51,158,000 in 2008 and $247,844,000
in 2007.  We expect minimal amortization expense for our existing
intangibles during 2010, and future intangible amortization will be dependent
upon our future level of acquisition of facilities with existing tenants in
place.

Effective
March 31, 2008, depreciation and amortization ceased on the facilities owned by
Shurgard Europe, which was deconsolidated effective March 31,
2008.  Included in our depreciation and amortization related to
Shurgard Europe’s facilities was $11,192,000 for the three months ended March
31, 2008 and $52,460,000 for the year ended December 31, 2007.

General and
administrative expense:

General and administrative expense was
$35,735,000, $62,809,000, and $59,749,000 for the years ended December 31, 2009,
2008 and 2007, respectively.  General and administrative expense
principally consists of state income taxes, investor relations expenses, and
corporate and executive salaries.  In addition, general and
administrative expenses includes expenses that vary depending on our activity
levels in certain areas, such as overhead associated with the acquisition and
development of real estate facilities, certain expenses related to capital
raising and merger and acquisition activities, litigation expenditures, employee
severance, share-based compensation, and incentive compensation.

General
and administrative expense for the year ended December 31, 2008 includes
$2,144,000 in ongoing general and administrative expense for Shurgard Europe
incurred prior to March 31, 2008 and $27,900,000 in additional incentive
compensation incurred related to our disposition of an interest in Shurgard
Europe.  General and administrative expense for the year ended
December 31, 2007 includes a) $10,691,000 related to Shurgard Europe’s ongoing
operations, b) $9,600,000 in costs incurred by Shurgard Europe associated with a
proposed terminated offering of shares in Shurgard Europe, c) $5,300,000
incurred in connection with the integration of Shurgard and Public Storage, and
d) $2,000,000 in costs associated with reorganizing as a Maryland REIT.
Following March 31, 2008, we record no further general and administrative
expense incurred by Shurgard Europe’s ongoing operations.

We expect
ongoing general and administrative expense to approximate $8 million to $10
million per quarter.

Interest
expense:

Interest expense was $29,916,000, $43,944,000 and $63,671,000
for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.  The decreases in interest expense in 2009 and 2008 are
due primarily to the deconsolidation of Shurgard Europe effective March 31,
2008, which incurred $6,892,000 and $22,242,000 in interest expense for the
three months ended March 31, 2008 and the year ended December 31, 2007,
respectively.  Interest expense was also reduced approximately $6
million in 2009 as compared to 2008 due to our early retirement in February 2009
of $110.2 million face amount of senior unsecured debt.  See Note 6 to
our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements for a schedule of our
notes payable balances, principal repayment requirements, and average interest
rates.

Capitalized
interest expense totaled $718,000, $1,998,000 and $4,746,000 for the years ended
December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, in connection with our
development activities.

Foreign Exchange
Gain (Loss):

Our loan receivable from Shurgard Europe is
denominated in Euros and we have not entered into any hedged agreements to
mitigate the impact of currency exchange fluctuations between the U.S. Dollar
and the Euro.  As a result, the amount of U.S. Dollars we will receive
on repayment will depend upon the currency exchange rates at that
time.  In each period where we expect repatriation of these funds
within two years from period end, we record the change in the U.S. Dollar
equivalent of the loan balance from the beginning to the end of the period as a
foreign currency gain or loss.  We recorded a foreign exchange gain of
$9,662,000, a loss of $25,362,000, and a gain of $58,444,000 in 2009, 2008, and
2007, respectively, representing the change in the U.S. Dollar equivalent of the
loan due to changes in exchange rates from the beginning to the end of each
respective period.  The U.S. Dollar exchange rate relative to the Euro
was approximately 1.433, 1.409, and 1.472 at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.


Future
foreign exchange gains or losses will be dependent primarily upon the movement
of the Euro relative to the U.S. Dollar, the amount owed from Shurgard Europe
and our continued expectation with respect to repaying the loan.

Discontinued
Operations

:  During 2009, we discontinued operations in our
truck rental and containerized storage businesses.  In addition, we
disposed of one self-storage facility and expect to dispose of one other in
connection with condemnation proceedings.  We reclassified all of the
historical revenues and expenses of these operations from revenues and expenses,
into “discontinued operations.”  Included in discontinued operations
in 2009 are $3.5 million in truck disposal expenses, an $8.2 million
impairment charge on intangible assets incurred in connection with an eminent
domain proceeding and $6.0 million of gains on the disposition of the
self-storage facilities.

Liquidity
and Capital Resources

We have
$763.8 million of cash on hand at December 31, 2009, and believe that these
funds, together with our internally generated net cash provided by our operating
activities will continue to be sufficient to enable us to meet our operating
expenses, debt service requirements, capital improvements and distributions
requirements to our shareholders for the foreseeable future.

Operating
as a REIT, our ability to retain cash flow for reinvestment is
restricted.  In order for us to maintain our REIT status, a
substantial portion of our operating cash flow must be distributed to our
shareholders (see

“Requirement to
Pay Distributions”

below).  However, despite the significant
distribution requirements, we have been able to retain a significant amount of
our operating cash flow.  The following table summarizes our ability
to fund capital improvements to maintain our facilities, distributions to the
noncontrolling interests, capital improvements to maintain our facilities, and
distributions to our shareholders through the use of cash provided by operating
activities.  The remaining cash flow generated is available to make
both scheduled and optional principal payments on debt and for
reinvestment.

For
      the Year Ended December 31,




(Amount
      in thousands)

Net
      cash provided by operating activities (a)

$

1,112,857

$

1,076,971

$

1,047,652

Capital
      improvements to maintain our facilities

(62,352

)

(76,311

)

(69,102

)

Remaining
      operating cash flow available for distributions to equity
      holders

1,050,505

1,000,660

978,550

Distributions
      paid to redeemable noncontrolling interests

(1,290

)

(1,335

)

(1,092

)

Distribution
      paid to permanent noncontrolling equity interests

(26,977

)

(37,993

)

(40,567

)

Cash
      from operations allocable to Public Storage shareholders

1,022,238

961,332

936,891

Distributions
      paid to Public Storage shareholders:

Preferred shareholders

(232,431

)

(239,721

)

(236,757

)

Equity Shares, Series A
      shareholders

(20,524

)

(21,199

)

(21,424

)

Common shareholders ($2.20 per
      share for 2009, $2.20 per share regular dividend and $0.60 special
      dividend in 2008 and $2.00 per share for 2007)

(370,404

)

(470,823

)

(338,689

)

Cash
      from operations available for principal payments on debt and reinvestment
      (b)

$

398,879

$

229,589

$

340,021


(a)

Represents
      net cash provided by operating activities for each respective year as
      presented in our December 31, 2009 Consolidated Statements of Cash
      Flows.

(b)

We
      present cash from operations for principal payments on debt and
      reinvestment because we believe it is an important measure to evaluate our
      ongoing liquidity.  This measure is not a substitute for cash
      flows from operations or net cash flows in evaluating our liquidity,
      ability to repay our debt, or to meet our distribution
      requirements.

Our
financial profile is characterized by a low level of
debt-to-total-capitalization and a conservative dividend payout ratio with
respect to the common shares.  We expect to fund our long-term growth
strategies and debt obligations with (i) cash on hand at December 31, 2009, (ii)
internally generated retained cash flows, (iii) depending upon current market
conditions, proceeds from the issuance of equity securities, and (iv) in the
case of acquisitions of facilities, the assumption of existing
debt.  In general, our strategy is to continue to finance our growth
with permanent capital, either retained operating cash flow or capital raised
through the issuance of common or preferred equity to the extent that market
conditions are favorable.

Historically,
we have funded substantially all of our acquisitions with permanent capital
(both common and preferred securities).  We have elected to use
preferred securities as a form of leverage despite the fact that the dividend
rates of our preferred securities exceed the prevailing market interest rates on
conventional debt.  We have chosen this method of financing for the
following reasons: (i) under the REIT structure, a significant amount of
operating cash flow needs to be distributed to our shareholders, making it
difficult to repay debt with operating cash flow alone, (ii) our perpetual
preferred shares have no sinking fund requirement or maturity date and do not
require redemption, all of which eliminate future refinancing risks, (iii) after
the end of a non-call period, we have the option to redeem the preferred shares
at any time, which enables us to refinance higher coupon preferred shares with
new preferred shares at lower rates if appropriate, (iv) preferred shares do not
contain covenants, thus allowing us to maintain significant financial
flexibility, and (v) dividends on the preferred shares can be applied to satisfy
our REIT distribution requirements.

Our
credit ratings on each of our series of preferred shares are “Baa1” by Moody’s
and “BBB” by Standard & Poor’s.

Access to
Additional Capital:

In addition to cash on hand, we also have a revolving
line of credit for borrowings up to $300 million.  The line of credit
expires in March 2012 and there were no outstanding borrowings on the line of
credit at February 26, 2010.  We seldom borrow on the line of credit
and generally view borrowings on the line as a means to bridge capital needs
until we are able to refinance them with permanent capital.

Our
ability to raise additional capital by issuing our common or preferred
securities may not be a viable option at least in the near term due to
unfavorable capital market conditions.  We are not dependent, however,
on raising capital to fund our operations or meet our obligations.

Significant
requirements on our liquidity and capital resources include: (i) funds to redeem
shares of Equity Shares, Series A on April 15, 2010, (ii) debt service
requirements, (iii) capital improvements to maintain our facilities, (iv)
distribution requirements to our shareholders to maintain our REIT status, (v)
acquisition and development commitments and (vi) commitments to provide funding
to Shurgard Europe for certain investing and financing activities.

Redemption of
Equity Shares, Series A:

On April 15, 2010, we will be redeeming all of
our outstanding shares of Equity Shares, Series A at a cash redemption price of
$24.50 per depositary share, or an aggregate of $205.2 million.  Since
the initial issuance of these securities, the annual distribution paid has been
$2.45 per depository share, representing an implied yield of 10%.

We plan
on using cash on-hand to fund the aggregate redemption amount.


Debt Service
Requirements:

At December 31, 2009,
outstanding debt totaled approximately
$518.9 million.  Approximate principal maturities are as follows
(amounts in thousands):

Unsecured
      debt

Secured
      debt

Total


$

1,673

$

11,037

$

12,710


103,533

27,819

131,352


-

55,575

55,575


186,460

64,961

251,421


-

25,400

25,400

Thereafter

-

42,431

42,431

$

291,666

$

227,223

$

518,889

Our
current intention is to repay the debt at maturity and not seek to refinance
debt maturities with additional debt.  Alternatively, we may prepay
debt and finance such prepayments with cash on-hand or proceeds from the
issuance of preferred or common securities.

On
February 12, 2009, we acquired approximately $110 million face amount of our
existing senior unsecured debt pursuant to a tender offer.  The amount
paid in the tender offer, approximately $110 million, was substantially less
than what would have been paid if we were to repay this debt early subject to
the prepayment premiums under the related debt agreements.

Our
portfolio of real estate facilities is substantially unencumbered.  At
December 31, 2009, we have 1,902 self-storage facilities with an aggregate net
book value of approximately $7.0 billion that are unencumbered.

Capital
Improvement Requirements:

During 2010, we expect to incur approximately
$80 million for capital improvements.  Capital improvements include
major repairs or replacements to our facilities, which keep the facilities in
good operating condition and maintain their visual appeal to the
customer.  Capital improvements do not include costs relating to the
development or expansion of facilities that add additional net rentable square
footage to our portfolio.  During the year ended December 31, 2009, we
incurred capital improvements of approximately $62.4 million.

Requirement to
Pay Distributions:

We have operated, and intend to continue to operate,
in such a manner as to qualify as a REIT under the Code, but no assurance can be
given that we will at all times so qualify.  To the extent that we
continue to qualify as a REIT, we will not be taxed, with certain limited
exceptions, on the REIT taxable income that is distributed to our shareholders,
provided that at least 90% of our taxable income is so
distributed.  We believe we have satisfied the REIT distribution
requirement since 1981.

Although
we have not finalized our 2009 taxable income, we believe that the aggregate
distributions paid in 2009 to our shareholders enable us to continue to meet our
REIT distribution requirements.

Aggregate
distributions paid during 2009 totaled $624.7 million, consisting of the
following (amounts in thousands:

Distributions paid in 2009

Cumulative
      preferred shareholders

$

232,431

Equity
      Shares,  Series A shareholders

20,524

Common
      shareholders and restricted share unitholders

371,710

Total REIT qualifying
      distributions

$

624,665

For 2010,
we estimate the annual distribution requirements with respect to our (i)
cumulative preferred shares outstanding at December 31, 2009, to be
approximately $232.4 million, assuming no additional preferred share
issuances or redemptions during 2010, and (ii) Equity Shares, Series A shares to
be approximately $5.1 million, representing distributions through March 31,
2010.  We will be redeeming these securities on April 15, 2010 and no
further distributions will be paid for the period subsequent to March 31,
2010.


On
February 26, 2010, our Board of Trustees declared a regular common dividend of
$0.65 per common share, representing an increase of $0.10 per share (an 18%
increase) from the previous quarter’s distribution.  Our consistent,
long-term dividend policy has been to only distribute our taxable
income.  Taxable income attributable to our common shareholders has
increased due to recent purchases of preferred securities and equity stock, as
well as reduced property depreciation, offset in part, by declines in operating
income.  Future changes in our dividend will be impacted by these same
factors, as well as property acquisitions.  Future distributions with
respect to the common shares will continue to be determined based upon our REIT
distribution requirements after taking into consideration distributions to the
preferred shareholders and will be funded with operating cash flow.

We are
also obligated to pay distributions to non-controlling interests in our
consolidated subsidiaries.  During 2009, we paid distributions
totaling $9.5 million with respect to preferred partnership units.  We
expect our annual distribution requirement based upon preferred partnership
units outstanding at December 31, 2009, to be approximately $7.3 million on
a go forward basis.  In addition, we are required to pay distributions
to other non-controlling interests in our consolidated subsidiaries based upon
the operating cash flows of the respective subsidiary less any required reserves
for capital expenditures or debt repayment.  Such non-controlling
interests received a total of $18,812,000 in 2009, $17,716,000 in 2008 and
$20,047,000 in 2007, which represents our expectations with respect to future
distribution levels.

Acquisition and
Development of Facilities:

During 2010, we will continue to seek to
acquire self-storage facilities from third parties; however, it is difficult to
estimate the amount of third party acquisitions we will undertake.  We
have a minimal development pipeline at December 31, 2009 and have no current
plan to expand our development activities.  We plan on financing these
activities with available cash on-hand, the assumption of existing debt,
borrowings on our line of credit, or the net proceeds from the issuance of
common or preferred securities.

European
Activities:

We have a 49% interest in Shurgard Europe and our
institutional partner owns the remaining 51% interest.  As of December
31, 2009, Shurgard Europe owed us €391.9 million ($561.7 million at
December 31, 2009) pursuant to a loan agreement.  Effective, October
31, 2009, the terms of the loan were modified to increase the interest rate from
7.5% to 9.0% per annum and the maturity date was extended from March 31, 2010 to
March 31, 2013.  All other material terms and covenants remain the
same.  The loan is unsecured and can be prepaid at anytime without
penalty.

Shurgard
Europe has a 20% interest in two joint ventures (First Shurgard and Second
Shurgard).  We are committed to provide additional financing to
Shurgard Europe to facilitate the acquisition of its partner’s 80% interest in
each of these two joint ventures.

If
Shurgard Europe acquires its partner’s 80% interest in either First Shurgard and
Second Shurgard and is unable to obtain third-party financing to repay the
existing loans of the joint ventures, we have agreed to provide additional loans
to Shurgard Europe, under the same terms as the our €391.9 million loan, for up
to €185 million ($265.2 million as of December 31, 2009).  This
commitment expires on March 31, 2010 and was originally for €305 million,
but was reduced as the result of refinancing one of the joint venture
loans.  Shurgard Europe has no obligation to acquire these interests,
and the acquisition of these interests is contingent on a number of items,
including whether we assent to the acquisition.

The two
joint ventures collectively had approximately €224 million ($321 million) of
outstanding debt payable to third parties at December 31, 2009, which is
non-recourse to Shurgard Europe.  One of the joint venture loans,
totaling €107 million ($153 million), is due May 2011 and the other
joint venture loan, totaling €117 million ($168 million), is due in July
2010.  Both joint venture loans are secured by the joint ventures’
respective facilities, and are not guaranteed by Public Storage, Shurgard Europe
or any third party.


We also
committed to fund up to $88.2 million of additional equity contributions to
Shurgard Europe to fund certain investing activities.  Our remaining
obligation under this commitment totaled $66.4 million at December 31,
2009.

Redemption of
Preferred Securities

: As of December 31, 2009, several series of our
preferred securities were redeemable at our option upon at least 30 days
notice.  These series have annual dividend rates ranging from 6.125%
to 7.5% and have an aggregate redemption value of approximately $873
million.  The timing of redemption of any of these series of preferred
securities will depend upon many factors including when, or if, market
conditions improve such that we can issue new preferred shares at a lower cost
of capital than the shares that would be redeemed.

Repurchases of
Company’s Equity and Preferred Securities

: Dislocations in capital
markets have provided opportunities for the repurchase of our preferred and debt
securities.  During 2009, we repurchased certain of our Cumulative
Preferred Shares in privately negotiated transactions with a liquidation value
of $24.6 million for approximately $17.5 million, including accrued dividends,
reducing our ongoing dividend requirement by approximately $1.8 million per
year.  Also during 2009, we repurchased certain of our Preferred
Partnership Units in privately negotiated transactions with a carrying amount of
$225 million for approximately $153 million, reducing our ongoing dividend
requirement by approximately $14.4 million per year.

Our Board
of Trustees has authorized the repurchase from time to time of up to 35,000,000
of our common shares on the open market or in privately negotiated
transactions.  During 2009, we did not repurchase any of our common
shares.  From the inception of the repurchase program through February
26, 2010, we have repurchased a total of 23,721,916 common shares at an
aggregate cost of approximately $679.1 million.  Future levels of
common share repurchases will be dependent upon our available capital,
investment alternatives, and the trading price of our common
shares.

These
acquisitions were funded with cash on hand.  We continue to monitor
the existing trading ranges of all our outstanding debt and equity securities
for potential opportunities.

Contractual
Obligations

Our
significant contractual obligations at December 31, 2009 and their impact on our
cash flows and liquidity are summarized below for the years ending December 31
(amounts in thousands):

Total






Thereafter

Long-term
      debt (1)

$

605,557

$

41,257

$

154,355

$

74,722

$

259,845

$

28,472

$

46,906

Operating
      leases (2)

95,745

6,135

5,561

5,269

5,046

4,998

68,736

Construction
      commitments (3)

10,055

10,055

-

-

-

-

-

Total

$

711,357

$

57,447

$

159,916

$

79,991

$

264,891

$

33,470

$

115,642

(1)

Amounts
      include principal and fixed-rate interest payments on our notes payable
      based on their contractual terms.  See Note 6 to our
      December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements for additional
      information on our notes payable.

(2)

We
      lease land, equipment and office space under various operating
      leases.  Certain leases are cancelable, however, significant
      penalties would be incurred upon cancellation.  Amounts
      reflected above consider continuance of the lease without
      cancellation.

(3)

Includes
      contractual obligations for development and capital expenditures at
      December 31, 2009.


We have
not included any additional funding requirements that we may be required to make
to Shurgard Europe as a contractual obligation in the table above, since it is
uncertain whether or not we will be required to fund any additional amounts and
because such funding is subject to our assent.

Subsequent
to December 31, 2009, we called for redemption our Equity Shares, Series
A.  These shares will be redeemed on April 15, 2010 for an aggregate
of $205.2 million or $24.50 per share.  These amounts are not included
in the table above as they were not an obligation at December 31,
2009.

Off-Balance Sheet
Arrangements

: At December 31, 2009 we had no material off-balance sheet
arrangements as defined under Regulation S-K 303(a)(4) and the instructions
thereto.


ITEM
7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market
Risk

To limit
our exposure to market risk, we principally finance our operations and growth
with permanent equity capital consisting of retained operating cash flow,
capital raised through the issuance of common shares and preferred
shares.  At December 31, 2009, our debt as a percentage of total
equity (based on book values) was 5.7%.

Our
preferred shares are not redeemable at the option of the
holders.  These shares, however, are redeemable, after a set period of
time, at our option.  At December 31, 2009, our Series V, Series W,
Series X, Series Y, Series Z, Series A, Series B and Series C preferred shares
are currently redeemable by us at our option.  Except under certain
conditions relating to the Company’s qualification as a REIT, the preferred
shares are not redeemable by the Company pursuant to its redemption option prior
to the dates set forth in Note 8 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated
financial statements.

Our
market risk sensitive instruments include notes payable, which totaled
$518,889,000 at December 31, 2009.

We have
foreign currency exposures related to our investment in Shurgard Europe, which
has a book value of $272.3 million at December 31, 2009.  We also have
a loan receivable from Shurgard Europe, which is denominated in Euros, totaling
€391.9 million ($561.7 million) at December 31, 2009.  We also have an
obligation, in certain circumstances, to loan up to an additional €185 million
($265.2 million) to Shurgard Europe.

The table
below summarizes annual debt maturities and weighted-average interest rates on
our outstanding debt at the end of each year and fair values required to
evaluate our expected cash-flows under debt agreements and our sensitivity to
interest rate changes at December 31, 2009 (dollar amounts in
thousands).






Thereafter

Total

Fair
      Value

Fixed
      rate debt

$

12,710

$

131,352

$

55,575

$

251,421

$

25,400

$

42,431

$

518,889

$

525,883

Average
      interest rate

5.68

%

5.69

%

5.70

%

5.62

%

5.50

%

5.50

%

Variable
      rate debt (1)

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

Average
      interest rate

(1)

Amounts
      include borrowings under our line of credit, which expires in March
      2012.  As of December 31, 2009, we have no borrowings under our
      line of credit.


ITEM
8.

Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data

The
financial statements of the Company at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008
and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009 and the
report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm,
thereon and the related financial statement schedule, are included elsewhere
herein.  Reference is made to the Index to Financial Statements and
Schedules in Item 15.

ITEM
9.

Changes in and Disagreements
with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

Not
applicable.

ITEM
9A.

Controls and
Procedures

Conclusion
Regarding the Effectiveness of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

We
maintain disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that
information required to be disclosed in reports we file and submit under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (“Exchange Act”) is recorded,
processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in
accordance with SEC guidelines and that such information is communicated to our
management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer,
to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure based on the definition
of "disclosure controls and procedures" in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the
Exchange Act.  In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and
procedures, management recognized that any controls and procedures, no matter
how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of
achieving the desired control objectives and management necessarily was required
to apply its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible
controls and procedures in reaching that level of reasonable
assurance.  We also have investments in certain unconsolidated
entities and because we do not control these entities, our disclosure controls
and procedures with respect to such entities are substantially more limited than
those we maintain with respect to our consolidated subsidiaries.

As of
December 31, 2009, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with
the participation of management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our
disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act).  Based on that evaluation, our
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our
disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2009, at a
reasonable assurance level.

Management’s
Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Our
management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal
control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and
15d-15(f) of the Exchange Act.  Under the supervision and with the
participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our
internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in

Internal Control-Integrated
Framework

issued by the Committee on Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission.  Based on our evaluation under the framework in

Internal Control-Integrated
Framework

, our management concluded that our internal control over
financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2009.

The
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2009, has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, independent registered public
accounting firm. Ernst & Young LLP’s report on our internal control over
financial reporting appears below.


Changes
in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

There
have not been any changes in our internal control over financial reporting (as
such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act)
during the fourth quarter of 2009 to which this report relates that have
materially affected, or are reasonable likely to materially affect, our internal
control over financial reporting.

ITEM
9B.                      Other
Information

On
February 23, 2010, we filed a certificate of correction to our charter, to
correct a scrivener's error by deleting a sentence, purporting to deny
shareholders cumulative voting rights in the election of trustees, that was
inadvertently retained in the version filed with the Maryland department of
assessments and taxation on June 1, 2007.  A composite version of our
charter, reflecting this deletion, is filed with this Annual Report as Exhibit
3.1.


Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

To the
Board of Trustees and Shareholders of

Public
Storage

We have
audited Public Storage’s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in

Internal Control—Integrated
Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria).  Public Storage’s management
is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial
reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting included in the accompanying Annual Report of Management on
Internal Control over Financial Reporting.  Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on the company’s internal control over financial reporting
based on our audit.

We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require
that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all
material respects.  Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material
weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness
of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.  We
believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A
company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles.  A company’s internal
control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and
fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and trustees of
the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s
assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.

Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation
of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our
opinion, Public Storage maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on

the COSO criteria

.

We also
have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Public
Storage as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related consolidated
statements of income, shareholders’ equity and cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2009 and our report dated February 26,
2010 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst
& Young LLP

Los
Angeles, California

February
26, 2010


PART III

ITEM
10.

Trustees, Executive Officers
and Corporate Governance

The
information required by this item with respect to trustees is hereby
incorporated by reference to the material appearing in the Company’s definitive
proxy statement to be filed in connection with the annual shareholders’ meeting
scheduled to be held on May 6, 2010 (the “Proxy Statement”) under the caption
“Election of Trustees.”

The
information required by this item with respect to the nominating process, the
audit committee and the audit committee financial expert is hereby incorporated
by reference to the material appearing in the Proxy Statement under the captions
“Corporate Governance and Board Matters—Audit Committee”, “Corporate Governance
and Board Matters—Consideration of Candidates for Trustee”.

The
information required by this item with respect to Section 16(a) compliance is
hereby incorporated by reference to the material appearing in the Proxy
Statement under the caption “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance.”

The
information required by this item with respect to a code of ethics is hereby
incorporated by reference to the material appearing in the Proxy Statement under
the caption “Corporate Governance and Board Matters.”  Any amendments
to or waivers of the code of ethics granted to the Company’s executive officers
or the controller will be published promptly on our website or by other
appropriate means in accordance with SEC rules and regulations.

The
following is a biographical summary of the current executive officers of the
Company:

Ronald L.
Havner, Jr., age 52, has been the Vice-Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and a
member of the Board of Public Storage since November 2002 and President since
July 1, 2005.  Mr. Havner joined Public Storage in 1986 and
held a variety of senior management positions until his appointment as
Vice-Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in 2002. Mr. Havner has been
Chairman of Public Storage’s affiliate, PS Business Parks, Inc. (PSB), since
March 1998 and was Chief Executive Officer of PSB from March 1998 until August
2003.  He is also a member of the Board of Governors and the Executive
Committee of the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts, Inc.
(NAREIT).  He is also a director of Business Machine Security, Inc.,
General Finance Corporation and a member of the NYU REIT Center Board of
Advisors.

John
Reyes, age 49, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, joined Public
Storage in 1990 and was Controller of Public Storage from 1992 until December
1996 when he became Chief Financial Officer.  He became a Vice
President of Public Storage in November 1995 and a Senior Vice President of
Public Storage in December 1996.  From 1983 to 1990, Mr. Reyes was
employed by Ernst & Young as a certified public accountant.

Mark C.
Good, age 53, became Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Public
Storage on September 8, 2008.  Before joining Public Storage, Mr. Good
was with Sears Holdings Corporation since 1997, where he was Executive Vice
President and General Manager of Sears Home Services, the nation's largest home
appliance repair and home improvement services organization with annual revenues
of approximately $3 billion.  Mr. Good also served as a director of
Sears Canada, Inc.

David F.
Doll, age 51, became Senior Vice President and President, Real Estate Group, in
February 2005, with responsibility for the real estate activities of Public
Storage, including property acquisitions, developments, repackagings, and
capital improvements.  Before joining Public Storage, Mr. Doll was
Senior Executive Vice President of Development for Westfield Corporation, a
major international owner and operator of shopping malls, where he was employed
since 1995.

Candace
N. Krol, age 48, became Senior Vice President of Human Resources in September
2005.  From 1985 until joining Public Storage, Ms. Krol was employed by
Parsons Corporation, a global engineering and construction firm, where she
served in various management positions, most recently as Vice President of Human
Resources for the Infrastructure and Technology global business
unit.


Steven M.
Glick, age 53, became Senior Vice President and Chief Legal Officer of Public
Storage on February 23, 2010.  From April 2005 until joining Public
Storage, Mr. Glick was Senior Vice President and General Counsel, Americas
for Technicolor (NYSE:TCH), a services, systems and technology
company.  Immediately before joining Technicolor (then named Thomson),
he was an Executive Vice President at Paramount Pictures with responsibility
for, among other things, legal, business development and licensing for
International Home Entertainment.

ITEM
11.

Executive
Compensation

The
information required by this item is hereby incorporated by reference to the
material appearing in the Proxy Statement under the captions “Corporate
Governance and Board Matters,” “Executive Compensation,” “Corporate Governance
and Board Matters--Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation,”
and “Report of the Compensation Committee.”

ITEM
12.

Security Ownership of
Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder
Matters

The
information required by this item is hereby incorporated by reference to the
material appearing in the Proxy Statement under the captions “Stock Ownership of
Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.”

The
following table sets forth information as of December 31, 2009 on the Company’s
equity compensation plans:

Number
      of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants
      and rights

Weighted
      average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and
      rights

Number
      of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity
      compensation plans

Equity
      compensation plans approved by security holders (a)

4,206,921

(b)

$

56.49

2,157,952

Equity
      compensation plans not approved by security holders (c)

37,101

$

23.58

595,002

a)

The
      Company’s stock option and stock incentive plans are described more fully
      in Note 10 to the December 31, 2009 consolidated financial
      statements.  All plans other than the 2000 and 2001
      Non-Executive/Non-Director Plans, were approved by the Company’s
      shareholders.

b)

Includes
      548,354 restricted share units that, if and when vested, will be settled
      in common shares of the Company on a one for one
  basis.

c)

The
      outstanding options granted under plans not approved by the Company’s
      shareholders were granted under the Company’s 2000 and 2001
      Non-Executive/Non-Director Plan, which does not allow participation by the
      Company’s executive officers and trustees.  The principal terms
      of these plans are as follows: (1) 2,500,000 common shares were authorized
      for grant, (2) this plan is administered by the Equity Awards Committee,
      except that grants in excess of 100,000 shares to any one person requires
      approval by the Executive Equity Awards Committee, (3) options are granted
      at fair market value on the date of grant, (4) options have a ten year
      term and (5) options vest over three years in equal installments, or as
      indicated by the applicable grant
agreement.


ITEM
13.

Certain Relationships and
Related Transactions and Trustee Independence

The
information required by this item is hereby incorporated by reference to the
material appearing in the Proxy Statement under the captions “Corporate
Governance” and “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Legal
Proceedings.”

ITEM
14.

Principal Accountant Fees
and Services

The
information required by this item with respect to fees and services provided by
the Company’s independent auditors is hereby incorporated by reference to the
material appearing in the Proxy Statement under the caption “Ratification of
Auditors—Fees Billed to the Company by Ernst & Young LLP for 2009 and
2008”.


PART IV

ITEM
      15.

Exhibits and Financial
      Statement Schedules

a.

1. Financial Statements

The
financial statements listed in the accompanying Index to Financial Statements
and Schedules hereof are filed as part of this report.

2.

Financial
      Statement Schedules

The
financial statements schedules listed in the accompanying Index to Financial
Statements and Schedules are filed as part of this report.

3.

Exhibits

See Index
to Exhibits contained herein.

b.

Exhibits:

See Index
to Exhibits contained herein.

c.

Financial Statement
Schedules

Not
applicable.


PUBLIC
STORAGE

INDEX TO
EXHIBITS (1)

(Items
15(a)(3) and 15(c))





_

(1)

SEC
      File No. 001-33519 unless otherwise
indicated.

*

Denotes
      management compensatory plan agreement or
  arrangement.

**

Furnished
      herewith.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of
the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

PUBLIC
STORAGE

INDEX TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AND
SCHEDULES

(Item 15
(a))

All other
schedules have been omitted since the required information is not present or not
present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the schedule, or because
the information required is included in the consolidated financial statements or
notes thereto.

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT
REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board
of Trustees and Shareholders

Public
Storage

We have
audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Public Storage as of
December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related consolidated statements of income,
shareholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 2009.  Our audits also included the financial
statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a).  These financial
statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the
Company’s management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our
audits.

We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require
that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
the consolidated financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe
that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our
opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Public Storage
at December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the consolidated results of their operations
and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December
31, 2009, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles.  Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement
schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as
a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth
therein.

As
discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company
changed its method of accounting for noncontrolling interests (formerly minority
interests) with the adoption of the guidance originally issued in FASB Statement
No. 160 “Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements”
(codified in FASB ASC Topic 810, Consolidation) effective January 1, 2009,
and retroactively applied.

We also
have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), Public Storage’s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in

Internal Control-Integrated
Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission and our report dated February 26, 2010 expressed an
unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ ERNST
& YOUNG LLP

Los
Angeles, California

February
26, 2010

F-1

PUBLIC
STORAGE

CONSOLIDATED
BALANCE SHEETS

December
31, 2009 and 2008

(Amounts
in thousands, except share data)

December
      31,


December
      31,


ASSETS

Cash
      and cash
      equivalents

$

763,789

$

680,701

Real
      estate facilities, at cost:

Land

2,717,368

2,716,254

Buildings

7,575,587

7,490,768

10,292,955

10,207,022

Accumulated
      depreciation

(2,734,449

)

(2,405,473

)

7,558,506

7,801,549

Construction
      in
      process

3,527

20,340

7,562,033

7,821,889

Investment
      in real estate
      entities

612,316

544,598

Goodwill,
      net

174,634

174,634

Intangible
      assets,
      net

38,270

52,005

Loan
      receivable from Shurgard
      Europe

561,703

552,361

Other
      assets

92,900

109,857

Total
      assets

$

9,805,645

$

9,936,045

LIABILITIES AND EQUITY

Notes
      payable

$

518,889

$

643,811

Accrued
      and other
      liabilities

212,253

212,353

Total
      liabilities

731,142

856,164

Redeemable
      noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries (Note 7)

13,122

12,777

Commitments
      and contingencies (Note 13)

Equity:

Public
      Storage shareholders’ equity:

Cumulative
      Preferred Shares of beneficial interest, $0.01 par value, 100,000,000
      shares authorized, 886,140 shares issued (in series) and outstanding,
      (887,122 at December 31, 2008), at liquidation preference

3,399,777

3,424,327

Common
      Shares of beneficial interest, $0.10 par value, 650,000,000
      shares

authorized,
      168,405,539 shares issued and outstanding (168,279,732 at

December
      31, 2008)

16,842

16,829

Equity
      Shares of beneficial interest, Series A, $0.01 par value, 100,000,000
      shares authorized, 8,377.193 shares issued and outstanding

-

-

Paid-in
      capital

5,680,549

5,590,093

Accumulated
      deficit

(153,759

)

(290,323

)

Accumulated
      other comprehensive loss

(15,002

)

(31,931

)

Total
      Public Storage shareholders’
      equity

8,928,407

8,708,995

Equity
      of permanent noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries (Note
    7)

132,974

358,109

Total
      equity

9,061,381

9,067,104

Total
      liabilities and
      equity

$

9,805,645

$

9,936,045

See
accompanying notes.

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF INCOME

For
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009

(Amounts
in thousands, except per share amounts)




Revenues:

Self-storage
      facilities

$

1,490,292

$

1,579,017

$

1,660,304

Ancillary
      operations

107,597

108,421

115,481

Interest
      and other
      income

29,813

36,155

11,417

1,627,702

1,723,593

1,787,202

Expenses:

Cost
      of operations:

Self-storage
      facilities

486,928

519,090

579,193

Ancillary
      operations

36,011

36,528

51,961

Depreciation
      and amortization

340,233

411,981

619,598

General
      and administrative

35,735

62,809

59,749

Interest
      expense

29,916

43,944

63,671

928,823

1,074,352

1,374,172

Income
      from continuing operations before equity in earnings of real estate
      entities, gains on disposition of real estate investments, net, casualty
      (loss) gain, gain on early retirement of debt and foreign currency
      exchange gain (loss)

698,879

649,241

413,030

Equity
      in earnings of real estate entities

53,244

20,391

12,738

Gains
      on disposition of real estate investments, net

33,426

336,545

2,547

Casualty
      (loss) gain

-

(525

)

2,665

Gain
      on early retirement of debt

4,114

-

-

Foreign
      currency exchange gain (loss)

9,662

(25,362

)

58,444

Income
      from continuing operations

799,325

980,290

489,424

Discontinued
      operations

(8,869

)

(6,418

)

(2,346

)

Net
      income

790,456

973,872

487,078

Net
      income allocated (to) from noncontrolling interests in
      subsidiaries:

Based
      upon income of the
      subsidiaries

(27,835

)

(38,696

)

(29,543

)

Based
      upon repurchases of preferred partnership units

72,000

-

-

Net
      income allocable to Public Storage shareholders

$

834,621

$

935,176

$

457,535

Allocation of net income to (from) Public Storage
      shareholders:

Preferred
      shareholders based on distributions paid

$

232,431

$

239,721

$

236,757

Preferred
      shareholders based on
      repurchases

(6,218

)

(33,851

)

-

Equity
      Shares, Series
      A

20,524

21,199

21,424

Restricted
      share units

1,918

2,304


Common
      shareholders

585,966

705,803

198,978

$

834,621

$

935,176

$

457,535

Net income per common share –
      basic

Continuing
      operations

$

3.53

$

4.23

$

1.19

Discontinued
      operations

(0.05

)

(0.04

)

(0.01

)

$

3.48

$

4.19

$

1.18

Net income per common share –
      diluted

Continuing
      operations

$

3.52

$

4.22

$

1.18

Discontinued
      operations

(0.05

)

(0.04

)

(0.01

)

$

3.47

$

4.18

$

1.17

Basic
      weighted average common shares outstanding

168,358

168,250

169,342

Diluted
      weighted average common shares outstanding

168,768

168,675

169,850

Equity
      Shares, Series A (basic and diluted):

Net
      income per share

$

2.45

$

2.45

$

2.45

Weighted
      average depositary shares

8,377

8,652

8,744

See
accompanying notes.

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF EQUITY

For
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009

(Amounts
in thousands, except share and per share amounts)

Cumulative

Accumulated
      Other

Total

Public
      Storage

Equity
      of

Permanent

Noncontrolling

Preferred

Common

Paid-in

Accumulated

Comprehensive

Shareholders’

Interests
      in

Total

Shares

Shares

Capital

Deficit

Income
      (Loss)

Equity

Subsidiaries

Equity

Balances
      at December 31, 2006

$

2,855,000

$

16,915

$

5,661,507

$

(344,706

)

$

19,329

$

8,208,045

$

499,178

$

8,707,223

Issuance
      of cumulative preferred shares (26,900 shares)

672,500

-

(20,608

)

-

-

651,892

-

651,892

Issuance
      of common shares in connection with share-based compensation (278,008
      shares) (Note 10)

-


8,429

-

-

8,457

-

8,457

Share-based
      compensation expense, net of cash compensation in lieu of common
      shares(Note 10)

-

-

4,647

-

-

4,647

-

4,647

Disposition
      of permanent noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries, net (Note
      7)

-

-

-

-

-

-

3,033

3,033

Net
      income

-

-

-

487,078

-

487,078

-

487,078

Net
      income allocated to (Note 7):

Redeemable
      noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries

-

-

-

(800

)

-

(800

)

-

(800

)

Permanent
      noncontrolling equity interests

-

-

-

(28,743

)

-

(28,743

)

28,743

-

Distributions
      to equity holders:

Cumulative
      preferred shares (Note 8)

-

-

-

(236,757

)

-

(236,757

)

-

(236,757

)

Permanent
      noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries

-

-

-

-

-

-

(40,567

)

(40,567

)

Equity
      Shares, Series A ($2.45 per depositary share)

-

-

-

(21,424

)

-

(21,424

)

-

(21,424

)

Holders
      of unvested restricted share units

-

-

-

(1,313

)

-

(1,313

)

-

(1,313

)

Common
      shares ($2.00 per share)

-

-

-

(338,689

)

-

(338,689

)

-

(338,689

)

Other
      comprehensive income (Note 2)

-

-

-

-

30,736

30,736

9,740

40,476

Balances
      at December 31, 2007

3,527,500

16,943

5,653,975

(485,354

)

50,065

8,763,129

500,127

9,263,256

Repurchase
      of cumulative preferred shares (852,378 shares) (Note 8)

(103,173

)

-

36,294

-

-

(66,879

)

-

(66,879

)

Repurchase
      of Equity Shares, Series A

(367,000
      shares) (Note 8)

-

-

(7,707

)

-

-

(7,707

)

-

(7,707

)

Issuance
      of common shares in connection with share-based compensation (377,453
      shares) (Note 10)

-


10,852

-

-

10,890

-

10,890

Repurchase
      of common shares (1,520,196 shares) (Note 8)

-

(152

)

(111,751

)

-

-

(111,903

)

-

(111,903

)

Share-based
      compensation expense, net of cash compensation in lieu of common shares
      (Note 10)

-

-

8,430

-

-

8,430

-

8,430

Adjustments
      of redeemable noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries to liquidation
      value (Note 7)

-

-

-

(6,469

)

-

(6,469

)

-

(6,469

)

Deconsolidation
      of permanent noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries due to disposition
      of an interest (Note 7)

-

-

-

-

-

-

(148,901

)

(148,901

)

Net
      income

-

-

-

973,872

-

973,872

-

973,872

Net
      income to (Note 7):

Redeemable
      noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries

-

-

-

(1,083

)

-

(1,083

)

-

(1,083

)

Permanent
      noncontrolling equity interests

-

-

-

(37,613

)

-

(37,613

)

37,613

-

Distributions
      to equity holders:

Cumulative
      preferred shares (Note 8)

-

-

-

(239,721

)

-

(239,721

)

-

(239,721

)

Permanent
      noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries

-

-

-

-

-

-

(37,993

)

(37,993

)

Equity
      Shares, Series A ($2.45 per depositary share)

-

-

-

(21,199

)

-

(21,199

)

-

(21,199

)

Holders
      of unvested restricted share units

-

-

-

(1,933

)

-

(1,933

)

-

(1,933

)

Common
      shares ($2.80 per share)

-

-

-

(470,823

)

-

(470,823

)

-

(470,823

)

Other
      comprehensive loss (Note 2)

-

-

-

-

(81,996

)

(81,996

)

7,263

(74,733

)

See
accompanying notes.

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF EQUITY

For
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009

(Amounts
in thousands, except share and per share amounts)

See
accompanying notes.

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

For
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009

(Amounts
in thousands)




Cash
      flows from operating activities:

Net
      income

$

790,456

$

973,872

$

487,078

Adjustments
      to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating
      activities:

Gain
      on disposition of real estate investments, including amounts in
      discontinued operations

(39,444

)

(336,545

)

(6,883

)

Gain
      on early retirement of debt

(4,114

)

-

-

Impairment
      charge on intangible asset included in discontinued
    operations

8,205

-

-

Depreciation
      and amortization, including amounts in discontinued
    operations

342,127

414,201

622,894

Distributions
      received from real estate entities (less than) in excess of equity in
      earnings of real estate entities

(3,836

)

23,064

10,868

Foreign
      currency exchange (gain) loss

(9,662

)

25,362

(58,444

)

Other

29,125

(22,983

)

(7,861

)

Total
      adjustments

322,401

103,099

560,574

Net
      cash provided by operating activities

1,112,857

1,076,971

1,047,652

Cash
      flows from investing activities:

Capital
      improvements to real estate facilities

(62,352

)

(76,311

)

(69,102

)

Construction
      in process

(14,165

)

(74,611

)

(122,320

)

Acquisition
      of real estate facilities

-

(43,569

)

(72,787

)

Acquisition
      of common stock of PS Business Parks

(17,825

)

-

-

Proceeds
      from sales of real estate and other real estate
investments

11,596

2,227

8,708

Proceeds
      from the disposition of interest in Shurgard Europe (Note
    3)

-

609,059

-

Deconsolidation
      of Shurgard Europe (Note 3)

-

(34,588

)

-

Investment
      in Shurgard Europe

-

(54,702

)

-

Sale
      of real estate investments to affiliates (Note 7)

-

-

4,909

Acquisition
      of redeemable noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries

(750

)

-

-

Other
      investing activities

(7,913

)

12,513

(11,284

)

Net
      cash (used in) provided by investing activities

(91,409

)

340,018

(261,876

)

Cash
      flows from financing activities:

Principal
      payments on notes payable

(7,504

)

(62,877

)

(508,942

)

Redemption
      of senior unsecured notes payable

(109,622

)

-

-

Issuance
      of secured note payable

-

12,750

-

Net
      repayments on bank credit facilities

-

-

(345,000

)

Proceeds
      from borrowing on debt of Existing European Joint Ventures

-

14,654

54,081

Net
      proceeds from the issuance of common shares

2,192

10,890

8,457

Net
      proceeds from the issuance of cumulative preferred shares

-

-

651,892

Repurchases
      of common shares

-

(111,903

)

-

Repurchases
      of cumulative preferred shares

(17,535

)

(66,879

)

(302,150

)

Repurchases
      of Equity Shares, Series A

-

(7,707

)

-

Repurchases
      of permanent noncontrolling interests

(153,000

)

-

-

Distributions
      paid to Public Storage shareholders

(624,665

)

(733,676

)

(598,183

)

Distributions
      paid to redeemable noncontrolling interests

(1,290

)

(1,335

)

(1,092

)

Distributions
      paid to permanent noncontrolling equity interests

(26,977

)

(37,993

)

(40,567

)

Net
      cash used in financing activities

(938,401

)

(984,076

)

(1,081,504

)

Net
      increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

83,047

432,913

(295,728

)

Net
      effect of foreign exchange translation on cash


2,344

5,488

Cash
      and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year

680,701

245,444

535,684

Cash
      and cash equivalents at the end of the year

$

763,789

$

680,701

$

245,444

See
accompanying notes.

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

For
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009

(Amounts
in thousands)

(Continued)




Supplemental
      schedule of non cash investing and financing activities:

Foreign
      currency translation adjustment:

Real
      estate facilities, net of accumulated depreciation

$

(1,444

)

$

(90,921

)

$

(127,456

)

Construction
      in process

-

(957

)

(4,623

)

Investment
      in real estate entities

(15,764

)

63,495

-

Intangible
      assets, net

-

(4,528

)

(6,226

)

Loan
      receivable from Shurgard Europe

(9,342

)

66,461

-

Other
      assets

-

(3,756

)

(7,070

)

Notes
      payable

-

28,912

38,116

Accrued
      and other liabilities

-

5,879

13,827

Permanent
      noncontrolling equity interests in subsidiaries

-

7,263

9,740

Accumulated
      other comprehensive income (loss)

26,591

(69,504

)

89,180

Real
      estate disposed of in exchange for other asset

2,941

-

-

Other
      asset received in exchange for disposal of real estate

(2,941

)

-

-

Revaluation
      of redeemable noncontrolling interests:

Accumulated
      deficit

(1,392

)

(6,469

)

-

Redeemable
      noncontrolling interests

1,392

6,469

-

Deconsolidation
      of real estate entities (2008: Shurgard Europe, Note 3)

Real
      estate facilities, net of accumulated depreciation

-

1,693,524

41,409

Construction
      in process

-

10,886

-

Investment
      in real estate entities

-

(588,801

)

(23,079

)

Loan
      receivable from Shurgard Europe

-

(618,822

)

-

Intangible
      assets, net

-

78,135

1,816

Other
      assets

-

68,486


Notes
      payable

-

(424,995

)

(19,329

)

Accrued
      and other liabilities

-

(104,100

)

(544

)

Permanent
      noncontrolling equity interests in subsidiaries

-

(148,901

)

(682

)

Real
      estate acquired in exchange for assumption of note payable and
      extinguishment of investment

-

(12,388

)

-

Note
      payable assumed in connection with the acquisition of real
      estate

-

10,250

-

Investment
      extinguished in exchange for real estate

-

2,138

-

Investment
      in real estate entities disposed in exchange for other
    asset

-

5,300

-

Other
      asset received in connection with disposal of real estate
      investment

-

(5,300

)

-

Consolidation
      of entities in connection with the acquisition of an interest in the
      Unconsolidated Entities:

Real
      estate facilities

-

-

(14,604

)

Intangible
      assets

-

-

(1,048

)

Notes
      payable

-

-

6,681

See
accompanying notes.

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

For
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009

(Amounts
in thousands)

1.

Description of the
      Business

Public
Storage (referred to herein as “the Company”, “the Trust”, “we”, “us”, or
“our”), a Maryland real estate investment trust, was organized in
1980.  Our principal business activities include the acquisition,
development, ownership and operation of self-storage facilities which offer
storage spaces for lease, generally on a month-to-month basis, for personal and
business use.  Our self-storage facilities are located primarily in
the United States (“U.S.”).  We also have interests in self-storage
facilities located in seven Western European countries.

At
December 31, 2009, we had direct and indirect equity interests in 2,010
self-storage facilities located in 38 states operating under the “Public
Storage” name, and 188 self-storage facilities located in Europe which operate
under the “Shurgard Storage Centers” name.  We also have direct and
indirect equity interests in approximately 21 million net rentable square feet
of commercial space located in 11 states in the U.S. primarily operated by PS
Business Parks, Inc. (“PSB”) under the “PS Business Parks” name.

Any
reference to the number of properties, square footage, number of tenant
reinsurance policies outstanding and the aggregate coverage of such reinsurance
policies are unaudited and outside the scope of our independent registered
public accounting firm’s review and audit of our financial statements in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board.

2.

Summary of Significant
      Accounting Policies

Basis of
Presentation

The
consolidated financial statements are presented on an accrual basis in
accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and
include the accounts of the Company and our consolidated
subsidiaries.  All intercompany balances and transactions have been
eliminated in consolidation.

Certain
amounts previously reported in our December 31, 2008 and 2007 financial
statements have been reclassified to conform to the December 31, 2009
presentation, including discontinued operations, the grouping of the separate
captions “cumulative earnings” and “cumulative distributions” into “accumulated
deficit” on our consolidated balance sheet, as well as reclassifications
required by newly implemented accounting standards described below.

Adjustments due to
accounting pronouncements becoming effective January 1, 2009

On
January 1, 2009, accounting standards promulgated by the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (“FASB”) became effective which affected the classification of
ownership interests other than those in the Company, such as limited partnership
interests in entities that are consolidated in the financial statements of the
Company.  In accordance with these standards, we have reclassified the
equity interests previously referred to as minority interests on our balance
sheet at December 31, 2008 to “equity of permanent noncontrolling interests in
subsidiaries” or “redeemable noncontrolling interests in
subsidiaries.”  These reclassifications increased equity by
$351,640,000, increased accumulated deficit by $6,469,000, increased redeemable
noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries by $12,777,000, and decreased minority
interest by $364,417,000, as compared to the amounts previously presented as of
December 31, 2008.  On our consolidated statement of income, income
allocations to the aforementioned equity interests were reclassified from
“minority interest in income”, a reduction to income, to “net income allocated
to noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries,” an allocation of net income in
calculating net income allocable to our common shareholders.  These
adjustments increased net income $38,696,000 and $29,543,000 for the years ended
December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, but had no impact upon net income
allocable to our common shareholders or on earnings per common share, as
compared to amounts previously presented.

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December
31, 2009

In
addition, FASB accounting standards became effective January 1, 2009 which
required the “two class” method of allocating income with respect to our
restricted share units to determine basic and diluted earnings per common
share.  Previously, all restricted share units were included in
weighted average diluted shares, using the treasury stock
method.  This change resulted in a decrease in income allocable to our
common shareholders of approximately $2,304,000 and $376,000, a decrease in
diluted weighted average common shares outstanding of 208,000 and 297,000 and a
decrease of $0.02 and $0.01 in basic and diluted earnings per common share,
respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2008 as compared to amounts
previously presented for the year ended December 31, 2008.  These
changes had no impact on the basic and diluted earnings per common share amounts
previously presented for the year ended December 31, 2007.

Consolidation
Policy

Pursuant
to Codification Section 810-10-15-14, any entity where a) the equity is
insufficient to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial
support provided by any parties, or b) the equity holders as a group lack
specific characteristics, as defined in the Codification, of a controlling
financial interest, is considered a Variable Interest Entity
(“VIE”).  VIEs in which we are the primary beneficiary are
consolidated.  Entities that are not VIEs that we control are
consolidated.

When we
are the general partner, we are presumed to control the partnership unless the
limited partners possess either a) the substantive ability to dissolve the
partnership or otherwise remove us as general partner without cause (commonly
referred to as “kick-out rights”), or b) the right to participate in substantive
operating and financial decisions of the limited partnership that are expected
to be made in the course of the partnership’s business.

The
accounts of the entities we control, along with the accounts of the VIEs for
which we are the primary beneficiary, are included in our consolidated financial
statements, and all intercompany balances and transactions are
eliminated.  We account for our investment in entities that we do not
consolidate using the equity method of accounting or, if we do not have the
ability to exercise significant influence over an investee, the cost method of
accounting.  Changes in consolidation status are reflected effective
the date the change of control or determination of primary beneficiary status
occurred, and previously reported periods are not restated.  The
entities that we consolidate, for the periods in which the reference applies,
are referred to hereinafter as the “Subsidiaries.”  The entities that
we have an interest in but do not consolidate, for the periods in which the
reference applies, are referred to hereinafter as the “Unconsolidated
Entities.”

Collectively,
at December 31, 2009, the Company and the Subsidiaries own a total of 1,999 real
estate facilities included in continuing operations, consisting of 1,990
self-storage facilities in the U.S., one self-storage facility in London,
England and eight commercial facilities in the U.S.  One facility
owned by the Company is subject to condemnation proceedings and its operating
results are classified as discontinued operations for all periods
presented.

At
December 31, 2009, the Unconsolidated Entities are comprised of PSB, Shurgard
Europe, and various limited and joint venture partnerships (the partnerships
referred to as the “Other Investments”).  At December 31, 2009,
PSB owns approximately 19.6 million rentable square feet of commercial space,
Shurgard Europe has interests in 187 self-storage facilities in Europe with
10.1 million net rentable square feet, and the Other Investments own in
aggregate 19 self-storage facilities with 1.1 million net rentable square feet
in the U.S.

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December
31, 2009

Use of
Estimates

The
preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts
reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying
notes.  Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Income
Taxes

For all
taxable years subsequent to 1980, the Company has qualified and intends to
continue to qualify as a real estate investment trust (“REIT”), as defined in
Section 856 of the Internal Revenue Code.  As a REIT, we do not incur
federal or significant state tax on that portion of our taxable income which is
distributed to our shareholders, provided that we meet certain
tests.  We believe we have met these tests during 2009, 2008 and 2007
and, accordingly, no provision for federal income taxes has been made in the
accompanying consolidated financial statements on income produced and
distributed on real estate rental operations.  We have business
operations in taxable REIT subsidiaries that are subject to regular corporate
tax on their taxable income, and such corporate taxes attributable to these
operations are presented in ancillary cost of operations in our accompanying
consolidated statements of income.  We also are subject to certain
state taxes, which are presented in general and administrative expense in our
accompanying consolidated statements of income.  We have concluded
that there are no significant uncertain tax positions requiring recognition in
our financial statements with respect to all tax periods which remain subject to
examination by major tax jurisdictions as of December 31, 2009.

Real Estate
Facilities

Real
estate facilities are recorded at cost.  Costs associated with the
acquisition, development, construction, renovation and improvement of properties
are capitalized.  Interest, property taxes and other costs associated
with development incurred during the construction period are capitalized as
building cost.  Costs associated with the sale of real estate
facilities or interests in real estate investments are expensed as
incurred.  The purchase cost of existing self-storage facilities that
we acquire are allocated based upon relative fair value of the land, building
and tenant intangible components of the real estate
facility.  Expenditures for repairs and maintenance are expensed when
incurred.  Depreciation expense is computed using the straight-line
method over the estimated useful lives of the buildings and improvements, which
generally range from 5 to 25 years.

Other
Assets

Other
assets primarily consist of prepaid expenses, investments in held-to-maturity
debt securities, accounts receivable, interest receivable, and restricted
cash.

Accrued and Other
Liabilities

Accrued
and other liabilities consist primarily of trade payables, property tax
accruals, tenant prepayments of rents, accrued interest payable, accrued
payroll, losses and loss adjustment liabilities for our own exposures, and
estimated losses related to our tenant insurance
activities.  Contingent losses are accrued when they are determined to
be probable, and to the extent that they are estimable.  When it is at
least reasonably possible that a significant unaccrued contingent loss has
occurred, we disclose the nature of that potential loss under “Legal Matters” in
Note 13 “Commitments and Contingencies”.

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December
31, 2009

Financial
Instruments

We have
estimated the fair value of our financial instruments using available market
information and appropriate valuation methodologies.  Considerable
judgment is required in interpreting market data to develop estimates of market
value.  Accordingly, estimated fair values are not necessarily
indicative of the amounts that could be realized in current market
exchanges.

For
purposes of financial statement presentation, we consider all highly liquid
financial instruments such as short-term treasury securities, money market funds
with daily liquidity and a rating of at least AAA by Standard and Poor’s, or
investment grade (rated A1 by Standard and Poor’s) short-term commercial paper
with remaining maturities of three months or less at the date of acquisition to
be cash equivalents.  Any such cash and cash equivalents which are
restricted from general corporate use (restricted cash) due to insurance or
other regulations, or based upon contractual requirements, are included in other
assets.

Due to
the short maturity and the underlying characteristics of our cash and cash
equivalents, other assets, and accrued and other liabilities, we believe the
carrying values as presented on the consolidated balance sheets are reasonable
estimates of fair value.

Financial
assets that are exposed to credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash
equivalents, restricted cash which are included in other assets on our
accompanying consolidated balance sheets, accounts receivable and the loan
receivable from Shurgard Europe.  Cash and cash equivalents and
restricted cash, consisting of short-term investments, including commercial
paper, are only invested in instruments with an investment grade
rating.  See “Loan Receivable from Shurgard Europe” below for
information regarding our fair value measurement of this
instrument.

At
December 31, 2009, due primarily to our investment in and loan receivable from
Shurgard Europe, our operations and our financial position are affected by
fluctuations in currency exchange rates between the Euro, and to a lesser
extent, other European currencies, against the U.S. Dollar.

We
estimate the fair value of our notes payable to be $525,883,000 at December 31,
2009, based primarily upon discounting the future cash flows under each
respective note at an interest rate that approximates loans with similar credit
quality and term to maturity.

Goodwill

Goodwill
represents the excess of acquisition cost over the fair value of net tangible
and identifiable intangible assets acquired in business combinations, and has an
indeterminate life.  Each business combination from which our goodwill
arose was for the acquisition of single businesses and accordingly, the
allocation of our goodwill to our business segments is based directly on such
acquisitions. Our goodwill balance of $174,634,000 is reported net of
accumulated amortization of $85,085,000 as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 in our
accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

Intangible
Assets

We
acquire finite-lived intangible assets representing primarily the estimated
value of the tenants in place (a “Tenant Intangible”) at the date of the
acquisition of each respective acquired facility.  Tenant Intangibles
are amortized relative to the benefit of the tenants in place to each
period.

At
December 31, 2009, our Tenant Intangibles have a net book value of $19,446,000
($33,181,000 at December 31, 2008).  Accumulated amortization with
respect to properties where the related Tenant Intangibles had not yet become
fully amortized totaled $14,688,000 at December 31, 2009 ($142,976,000 at
December 31, 2008 with respect to properties where the related Tenant
Intangibles had not yet become fully amortized).

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December
31, 2009

Amortization
expense of $5,530,000, $51,158,000 and $247,844,000 was recorded for our Tenant
Intangibles for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.  Also during the year ended December 31, 2009, we
recorded an impairment charge of $8,205,000, reflected under “discontinued
operations” on our consolidated statement of income, in connection with an
eminent domain proceeding at one of our facilities.

We also
have an intangible asset representing the value of the “Shurgard” trade name,
which is used by Shurgard Europe pursuant to a licensing agreement, with a book
value of $18,824,000 at December 31, 2009 and 2008.  The Shurgard
trade name has an indefinite life and, accordingly, we do not amortize this
asset but instead analyze it on an annual basis for impairment.  No
impairments have been noted from any of our annual evaluations.

Evaluation of Asset
Impairment

We
evaluate our real estate and intangibles for impairment on a quarterly
basis.  We first evaluate these assets for indicators of impairment,
and if any indicators of impairment are noted, we determine whether the carrying
value of such assets is in excess of the future estimated undiscounted cash
flows attributable to these assets.  If there is excess carrying value
over such future undiscounted cash flows, an impairment charge is booked for the
excess of carrying value over the assets’ estimated fair value.  Any
long-lived assets which we expect to sell or otherwise dispose of prior to their
estimated useful life are stated at the lower of their estimated net realizable
value (estimated fair value less cost to sell) or their carrying
value.  No impairment was identified from our evaluations in any
periods presented in the accompanying consolidated financial statements, other
than the impairment totaling $8,205,000 described above with respect to Tenant
Intangibles which impairment was recorded in 2009.

We
evaluate impairment of goodwill annually by comparing the aggregate book value
(including goodwill) of each reporting unit to their respective estimated fair
value.  No impairment of our goodwill was identified in our annual
evaluation at December 31, 2009.

Revenue and Expense
Recognition

Rental
income, which is generally earned pursuant to month-to-month leases for storage
space, as well as late charges and administrative fees, are recognized as
earned.  Promotional discounts are recognized as a reduction to rental
income over the promotional period, which is generally during the first month of
occupancy.  Ancillary revenues and interest and other income are
recognized when earned.  Equity in earnings of real estate entities is
recognized based on our ownership interest in the earnings of each of the
Unconsolidated Entities.

We accrue
for property tax expense based upon actual amounts billed for the related time
periods and, in some circumstances due to taxing authority assessment and
billing timing and disputes of assessed amounts, estimates and historical
trends.  If these estimates are incorrect, the timing and amount of
expense recognition could be affected.  Cost of operations, general
and administrative expense, interest expense, as well as television, yellow
page, and other advertising expenditures are expensed as
incurred.  Casualty losses or gains are recognized in the period the
casualty occurs, based upon the differential between the book value of assets
destroyed and estimated insurance proceeds, if any, that we expect to receive in
accordance with our insurance contracts.

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December
31, 2009

Foreign Currency Exchange
Translation

The local
currency is the functional currency for the foreign operations for which we have
an interest.  Assets and liabilities included on our consolidated
balance sheets, including our equity investment in, and our loan receivable
from, Shurgard Europe, are translated at end-of-period exchange rates, while
revenues, expenses, and equity in earnings in the related real estate entities,
are translated at the average exchange rates in effect during the
period.  The Euro, which represents the functional currency used by a
majority of the foreign operations for which we have an interest, was translated
at an end-of-period exchange rate of approximately 1.433 U.S. Dollars per Euro
at December 31, 2009 (1.409 at December 31, 2008), and average exchange
rates of 1.393, 1.470 and 1.370 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and
2007, respectively.  Equity is translated at historical rates and the
resulting cumulative translation adjustments, to the extent not included in net
income, are included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss) until the translation adjustments are realized.  See “Other
Comprehensive Income” below for further information regarding our foreign
currency translation gains and losses.

Fair Value
Accounting

In 2006,
the FASB clarified in accounting pronouncements that “fair value” as the term is
used in GAAP is an exit price, representing the amount that would be received to
sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between
market participants, and established a three-tier fair value hierarchy, which
prioritizes the inputs used in measuring fair value.  The Company
adopted the provisions of these revised accounting pronouncements on
January 1, 2008 with respect to financial assets and liabilities and on
January 1, 2009 with respect to non-financial assets and
liabilities.  The adoption of these provisions had no effect on our
financial position, operating results or cash flows.  See “Loan
Receivable from Shurgard Europe” below and “Financial Instruments” above, as
well as “Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests in Subsidiaries” and “Other
Permanent Noncontrolling Interests in Subsidiaries” in Note 7 for information
regarding our fair value measurements.

Loan Receivable from
Shurgard Europe

As of
December 31, 2009, we had a €391.9 million loan receivable from Shurgard Europe
totaling $561,703,000 ($552,361,000 at December 31, 2008).  The loan,
as amended, bears interest at a fixed rate of 9.0% per annum and matures March
31, 2013.  Prior to being amended on October 31, 2009, the loan bore
interest at a fixed rate of 7.5% per annum and matured on March 31,
2010.  All other material terms and conditions remained the
same.

As of
December 31, 2009, we have a commitment to provide additional loans, up to
€185 million ($265.2 million at December 31, 2009), to Shurgard Europe to
assist in financing an acquisition of its joint venture partners’ interest in
affiliated two joint ventures.  Shurgard Europe has no obligation to
acquire these interests, and the acquisition of these interests is contingent on
a number of items, including whether we assent to the
acquisition.  Our commitment expires on March 31, 2010 and any
borrowings under this commitment will have the same terms and conditions as the
existing outstanding loan, as amended.

The loan
is denominated in Euros and is converted to U.S. Dollars for financial statement
purposes.  During each applicable period, because we have expected
repayment of the loan within two years of each respective balance sheet date, we
have recognized foreign exchange rate gains or losses in income as a result of
changes in exchange rates between the Euro and the U.S. Dollar.

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December
31, 2009

For the
years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, we recorded interest income of
approximately $24,013,000 and $17,859,000, respectively, related to the
loan.  These amounts reflect 51% of the aggregate interest on the
loans, with the other 49%, reflecting our ownership interest in Shurgard Europe,
classified as equity in earnings of real estate entities.  Loan fees
collected from Shurgard Europe are amortized on a straight-line basis as
interest income over the applicable term to which the fee applies.

Although
there can be no assurance, we believe that Shurgard Europe has sufficient
liquidity and collateral, and we have sufficient creditor rights, such that
credit risk is minimal.  In addition, we believe the interest rate on
the loan approximates the market rate for loans with similar credit
characteristics and tenor, and that the carrying value of the loan approximates
fair value. The characteristics of the loan and comparative metrics utilized in
our evaluation represent significant unobservable inputs, which are “Level 3”
inputs as the term is utilized in FASB Codification
Section 820-10-35-52.

Other Comprehensive
Income

Other
comprehensive income consists of foreign currency translation adjustments that
are not already recognized in our net income.  Other comprehensive
income is reflected as an adjustment to “Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income”
in the equity section of our consolidated balance sheet, and is added to our net
income in determining total comprehensive income for the period as reflected in
the following table:

For
      the Year Ended December 31,




(Amounts
      in thousands)

Net
      income

$

790,456

$

973,872

$

487,078

Other
      comprehensive income (loss):

Aggregate
      foreign currency translation adjustments for the period

26,591

(69,504

)

89,180

Less:
      foreign currency translation adjustments recognized during the period and
      reflected in “Gain (loss) on disposition of real estate
      investments”

-

(37,854

)

-

Less:
      foreign currency translation adjustments reflected in net income as
      “Foreign currency (gain) loss”

(9,662

)

25,362

(58,444

)

Other
      comprehensive income (loss) income for the period

16,929

(81,996

)

30,736

Total
      comprehensive income

$

807,385

$

891,876

$

517,814

Discontinued
Operations

Discontinued
operations reflect those operations that have or will soon be eliminated from
the ongoing operations of the Company pursuant to a plan.  We
segregate all of our discontinued operations that can be distinguished from the
rest of the Company and reclassify all historical revenues and expenses of
discontinued operations, for all periods, into “discontinued
operations”.

During
2009, we discontinued our truck rental and our containerized storage
operations.  We also disposed of real estate facilities in 2009 and in
2007.  In addition to the historical revenues and expenses of these
operations,  discontinued operations includes $3,500,000 in truck
disposal expenses for the truck operations in 2009, gains on the sale of real
estate facilities totaling $6,018,000 and $4,336,000, respectively, in 2009 and
2007, as well as an $8,205,000 impairment charge on intangible assets incurred
at a discontinued facility in 2009.

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December
31, 2009

Net Income per Common
Share

We first
allocate net income to our noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries (Note 7) and
preferred shareholders to arrive at net income allocable to our common
shareholders and Equity Shares, Series A.  Net income allocated to
preferred shareholders or noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries includes any
excess of the cash required to redeem any preferred securities in the period
over the net proceeds from the original issuance of the securities (or, if
securities are redeemed for less than the original issuance proceeds, income
allocated to the holders of the redeemed securities is reduced).

The
remaining net income is allocated among our regular common shares, restricted
share units, and our Equity Shares, Series A based upon the dividends declared
(or accumulated) for each security in the period, combined with each security’s
participation rights in undistributed earnings.

Net
income allocated to our regular common shares from continuing operations is
computed by eliminating the net income or loss from discontinued operations
allocable to our regular common shares, from net income allocated to our regular
common shares.

Basic net
income per share, basic net income (loss) from discontinued operations per
share, and basic net income from continuing operations per share are computed
using the weighted average common shares outstanding.  Diluted net
income per share, diluted net income (loss) from discontinued operations per
share, and diluted net income from continuing operations per share are computed
using the weighted average common shares outstanding, adjusted for the impact,
if dilutive, of stock options outstanding (Note 10).

The
following table reflects the components of the calculations of our basic and
diluted net income per share, basic and diluted net loss from discontinued
operations per share, and basic and diluted net income from continuing
operations per share which are not already otherwise set forth on the face of
our consolidated statements of income:

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December
31, 2009

3.

Disposition of an
      Interest in Shurgard Europe

On March
31, 2008, an institutional investor acquired a 51% interest in Shurgard European
Holdings LLC (“Shurgard Holdings”), a newly formed Delaware limited liability
company and the holding company for Shurgard Europe.  We own the
remaining 49% interest and are the managing member of Shurgard
Holdings.

Our net
proceeds from the transaction aggregated $609,059,000, comprised of $613,201,000
paid by the institutional investor less $4,142,000 in legal, accounting, and
other expenses incurred in connection with the transaction.  As a
result of the disposition, we reduced our investment in Shurgard Europe by
approximately $302,228,000 for the pro rata portion of our March 31, 2008
investment that was sold, and a total of  $344,685,000 was reflected
on our consolidated statement of income as “gains on disposition of real estate
investments, net,” representing  i) the difference between the net
proceeds received of $609,059,000 and the pro rata portion of our investment
sold of $302,228,000, and ii) the realization of $37,854,000 in foreign exchange
gains, representing 51% (the pro rata portion of Shurgard Europe that was sold)
in cumulative foreign exchange gains for Shurgard Europe previously recognized
in Other Comprehensive Income.

The
results of operations of Shurgard Europe have been included in our consolidated
statements of income for the year ended December 31, 2007 and the three months
ended March 31, 2008.  Commencing on April 1, 2008, our pro rata share
of operations of Shurgard Europe is reflected on our consolidated statement of
income under equity in earnings of real estate entities.

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December
31, 2009

4.

Real Estate
      Facilities

Activity
in real estate facilities during 2009, 2008 and 2007 is as follows:




(Amounts
      in thousands)

Operating
      facilities, at cost:

Beginning
      balance

$

10,207,022

$

11,658,807

$

11,261,865

Capital
      improvements

62,352

76,311

69,102

Acquisition
      of real estate
      facilities

-

52,932

71,258

Newly
      developed facilities opened for operations

30,978

93,416

156,751

Consolidation
      of real estate
      entities

-

-

14,604

Deconsolidation
      of real estate
      entities

-

-

(42,473

)

Disposition
      of an interest in Shurgard Europe (Note 3)

-

(1,766,122

)

-

Disposition
      of real estate
      facilities

(9,419

)

(1,522

)

(4,202

)

Impact
      of foreign exchange rate
      changes

2,022

93,200

131,902

Ending
      balance

10,292,955

10,207,022

11,658,807

Accumulated
      depreciation:

Beginning
      balance

(2,405,473

)

(2,128,225

)

(1,754,362

)

Depreciation
      expense

(332,431

)

(347,895

)

(371,665

)

Disposition
      of an interest in Shurgard Europe (Note 3)

-

72,598

-

Deconsolidation
      of real estate
      entities

-

-

1,064

Disposition
      of real estate
      facilities

4,033


1,184

Impact
      of foreign exchange rate
      changes

(578

)

(2,279

)

(4,446

)

Ending
      balance

(2,734,449

)

(2,405,473

)

(2,128,225

)

Construction
      in process:

Beginning
      balance

20,340

51,972

83,900

Current
      development

14,165

74,611

122,320

Newly
      developed facilities opened for operation

(30,978

)

(93,416

)

(156,751

)

Disposition
      of an interest in Shurgard Europe (Note 3)

-

(10,886

)

-

Write
      off of development
      costs

-

(2,898

)

(2,120

)

Impact
      of foreign exchange rate
      changes

-


4,623

Ending
      balance

3,527

20,340

51,972

Total
      real estate facilities at December
      31,

$

7,562,033

$

7,821,889

$

9,582,554

During
2009, we completed one newly developed facility and various expansion projects
to existing facilities at an aggregate cost of $30,978,000.  During
2009, we sold an existing real estate facility as well as disposed of a portion
of certain real estate facilities primarily in connection with condemnation
proceedings, for aggregate cash proceeds totaling $11,596,000 and an other asset
valued at $2,941,000.  We recorded an aggregate gain of approximately
$9,151,000, of which $6,018,000 is included in discontinued operations and
$3,133,000 is included in “gains on disposition of real estate investments,
net.”

During
2008, we completed two newly developed facilities at a total cost of
$13,431,000, as well as various expansion projects at a total cost of
$46,522,000.  During the first quarter of 2008, prior to its
deconsolidation, Shurgard Europe opened real estate facilities at a total cost
of $33,463,000.  During 2008, we acquired four self-storage facilities
in the U.S. from third parties, and three facilities previously owned by the
unconsolidated entities, for an aggregate cost of $55,957,000, consisting of
$43,569,000 in cash, $2,138,000 in existing investments, and assumed mortgage
debt totaling $10,250,000.  The aggregate cost was allocated
$52,932,000 to real estate facilities and $3,025,000 to intangibles, based upon
the estimated relative fair values of the land, buildings and
intangibles.  During 2008, we received net proceeds from partial
facility disposals as a result of condemnation proceedings, totaling $2,227,000,
and recorded a gain on disposition of $1,283,000.  In addition,
$250,000, representing the book value of assets destroyed, was included in the
income statement line-item “casualty loss” during 2008.

During
2007, we completed three development and various expansion projects in the U.S.
at a total cost of $66,676,000.  Also in 2007, we completed nine
development projects in Europe at a total cost of $90,075,000.  During
2007, we acquired seven self-storage facilities in the U.S. from third parties
for an aggregate cost of $72,787,000, in cash; $71,258,000 was allocated to real
estate facilities and $1,529,000 was allocated to intangibles, based upon the
estimated relative fair values of the land, buildings and
intangibles.  During 2007, we received net proceeds from partial and
complete facility disposals as a result of condemnation proceedings, totaling
$8,708,000, and recorded a gain on disposition of $5,690,000, of which
$4,336,000 in such gains were included in discontinued operations.

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December
31, 2009

At
December 31, 2009, the adjusted basis of real estate facilities for federal tax
purposes was approximately $7.3 billion (unaudited).

5.

Investments in Real
      Estate Entities

The
following table sets forth our investments in the real estate entities at
December 31, 2009 and 2008, and our equity in earnings of real estate entities
for each of the three years ended December 31, 2009 (amounts in
thousands):

Investments
      in Real Estate Entities at December 31,

Equity
      in Earnings of Real Estate Entities for the Year Ended December
      31,






PSB

$

326,145

$

265,650

$

35,108

$

14,325

$

10,502

Shurgard
      Europe

272,345

264,145

16,269

4,134

-

Other
      Investments

13,826

14,803

1,867

1,932

2,236

Total

$

612,316

$

544,598

$

53,244

$

20,391

$

12,738

Included
in equity in earnings of real estate entities for the year ended December 31,
2009 is $16,284,000, representing our share of the earnings allocated from PSB’s
preferred shareholders, as a result of PSB’s repurchases of preferred stock and
preferred units for amounts that were less than the related book value, during
the period.  During 2008, we disposed of one of the Other Investments
in exchange for another asset valued at $5,300,000, and recorded a loss of
disposition of real estate investments for a total of $9,423,000.

During
the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, we received cash distributions
from our investments in real estate entities totaling $49,408,000, $43,455,000
and $23,606,000, respectively.

During
2009, in addition to the impact of earnings recognized and cash distributions
received, our investments in real estate entities increased by $63,882,000 due
to (i) $15,764,000 in foreign currency translation adjustments, (ii) $17,825,000
representing our acquisition of an additional 383,333 shares of PSB common
stock, and (iii) $30,293,000 presented in “gains on disposition of real estate
investments, net” in connection with PSB’s sale of common stock in a public
offering described below in “Investment in PSB.”

Investment in
PSB

PSB is a
REIT traded on the New York Stock Exchange, which controls an operating
partnership (collectively, the REIT and the operating partnership are referred
to as “PSB”).  We have a 41% common equity interest in PSB as of
December 31, 2009 (46% as of December 31, 2008), comprised of our ownership of
5,801,606 shares of PSB’s common stock and 7,305,355 limited partnership units
in the operating partnership (5,418,273 shares of PSB’s common stock and
7,305,355 limited partnership units at December 31, 2008).  The
limited partnership units are convertible at our option, subject to certain
conditions, on a one-for-one basis into PSB common stock.  Based upon
the closing price at December 31, 2009 ($50.05 per share of PSB common
stock), the shares and units had a market value of approximately
$656.0 million as compared to a book value of $326.1 million.  We
account for our investment in PSB using the equity method.

During
the year ended December 31, 2009, PSB sold 3,450,000 shares of its common stock
in a public offering for net proceeds of $153.6 million.  In
accordance with FASB ASC Topic 323, Investments – Equity Method and Joint
Ventures, we recognized a gain totaling $30,293,000 on the share issuance by
PSB, as if we had sold a proportionate share of our investment in
PSB.

Concurrent
with the public offering, we purchased an additional 383,333 shares of PSB
common stock from PSB at the same price per share as the public offering for a
total cost of $17,825,000.

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December
31, 2009

The
following table sets forth selected financial information of PSB; the amounts
represent 100% of PSB’s balances and not our pro-rata share.




(Amounts
      in thousands)

For the year ended December

,

Total
      revenue

$

271,655

$

281,843

$

269,298

Costs
      of operations and general and administrative expense

(92,114

)

(95,281

)

(91,162

)

Depreciation
      and amortization

(84,504

)

(99,317

)

(97,998

)

Other
      items

(698

)

(1,898

)

1,537

Net
      income

$

94,339

$

85,347

$

81,675

As of December 31

,

Total
      assets (primarily real estate)

$

1,564,822

$

1,469,323

Debt

52,887

59,308

Other
      liabilities

46,298

46,428

Preferred
      stock and units

699,464

801,000

Common
      equity

766,173

562,587

Investment in Shurgard
Europe

At
December 31, 2009, we had a 49% equity investment in Shurgard
Europe.  As a result of our disposition of an interest in Shurgard
Europe, we deconsolidated Shurgard Europe effective March 31, 2008 (see
Note 3) and subsequently account for our investment in Shurgard Europe using the
equity method.

For the
years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, we recorded an aggregate of $16,269,000
and $4,134,000, respectively, in equity in earnings of Shurgard
Europe.  During the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, our
investment in Shurgard Europe increased by approximately $15,764,000 and
decreased by $63,495,000, respectively, due to the impact of changes in foreign
currency exchange rates.

The
following table sets forth selected financial information of Shurgard
Europe.  These amounts are based upon 100% of Shurgard Europe’s
balances, rather than our pro rata share, and are based upon our historical
acquired book basis.

Amounts
for all periods are presented, notwithstanding that Shurgard Europe was
deconsolidated effective March 31, 2008.  Accordingly, only the
amounts (net of intercompany eliminations) prior to April 1, 2008 are included
in our consolidated financial statements.

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December
31, 2009




(Amounts
      in thousands)

For the year ended December

,

Self-storage
      and ancillary revenues

$

225,777

$

238,842

$

209,997

Interest
      and other income (expense)


1,192


Self-storage
      and ancillary cost of operations

(100,135

)

(102,658

)

(96,875

)

Trademark
      license fee payable to Public Storage

(1,606

)

(1,894

)

-

Depreciation
      and amortization

(59,926

)

(93,915

)

(123,546

)

General
      and administrative

(9,966

)

(16,098

)

(20,291

)

Interest
      expense on third party debt

(15,557

)

(23,937

)

(22,242

)

Interest
      expense on loan payable to Public Storage

(47,084

)

(45,528

)

(38,733

)

Income
      (expenses) from foreign currency exchange


(4,214

)


Discontinued
      operations


(131

)

(1,081

)

Net
      loss
      (a)

$

(7,238

)

$

(48,341

)

$

(91,781

)

As of December 31

,

Total
      assets (primarily self-storage facilities)

$

1,629,457

$

1,615,370

Total
      debt to third parties

328,510

362,352

Total
      debt to Public Storage

561,703

552,361

Other
      liabilities

75,074

82,247

Equity

664,170

618,410

(a)

During
      the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, approximately
      $8,250,000 in net income and $10,217,000 and $9,387,000 in net loss,
      respectively, was allocated to permanent noncontrolling equity interests
      in subsidiaries, of which $9,931,000, $12,752,000 and $11,513,000,
      respectively, represented depreciation and amortization
      expense.

Our
equity in earnings from our investment in Shurgard Europe for the years ended
December 31, 2009 and 2008, totaling $16,269,000 and $4,134,000,
respectively, are comprised of (i) losses of $7,589,000 and $13,640,000,
respectively, representing our 49% pro-rata share of Shurgard Europe’s net loss
for the respective periods and (ii) income of $23,858,000 and $17,774,000,
respectively, representing our 49% pro-rata share of the interest income and
trademark license fees received from Shurgard Europe for the respective periods
(such amounts are presented as equity in earnings of real estate entities rather
than interest and other income).

Other
Investments

At
December 31, 2009, the “Other Investments” include an aggregate common equity
ownership of approximately 24% in entities that collectively own 19 self-storage
facilities.  We account for our investments in these entities using
the equity method.

The
following table sets forth certain condensed financial information (representing
100% of these entities’ balances and not our pro-rata share) with respect to the
Other Investments’ 19 facilities that we have an interest in at
December 31, 2009:




(Amounts
      in thousands)

For the year ended December

,

Total
      revenue

$

16,641

$

17,154

$

16,421

Cost
      of operations and other expenses

(6,075

)

(6,159

)

(6,173

)

Depreciation
      and amortization

(2,103

)

(2,023

)

(1,890

)

Net
income

$

8,463

$

8,972

$

8,358

As of December 31,

Total
      assets (primarily self-storage facilities)

$

37,386

$

40,168

Total
      accrued and other liabilities



Total
      Partners’ equity

36,510

39,280

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December
31, 2009

6.

Line of Credit and
      Notes Payable

At
December 31, 2009, we have a revolving credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”)
which expires on March 27, 2012, with an aggregate limit with respect to
borrowings and letters of credit of $300 million.  Amounts drawn on
the Credit Agreement bear an annual interest rate ranging from the London
Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) plus 0.35% to LIBOR plus 1.00% depending on our
credit ratings (LIBOR plus 0.35% at December 31, 2009).  In addition,
we are required to pay a quarterly facility fee ranging from 0.10% per annum to
0.25% per annum depending on our credit ratings (0.10% per annum at
December 31, 2009).  We had no outstanding borrowings on our
Credit Agreement at December 31, 2009 or at February 26, 2010.  At
December 31, 2009, we had undrawn standby letters of credit, which reduce our
borrowing capability with respect to our line of credit by the amount of the
letters of credit, totaling $18,270,000 ($17,736,000 at December 31,
2008).

The
carrying amounts of our notes payable at December 31, 2009 and 2008 consist of
the following (dollar amounts in thousands):

Substantially
all of our debt was acquired in connection with a property or other acquisition,
and in such cases an initial premium or discount is established for any
difference between the stated note balance and estimated fair
value.  This initial premium or discount is amortized over the
remaining term of the notes using the effective interest
method.  Estimated fair values are based upon discounting the future
cash flows under each respective note at an interest rate that approximates
those of loans with similar credit characteristics and term to
maturity.  These inputs for fair value represent significant
unobservable inputs, which are “Level 3” inputs as the term is defined in
the Codification.

On
February 12, 2009, we acquired $110,223,000 face amount ($113,736,000 book
value) of our existing unsecured notes pursuant to a tender offer for an
aggregate of $109,622,000 in cash (including costs associated with the tender of
$414,000) plus accrued interest.  In connection with this transaction,
we recognized a gain of $4,114,000 for the year ended December 31, 2009,
representing the difference between the book value of $113,736,000 and the
retirement amount paid plus tender offer costs.

Our notes
payable and our Credit Agreement each have various customary restrictive
covenants, all of which have been met at December 31, 2009.

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December
31, 2009

At
December 31, 2009, approximate principal maturities of our notes payable are as
follows (amounts in thousands):

Unsecured

Notes
      Payable

Secured
      Notes Payable

Total


$

1,673

$

11,037

$

12,710


103,533

27,819

131,352


-

55,575

55,575


186,460

64,961

251,421


-

25,400

25,400

Thereafter

-

42,431

42,431

$

291,666

$

227,223

$

518,889

Weighted
      average effective rate

5.8

%

5.5

%

5.7

%

We
incurred interest expense (including interest capitalized as real estate
totaling $718,000, $1,998,000 and $4,746,000, respectively for the years ended
December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007) with respect to our notes payable, capital
leases, debt to joint venture partner and line of credit aggregating
$30,634,000, $45,942,000 and $68,417,000 for the years ended December 31, 2009,
2008 and 2007, respectively.  These amounts were comprised of
$34,316,000, $50,977,000 and $73,278,000 in cash paid for the years ended
December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, less $3,682,000, $5,035,000 and
$4,861,000 in amortization of premium, respectively.

7.

Noncontrolling
      Interests in Subsidiaries

In
consolidation, we classify ownership interests in the net assets of each of the
Subsidiaries, other than our own, as “noncontrolling interests in
subsidiaries.”  Interests that have the ability to require us, except
in an entity liquidation, to redeem the underlying securities for cash, assets,
or other securities that would not also be classified as equity are presented on
our balance sheet outside of equity.  At the end of each reporting
period, if the book value is less than the estimated amount to be paid upon a
redemption occurring on the related balance sheet date, these interests are
increased to adjust to their estimated liquidation value (which approximates
fair value), with the offset against retained earnings.  All other
noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries are presented as a component of equity,
“permanent noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries.”

Redeemable Noncontrolling
Interests in Subsidiaries

At
December 31, 2009, the Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests in Subsidiaries
represent equity interests in three entities that own in aggregate 14
self-storage facilities.  During the years ended December 31,
2009 and 2008, these interests were increased by $1,392,000 and $6,469,000,
respectively, to adjust to their estimated liquidation value (which approximates
fair value).  We estimate the amount to be paid upon redemption of
these interests by applying the related provisions of the governing documents to
our estimate of the fair value of the underlying net assets (principally real
estate assets).

During
the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, we allocated a total of
$993,000, $1,083,000 and $800,000, respectively, of income to these
interests.  During the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
we paid distributions to these interests totaling $1,290,000, $1,335,000 and
$1,092,000, respectively.

During
2009, we acquired for $750,000, a portion of our partner’s interest in certain
of our other redeemable noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries, in connection
with the exercise of our partner’s redemption option.  The $750,000
represents the fair value of the redemption amount.

Permanent Noncontrolling
Interests in Subsidiaries

At
December 31, 2009, the Permanent Noncontrolling Interests in Subsidiaries
represent (i) equity interests in 28 entities that own an aggregate of 94
self-storage facilities (the “Other Permanent Noncontrolling Interests in
Subsidiaries”) and (ii) preferred partnership units (the “Preferred Partnership
Interests”).  These interests are presented as equity because the
holders of the interests do not have the ability to require us to redeem them
for cash or other assets, or other securities that would not also be classified
as equity.

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December
31, 2009

Other Permanent
Noncontrolling Interests in Subsidiaries

The total
carrying amount of the Other Permanent Noncontrolling Interests in Subsidiaries
was $32,974,000 at December 31, 2009 ($33,109,000 at December 31,
2008).  During the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, we
allocated a total of $17,387,000, $16,001,000 and $7,131,000, respectively, in
income to these interests.

During
the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, we paid distributions to these
interests totaling $17,522,000, $16,381,000 and $18,955,000,
respectively.

In 2007,
we sold an approximately 0.6% common equity interest in Shurgard Europe to
various officers of the Company (the “PS Officers”), other than our chief
executive officer.  Gross proceeds were $4,909,000 and we recorded a
gain on disposition of $1,194,000.  For periods commencing from the
sale of the interest through March 31, 2008, the PS Officers’ were
allocated their pro rata share of the earnings of Shurgard Europe, and this was
included on our consolidated statements of income as “Net income allocated (to)
from noncontrolling equity interests.”  As described in Note 3,
on March 31, 2008, we deconsolidated Shurgard Europe and, as a result,
noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries with respect to the PS Officers’
investment was eliminated.  See Note 5 under “Investment in Shurgard
Europe” for further historical information regarding Shurgard
Europe.

Preferred Partnership
Interests

At
December 31, 2009, our preferred partnership units outstanding were comprised of
4,000,000 units of our 7.250% Series J preferred units ($100,000,000 carrying
amount, redeemable May 9, 2011).  Subject to certain conditions, the
Series J preferred units are convertible into our 7.25% Series J Cumulative
Preferred Shares.

At
December 31, 2008, our preferred partnership units outstanding were comprised of
8,000,000 units of our 6.400% Series NN ($200,000,000 carrying amount,
redeemable March 17, 2010), 1,000,000 units of our 6.250% Series Z ($25,000,000
carrying amount, redeemable October 12, 2009), and 4,000,000 units of our 7.250%
Series J ($100,000,000 carrying amount, redeemable May 9, 2011) preferred
partnership units.

In March
2009, we acquired all of the 6.40% Series NN preferred partnership units from a
third party ($200.0 million carrying amount) for approximately $128.0
million.  This transaction resulted in an increase in paid-in capital
of approximately $72.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, and an
allocation of $72.0 million in income from these interests in determining net
income allocable to Public Storage shareholders

based, upon the excess of
the carrying amount over the amount paid.

Also in
March 2009, we acquired all of the 6.25% Series Z preferred partnership units
from a third party ($25.0 million carrying amount) for $25.0
million.  This resulted in no increase in income allocated to the
common shareholders as they were acquired at par.

During
the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, we allocated a total of
$9,455,000, $21,612,000 and $21,612,000, respectively, in income to these
interests based upon distributions paid.

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December
31, 2009

8.

Shareholders’
      Equity

Cumulative Preferred
Shares

At
December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had the following series of Cumulative Preferred
Shares of beneficial interest outstanding:

At
      December 31, 2009

At
      December 31, 2008

Series

Earliest
      Redemption

Date

Dividend
      Rate

Shares
      Outstanding

Liquidation
      Preference

Shares
      Outstanding

Liquidation
      Preference

(Dollar
      amounts in thousands)

Series
      V

9/30/07

7.500

%

6,200

$

155,000

6,900

$

172,500

Series
      W

10/6/08

6.500

%

5,300

132,500

5,300

132,500

Series
      X

11/13/08

6.450

%

4,800

120,000

4,800

120,000

Series
      Y

1/2/09

6.850

%

750,900

18,772

750,900

18,772

Series
      Z

3/5/09

6.250

%

4,500

112,500

4,500

112,500

Series
      A

3/31/09

6.125

%

4,600

115,000

4,600

115,000

Series
      B

6/30/09

7.125

%

4,350

108,750

4,350

108,750

Series
      C

9/13/09

6.600

%

4,425

110,625

4,600

115,000

Series
      D

2/28/10

6.180

%

5,400

135,000

5,400

135,000

Series
      E

4/27/10

6.750

%

5,650

141,250

5,650

141,250

Series
      F

8/23/10

6.450

%

9,893

247,325

10,000

250,000

Series
      G

12/12/10

7.000

%

4,000

100,000

4,000

100,000

Series
      H

1/19/11

6.950

%

4,200

105,000

4,200

105,000

Series
      I

5/3/11

7.250

%

20,700

517,500

20,700

517,500

Series
      K

8/8/11

7.250

%

16,990

424,756

16,990

424,756

Series
      L

10/20/11

6.750

%

8,267

206,665

8,267

206,665

Series
      M

1/9/12

6.625

%

19,065

476,634

19,065

476,634

Series
      N

7/2/12

7.000

%

6,900

172,500

6,900

172,500

Total
      Cumulative Preferred Shares

886,140

$

3,399,777

887,122

$

3,424,327

The
holders of our Cumulative Preferred Shares have general preference rights with
respect to liquidation and quarterly distributions.  Holders of the
preferred shares, except under certain conditions and as noted below, will not
be entitled to vote on most matters.  In the event of a cumulative
arrearage equal to six quarterly dividends, holders of all outstanding series of
preferred shares (voting as a single class without regard to series) will have
the right to elect two additional members to serve on our Board of Trustees
until events of default have been cured.  At December 31, 2009, there
were no dividends in arrears.

Except
under certain conditions relating to the Company’s qualification as a REIT, the
Cumulative Preferred Shares are not redeemable prior the dates indicated on the
table above.  On or after the respective dates, each of the series of
Cumulative Preferred Shares will be redeemable, at the option of the Company, in
whole or in part, at $25.00 per share (or depositary share as the case may be),
plus accrued and unpaid dividends.  Holders of the Cumulative
Preferred Shares do not have the right to require the Company to redeem such
shares.

Upon
issuance of our Cumulative Preferred Shares of beneficial interest, we classify
the liquidation value as preferred equity on our consolidated balance sheet with
any issuance costs recorded as a reduction to paid-in capital.

During
March 2009, we repurchased certain of our Cumulative Preferred Shares in
privately negotiated transactions as follows: Series V – 700,000 depositary
shares, each representing 1/1,000 of a share of our Cumulative Preferred Shares
at a total cost of $13,230,000, Series C – 175,000 depositary shares, each
representing 1/1,000 of a share of our Cumulative Preferred Shares at a total
cost of $2,695,000 and Series F – 107,000 depositary shares, each representing
1/1,000 of a share of our Cumulative Preferred Shares at a total cost of
$1,610,000.  The carrying value of the shares repurchased totaled
$23.8 million ($24.6 million liquidation preference less $0.8 million of
original issuance costs), and exceeded the aggregate repurchase cost of $17.5
million by approximately $6.2 million.  For purposes of
determining net income per share, income allocated to our preferred shareholders
was reduced by the $6.2 million for the year ended December 31,
2009.

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December
31, 2009

During
November and December 2008, we repurchased certain of our Cumulative Preferred
Shares in privately negotiated transactions as follows: Series Y – 849,100
Preferred Shares at a total cost of $14,091,000, Series K – 1,409,756 depositary
shares, each representing 1/1,000 of a share of our Cumulative Preferred Shares
at a total cost of $23,786,000, Series L – 933,400 depositary shares, each
representing 1/1,000 of a share of our Cumulative Preferred Shares at a total
cost of $14,626,000 and Series M – 934,647 depositary shares, each
representing 1/1,000 of a share of our Cumulative Preferred Shares at a total
cost of $14,375,000.  The carrying value of the shares repurchased
totaled $100.8 million ($103.2 million liquidation preference less $2.4 million
of original issuance costs) exceeded the aggregate repurchase cost of $66.9
million by approximately $33.9 million.  For purposes of determining
net income per share, income allocated to our preferred shareholders was reduced
by the $33.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2008.

During
2007, we issued two series of Cumulative Preferred Shares:  Series M –
issued January 9, 2007, net proceeds totaling $484,767,000 and Series N – issued
July 2, 2007, net proceeds totaling $167,125,000.

In
December 2006, we called for redemption our Series T and Series U Cumulative
Preferred Shares, at par.  The aggregated redemption value of
$302,150,000 of these two series was repaid in January 2007.

Equity Shares, Series
A

At
December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had 8,377,193 depositary shares outstanding, each
representing 1/1,000 of an Equity Share, Series A.  The Equity Shares,
Series A rank on parity with our common shares and junior to the Cumulative
Preferred Shares with respect to general preference rights and have a
liquidation amount which cannot exceed $24.50 per
share.  Distributions with respect to each depositary share shall be
the lesser of:  (i) five times the per share dividend on our common
shares or (ii) $2.45 per annum.  We have no obligation to pay
distributions on the depositary shares if no distributions are paid to common
shareholders.  During the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and
2007, we paid quarterly distributions to the holders of the Equity Shares,
Series A of $0.6125 per share for each of the quarters ended March 31,
June 30, September 30 and December 31.

Except in
order to preserve the Company’s Federal income tax status as a REIT, we may not
redeem the depositary shares representing the Equity Shares, Series A before
March 31, 2010.  On or after March 31, 2010, we may, at our option,
redeem the depositary shares at $24.50 per depositary share.  If the
Company fails to preserve its Federal income tax status as a REIT, each of the
depositary shares will be convertible at the option of the shareholder into .956
common shares.  The depositary shares are otherwise not convertible
into common shares.  Holders of depositary shares vote as a single
class with holders of our common shares on shareholder matters, but the
depositary shares have the equivalent of one-tenth of a vote per depositary
share.

See Note
15 “Subsequent Events” for further discussion regarding the Equity Shares,
Series A.

Common
Shares

During
2009, 2008 and 2007, activity with respect to the issuance or repurchase of our
common shares was as follows:




Shares

Amount

Shares

Amount

Shares

Amount

(Dollar
      amounts in thousands)

Employee
      stock-based

compensation
      (Note 10)

125,807

$

2,192

377,453

$

10,890

278,008

$

8,457

Repurchases
      of common shares

-

-

(1,520,196

)

(111,903

)

-

-

125,807

$

2,192

(1,142,743

)

$

(101,013

)

278,008

$

8,457

Our Board
of Trustees previously authorized the repurchase from time to time of up to
35,000,000 of our common shares on the open market or in privately negotiated
transactions.  During the year ended December 31, 2009, we did not
repurchase any of our common shares.  Through December 31, 2009, we
have repurchased a total of 23,721,916 of our common shares pursuant to this
authorization.

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December
31, 2009

At
December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had 4,244,022 and 3,027,544 of common shares
reserved in connection with our share-based incentive plans, respectively, (see
Note 10) and 231,978 shares reserved for the conversion of Convertible
Partnership Units, respectively.

Equity Shares, Series
AAA

In
November 1999, we sold $100,000,000 (4,289,544 shares) of Equity Shares, Series
AAA (“Equity Shares AAA”) to a newly formed joint venture.  The Equity
Shares AAA ranks on a parity with common shares and junior to the Senior
Preferred Shares with respect to general preference rights, and has a
liquidation amount equal to 120% of the amount distributed to each common
share.  Annual distributions per share are equal to the lesser of (i)
five times the amount paid per common share or (ii) $2.1564.  We have
no obligation to pay distributions if no distributions are paid to common
shareholders.  During the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and
2007, we paid quarterly distributions to the holder of the Equity Shares, Series
AAA of $0.5391 per share for each of the quarters ended March 31, June 30,
September 30 and December 31.  For all periods presented, the Equity
Shares, Series AAA and related dividends are eliminated in consolidation as the
shares are held by a Subsidiary.

Dividends

The
unaudited characterization of dividends for Federal income tax purposes is made
based upon earnings and profits of the Company, as defined by the Internal
Revenue Code.  Common share dividends including amounts paid to our
restricted share unitholders totaled $371.7 million ($2.20 per share),
$472.8 million ($2.80 per share) and $340.0 million ($2.00 per share),
for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.  Equity Shares, Series A dividends totaled $20.5 million
($2.45 per share), $21.2 million ($2.45 per share) and $21.4 million ($2.45
per share), for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.  Preferred share dividends pay fixed rates from 6.125%
to 7.500% with a total liquidation amount of $3,399,777,000 at December 31,
2009 ($3,424,327,000 at December 31, 2008) and dividends aggregating $232.4
million, $239.7 million and $236.8 million for the years ended December 31,
2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

For the
tax year ended December 31, 2009, distributions for the common shares, Equity
Shares, Series A, and all the various series of preferred shares were classified
as follows:

      (unaudited)


st

Quarter


nd

Quarter


rd

Quarter


th

Quarter

Ordinary
      Income

100.00

%

100.00

%

98.57

%

100.00

%

Long-Term
      Capital Gain

0.00

%

0.00

%

1.43

%

0.00

%

Total

100.00

%

100.00

%

100.00

%

100.00

%

The
ordinary income dividends distributed for the tax year ended December 31, 2009
do not constitute qualified dividend income.

9.

Related Party
      Transactions

Mr.
Hughes, Public Storage’s Chairman of the Board of Trustees, and his family
(collectively the “Hughes Family”) have ownership interests in, and operate
approximately 52 self-storage facilities in Canada using the “Public Storage”
brand name (“PS Canada”) pursuant to a royalty-free trademark license agreement
with Public Storage.  We currently do not own any interests in these
facilities nor do we own any facilities in Canada.  The Hughes Family
owns approximately 17.3% of our common shares outstanding at December 31,
2009.  We have a right of first refusal to acquire the stock or assets
of the corporation that manages the 52 self-storage facilities in Canada, if the
Hughes Family or the corporation agrees to sell them.  However, we
have no interest in the operations of this corporation, we have no right to
acquire this stock or assets unless the Hughes Family decides to sell and we
receive no benefit from the profits and increases in value of the Canadian
self-storage facilities.

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December
31, 2009

We
reinsure risks relating to loss of goods stored by tenants in the self-storage
facilities in Canada.  During the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008
and 2007, we received $642,000, $768,000 and $906,000 (based upon historical
exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and Canadian Dollar in effect as the
revenues were earned), respectively, in reinsurance premiums attributable to the
Canadian facilities.  Since our right to provide tenant reinsurance to
the Canadian facilities may be qualified, there is no assurance that these
premiums will continue.

Public
Storage and Mr. Hughes are co-general partners in certain consolidated
partnerships and affiliated partnerships of Public Storage that are not
consolidated.  The Hughes Family owns 47.9% of the voting stock and
Public Storage holds 46% of the voting and 100% of the nonvoting stock
(representing substantially all the economic interest) of a private
REIT.  The private REIT owns limited partnership interests in five
affiliated partnerships.  The Hughes Family also owns limited
partnership interests in certain of these partnerships and holds securities in
PSB.  PS Canada holds approximately a 1.2% interest in Stor-RE, a
consolidated entity that provides liability and casualty insurance for PS
Canada, Public Storage and certain affiliates of Public Storage, for occurrences
prior to April 1, 2004 as described below.  Public Storage and the
Hughes Family receive distributions from these entities in accordance with the
terms of the partnership agreements or other organizational
documents.

From time
to time, the Company and the Hughes Family have acquired limited partnership
units from limited partners of the Company’s consolidated
partnerships.  In connection with the acquisition in 1998 and 1999 of
a total of 638 limited partnership units by Tamara Hughes Gustavson and H-G
Family Corp., a company owned by Hughes Family members, the Company was granted
an option to acquire the limited partnership units acquired at cost, plus
expenses.  During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company exercised
its option to acquire the units for a total purchase price of approximately
$239,000.  The transaction was approved by the independent members of
the Board of Trustees after considering that the value of the units had
appreciated significantly since 1998 and 1999 and that the exercise price for
the Company was substantially below the prices paid to acquire similar limited
partner units in third party transactions.  The acquisition was
effective January 1, 2009.

10.

Share-Based
      Compensation

Stock
Options

We have
various stock option plans (collectively referred to as the “PS
Plans”).  Under the PS Plans, the Company has granted non-qualified
options to certain trustees, officers and key employees to purchase the
Company’s common shares at a price equal to the fair market value of the common
shares at the date of grant.  Options granted after December 31, 2002
vest generally over a five-year period and expire between eight years and ten
years after the date they became exercisable.  The PS Plans also
provide for the grant of restricted shares (see below) to officers, key
employees and service providers on terms determined by an authorized committee
of our Board.

We
recognize compensation expense for stock options based upon their estimated fair
value on the date of grant amortized over the applicable vesting period (the
“Fair Value Method”), net of estimates for future forfeitures.  We
estimate the fair value of our stock options based upon the Black-Scholes option
valuation model.

Outstanding
stock options are included on a one-for-one basis in our diluted weighted
average shares, less a reduction for the treasury stock method applied to a) the
average cumulative measured but unrecognized compensation expense during the
period and b) the strike price proceeds expected from the employee upon
exercise.

The stock
options outstanding at December 31, 2009 have an aggregate intrinsic value of
approximately $62,893,000, and remaining average contractual lives of
approximately eight years. The aggregate intrinsic value of exercisable stock
options at December 31, 2009 amounted to approximately
$23,832,000.  Intrinsic value includes only those stock options whose
exercise price is less than the market value.

Additional
information with respect to stock options during 2009, 2008 and 2007 is as
follows:

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December
31, 2009




Aggregate options outstanding
      at period end

:

With
      exercise price less than $45

247,088

270,925

491,320

With
      exercise price from $45 to $65

1,758,912

388,319

447,916

With
      exercise price higher than $65

1,689,668

1,738,088

750,238

Range
      of exercise
      prices

$

23.06
      to $97.47

$

22.94
      to $97.47

$

22.94
      to $97.47

Stock
      option expense for the year

(in
      000’s)

$

3,432

$

3,038

$

1,347

Aggregate
      exercise date intrinsic value of options exercised during the
      year

(in
      000’s)

$

1,851

$

14,183

$

11,326

Assumptions
      used in valuing options with the Black-Scholes method:

Expected
      life of options in years, based upon historical experience




Risk-free
      interest
      rate

1.9

%

2.8

%

4.6

%

Expected
      volatility, based upon historical volatility

15.6

%

22.5

%

22.8

%

Expected
      dividend yield

6.7

%

7.0

%

7.0

%

Average
      estimated value of options granted during the year

$

2.05

$

7.21

$

9.46

Restricted Share
Units

Outstanding
restricted share units vest ratably over a five or eight-year period from the
date of grant.  The employee receives additional compensation equal to
the per-share dividends received by common shareholders with respect to
restricted share units outstanding.  Such compensation is accounted
for as dividends paid.  Any dividends paid on units which are
subsequently forfeited are expensed.  Upon vesting, the employee
receives common shares equal to the number of vested restricted share units in
exchange for the units.

The total
value of each restricted share unit grant, based upon the market price of our
common shares at the date of grant, is amortized over the service period, net of
estimates for future forfeitures, as compensation expense.  The
related employer portion of payroll taxes is expensed as incurred.

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December
31, 2009

Cash
compensation paid to employees in lieu of the issuance of common shares based
upon the market value of the shares at the date of vesting is used to settle the
employees’ tax liability generated by the vesting and is charged against paid in
capital.

The fair
value of restricted share units outstanding at December 31, 2009 was
approximately $44,663,000 and had a grant-date aggregate fair market value of
approximately $44,312,000.  This $44,312,000, net of expected
forfeitures, is expected to be recognized as compensation expense over the next
eight years (three years on average).  The following table sets forth
relevant information with respect to restricted shares (dollar amounts in
thousands):




Number
      Of Restricted

Share
      Units

Grant
      Date Aggregate Fair Value

Number
      Of Restricted Share Units

Grant
      Date Aggregate Fair Value

Number
      Of Restricted Share Units

Grant
      Date Aggregate Fair Value

Restricted
      share units outstanding January 1

630,212

$

53,132

608,768

$

48,578

616,470

$

43,421

Granted

112,550

7,428

234,975

19,070

187,925

18,860

Vested

(115,723

)

(8,783

)

(129,399

)

(8,576

)

(112,684

)

(6,871

)

Forfeited

(78,685

)

(7,465

)

(84,132

)

(5,940

)

(82,943

)

(6,832

)

Restricted
      share units outstanding

December

548,354

$

44,312

630,212

$

53,132

608,768

$

48,578




For
      vestings occurring during the year

(in
      000’s):

Fair
      value of vested shares on vesting date

$

7,443

$

10,307

$

10,192

Cash
      paid in lieu of common shares issued

$

3,103

$

3,591

$

3,317

Common
      shares issued upon vesting

72,643

85,144

77,215

Restricted
      share unit expense for the year

(in
      000’s)

$

9,383

$

9,553

$

7,164

Restricted
share expense includes amortization of the grant-date fair value of the units
reflected as an increase to paid-in capital, as well as payroll taxes we
incurred upon each respective vesting.

See also
“net income per common share” in Note 2 for further discussion regarding the
impact of restricted share units on our net income per common and income
allocated to common shareholders.

11.

Segment
      Information

Our
reportable segments reflect significant operating activities that are evaluated
separately by management, and are organized based upon their operating
characteristics.  Each of our segments is evaluated by management
based upon net segment income.  Net segment income represents net
income in conformity with GAAP and our significant accounting policies as
denoted in Note 2.

We had
previously grouped our Commercial Segment with other ancillary activities such
as reinsurance of policies against losses to goods stored by tenants in our
self-storage facilities, merchandise sales, truck rentals, and containerized
storage.  Due to the termination of our containerized storage and
truck rental operations, these other ancillary activities as a group have become
less significant and as a result no longer represent a reportable segment either
individually or as a group.  We have adjusted the classification of
the “Presentation of Segment Information” below with respect to prior periods to
be consistent with our current segment definition.

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December
31, 2009

Following
is the description of and basis for presentation for each of our
segments.

Domestic Self-Storage
Segment

The
Domestic Self-Storage Segment comprises our domestic self-storage rental
operations, and is our predominant segment.  It includes the
operations of the 1,991 self storage facilities owned by the Company and the
Subsidiaries, as well as our equity share of the 19 self-storage facilities that
we account for on the equity method.  None of our interest and other
income, interest expense or the related debt, general and administrative
expense, or gains and losses on the sale of self-storage facilities is allocated
to our Domestic Self-Storage segment because management does not consider these
items in evaluating the results of operations of the Domestic Self-Storage
segment.  At December 31, 2009, the assets of the Domestic
Self-Storage segment are comprised principally of our self-storage facilities
with a book value of $7.6 billion ($7.8 billion at December 31, 2008), Tenant
Intangibles with a book value of approximately $19.4 million ($33.2 million at
December 31, 2008), and the Other Investments with a net book value of $13.8
million ($14.8 million at December 31, 2008).  Substantially all of
our other assets totaling $92.9 million, and our accrued and other
liabilities totaling $212.3 million, ($109.9 million and $212.4 million,
respectively, at December 31, 2008) are directly associated with the Domestic
Self-Storage segment.

Europe Self-Storage
Segment

The
Europe Self-Storage segment comprises our interest in Shurgard Europe, which has
a separate management team that makes the financing, capital allocation, and
other significant decisions for this operation.  The Europe
Self-Storage segment presentation includes all of the revenues, expenses, and
operations of Shurgard Europe to the extent consolidated in our financial
statements, and for periods following the deconsolidation of Shurgard Europe,
includes our equity share of Shurgard Europe’s operations, the interest and
other income received from Shurgard Europe, as well as specific general and
administrative expense, disposition gains, and foreign currency exchange gains
and losses that management considers in evaluating our investment in Shurgard
Europe.  At December 31, 2009, our consolidated balance sheet includes
an investment in Shurgard Europe with a book value of $272.3 million ($264.1
million at December 31, 2008) and a loan receivable from Shurgard Europe
totaling €391.9 million ($561.7 million) ($552.4 million at
December 31, 2008).

Commercial
Segment

The
Commercial segment comprises our investment in PSB, a self-managed Real Estate
Investment Trust with a separate management team that makes the financing,
capital allocation and other significant decisions.  The Commercial
segment also includes our direct interest in certain commercial facilities,
substantially all of which are managed by PSB.  The Commercial segment
presentation includes our equity income from PSB, as well as the revenues and
expenses of our commercial facilities.  At December 31, 2009, the
assets of the Commercial segment are comprised principally of our investment in
PSB which has a book value of $326.1 million ($265.7 million at December 31,
2008).

Presentation of Segment
Information

The
following table reconciles the performance of each segment, in terms of segment
income, to our consolidated net income (amounts in thousands):

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December
31, 2009

For
      the year ended December 31, 2009

Domestic

Self-Storage

Europe

Self
      Storage

Commercial

Other
      Items Not Allocated to Segments

Total
      Consolidated

(Amounts
      in thousands)

Revenues:

Self-storage
      facilities

$

1,490,292

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

1,490,292

Ancillary
      operations

-

-

14,982

92,615

107,597

Interest
      and other income

-

24,832

-

4,981

29,813

1,490,292

24,832

14,982

97,596

1,627,702

Expenses:

Cost
      of operations:

Self-storage
      facilities

486,928

-

-

-

486,928

Ancillary
      operations

-

-

5,759

30,252

36,011

Depreciation
      and amortization

337,275

-

2,958

-

340,233

General
      and administrative

-

-

-

35,735

35,735

Interest
      expense

-

-

-

29,916

29,916

824,203

-

8,717

95,903

928,823

Income
      from continuing operations before equity in earnings of real estate
      entities, gains on disposition of real estate investments, net, gain on
      early retirement of debt and foreign currency exchange
gain

666,089

24,832

6,265

1,693

698,879

Equity
      in earnings of real estate entities

1,867

16,269

35,108

-

53,244

Gains
      on disposition of real estate investments, net

-

-

30,293

3,133

33,426

Gain
      on early retirement debt

-

-

-

4,114

4,114

Foreign
      currency exchange gain

-

9,662

-

-

9,662

Income
      from continuing operations

667,956

50,763

71,666

8,940

799,325

Discontinued
      operations

-

-

-

(8,869

)

(8,869

)

Net
      income

$

667,956

$

50,763

$

71,666

$


$

790,456

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December
31, 2009

For
      the year ended December 31, 2008

Domestic

Self-Storage

Europe

Self
      Storage

Commercial

Other
      Items Not Allocated to Segments

Total
      Consolidated

(Amounts
      in thousands)

Revenues:

Self-storage
      facilities

$

1,524,295

$

54,722

$

-

$

-

$

1,579,017

Ancillary
      operations

-

4,913

15,326

88,182

108,421

Interest
      and other income

-

18,496

-

17,659

36,155

1,524,295

78,131

15,326

105,841

1,723,593

Expenses:

Cost
      of operations:

Self-storage
      facilities

494,436

24,654

-

-

519,090

Ancillary
      operations

-

1,409

6,292

28,827

36,528

Depreciation
      and amortization

387,210

21,871

2,900

-

411,981

General
      and administrative

-

30,044

-

32,765

62,809

Interest
      expense

-

6,597

-

37,347

43,944

881,646

84,575

9,192

98,939

1,074,352

Income
      (loss) from continuing operations before equity in earnings of real estate
      entities, gains on disposition of real estate investments, net, casualty
      loss and foreign currency exchange loss

642,649

(6,444

)

6,134

6,902

649,241

Equity
      in earnings of real estate entities

1,932

4,134

14,325

-

20,391

Gain
      (loss) on disposition of real estate investments, net

-

344,685

-

(8,140

)

336,545

Casualty
      loss

-

-

-

(525

)

(525

)

Foreign
      currency exchange loss

-

(25,362

)

-

-

(25,362

)

Income
      (loss) from continuing operations

644,581

317,013

20,459

(1,763

)

980,290

Discontinued
      operations

-

-

-

(6,418

)

(6,418

)

Net
      income (loss)

$

644,581

$

317,013

$

20,459

$

(8,181

)

$

973,872

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December
31, 2009

For
      the year ended December 31, 2007

Domestic

Self-Storage

Europe

Self
      Storage

Commercial

Other
      Items Not Allocated to Segments

Total
      Consolidated

(Amounts
      in thousands)

Revenues:

Self-storage
      facilities

$

1,467,797

$

192,507

$

-

$

-

$

1,660,304

Ancillary
      operations

-

17,490

15,101

82,890

115,481

Interest
      and other income

-


-

10,713

11,417

1,467,797

210,701

15,101

93,603

1,787,202

Expenses:

Cost
      of operations:

Self-storage
      facilities

487,504

91,689

-

-

579,193

Ancillary
      operations

-

5,186

5,722

41,053

51,961

Depreciation
      and amortization

493,482

123,546

2,570

-

619,598

General
      and administrative

-

20,291

-

39,458

59,749

Interest
      expense

-

22,242

-

41,429

63,671

980,986

262,954

8,292

121,940

1,374,172

Income
      (loss) from continuing operations before equity in earnings of real estate
      entities, gains on disposition of real estate investments, net, casualty
      gain and foreign currency exchange gain

486,811

(52,253

)

6,809

(28,337

)

413,030

Equity
      in earnings of real estate entities

2,236

-

10,502

-

12,738

Gains
      on disposition of real estate investments, net

-

-

-

2,547

2,547

Casualty
      gain

2,665

-

-

-

2,665

Foreign
      currency exchange gain

-

58,444

-

-

58,444

Income
      (loss) from continuing operations

491,712

6,191

17,311

(25,790

)

489,424

Discontinued
      operations

-

(1,081

)

-

(1,265

)

(2,346

)

Net
      income (loss)

$

491,712

$

5,110

$

17,311

$

(27,055

)

$

487,078

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December
31, 2009

12.

Recent Accounting
      Pronouncements and Guidance

In June
2009, the FASB issued accounting pronouncements which become effective in our
fiscal year ending December 31, 2010, and require restatement of previously
reported financial statements on the new accounting basis.  We have
not yet determined whether these pronouncements will have an effect on our
financial statements.  One pronouncement affects accounting for
Variable Interest Entities, by (i) eliminating the concept of a qualifying
special purpose entity, (ii) replacing the quantitative-based risks and rewards
calculation for determining which enterprise has a controlling financial
interest in a variable interest entity and the obligation to absorb losses of
the entity or the right to receive benefits from the entity, and (iii) providing
for additional disclosures about an entity’s involvement with a variable
interest entity.  Another pronouncement affects the accounting for
transfers of financial assets, by (i) eliminating the concept of a qualifying
special purpose entity, (ii) amending the derecognition criteria for a transfer
to be accounted for as a sale, and (iii) requiring additional disclosure over
transfers accounted for as a sale.

13.

Commitments and
      Contingencies

Legal
Matters

Brinkley v. Public Storage,
Inc. (filed April 2005) (Superior Court of California – Los Angeles
County)

The
plaintiff sued the Company on behalf of a purported class of California
non-exempt employees based on various California wage and hour
laws.  Plaintiff sought certification for alleged meal period
violations, rest period violations, failure to pay for travel time, failure to
pay for mileage reimbursement, and for wage statement violations.  The
Court certified subclasses based only on alleged meal period and wage statement
violations.  In June 2007, the Court granted the Company’s summary
judgment motion as to the causes of action relating to the subclasses certified
and dismissed those claims.  Plaintiff appealed.  The Court
of Appeals sustained the dismissal.  The California Supreme Court
granted review but deferred the matter pending disposition of a related issue in
another case.

Other
Items

We are a
party to various claims, complaints, and other legal actions that have arisen in
the normal course of business from time to time that are not described
above.  We believe that it is unlikely that the outcome of these other
pending legal proceedings including employment and tenant claims, in the
aggregate, will have a material adverse impact upon our operations or financial
position.

Insurance and Loss
Exposure

We have
historically carried customary property, earthquake, general liability and
workers compensation coverage through internationally recognized insurance
carriers, subject to customary levels of deductibles.  The aggregate
limits on these policies of $75 million for property coverage and
$102 million for general liability are higher than estimates of maximum
probable loss that could occur from individual catastrophic events determined in
recent engineering and actuarial studies; however, in case of multiple
catastrophic events, these limits could be exhausted.

Our
tenant insurance program reinsures a program that provides insurance to
certificate holders against claims for property losses due to specific named
perils (earthquakes and floods are not covered by these policies) to goods
stored by tenants at our self-storage facilities for individual limits up to a
maximum of $5,000.  We have third-party insurance coverage for claims
paid exceeding $1,000,000 resulting from any one individual event, to a limit of
$25,000,000.  At December 31, 2009, there were approximately 585,000
certificate holders held by our tenants, participating in this program
representing aggregate coverage of approximately $1.3
billion.  Because each certificate represents insurance of goods held
by a tenant at our self-storage facilities, the geographic concentration of this
$1.3 billion in coverage is dispersed throughout all of our U.S.
facilities.  We rely on a third-party insurance company to provide the
insurance and are subject to licensing requirements and regulations in several
states.

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December
31, 2009

Operating Lease
Obligations

We lease
land, equipment and office space under various operating leases.  At
December 31, 2009, the approximate future minimum rental payments required under
our operating leases for each calendar year is as follows: $6 million per
year in 2010 and 2011, $5 million per year in 2012 – 2014 and an
aggregate of $69 million in payments thereafter.

Expenses
under operating leases were approximately $5.3 million, $5.3 million and
$7.2 million for each of the three years ended December 31, 2009,
respectively.

14.

Supplementary
      Quarterly Financial Data
(unaudited)

(a)

Revenues,
      cost of operations, depreciation expense and income from continuing
      operations as presented in this table differ from those amounts as
      presented in our quarterly reports due to the impact of discontinued
      operations accounting as described in Note
2.

(b)

Gain
      on disposition of an interest in Shurgard Europe, income from continuing
      operations, net income, and net income per common share differ from the
      amounts previously presented in our March 31, 2008 financial
      statements.  We recorded a $2,820,000 increase to gain on
      disposition of an interest in Shurgard Europe in the quarter ended
      December 31, 2008, which was for the quarter ended March 31,
      2008.

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December
31, 2009

15.

Subsequent Events
      (unaudited)

We are
calling for redemption all outstanding depositary shares, each representing
1/1,000 of an Equity Share, Series A (NYSE: PSAA) on April 15, 2010 at $24.50
per share.  The aggregate redemption amount to be paid to all holders
of the depositary shares is approximately $205.2 million.

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED
DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED
DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -

PUBLIC
STORAGE

SCHEDULE
III - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

F -
91