
10-K
ps10k_1208.txt
PUBLIC STORAGE FORM 10-K



                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

[X] Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
    of 1934

    For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008.

    or

[ ] Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
    Act of 1934

    For the transition period from __________________ to _________________.


                        Commission File Number: 001-33519

                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

                 Maryland                                     95-3551121
 ----------------------------------------------      --------------------------
 (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation        (I.R.S. Employer
  or organization)                                     Identification Number)

               701 Western Avenue, Glendale, California 91201-2349
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
               (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)


                                 (818) 244-8080


              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)




           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:






Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
None (Title of class)

Indicate by check mark if the  registrant is a well-known  seasoned  issuer,  as
defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
           Yes [X]                          No [ ]

Indicate  by  check  mark if the  registrant  is not  required  to file  reports
pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
           Yes [ ]                          No [X]

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days.
           Yes [X]                          No [ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

Indicate by check mark whether the  registrant is a shell company (as defined in
Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).
           Yes [ ]                          No [X]

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large  accelerated  filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated  filer or a smaller reporting company.  See
the definitions of "large accelerated  filer",  "accelerated filer" and "smaller
reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

     Large Accelerated Filer [X]          Accelerated Filer         [ ]
     Non-accelerated Filer   [ ]          Smaller Reporting Company [ ]

The aggregate  market value of the voting and  non-voting  common shares held by
non-affiliates of the Registrant as of June 30, 2008:

Common  Shares,  $0.10 Par  Value -  $10,093,560,000  (computed  on the basis of
$80.79 per share  which was the  reported  closing  sale price of the  Company's
Common Shares on the New York Stock Exchange on June 30, 2008).

Depositary Shares Each Representing  1/1,000 of an Equity Share,  Series A, $.01
Par Value -  $193,353,000  (computed  on the basis of $26.00 per share which was
the  reported  closing  sale price of the  Depositary  Shares each  Representing
1/1,000 of an Equity Share,  Series A on the New York Stock Exchange on June 30,
2008).

As of February 26,  2009,  the number of  outstanding  Common  Shares,  $.10 par
value, was 169,464,401  shares and the number of outstanding  Depositary  Shares
Each  Representing  1/1,000 of an Equity  Share,  Series A, $.01 par value,  was
8,377,193 (representing 8,377.193 Equity Shares, Series A).

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the definitive  proxy  statement to be filed in connection  with the
Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held in 2009 are  incorporated by reference
into Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



                                     PART I
                                     ------

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS
         --------

FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
- --------------------------

     This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking  statements within
the meaning of the federal  securities  laws.  All  statements in this document,
other than statements of historical fact, are  forward-looking  statements which
may be identified by the use of the words "expects," "believes,"  "anticipates,"
"plans," "would,"  "should," "may," "estimates" and similar  expressions.  These
forward-looking  statements  involve known and unknown risks and  uncertainties,
which may cause Public Storage's actual results and performance to be materially
different from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking  statements. As
a result, you should not rely on any forward-looking  statements in this report,
or  which  management  may make  orally  or in  writing  from  time to time,  as
predictions  of future events nor guarantees of future  performance.  We caution
you not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements,  which speak only
as the date of this report or as of the dates indicated in the  statements.  All
of our forward-looking statements, including those in this report, are qualified
in their  entirety by this  statement.  We expressly  disclaim any obligation to
update publicly or otherwise revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a
result  of  new  information,   new  estimates,  or  other  factors,  events  or
circumstances  after the date of this document,  except where expressly required
by law.  Accordingly,  you should use caution in relying on past forward-looking
statements to anticipate  future results.  Factors and risks that may impact our
future results and performance  include, but are not limited to, those described
in Item 1A, "Risk  Factors" and in our other  filings  with the  Securities  and
Exchange Commission. ("SEC").

GENERAL
- -------

     Public  Storage  was  organized  in  1980.   Effective  June  1,  2007,  we
reorganized  Public Storage,  Inc. into Public  Storage,  a Maryland real estate
investment trust (referred to herein as "the Company",  "the Trust", "we", "us",
or  "our").   Our  principal   business   activities  include  the  acquisition,
development,  ownership and  operation of  self-storage  facilities  which offer
storage spaces for lease,  generally on a month-to-month basis, for personal and
business use. We are the largest owner and operator of  self-storage  facilities
in the United States ("U.S."), and we have an equity interest in what we believe
is the largest owner and operator of self-storage facilities in Europe.

     We currently  operate within three reportable  segments:  (i) self-storage,
(ii) Shurgard Europe and (iii) ancillary. These segments are organized generally
based upon their operating  characteristics.  The self-storage segment comprises
the direct and indirect  ownership,  development,  and operation of  traditional
storage  facilities in the U.S. Our Shurgard Europe segment comprises our equity
interest in the  self-storage  and associated  activities in seven  countries in
Western  Europe owned by Shurgard  Europe,  consisting of 180 facilities and 9.5
million net rentable  square feet. Our ancillary  segment  represents all of our
other activities, which are reported as a group, including our (i) containerized
storage operations,  (ii) commercial property  operations,  directly and through
our 46% ownership interest in PS Business Parks, Inc. ("PSB"), a publicly traded
REIT whose common stock trades on the New York Stock  Exchange  under the symbol
"PSB" (as of December 31, 2008, PSB owned and operated 19.6 million net rentable
square feet of  commercial  space),  (iii) tenant  reinsurance  operations  (the
reinsurance  of  policies  against  losses  to goods  stored by  tenants  in our
self-storage  facilities),  (iv) retail operations conducted at our self-storage
facilities including  merchandise sales and truck rentals, and (v) management of
self-storage  facilities  owned by  third-party  owners and domestic  facilities
owned by the  Unconsolidated  Entities.  See Note 11 to our  December  31,  2008
consolidated  financial  statements for further  discussion  with respect to our
segments.



     We significantly  increased the scope and scale of our operations on August
22, 2006, when we merged with Shurgard Storage Centers, Inc. ("Shurgard" and the
merger  referred to as the "Shurgard  Merger"),  a REIT which had an interest in
487  self-storage  facilities  located in the U.S.  and an  interest in Shurgard
Europe's 160 facilities.  On March 31, 2008, we entered into a transaction  with
an  institutional   investor  (the  transaction   referred  to  as  the  "Europe
Transaction")  whereby  the  investor  acquired  a 51%  equity  interest  in our
European operations ("Shurgard Europe").  Shurgard Europe held substantially all
of our  operations  in Europe.  Since March 31, 2008,  we own the  remaining 49%
interest and are the managing  member of Shurgard  European  Holdings LLC, a new
joint venture formed to own Shurgard Europe's operations.

     At December 31, 2008, we had direct and indirect equity  interests in 2,012
self-storage facilities located in 38 states within the U.S. operating under the
"Public  Storage" brand name containing  approximately  127 million net rentable
square feet of space,  and 181 self-storage  facilities  located in Europe which
operate under the "Shurgard Storage Centers" brand name containing approximately
ten million net rentable  square feet of space. We also have direct and indirect
equity  interests  in  approximately  21 million  net  rentable  square  feet of
commercial space located in 11 states in the U.S.  primarily  operated under the
"PS Business Parks" brand name.

     For all  taxable  years  subsequent  to 1980,  we  qualified  and intend to
continue to qualify as a real estate  investment  trust ("REIT"),  as defined in
Section 856 of the Internal  Revenue Code. As a REIT, we do not incur federal or
significant state tax on that portion of our taxable income which is distributed
to our shareholders,  provided that we meet certain tests. To the extent that we
continue  to qualify as a REIT,  we will not be  subject  to tax,  with  certain
limited   exceptions,   on  the  taxable  income  that  is  distributed  to  our
shareholders.

     We have reported annually to the SEC on Form 10-K, which includes financial
statements certified by our independent  registered public accountants.  We have
also  reported  quarterly  to the SEC on Form  10-Q,  which  includes  unaudited
financial statements with such filings. We expect to continue such reporting.

     Our website is located at  www.publicstorage.com,  where we make available,
free of charge our Annual Reports on Form 10-K,  quarterly reports on Form 10-Q,
and current  reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as
reasonably practicable after the reports and amendments are electronically filed
with or furnished to the SEC.

THE IMPACT OF CURRENT ECONOMIC FACTORS
- --------------------------------------

     The recession being experienced in the U.S. and Europe is having a negative
impact  upon our  business,  and we have  responded  with  what we  believe  are
short-term revisions to our long-term growth strategies.

     Operationally, our occupancies and rental rates have come under pressure as
demand for self-storage space has softened. We have responded by reducing rental
rates, increasing promotional discounts, and increasing our marketing activities
to stimulate additional demand for storage.

     We have essentially shut down our development activities,  both in the U.S.
and Europe due to the risk inherent in  development,  uncertain  consumer demand
for when such facilities open for operation,  and to preserve  capital.  We have
increased our yield  requirements  with respect to the  acquisition  of existing
self-storage  facilities,  in the  expectation  that more  distressed  sales may
become  available.  We have taken advantage of capital market  dislocations with
respect to our own securities through the repurchase of our own preferred shares
and our unsecured debt. Although capital markets are constrained and in flux, we
believe that we are well-positioned with significant cash balances on hand, have
an expectation of continued  internally generated cash flow that can be used for
reinvestment,  and  relatively  modest debt  maturities  as described in Item 7.
"Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources." Current capital market conditions
have essentially precluded us from issuing preferred securities since late 2007,
which has been our traditional source of external capital for growth.



     While we believe  that these  actions are the  appropriate  response to the
existing  economic  environment,  and that they will  best  position  us to take
advantage  of the  current  environment  in the  short-term  and then resume our
traditional  growth  strategy in the future,  there can be no assurance  that we
will be able to do so.

     See "GROWTH AND  INVESTMENT  STRATEGIES"  and  "FINANCING  OF THE COMPANY'S
GROWTH  STRATEGIES"  below  for  more  information   regarding  our  traditional
long-term strategy to grow the cash flows and equity values of the Company.

COMPETITION
- -----------

     Self-storage  generally  draws  customers from residents  within a three to
five mile radius.  Many of our facilities  operate within three to five miles of
well-located and  well-managed  competitors and seek the same group of customers
through  many of the same  marketing  channels  we use,  including  yellow  page
advertising,  Internet advertising, as well as signage and banners. As a result,
competition  is  significant  and affects the  occupancy  levels,  rental rates,
rental income and operating expenses of our facilities.

     While  competition  is  significant,   the  self-storage  industry  remains
fragmented in the U.S. We believe that we own  approximately 6% of the aggregate
self-storage square footage in the U.S., and that the five largest  self-storage
operators in the U.S. own only 11% of the  aggregate  self-storage  space in the
U.S.,  with the  remaining  89% owned by  numerous  private  regional  and local
operators.  This market fragmentation enhances the advantage of our economies of
scale  relative to other  operators  (see  "Business  Attributes  - Economies of
Scale"  below),  and could  result in potential  growth in our platform  through
acquisitions over the long term.

     In seeking investments,  we compete with a wide variety of institutions and
other  investors.  The amount of funds  available  for real  estate  investments
greatly influences the competition for ownership interests in facilities and, by
extension, the yields that we can achieve on newly acquired investments.

BUSINESS ATTRIBUTES
- -------------------

     We believe that we possess several primary business  attributes that permit
us to compete effectively:

     CENTRALIZED  INFORMATION NETWORKS: Our facilities are part of comprehensive
centralized  reporting and information networks which enable the management team
to identify  changing market  conditions and operating trends as well as analyze
customer data, and quickly change our properties' pricing and promotional mix on
an automated basis.

     NATIONAL TELEPHONE  RESERVATION CENTER: We operate a centralized  telephone
reservation system,  which provides added customer service and helps to maximize
utilization  of  available  self-storage  space.  Customers  calling  either the
toll-free telephone referral system, (800) 44-STORE, or a storage facility,  are
directed to the national reservation system. A representative discusses with the
customer space requirements, price and location preferences and also informs the
customer  of  other  products  and  services  provided  by the  Company  and its
subsidiaries.  We believe  that the  centralized  telephone  reservation  system
enhances our ability to market  storage  space in the U.S.  relative to handling
these calls at individual  properties,  because it allows us to more effectively
offer all spaces at all  facilities in the vicinity of a customer and to provide
higher-quality  selling efforts through dedicated sales specialists trained in a
central  location.  We also provide  customers the  opportunity  to review space
availability    and   make    reservations    online    through   our   website,
www.publicstorage.com.

     ECONOMIES OF SCALE: We are the largest  provider of  self-storage  space in
the U.S. As of December 31, 2008, we operated 2,012  self-storage  facilities in
which we had an  interest  and  managed  32  self-storage  facilities  for third
parties.  These  facilities  are generally  located in major  markets  within 38
states in the U.S. At December  31, 2008,  we had over one million  self-storage
spaces rented.  The size and scope of our operations  have enabled us to achieve
high  operating  margins  and a low level of  administrative  costs  relative to
revenues, through the centralization of many functions with specialists, such as
facility maintenance,  employee  compensation and benefits programs,  pricing of
our  product,  as well as the  development  and  documentation  of  standardized



operating  procedures.  We also  believe  that our  major  market  concentration
provides  managerial  efficiencies  stemming  from  having  a  large  number  of
facilities in close proximity to each other.

     We can economically purchase large, prominent,  well-placed yellow page ads
that allow us to reach the consumer more effectively than smaller operators.  We
are also able to purchase and bid aggressively for multiple-keyword  advertising
on  national  Internet  search  engines.  In  addition,  we are  able to  market
efficiently  using television as a media source. We believe that our competitors
cannot use television  advertising,  and cannot spend as  aggressively on yellow
page ads and internet search strategies,  because their limited concentration of
facilities does not provide a sufficient  potential customer base to justify the
high cost of such efforts.

     BRAND NAME RECOGNITION:  Our operations in the U.S. are conducted under the
"Public  Storage"  brand  name,  which we  believe  is the most  recognized  and
established name in the self-storage industry in the U.S. Our storage operations
within the U.S. are conducted in major markets in 38 states,  giving us national
recognition  and  prominence.  Our  facilities  tend to be in highly visible and
heavily populated areas, improving the local awareness of our brand.

     COMPLEMENTARY ANCILLARY OPERATIONS:  Through a taxable REIT subsidiary,  we
sell  retail  items  associated  with the storage  business,  rent trucks at our
self-storage  facilities,  and reinsure  policies  issued to our tenants against
lost or damaged  goods stored by tenants in our storage  facilities.  We believe
these activities supplement and strengthen our existing self-storage business by
further meeting the needs of storage customers.

GROWTH AND INVESTMENT STRATEGIES
- --------------------------------

     As described more  specifically in "THE IMPACT OF CURRENT ECONOMIC FACTORS"
above,  our growth  strategies  have been revised in the short-run to respond to
current market conditions.

     Over the long run, our growth  strategies  have consisted of: (i) improving
the  operating  performance  of  our  existing  self-storage  properties,   (ii)
acquiring  properties  that are owned or operated  by others in the U.S.,  (iii)
developing  existing  U.S. real estate  facilities,  (iv)  participating  in the
growth of commercial  facilities owned primarily by PSB, and (v) capitalizing on
the potential growth in the European market. In addition to certain revisions to
these strategies described below, our strategy has been revised in the short-run
to take advantage of dislocation in current capital markets.

     IMPROVE THE OPERATING  PERFORMANCE  OF EXISTING  PROPERTIES:  As previously
noted,  demand for our self-storage  facilities has been negatively  impacted by
the current recession in the short run, and revenue and net operating income are
under  pressure.  Over  the  long  run we seek to  increase  the net  cash  flow
generated by our existing self-storage properties by a) regularly evaluating our
call volume,  reservation activity,  and move-in/move-out  rates for each of our
properties relative to our marketing activities, b) evaluating market supply and
demand  factors  and,  based  upon  these  analyses,   adjusting  our  marketing
activities  and  rental  rates,  c)  attempting  to  maximize  revenues  through
evaluating  the  appropriate  balance  between  occupancy,   rental  rates,  and
promotional  discounting and d) controlling  expense levels. We believe that our
property management personnel and systems,  combined with our national telephone
reservation  system and media advertising  programs will continue to enhance our
ability to meet these goals.  See  "Management's  Discussion and Analysis" below
for further information  regarding our expectation in the short-run with respect
to our operating results.

     ACQUIRE PROPERTIES OWNED OR OPERATED BY OTHERS IN THE U.S.: We believe that
recent  dislocations in the financial markets may provide more opportunities for
the acquisition of facilities from distressed sellers who cannot refinance their
existing  debt as it comes due,  and who face  reduced cash flows as a result of
the current difficult operating  environment and reduced self-storage demand. We
believe our presence in and knowledge of substantially  all of the major markets
in  the  U.S.   enhances   our  ability  to  identify   attractive   acquisition
opportunities  and capitalize on the overall  fragmentation  in the self-storage
industry.  Data  on the  rental  rates  and  occupancy  levels  of our  existing
facilities,  which are often  located  in  proximity  to  potential  acquisition
candidates,  provide us an advantage in evaluating  the potential of acquisition
opportunities.



     DEVELOPMENT  OF  REAL  ESTATE  FACILITIES:  Notwithstanding  the  long-term
opportunity  in the  development  of new  facilities  and the  expansion  of our
existing facilities,  we have substantially  reduced our development pipeline at
December  31,  2008  in  light  of  current  capital  market  conditions  and in
evaluating  demand for new  self-storage  space,  to five  projects to expand or
repackage  our  existing  facilities  in the  U.S.,  for an  aggregate  cost  of
approximately  $27.1  million,  which  will add an  aggregate  of  approximately
189,000  net  rentable  square  feet.  In the  short-term  we do not  expect any
significant new investment in such development  activities.  Shurgard Europe has
similarly  reduced its development  activities (see "Capitalize on the Potential
for Growth in Europe" below).

     We have a substantial  number of facilities in the U.S. that were developed
and  constructed  20  or  more  years  ago  based  upon  local  competitive  and
demographic  conditions  in place at that time.  Population  densities and other
such conditions may have changed since then,  providing  opportunities to expand
and further invest into our existing self-storage locations, either by improving
the quality of the existing units by adding  amenities such as climate  control,
or by  expanding  these  facilities  at a per square foot cost that is typically
less than the cost incurred in developing a new location.  Historically, we have
also allocated a material  portion of our  investment to the  development of new
self-storage locations.

     PARTICIPATE IN THE GROWTH OF COMMERCIAL  FACILITIES  PRIMARILY  THROUGH OUR
OWNERSHIP IN PS BUSINESS PARKS,  INC.: At December 31, 2008, we had a 46% common
equity  interest  in PSB  and  its  operating  partnership  which  consisted  of
5,418,273 shares of common stock and 7,305,355 limited  partnership units in the
Operating  Partnership.  The limited  partnership  units are  convertible at our
option,  subject to certain  conditions,  on a one-for-one basis into PSB common
stock. At December 31, 2008, PSB owned and operated  approximately  19.6 million
net rentable  square feet of  commercial  space  located in the U.S.  located in
eight states. During 2008, the recession in the U.S. impacted PSB resulting in a
decrease in new rental rates over expiring rents, as well as declining occupancy
levels in the last six months of 2008.  It is uncertain  what impact the current
recession will have on PSB's ability to maintain  current  occupancy  levels and
rental rents. PSB may continue to experience  downward pressure on its occupancy
levels and rental rates.

     CAPITALIZE  ON THE  POTENTIAL  FOR GROWTH IN EUROPE:  On March 31, 2008, we
entered into a  transaction  with an  institutional  investor  (the  transaction
referred to as the "Europe  Transaction")  whereby the  investor  acquired a 51%
interest in our European operations  ("Shurgard  Europe").  Shurgard Europe held
substantially all of our operations in Europe.  Since March 31, 2008, we own the
remaining 49% interest and are the managing member of Shurgard European Holdings
LLC, a new joint venture formed to own Shurgard Europe's operations.

     Although  many  European  consumers  are not yet aware of the  self-storage
concept,  they tend to live in more densely  populated  areas in smaller  living
spaces (as compared to the U.S.) that, we believe,  should make  self-storage an
attractive  option as product  knowledge and availability  grows. Most Europeans
are familiar with the concept of storage only as an ancillary  service  provided
by moving companies, and more consumer familiarity could result in a significant
increase in demand in the long-term.

     In the  longer  term,  as a result of the low  density of  self-storage  in
Europe  relative to population as compared to the U.S., we believe that there is
significant  growth potential in Europe,  even if the density of self-storage in
Europe does not ultimately  approach the levels in the U.S. However,  ultimately
capitalizing on this opportunity will require a significant amount of capital to
develop new self-storage facilities in what could be a process extending through
a few decades in time frame, similar to the trajectory of the U.S.  self-storage
industry since its inception in the mid 1960's.

     Shurgard Europe, and its ability and wherewithal to take advantage of these
opportunities,  has  been  impacted  by  the  same  economic  trends  that  have
negatively impacted our domestic self-storage operations and capital markets. In
addition to the  operating  uncertainties  that we face,  Shurgard  Europe faces
refinancing  risk,  as  approximately  (euro)250  million  of debt owed by joint
ventures matures in the first half of 2009 and approximately $552.4 million in a
loan payable to us becomes due in March 2010.  Accordingly,  Shurgard Europe has
taken  many of the same  steps  that we have  domestically,  by  curtailing  its
development  activities.  At such time that public  market  capital or bank debt
becomes available to Shurgard Europe to refinance its existing debt, development
and growth may recommence.



     TAKE ADVANTAGE OF DISLOCATION IN CAPITAL MARKETS:  At December 31, 2008, we
have  cash  balances  on  hand  of  approximately  $680.7  million.  Due  to the
aforementioned turbulent credit and equity markets, we believe that there may be
opportunities  for  the  acquisition  of our own  outstanding  debt  and  equity
securities.  During  November and December 2008, we  repurchased  $103.2 million
(liquidation  value) of our  preferred  securities,  for an  aggregate  of $66.9
million,  and 367,000  shares of our Equity Shares,  Series A for  approximately
$7.7 million.  On February 12, 2009, in accordance  with an "any and all" tender
offer,  we acquired  $110.2 million (face amount) of our Senior  Unsecured Debt.
Any future such  transactions  will depend upon our  evaluation of the return of
such investments relative to our other investment alternatives.  There can be no
assurance that any future such transactions will occur.

FINANCING OF THE COMPANY'S GROWTH STRATEGIES
- --------------------------------------------

     IMPACT OF CURRENT  CAPITAL  MARKETS:  As described  above in "The Impact of
Current Economic Factors",  one of our traditional  sources of external capital,
the issuance of preferred securities,  has not been available to us for issuance
since  late  2007.  While we expect  this  source to be  available  to us in the
long-run,  there can be no  assurance  as to when such  source of  capital  will
become available to us again.

     OVERVIEW OF  FINANCING  STRATEGY:  Over the past three years we have funded
substantially all the cash portion of our acquisition and development activities
with permanent  capital  (predominantly  retained cash flow and the net proceeds
from the issuance of  preferred  securities).  We have elected to use  preferred
securities as a form of leverage despite the fact that the dividend rates of our
preferred securities exceed the prevailing market interest rates on conventional
debt,  because of certain  benefits  described in  "Management's  Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity  and Capital
Resources." Our present  intention is to continue to finance  substantially  all
our growth with  permanent  capital.  Presently as a result of the disruption in
the capital markets, we believe our ability to raise additional capital,  either
through the issuance of preferred or common  securities,  has been significantly
impaired.   Accordingly,  until  such  time  that  the  capital  markets  become
favorable,  our strategy is to finance our activities with internally  generated
cash flows,  cash on-hand ($680.7 million at December 31, 2008) , and borrowings
on our revolving line of credit.

     BORROWING:  We have in the past  used our $300  million  revolving  line of
credit described below under "Borrowings" as temporary "bridge"  financing,  and
repaid those amounts with  permanent  capital.  Our debt  outstanding  currently
represents debt that was assumed either in connection with property acquisitions
or in connection with the Shurgard Merger. When we have assumed such debt in the
past, we have generally prepaid such amounts except in cases where the nature of
the loan terms did not allow such prepayment, or where a prepayment penalty made
it economically disadvantageous to prepay. While it is not our present intention
to issue additional debt as a long-term financing strategy, we have broad powers
to borrow in furtherance of our objectives  without a vote of our  shareholders.
These powers are subject to a limitation  on unsecured  borrowings in our Bylaws
described in "Limitations on Borrowings" below.

     ISSUANCE OF SECURITIES  IN EXCHANGE FOR  PROPERTY:  We have issued both our
common  and  preferred   securities  in  exchange  for  real  estate  and  other
investments  in the last three years,  most  notably the issuance of  38,913,187
common shares in connection with the Shurgard Merger in 2006.  Future  issuances
will be dependent upon our financing needs and capital market  conditions at the
time, including the market prices of our equity securities.

     JOINT  VENTURE  FINANCING:   We  have  historically  formed  and  may  form
additional  joint ventures to facilitate the funding of future  developments  or
acquisitions.

     DISPOSITION OF PROPERTIES:  We  historically  have disposed of self-storage
facilities only because of condemnation proceedings, which compel us to sell. We
do  not  presently  intend  to  sell  any  significant  number  of  self-storage
facilities in the future, though there can be no assurance that we will not.



INVESTMENTS IN REAL ESTATE AND REAL ESTATE ENTITIES
- ---------------------------------------------------

     INVESTMENT   POLICIES  AND  PRACTICES  WITH  RESPECT  TO  OUR  INVESTMENTS:
Following  are our  investment  practices and policies  which,  though we do not
anticipate any significant  alteration,  can be changed by our Board of Trustees
without a shareholder vote:

o    Our  investments  primarily  consist of direct  ownership  of  self-storage
     properties (the nature of our self-storage  properties is described in Item
     2,  "Properties"),  as well as  partial  interests  in  entities  that  own
     self-storage properties.

o    Our  partial  ownership  interests  primarily  reflect  general and limited
     partnership interests in entities that own self-storage facilities that are
     managed by us under the "Public Storage" brand name in the U.S., as well as
     storage  facilities  managed in Europe under the "Shurgard Storage Centers"
     brand name which are owned by Shurgard Europe.

o    Additional acquired interests in real estate (other than the acquisition of
     properties  from third  parties) will include  common  equity  interests in
     entities in which we already have an interest.

o    To a lesser  extent,  we have interests in existing  commercial  properties
     (described in Item 2, "Properties"),  containing  commercial and industrial
     rental space, primarily through our investment in PSB.

FACILITIES OWNED BY CONSOLIDATED ENTITIES
- -----------------------------------------

     In addition to our direct ownership of 1,523 self-storage facilities in the
U.S. and one self-storage facility in London,  England at December 31, 2008 with
an  aggregate of  approximately  98 million net  rentable  square feet,  we have
controlling indirect interests in entities that own 470 self-storage  facilities
in the U.S. with  approximately 28 million net rentable square feet. In addition
to our self-storage  space, we own approximately 1.5 million net rentable square
feet of  commercial  space  located  adjacent  to  certain  of our  self-storage
facilities.  Because of our controlling  interest in each of these entities,  we
consolidate the assets, liabilities, and results of operations of these entities
in our financial statements.

FACILITIES OWNED BY UNCONSOLIDATED ENTITIES
- -------------------------------------------

     At December 31, 2008,  we had  ownership  interests in a) PSB,  which owned
approximately  19.6  million net  rentable  square feet of  commercial  space at
December 31, 2008,  b) Shurgard  Europe,  which had  ownership  interests in 180
facilities,  and c)  certain  limited  partnerships  owning an  aggregate  of 19
self-storage  facilities.  Collectively  these  entities  are referred to as the
"Unconsolidated Entities."

     PSB, which files financial  statements  with the SEC, and Shurgard  Europe,
have  debt and  other  obligations  that are not  included  in our  consolidated
financial  statements.  The  limited  partnerships  owning  the 19  self-storage
facilities have no significant amounts of debt or other obligations.  See Note 5
to  our  December  31,  2008  consolidated   financial  statements  for  further
disclosure  regarding  the  assets,  liabilities  and  operating  results of the
Unconsolidated Entities.

LIMITATIONS ON DEBT
- -------------------

     Without the consent of holders of the  various  series of Senior  Preferred
Shares,  we may not take any action  that  would  result in a ratio of "Debt" to
"Assets" (the "Debt Ratio") in excess of 50%. As of December 31, 2008,  the Debt
Ratio was approximately  5.2%. "Debt" means the liabilities (other than "accrued
and other liabilities" and "minority  interest") that should, in accordance with
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles,  be reflected on our consolidated
balance  sheet at the time of  determination.  "Assets"  means our total  assets
before a reduction for accumulated depreciation and amortization that should, in
accordance with generally accepted  accounting  principles,  be reflected on the
consolidated balance sheet at the time of determination.



     Our bank and senior  unsecured debt agreements  contain  various  customary
financial covenants,  including limitations on the level of indebtedness and the
prohibition of the payment of dividends upon the occurrence of defined events of
default.

EMPLOYEES
- ---------

     We have approximately  5,200 employees in the U.S. at December 31, 2008 who
render  services  on behalf  of the  Company,  primarily  personnel  engaged  in
property  operations.  None  of our  employees  in the  U.S.  are  covered  by a
collective  bargaining  agreement.  We  believe  that  our  relations  with  our
employees are generally amicable.

INSURANCE
- ---------

     We  have  historically  carried  customary  property,  earthquake,  general
liability and workers compensation coverage through  internationally  recognized
insurance  carriers,  subject to customary levels of deductibles.  The aggregate
limits on these  policies of $75 million for property  coverage and $102 million
for general  liability are higher than  estimates of maximum  probable loss that
could occur from individual catastrophic events determined in recent engineering
and actuarial studies;  however, in case of multiple  catastrophic events, these
limits could be exhausted.

     Our tenant insurance program reinsures a program that provides insurance to
certificate  holders  against  claims for property  losses due to specific named
perils  (earthquakes  and floods are not  covered  by these  policies)  to goods
stored by tenants at our self-storage  facilities for individual  limits up to a
maximum  of $5,000.  We have  third-party  insurance  coverage  for claims  paid
exceeding  $1,000,000  resulting  from any one individual  event,  to a limit of
$25,000,000.  At December 31, 2008, there were approximately 548,000 certificate
holders  participating  in  this  program  in the  U.S.  representing  aggregate
coverage of  approximately  $1.2  billion.  We rely on a  third-party  insurance
company to provide the insurance and are subject to licensing  requirements  and
regulations in several states.  No assurance can be given that this activity can
continue to be conducted in any given jurisdiction.

ITEM 1A.   RISK FACTORS
           ------------

     In addition to the other information in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, you
should  consider  the risks  described  below that we believe may be material to
investors in  evaluating  the Company.  This  section  contains  forward-looking
statements,  and in  considering  these  statements,  you  should  refer  to the
qualifications  and  limitations  on our  forward-looking  statements  that  are
described in FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS at the beginning of Item 1.
             --------------------------

SINCE OUR BUSINESS CONSISTS PRIMARILY OF ACQUIRING AND OPERATING REAL ESTATE, WE
ARE SUBJECT TO THE RISKS  RELATED TO THE  OWNERSHIP AND OPERATION OF REAL ESTATE
THAT CAN ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.

     The value of our investments may be reduced by general risks of real estate
ownership.  Since we derive  substantially  all of our income  from real  estate
operations,  we are subject to the general  risks of  acquiring  and owning real
estate-related assets, including:

o    lack of demand for rental spaces or units in a locale;

o    changes in general economic or local conditions;

o    natural disasters, such as earthquakes and floods;

o    potential terrorist attacks;

o    changes in supply of or demand for similar or  competing  facilities  in an
     area;



o    the impact of environmental protection laws;

o    changes in interest  rates and  availability  of permanent  mortgage  funds
     which  may  render  the  sale  of  a  nonstrategic  property  difficult  or
     unattractive  including  the  impact of the  current  turmoil in the credit
     markets;

o    increases  in  insurance  premiums,  property  tax  assessments  and  other
     operating and maintenance expenses;

o    transactional costs and liabilities, including transfer taxes;

o    adverse changes in tax, real estate and zoning laws and regulations; and

o    tenant and employment-related claims.

     In addition,  we self-insure certain of our property loss,  liability,  and
workers  compensation  risks for  which  other  real  estate  companies  may use
third-party  insurers.  This  results  in a higher  risk of losses  that are not
covered  by  third-party  insurance  contracts,  as  described  in Note 13 under
"Insurance  and Loss  Exposure"  to our  consolidated  financial  statements  at
December 31, 2008.

     There is significant  competition  among  self-storage  facilities and from
other storage alternatives.  Most of our properties are self-storage facilities,
which generated most of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008.  Local
market  conditions will play a significant  part in how competition  will affect
us.  Competition in the market areas in which many of our properties are located
from other self-storage facilities and other storage alternatives is significant
and has affected the occupancy  levels,  rental rates and operating  expenses of
some of our properties.  Any increase in availability of funds for investment in
real estate may accelerate  competition.  Further  development  of  self-storage
facilities may intensify competition among operators of self-storage  facilities
in the market areas in which we operate.

     We may incur significant  environmental costs and liabilities.  As an owner
and  operator  of real  properties,  under  various  federal,  state  and  local
environmental  laws,  we are  required  to clean up spills or other  releases of
hazardous or toxic substances on or from our properties.  Certain  environmental
laws impose liability  whether or not the owner knew of, or was responsible for,
the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances.  In some cases, liability may
not be limited to the value of the property.  The presence of these  substances,
or the failure to properly remediate any resulting  contamination,  whether from
environmental  or microbial  issues,  also may  adversely  affect the owner's or
operator's ability to sell, lease or operate its property or to borrow using its
property as collateral.

     We have  conducted  preliminary  environmental  assessments  of most of our
properties (and intend to conduct these  assessments in connection with property
acquisitions)  to  evaluate  the  environmental   condition  of,  and  potential
environmental  liabilities  associated with, our properties.  These  assessments
generally  consist  of an  investigation  of  environmental  conditions  at  the
property (not including soil or groundwater sampling or analysis),  as well as a
review of available  information  regarding the site and publicly available data
regarding  conditions at other sites in the vicinity.  In connection  with these
property assessments,  our operations and recent property acquisitions,  we have
become aware that prior  operations  or  activities  at some  facilities or from
nearby  locations  have or may have  resulted  in  contamination  to the soil or
groundwater at these facilities.  In this regard,  some of our facilities are or
may be the subject of federal or state environmental  investigations or remedial
actions. We have obtained,  with respect to recent  acquisitions,  and intend to
obtain  with  respect to pending or future  acquisitions,  appropriate  purchase
price  adjustments or  indemnifications  that we believe are sufficient to cover
any related potential liability. Although we cannot provide any assurance, based
on the preliminary environmental assessments, we believe we have funds available
to  cover  any  liability   from   environmental   contamination   or  potential
contamination  and we are not aware of any  environmental  contamination  of our
facilities  material to our overall business,  financial condition or results of
operations.



     There has been an increasing number of claims and litigation against owners
and managers of rental properties relating to moisture  infiltration,  which can
result in mold or other property damage. When we receive a complaint  concerning
moisture infiltration, condensation or mold problems and/or become aware that an
air quality concern exists, we implement  corrective measures in accordance with
guidelines  and  protocols  we have  developed  with the  assistance  of outside
experts.  We seek to work  proactively  with our  tenants  to  resolve  moisture
infiltration and mold-related issues, subject to our contractual  limitations on
liability for such claims. However, we can give no assurance that material legal
claims  relating to moisture  infiltration  and the presence of, or exposure to,
mold will not arise in the future.

     Delays in  development  and  fill-up  of our  properties  would  reduce our
profitability.  From January 1, 2004,  through  December 31, 2008,  we opened 22
newly developed  self-storage  facilities in the U.S. at a cost of $186 million.
In addition,  our  development  "pipeline" at December 31, 2008 consists of five
projects  with  total  estimated  costs  of $27  million.  Shurgard  Europe  has
developed  and  opened  52  facilities  since  January  1,  2004  at a  cost  of
approximately $417 million, and has nine development projects under construction
with total estimated costs of $82 million.  Construction  delays due to weather,
unforeseen site conditions,  personnel  problems,  and other factors, as well as
cost overruns,  would adversely affect our profitability.  Delays in the rent-up
of newly  developed  storage space as a result of  competition or other factors,
including  the slowdown in the general  economy  which has  negatively  impacted
storage demand, would also adversely impact our profitability.

     Property  taxes can increase and cause a decline in yields on  investments.
Each of our  properties is subject to real property  taxes.  These real property
taxes may  increase  in the  future as  property  tax  rates  change  and as our
properties are assessed or reassessed by tax  authorities.  Such increases could
adversely impact our profitability.

     We must comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and fire and safety
regulations, which can require significant expenditures. All our properties must
comply with the Americans  with  Disabilities  Act and with related  regulations
(the  "ADA").  The  ADA  has  separate   compliance   requirements  for  "public
accommodations"  and  "commercial   facilities,"  but  generally  requires  that
buildings be made  accessible to persons with  disabilities.  Various state laws
impose similar  requirements.  A failure to comply with the ADA or similar state
laws could result in  government  imposed fines on us and could award damages to
individuals affected by the failure. In addition, we must operate our properties
in compliance with numerous local fire and safety  regulations,  building codes,
and other land use regulations.  Compliance with these  requirements can require
us to spend  substantial  amounts of money,  which would  reduce cash  otherwise
available  for  distribution  to  shareholders.  Failure  to comply  with  these
requirements could also affect the marketability of our real estate facilities.

     We incur liability from tenant and employment-related  claims. From time to
time we must resolve  tenant claims and  employment-related  claims by corporate
level and field personnel.

THE GLOBAL  ECONOMIC  CRISIS  COULD  ADVERSELY  AFFECT OUR  BUSINESS,  FINANCIAL
CONDITION, GROWTH AND ACCESS TO CAPITAL.

     By the end of 2008, the national  economy was in a recession and the global
financial crisis had broadened and intensified. Declining economic conditions in
the markets where we operate  facilities,  including higher  unemployment rates,
restrictions  on the  availability of credit,  volatile energy costs,  increased
governmental  needs for  revenue,  and other  events or factors  that  adversely
affect disposable  incomes,  have and are likely to continue to adversely affect
our business.

     As a further result of the current global financial crisis,  our ability to
issue preferred  shares or borrow at reasonable  rates has been and may continue
to be adversely  affected by illiquid credit markets.  The issuance of perpetual
preferred  securities  has been a  significant  source  of  capital  to grow our
business.  In the current market,  we are not able to issue perpetual  preferred
securities at yields we believe are attractive.  While we currently believe that
we have sufficient  working capital and capacity under our credit facilities and
our retained  cash flow from  operations  to continue to operate our business as
usual,  long-term continued turbulence in the credit markets and in the national



economy may adversely affect our access to capital and adversely impact earnings
growth that might otherwise  result from the acquisition and development of real
estate facilities.

WE GROW OUR BUSINESS PRIMARILY THROUGH  ACQUISITIONS OF EXISTING  PROPERTIES AND
ARE  SUBJECT TO RISKS  RELATED TO  ACQUISITIONS  THAT MAY  ADVERSELY  AFFECT OUR
GROWTH AND FINANCIAL RESULTS.

     We grow our  business  in large part  through the  acquisition  of existing
properties,   including  acquisitions  of  businesses  owned  by  other  storage
operators.  In addition to the general  risks  related to real estate  described
above which may also adversely impact operations at acquired properties,  we are
also subject to the following risks in connection with property acquisitions and
the integration of acquired properties into our operations.

     Any failure by us to manage acquisitions and other significant transactions
successfully could negatively impact our financial results.  Our growth strategy
includes acquiring other self-storage facilities.  We also evaluate from time to
time  other  significant  transactions.  If these  facilities  are not  properly
integrated into our system, our financial results may suffer.

     Any failure to successfully integrate acquired operations with our existing
business could  negatively  impact our financial  results.  To fully realize any
anticipated  benefits from an  acquisition,  we must  successfully  complete the
combination  of the  businesses of Public  Storage and acquired  properties in a
manner  that  permits  cost  savings to be  realized.  It is  possible  that the
integration  process could result in a decline in occupancy and/or rental rates,
the  disruption  of each  company's  ongoing  businesses or  inconsistencies  in
standards,   controls,   procedures,   practices,   policies  and   compensation
arrangements  that adversely affect our ability to maintain  relationships  with
tenants and  employees or to achieve  anticipated  benefits,  particularly  with
large acquisitions.

     Some acquired properties are subject to property tax reappraisals which may
increase our property tax  expense.  Some of the  facilities  we acquired in the
Shurgard  Merger have been,  and will  continue to be,  subject to property  tax
reappraisal  that could increase  property tax expense and adversely  affect our
profitability.  Up to 17% of the domestic  properties  we acquired in the merger
are located in jurisdictions  that may provide for property tax reappraisal upon
a change of ownership and so may face further reassessment.

AS A RESULT OF OUR OWNERSHIP OF 49% OF THE INTERNATIONAL  OPERATIONS OF SHURGARD
EUROPE WITH A BOOK VALUE OF $264.1 MILLION AT DECEMBER 31, 2008, AND OUR LOAN TO
SHURGARD EUROPE  AGGREGATING $552.4 MILLION AT DECEMBER 31, 2008, WE ARE EXPOSED
TO  ADDITIONAL  RISKS  RELATED TO  INTERNATIONAL  BUSINESSES  THAT MAY ADVERSELY
IMPACT OUR BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS.

     We have limited  experience  in European  operations,  which may  adversely
impact our  ability to operate  profitably  in  Europe.  In  addition,  European
operations  have specific  inherent  risks,  including  without  limitation  the
following:

o    currency risks, including currency fluctuations,  which can impact the fair
     value of our  $264.1  million  book value  equity  investment  in  Shurgard
     Europe,  as well as the net proceeds to be received  upon  repayment of our
     loan to Shurgard Europe;

o    unexpected changes in legislative and regulatory requirements;

o    potentially adverse tax burdens;

o    burdens of complying with different permitting standards, environmental and
     labor laws and a wide variety of foreign laws;

o    obstacles to the repatriation of earnings and cash;

o    regional, national and local political uncertainty;

o    economic slowdown and/or downturn in foreign markets;



o    difficulties in staffing and managing international operations;

o    reduced protection for intellectual property in some countries; and

o    inability to effectively  control less than  wholly-owned  partnerships and
     joint ventures.

Based upon current  market  conditions  and recent  operating  result  trends of
Shurgard  Europe,  the  following  specific  risks  apply  with  respect  to our
investment in, and loan to, Shurgard Europe:

o    We have an  obligation  to loan up to an  additional  (euro)305  million to
     Shurgard  Europe.  Shurgard  Europe  exercised  their  option to extend our
     commitment  to  provide up to  (euro)305  million  of  additional  loans to
     Shurgard  Europe  through  March 2010,  either to fund the  acquisition  of
     Shurgard Europe's JV partner's  interest in the joint ventures and/or repay
     Shurgard  Europe's  pro-rata  share of the joint  venture  debt.  While the
     acquisition  of the joint  venture  partners'  interests are subject to our
     approval,  and  Shurgard  Europe's  pro rata share of the  aggregate  joint
     venture debt is approximately (euro)50 million, this commitment may require
     us to loan  additional  funds to Shurgard  Europe in amounts or under terms
     that we may not have otherwise agreed to.

o    Joint Ventures that Shurgard Europe has a 20% interest in have  significant
     refinancing requirements. Shurgard Europe's two joint ventures collectively
     had  approximately  (euro)250  million ($355 million) of  outstanding  debt
     payable to third  parties at December 31, 2008,  which is  non-recourse  to
     Shurgard Europe.  One of the joint venture loans totaling (euro)120 million
     ($170  million) is due May 2009 and the other joint  venture loan  totaling
     (euro)130  million ($185 million) is due in June 2009.  Shurgard  Europe is
     currently  negotiating  terms  with the  respective  lenders  to extend the
     maturities out one to three years.  We expect  Shurgard  Europe to finalize
     these  extensions  within  the  next  90  days,  although  there  can be no
     assurance  that such  extensions  will  actually be  completed.

     If Shurgard  Europe were unable to extend the maturity  dates of the loans,
     it is our  expectation  that the loans  would be repaid  with each  partner
     contributing their pro rata share towards repayment.  Shurgard Europe's pro
     rata share, in the aggregate,  would be approximately (euro)50 million ($70
     million)  which  Shurgard  Europe could borrow from us pursuant to our loan
     commitment  described  above.  Further,  it is also  possible that Shurgard
     Europe's  joint venture  partner will be unable to contribute  its pro rata
     share to repay the loans and may  trigger,  through  its  rights  under the
     related partnership  documents,  the liquidation of the partnership,  which
     could  result  in  Shurgard  Europe's  acquisition  of  its  joint  venture
     partner's interest or the sale of the properties to third properties,  with
     potential loss or reduction to our investment if the  liquidation  proceeds
     were not  sufficient.  If Shurgard Europe were to acquire its joint venture
     partner's on such a  circumstance,  it could  borrow on the  aforementioned
     (euro)305  million loan commitment we have provided to fund the purchase of
     the joint venture partner's interest and repayment of the loans.

o    Shurgard  Europe's  ability to refinance  its $552.4  million loan from us,
     which  is  due  in  March  2010,  is  limited  based  upon  current  market
     conditions.  We have loaned  Shurgard  Europe  (euro)391.9  million ($552.4
     million at December 31,  2008),  and this loan is due in March 2010.  Given
     the current  capital  markets,  it is likely that Shurgard  Europe would be
     unable to refinance the entire loan. If Shurgard Europe is unable to obtain
     financing  to raise funds to repay our loan,  we may have to  negotiate  an
     equity  or debt  contribution  by our joint  venture  partner  to  Shurgard
     Europe,  extend the loan, or otherwise  take steps under our lender rights.
     Any of these steps could negatively impact our investment and the liquidity
     of Shurgard Europe.

o    Shurgard  Europe's   operating  trends  are  negative.   Shurgard  Europe's
     same-store  revenue is down 2.3% in the quarter ended  December 31, 2008 as
     compared to the same period in 2007 on a constant  exchange rate basis,  as
     compared to same-store  revenue growth in the U.S. of 1.6%. The outlook for
     2009  for  Shurgard  Europe  is  for  continued  reductions  in  same-store



     revenues,  which will adversely impact Shurgard Europe's  operating results
     and its  interest  coverage  ratio and other  similar  metrics  upon  which
     potential lenders typically base their lending decisions.

WE ARE  SUBJECT TO RISKS  RELATED TO OUR  OWNERSHIP  OF ASSETS IN JOINT  VENTURE
STRUCTURES.

     In connection with our 2006  acquisition of Shurgard and the acquisition of
a 51%  interest in  Shurgard  Europe by an  institutional  investor on March 31,
2008, we hold  interests in several joint  ventures.  Joint ventures may present
additional risks, including without limitation, the following:

o    Risks  related  to  the  financial  strength,  common  business  goals  and
     strategies and cooperation of the venture partner.

o    The  inability  to take some  actions  with  respect  to the joint  venture
     activities that we may believe are favorable,  if our joint venture partner
     does not agree.

o    The risk that we could lose our REIT status based upon actions of the joint
     ventures  if  we  are  unable  to   effectively   control  these   indirect
     investments.

o    The risk that we may not  control  the legal  entity  that has title to the
     real estate.

o    The risk that our  investments  in these entities may not be easily sold or
     readily  accepted as  collateral  by our lenders,  or that lenders may view
     joint ventured assets as less favorable as collateral.

o    The risk that the  joint  ventures  could  take  actions  that we could not
     prevent,  which  could  result in  negative  rating  agency  impacts to our
     preferred shares and debt.

o    The risk that we may be constrained from certain activities of our own that
     we would otherwise deem favorable,  due to noncompete  clauses in our joint
     venture arrangements.

o    The risk that we will be unable to resolve  disputes with our joint venture
     partners.   We  are  currently  engaged  in  legal  proceedings   including
     litigation with certain joint venture partners.

THE  HUGHES  FAMILY  COULD  CONTROL  US  AND  TAKE  ACTIONS   ADVERSE  TO  OTHER
SHAREHOLDERS.

     At December 31, 2008,  B. Wayne  Hughes,  Chairman of the Board of Trustees
and his family (the "Hughes Family") owned  approximately 21.0% of our aggregate
outstanding common shares. Our declaration of trust permits the Hughes Family to
own up to 47.66% of our  outstanding  common  shares.  Consequently,  the Hughes
Family may or could  control  matters  submitted to a vote of our  shareholders,
including electing trustees,  amending our organizational documents,  dissolving
and approving other extraordinary transactions, such as a takeover attempt, even
though such actions may not be favorable to other shareholders.

CERTAIN  PROVISIONS OF MARYLAND LAW AND IN OUR  DECLARATION  OF TRUST AND BYLAWS
MAY  PREVENT  CHANGES IN  CONTROL  OR  OTHERWISE  DISCOURAGE  TAKEOVER  ATTEMPTS
BENEFICIAL TO SHAREHOLDERS.

     Maryland law limits certain business combinations and changes of control of
the  Company  unless  the Board  affirmatively  elects  not to be covered by the
statutory  provisions.  Currently,  the Board  has  opted  out of the  statutory
limitations of both statutes.  However,  the Board may in the future elect to be
covered  under  the  business  combination  provisions  and  the  control  share
acquisitions  provisions of Maryland law. The business combination provisions of
Maryland  law (in the event our Board opts to make them  applicable  to us), the
control  share  acquisition  provisions  of  Maryland  law  (if  the  applicable
provision in our bylaws is rescinded), limitations on removal of trustees in our
declaration  of  trust,  restrictions  on  the  acquisition  of  our  shares  of
beneficial  interest,  the power to issue  additional  common shares,  preferred
shares or equity  shares and the advance  notice  provisions of our bylaws could
have the effect of delaying,  deterring or preventing a transaction  or a change
in control that might  involve a premium  price for holders of the common shares
or might otherwise be in their best interest. Certain provisions of Maryland law



permit our board of trustees,  without  shareholder  approval and  regardless of
what is provided in our  declaration of trust or bylaws,  to implement  takeover
defenses that we may not yet have and to take,  or refrain from taking,  certain
other actions without those  decisions being subject to any heightened  standard
of conduct or  standard  of review as such  decisions  may be subject in certain
other jurisdictions.

     To preserve our status as a REIT under the Code,  our  declaration of trust
contains  limitations  on the number and value of shares of beneficial  interest
that any person may own. These ownership limitations generally limit the ability
of a person,  other than the Hughes  Family (as  defined in our  declaration  of
trust)  and other  than  "designated  investment  entities"  (as  defined in our
declaration of trust),  to own more than 3% of our outstanding  common shares or
9.9% of the  outstanding  shares of any class or series of  preferred  or equity
shares,  in  each  case,  in  value  or  number  of  shares,  whichever  is more
restrictive,  unless an  exemption  is granted by our board of  trustees.  These
limitations could discourage,  delay or prevent a transaction involving a change
in control of our company not approved by our board of trustees.

IF WE FAILED TO QUALIFY AS A REIT FOR INCOME TAX PURPOSES,  WE WOULD BE TAXED AS
A CORPORATION,  WHICH WOULD SUBSTANTIALLY  REDUCE FUNDS AVAILABLE FOR PAYMENT OF
DIVIDENDS.

     Investors  are  subject  to the risk that we may not  qualify as a REIT for
income tax purposes.  REITs are subject to a range of complex organizational and
operational  requirements.  As a REIT, we must  distribute  with respect to each
year at least 90% of our REIT taxable income to our shareholders (which may take
into account certain dividends paid in the subsequent year).  Other restrictions
apply to our income  and  assets.  Our REIT  status is also  dependent  upon the
ongoing  qualification  of our  affiliate,  PSB,  as a REIT,  as a result of our
substantial ownership interest in that company.

     For any  taxable  year that we fail to  qualify as a REIT and are unable to
avail ourselves of relief  provisions set forth in the Code, we would be subject
to  federal  income tax at the  regular  corporate  rates on all of our  taxable
income,  whether or not we make any  distributions  to our  shareholders.  Those
taxes  would  reduce  the  amount  of cash  available  for  distribution  to our
shareholders or for reinvestment  and would adversely affect our earnings.  As a
result,  our failure to qualify as a REIT  during any taxable  year could have a
material  adverse  effect  upon us and  our  shareholders.  Furthermore,  unless
certain relief  provisions  apply, we would not be eligible to elect REIT status
again until the fifth taxable year that begins after the first year for which we
fail to qualify.

     We have also assumed,  based on public filings that Shurgard qualified as a
REIT.  However, if Shurgard failed to qualify as a REIT, we generally would have
succeeded to or incurred significant tax liabilities  (including the significant
tax  liability  that  would  have  resulted  from the  deemed  sale of assets by
Shurgard to us pursuant to the Shurgard Merger).

WE MAY PAY SOME TAXES, REDUCING CASH AVAILABLE FOR SHAREHOLDERS.

     Even if we  qualify  as a REIT for  federal  income  tax  purposes,  we are
required to pay some federal,  foreign,  state and local taxes on our income and
property.  Since January 1, 2001, certain corporate  subsidiaries of the Company
(including certain subsidiaries acquired in connection with the Shurgard Merger)
have  elected to be treated as "taxable  REIT  subsidiaries"  of the Company for
federal income tax purposes.  A taxable REIT  subsidiary is taxable as a regular
corporation and is limited in its ability to deduct interest payments made to us
in excess of a certain  amount.  In  addition,  if we receive or accrue  certain
amounts  and  the  underlying  economic  arrangements  among  our  taxable  REIT
subsidiaries and us are not comparable to similar  arrangements  among unrelated
parties, we will be subject to a 100% penalty tax on those payments in excess of
amounts deemed  reasonable  between  unrelated  parties.  To the extent that the
Company or any taxable  REIT  subsidiary  is required to pay  federal,  foreign,
state or local  taxes,  we will have less cash  available  for  distribution  to
shareholders.

WE   HAVE   BECOME    INCREASINGLY    DEPENDENT   UPON   AUTOMATED    PROCESSES,
TELECOMMUNICATIONS, AND THE INTERNET AND ARE FACED WITH SYSTEM SECURITY RISKS.

     We have  become  increasingly  centralized  and  dependent  upon  automated
information technology processes.  As a result, we could be severely impacted by
a catastrophic occurrence,  such as a natural disaster or a terrorist attack. In



addition,  a portion of our business operations are conducted over the Internet,
increasing the risk of viruses that could cause system  failures and disruptions
of operations.  Experienced  computer  programmers  may be able to penetrate our
network security and misappropriate our confidential information,  create system
disruptions  or cause  shutdowns.  Nearly half of our move-ins  comes from sales
channels dependent upon telecommunications (telephone or Internet).

WE HAVE NO  INTEREST  IN CANADIAN  SELF-STORAGE  FACILITIES  OWNED BY THE HUGHES
FAMILY.

     The Hughes Family has ownership interests in, and operates, 49 self-storage
facilities  in Canada under the name  "Public  Storage." We currently do not own
any interests in these  facilities  nor do we own any  facilities in Canada.  We
have a right of first refusal to acquire the stock or assets of the  corporation
engaged in the operation of the self-storage  facilities in Canada if the Hughes
Family or the  corporation  agrees to sell them.  However,  we have no ownership
interest in the operations of this  corporation,  have no right to acquire their
stock or assets unless the Hughes family decides to sell, and receive no benefit
from the profits and increases in value of the Canadian self-storage facilities.

     Through our subsidiaries, we continue to reinsure risks relating to loss of
goods stored by tenants in the  self-storage  facilities in Canada.  We acquired
the tenant insurance business on December 31, 2001 through our acquisition of PS
Insurance  Company,  or PSICH.  For the years ended  December 31, 2008 and 2007,
PSICH received  $768,000 and $906,000,  respectively,  in  reinsurance  premiums
attributable to the Canadian  Facilities.  Since PSICH's right to provide tenant
reinsurance to the Canadian  Facilities may be qualified,  there is no assurance
that these premiums will continue.

OUR TENANT INSURANCE BUSINESS IS SUBJECT TO GOVERNMENTAL  REGULATION WHICH COULD
REDUCE OUR PROFITABILITY OR LIMIT OUR GROWTH.

     We hold Limited Lines Self Storage  Insurance  Agent licenses from a number
of  individual  state   Departments  of  Insurance  and  are  subject  to  state
governmental  regulation and supervision.  This state  governmental  supervision
could reduce our  profitability  or limit our growth by increasing  the costs of
regulatory  compliance,  limiting  or  restricting  the  products or services we
provide or the methods by which we provide products and services,  or subjecting
our businesses to the  possibility  of regulatory  actions or  proceedings.  Our
continued  ability to maintain these Limited Lines Self Storage  Insurance Agent
licenses in the jurisdictions in which we are licensed depends on our compliance
with the rules and regulations  promulgated  from time to time by the regulatory
authorities  in  each  of  these  jurisdictions.  Furthermore,  state  insurance
departments  conduct periodic  examinations,  audits and  investigations  of the
affairs of insurance agents.

     In all  jurisdictions,  the applicable  laws and regulations are subject to
amendment  or  interpretation  by  regulatory   authorities.   Generally,   such
authorities  are vested with  relatively  broad  discretion to grant,  renew and
revoke licenses and approvals and to implement regulations.  Accordingly, we may
be  precluded  or  temporarily  suspended  from  carrying  on some or all of our
activities  or  otherwise  fined  or  penalized  in  a  given  jurisdiction.  No
assurances  can be given that our businesses can continue to be conducted in any
given  jurisdiction  as it has been conducted in the past. For each of the years
ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, revenues from our tenant reinsurance  business
represented approximately 3% of our revenues.

FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH  APPLICABLE  LAWS COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS  AND  FINANCIAL
RESULTS.

     We are  subject  to a wide  range of  federal,  state  and  local  laws and
regulations  including those imposed by the SEC, the  Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
and New York Stock Exchange,  as well as applicable labor laws. Although we have
policies and procedures designed to comply with applicable laws and regulations,
failure to comply with the various laws and  regulations may result in civil and
criminal  liability,  fines and  penalties,  increased  costs of compliance  and
restatement of our financial statements.



TERRORIST  ATTACKS  AND THE  POSSIBILITY  OF WIDER  ARMED  CONFLICT  MAY HAVE AN
ADVERSE  IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS  AND  OPERATING  RESULTS AND COULD  DECREASE THE
VALUE OF OUR ASSETS.

     Terrorist  attacks  and other acts of violence or war could have a material
adverse impact on our business and operating results.  There can be no assurance
that there will not be further  terrorist attacks against the U.S., the European
Community,  or their  businesses or interests.  Attacks or armed  conflicts that
directly  impact one or more of our properties  could  significantly  affect our
ability to operate those  properties and thereby  impair our operating  results.
Further,  we may not have  insurance  coverage for losses  caused by a terrorist
attack. Such insurance may not be available, or if it is available and we decide
to obtain such terrorist coverage, the cost for the insurance may be significant
in relationship to the risk overall. In addition,  the adverse effects that such
violent acts and threats of future attacks could have on the U.S.  economy could
similarly  have a  material  adverse  effect  on our  business  and  results  of
operations. Finally, further terrorist acts could cause the U.S. to enter into a
wider armed  conflict,  which could  further  impact our business and  operating
results.

DEVELOPMENTS  IN  CALIFORNIA  MAY HAVE AN  ADVERSE  IMPACT ON OUR  BUSINESS  AND
FINANCIAL RESULTS.

     We are headquartered  in, and approximately  one-fifth of our properties in
the U.S.  are  located in  California.  The state of  California  and many local
jurisdictions are facing severe budgetary problems.  Action that may be taken in
response to these  problems,  such as increases in property  taxes on commercial
properties,  changes  to  sales  taxes or other  governmental  efforts  to raise
revenues  could  adversely  impact our  business and results of  operations.  In
addition,  we could be  adversely  impacted  by efforts  to reenact  legislation
mandating medical  insurance for employees of California  businesses and members
of their families.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
         -------------------------

         Not applicable.





ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES
         ----------

     At December 31, 2008,  we had direct and  indirect  ownership  interests in
2,012 and 181 storage  facilities located in 38 states within the U.S. and seven
Western European nations, respectively:

                                             At December 31, 2008
                                  -----------------------------------------
                                  Number of Storage     Net Rentable Square
                                    Facilities (a)      Feet (in thousands)
                                  ------------------    -------------------
United States:
California:
     Southern...............                 204                 14,202
     Northern...............                 170                  9,927
Texas.......................                 236                 15,493
Florida.....................                 191                 12,511
Illinois....................                 123                  7,800
Washington..................                  91                  6,028
Georgia.....................                  92                  5,964
North Carolina..............                  69                  4,775
Virginia....................                  78                  4,453
New York....................                  62                  3,997
Colorado....................                  60                  3,810
New Jersey..................                  56                  3,524
Maryland....................                  56                  3,290
Minnesota...................                  44                  2,990
Michigan....................                  43                  2,755
Arizona.....................                  37                  2,259
South Carolina..............                  40                  2,155
Missouri....................                  38                  2,144
Oregon......................                  39                  2,006
Indiana.....................                  31                  1,926
Pennsylvania................                  28                  1,867
Ohio........................                  30                  1,860
Nevada......................                  24                  1,561
Tennessee...................                  27                  1,528
Kansas......................                  22                  1,310
Massachusetts...............                  19                  1,179
Wisconsin...................                  16                  1,030
Other states (12 states)....                  86                  4,731
                                           -----                -------
     Total - U.S............               2,012                127,075
                                           -----                -------
Europe:
France......................                  55                  2,901
Netherlands.................                  37                  1,977
Sweden......................                  27                  1,437
Belgium.....................                  21                  1,254
United Kingdom..............                  20                    970
Germany.....................                  11                    552
Denmark.....................                  10                    502
                                           -----                -------
     Total - Europe.........                 181                  9,593
                                           -----                -------
     Grand Total............               2,193                136,668
                                           =====                =======

(a)  See Schedule III:Real Estate and Accumulated  Depreciation in the Company's
     2008  financials,  for a complete  list of properties  consolidated  by the
     Company.

     Our  facilities  are  generally  operated to maximize cash flow through the
regular  review and  adjustment  of rents  charged to our tenants.  For the year
ended December 31, 2008, the weighted  average  occupancy  level and the average



realized  rent per occupied  square foot for our  self-storage  facilities  were
approximately  89% and  $12.98,  respectively  in the U.S.  and 80% and  $28.05,
respectively in Europe.

     At December 31, 2008, 90 of our facilities  were encumbered by an aggregate
of $236 million in mortgage notes payable.

     We have no  specific  policy as to the maximum  size of any one  particular
self-storage facility.  However, none of our facilities involves, or is expected
to involve, 1% or more of our total assets, gross revenues or net income.

     DESCRIPTION OF  SELF-STORAGE  FACILITIES:  Self-storage  facilities,  which
comprise  the  majority of our  investments,  are  designed to offer  accessible
storage  space for personal  and  business use at a relatively  low cost. A user
rents a fully enclosed space, which is for the user's exclusive use and to which
only the user has access on an unrestricted basis during business hours. On-site
operation  is the  responsibility  of property  managers who are  supervised  by
district managers.  Some self-storage facilities also include rentable uncovered
parking  areas for  vehicle  storage.  Storage  facility  spaces are rented on a
month-to-month  basis.  Rental  rates  vary  according  to the  location  of the
property,  the  size  of the  storage  space  and  length  of  stay.  All of our
self-storage  facilities  in the U.S.  are operated  under the "Public  Storage"
brand name,  while our  facilities  in Europe are operated  under the  "Shurgard
Storage Centers" brand name.

     Users  of  space  in  self-storage   facilities  include  individuals  from
virtually all demographic  groups,  as well as businesses.  Individuals  usually
obtain  this space for  storage of  furniture,  household  appliances,  personal
belongings,  motor  vehicles,  boats,  campers,  motorcycles and other household
goods.  Businesses  normally employ this space for storage of excess  inventory,
business records, seasonal goods, equipment and fixtures.

     Our self-storage  facilities  generally consist of three to seven buildings
containing an aggregate of between 350 to 750 storage spaces, most of which have
between 25 and 400 square feet and an interior height of approximately  eight to
12 feet.

     We  experience  minor  seasonal  fluctuations  in the  occupancy  levels of
self-storage  facilities with occupancies  generally higher in the summer months
than in the winter  months.  We believe that these  fluctuations  result in part
from increased moving activity during the summer months.

     Our self-storage facilities are geographically  diversified and are located
primarily  in or near major  metropolitan  markets in 38 states in the U.S.  and
seven Western  European  nations.  Generally  our  self-storage  facilities  are
located in heavily  populated  areas and close to  concentrations  of  apartment
complexes, single family residences and commercial developments.  However, there
may be  circumstances in which it may be appropriate to own a property in a less
populated  area,  for  example,  in an area that is highly  visible from a major
thoroughfare and close to, although not in, a heavily populated area.  Moreover,
in certain population  centers,  land costs and zoning restrictions may create a
demand for space in nearby less populated areas.

     Competition  from other  self-storage  facilities as well as other forms of
storage  in the  market  areas in which many of our  properties  are  located is
significant and has affected the occupancy  levels,  rental rates, and operating
expenses of many of our properties.

     Since our investments are primarily self-storage facilities, our ability to
preserve our  investments  and achieve our objectives is dependent in large part
upon success in this field.  Historically,  upon stabilization  after an initial
fill-up period, our U.S.  self-storage facility interests have generally shown a
high  degree of  consistency  in  generating  cash  flows.  We believe  that our
self-storage  facilities,  upon stabilization,  have attractive  characteristics
consisting of high profit margins, a broad tenant base and low levels of capital
expenditures to maintain their condition and appearance.

     COMMERCIAL  PROPERTIES:  In addition to our interests in 2,193 self-storage
facilities, we have an interest in PSB, which, as of December 31, 2008, owns and
operates approximately 19.6 million net rentable square feet in eight states. At



December 31, 2008,  our  investment in PSB  represents  2.7% of our total assets
based upon book value of $265.7  million.  The market value of our investment in
PSB at December 31, 2008 of approximately  $568.2 million represents 5.7% of the
book  value of our total  assets at  December  31,  2008 of  approximately  $9.9
billion.  We also directly own 1,469,000 net rentable  square feet of commercial
space,  primarily located at our existing self-storage  locations,  comprised of
small retail locations.

     The commercial  properties owned by PSB consist of flex space, office space
and  industrial  space.  Flex space is defined as buildings  that are configured
with a  combination  of part  warehouse  space and part office  space and can be
designed to fit a wide  variety of uses.  The  warehouse  component  of the flex
space has a variety of uses including light manufacturing and assembly,  storage
and warehousing, showroom, laboratory, distribution and research and development
activities. The office component of flex space is complementary to the warehouse
component by enabling businesses to accommodate  management and production staff
in the same facility.  PSB also owns low-rise  suburban office space,  generally
either in  business  parks that  combine  office and flex space or in  desirable
submarkets  where the  economics of the market demand an office  build-out.  PSB
also owns  industrial  space that has  characteristics  similar to the warehouse
component of the flex space.

     ENVIRONMENTAL  MATTERS: Our policy is to accrue  environmental  assessments
and  estimated  remediation  cost when it is probable  that such efforts will be
required and the related costs can be reasonably estimated. Our current practice
is  to  conduct   environmental   investigations  in  connection  with  property
acquisitions.  Although  there  can be no  assurance,  we are not  aware  of any
environmental  contamination of any of our facilities,  which individually or in
the aggregate would be material to our overall business, financial condition, or
results of operations.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
         -----------------

     Brinkley v. Public  Storage,  Inc.  (filed April 2005)  (Superior  Court of
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
     California - Los Angeles County)
     --------------------------------

     The plaintiff sued the Company on behalf of a purported class of California
non-exempt  employees based on various California wage and hour laws and seeking
monetary  damages  and  injunctive  relief.  In May  2006,  a motion  for  class
certification  was filed seeking to certify five  subclasses.  Plaintiff  sought
certification  for alleged  meal  period  violations,  rest  period  violations,
failure to pay for travel time,  failure to pay for mileage  reimbursement,  and
for wage  statement  violations.  In October 2006, the Court declined to certify
three out of the five subclasses.  The Court did,  however,  certify  subclasses
based on alleged meal period and wage statement  violations.  Subsequently,  the
Company filed a motion for summary judgment seeking to dismiss the matter in its
entirety.  On June 22, 2007,  the Court granted the Company's  summary  judgment
motion as to the  causes of action  relating  to the  subclasses  certified  and
dismissed  those claims.  The only  surviving  claims are those  relating to the
named plaintiff.  The plaintiff has filed an appeal to the Court's June 22, 2007
summary judgment ruling. On October 28, 2008, the Court of Appeals sustained the
trial  court's  ruling.  The  plaintiff  filed a petition  for  review  with the
California  Supreme  Court,  which was granted but further action in this matter
was deferred pending consideration and disposition of a related issue in Brinker
Restaurant  Corp.  v.  Superior  Court  which is  currently  pending  before the
California Supreme Court.

     European Joint Venture Arbitration Proceeding
     ---------------------------------------------

     Shurgard  Europe  holds a 20%  interest  in each of two joint  ventures  in
Europe,   First  Shurgard  and  Second  Shurgard,   that   collectively  own  72
self-storage properties in Europe. On August 24, 2006, the Company,  through its
affiliate,  Shurgard Europe, served an exit notice on the European joint venture
partners  informing them of its intention to purchase  their  interests in First
Shurgard  and  Second  Shurgard  pursuant  to an early exit  procedure  that the
Company believes is provided for in the respective joint venture agreements. The
exit  notice  offered  to pay the joint  venture  partners  an amount  for their
interests in accordance with the provisions of the joint venture agreements. The
joint venture partners  contested  whether the Company has the right to purchase
its interests under the early exit  procedures of the joint venture  agreements.
On January 17,  2007,  Shurgard  Europe  filed an  arbitration  request with the
International  Chamber of Commerce  to compel  arbitration  of the  matter.  The
arbitration proceedings occurred from June 30, 2008 through July 3, 2008.



     The  arbitration  panel recently  issued a ruling  concluding that Shurgard
Europe did not have the right to start the exit procedures  under the early exit
provision of joint  venture  agreements.  However,  the panel held that Shurgard
Europe did not act  unreasonably  in raising a genuine issue and ruled that each
party is to bear its own costs. The arbitration panel's decision does not affect
Shurgard  Europe's  ability to exit the joint  ventures in  accordance  with the
ordinary (as  compared to the  "early")  exit  provisions  of the joint  venture
agreements if market and other  conditions  make a termination of one or both of
the  joint  ventures  advisable.   The  ordinary  exit  procedure  is  currently
exercisable  for First  Shurgard and will be  exercisable in May 2009 for Second
Shurgard.

     Other Items
     -----------

     We are a party to various claims,  complaints, and other legal actions that
have  arisen in the  normal  course of  business  from time to time that are not
described  above. We believe that it is unlikely that the outcome of these other
pending  legal  proceedings  including  employment  and  tenant  claims,  in the
aggregate,  will have a material adverse impact upon our operations or financial
position.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
         --------------------------------------------------

     We did not submit any  matter to a vote of  security  holders in the fourth
quarter of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008.






                                     PART II
                                     -------

ITEM 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and
         ----------------------------------------------------------------------
         Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
         -------------------------------------

     a.   Market Price of the Registrant's Common Equity:

               Our Common Shares (NYSE: PSA), including those of Public Storage,
          Inc. prior to our reorganization in June 2007, have been listed on the
          New York Stock Exchange since October 19, 1984. Our Depositary  Shares
          each  representing  1/1,000 of an Equity  Share,  Series A (NYSE:PSAA)
          (see section c. below),  including those of Public Storage, Inc. prior
          to our  reorganization  in June 2007 have been  listed on the New York
          Stock Exchange since February 14, 2000.

               The  following  table sets forth the high and low sales prices of
          our Common Shares on the New York Stock Exchange  composite  tapes for
          the applicable periods.

                                                              Range
                                                  -----------------------------
         Year                 Quarter               High                 Low
         ----                 -------             --------             -------
         2007                   1st               $117.16               $92.43
                                2nd                 99.36                74.28
                                3rd                 82.11                68.09
                                4th                 85.58                70.29

         2008                   1st                 94.98                65.66
                                2nd                 98.01                78.85
                                3rd                102.48                75.00
                                4th                105.87                52.52

               The  following  table sets forth the high and low sales prices of
          our Depositary  Shares Each  Representing  1/1,000 of an Equity Share,
          Series  A on the New  York  Stock  Exchange  composite  tapes  for the
          applicable periods.

                                                             Range
                                                  -----------------------------
         Year                 Quarter               High                 Low
         ----                 -------             --------             -------
         2007                    1st               $27.27               $26.25
                                 2nd                26.88                25.65
                                 3rd                26.15                25.00
                                 4th                26.29                24.32

         2008                    1st                26.00                24.14
                                 2nd                26.33                25.05
                                 3rd                26.50                24.50
                                 4th                26.05                18.12

               As of February 15, 2009, there were approximately  19,462 holders
          of  record  of  Common  Shares  and  approximately  9,402  holders  of
          Depositary Shares Each Representing 1/1,000 of an Equity Share, Series
          A.

     b.   Dividends

               We have paid quarterly  distributions to our  shareholders  since
          1981,  our first full year of  operations.  Overall  distributions  on
          Common Shares for 2008 amounted to $472.8  million or $2.80 per share.
          Included in these amounts are $101.0 million or $0.60 per Common Share
          with respect to a special cash dividend paid in December 2008.



               Holders of Common  Shares are  entitled to receive  distributions
          when and if declared by our Board of Trustees out of any funds legally
          available for that  purpose.  In order to maintain our REIT status for
          federal  income  tax  purposes,  we  are  generally  required  to  pay
          dividends  at least equal to 90% of our real estate  investment  trust
          taxable  income  for the  taxable  year  (for  this  purpose,  certain
          dividends paid in the subsequent  year may be taken into account).  We
          intend to pay  distributions  sufficient  to permit us to maintain our
          REIT status.

               For Federal income tax purposes,  distributions  to  shareholders
          are treated as ordinary income,  capital gains, return of capital or a
          combination  thereof.  For 2008,  the dividends  paid on common shares
          ($2.80 per share), on all the various classes of preferred shares, and
          on our Equity Shares, Series A were classified as follows:



               For 2007,  the dividends paid on common shares ($2.00 per share),
          on all the  various  classes of  preferred  shares,  and on our Equity
          Shares, Series A were classified as follows:


     c.   Equity Shares

               The Company is authorized to issue 100,000,000 Equity Shares. Our
          declaration  of trust  provides  that the Equity  Shares may be issued
          from  time to time  in one or more  series  and  gives  the  Board  of
          Trustees broad authority to fix the dividend and distribution  rights,
          conversion and voting rights,  redemption  provisions and  liquidation
          rights of each series of Equity Shares.

               At  December  31,  2008,  we  had  8,377,193   Depositary  Shares
          outstanding,  each representing  1/1,000 of an Equity Share, Series A.
          The Equity  Shares,  Series A rank on a parity with our common  shares
          and  junior  to  the  Senior   Preferred   Shares   with   respect  to
          distributions  and  liquidation  and has a  liquidation  amount  which
          cannot  exceed  $24.50 per share.  Distributions  with respect to each
          depositary  share  shall be the lesser of: a) five times the per share
          dividend on the Common  Shares or b) $2.45 per annum.  Except in order
          to preserve the Company's  Federal income tax status as a REIT, we may
          not redeem the  depositary  shares  before March 31, 2010. On or after
          March 31, 2010, we may, at our option, redeem the depositary shares at
          $24.50 per  depositary  share.  If the Company  fails to preserve  its
          Federal  income tax status as a REIT,  each  depositary  share will be
          convertible into 0.956 of our common shares. The depositary shares are
          otherwise not  convertible  into common shares.  Holders of depositary
          shares  vote as a single  class with our  holders of common  shares on
          shareholder  matters, but the depositary shares have the equivalent of
          one-tenth of a vote per depositary share. We have no obligation to pay
          distributions on the depositary shares if no distributions are paid to
          common shareholders.

               In November  1999,  we sold  $100,000,000  (4,289,544  shares) of
          Equity  Shares,  Series AAA  ("Equity  Shares  AAA") to a newly formed
          joint  venture.  The Equity  Shares AAA ranks on a parity  with common
          shares and  junior to the  Senior  Preferred  Shares  with  respect to
          general  preference rights, and has a liquidation amount equal to 120%
          of the amount distributed to each common share.  Annual  distributions
          per share are equal to the lesser of (i) five  times the  amount  paid
          per  common  share  or (ii)  $2.1564.  We have  no  obligation  to pay
          distributions if no distributions are paid to common shareholders.



     d.   Common Share Repurchases

               Our Board of Trustees has authorized the repurchase  from time to
          time of up to 35,000,000 of our common shares on the open market or in
          privately  negotiated  transactions.  On May 8,  2008,  the  Board  of
          Trustees authorized an increase in the total repurchase  authorization
          from 25,000,000 common shares to 35,000,000 common shares. During 2006
          and  2007,  we  did  not  repurchase  any  shares.   During  2008,  we
          repurchased  1,520,196 shares for approximately  $111.9 million.  From
          the inception of the repurchase program through March 2, 2009, we have
          repurchased a total of 23,721,916  common shares at an aggregate  cost
          of approximately  $679.1 million.  Our common share repurchase program
          does not have an  expiration  date and  there  are  11,278,084  common
          shares that may yet be repurchased under our repurchase  program as of
          December 31, 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we did not
          repurchase  any of our common  shares  outside our publicly  announced
          repurchase  program,   except  shares  withheld  for  payment  of  tax
          withholding in connection with our various stock option plans.  Future
          levels of common  repurchases  will be  dependent  upon our  available
          capital, investment alternatives,  and the trading price of our common
          shares.

     e.   Preferred and Equity Share Repurchases

               During  November  and  December  2008,  in  privately  negotiated
          transactions we repurchased various series of our Cumulative Preferred
          Shares with an aggregate  liquidation amount of $103.2 million, for an
          aggregate  of $66.9  million in cash (which was  inclusive  of accrued
          dividends), in addition to 367,000 shares of our Equity Shares, Series
          A for an  aggregate  of $7.7  million  in cash  (inclusive  of accrued
          dividends).

               The following table presents monthly  information  related to our
          privately  negotiated  repurchases of our Cumulative  Preferred Shares
          and Equity Shares, Series A during the year ended December 31, 2008:

                                                   Total Number
                                                   of Shares     Average Price
        Period Covered                             Purchased     Paid per Share
        ------------------------------------       ---------     --------------

        October 1, 2008  - October 31, 2008               -               -
        November 1, 2008 - November 30, 2008
          Preferred Shares - Series Y               449,100          $16.04
          Preferred Shares - Series K             1,409,756          $16.87
          Preferred Shares - Series L               933,400          $15.67
          Preferred Shares - Series M               934,647          $15.38
          Equity Shares - Series A                  367,000          $21.00
                                                  ---------          ------
          Monthly Total                           4,093,903          $16.54
                                                  ---------          ------
        December 1, 2008 - December 31, 2008
          Preferred Shares - Series Y               400,000          $17.23
                                                  ---------          ------
        Total                                     4,493,903          $16.60
                                                  =========          ======



ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
         -----------------------


(1)  The significant increase in our revenues, cost of operations,  depreciation
     and  amortization,   and  interest  expense  in  2006  and  2007,  and  the
     significant increase in total assets, total debt and shareholder' equity in
     2006, is due to our acquisition of Shurgard Storage Centers in August 2006.
     The significant decrease in our revenues, cost of operations,  depreciation
     and  amortization,  and  interest  expense  in  2008,  and the  significant
     decrease in total assets,  total debt and  shareholder'  equity in 2008, is
     due to our disposition of an interest in Shurgard Europe on March 31, 2008.
     See Note 3 to our December 31, 2008 consolidated  financial  statements for
     further information.




ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         -----------------------------------------------------------------------
         OF OPERATIONS
         -------------

     The following  discussion and analysis  should be read in conjunction  with
our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.

     FORWARD  LOOKING  STATEMENTS:  This  Annual  Report on Form  10-K  contains
forward-looking  statements  within the meaning of the federal  securities laws.
All statements in this document,  other than statements of historical  fact, are
forward-looking  statements  which  may be  identified  by the use of the  words
"expects,"  "believes,"   "anticipates,"   "plans,"  "would,"  "should,"  "may,"
"estimates" and similar expressions.  These  forward-looking  statements involve
known and unknown  risks and  uncertainties,  which may cause  Public  Storage's
actual results and  performance to be materially  different from those expressed
or implied in the forward-looking  statements.  As a result, you should not rely
on any  forward-looking  statements in this report, or which management may make
orally or in writing  from time to time,  as  predictions  of future  events nor
guarantees of future performance.  We caution you not to place undue reliance on
forward-looking statements, which speak only as the date of this report or as of
the dates indicated in the statements.  All of our  forward-looking  statements,
including  those  in this  report,  are  qualified  in  their  entirely  by this
statement.  We expressly disclaim any obligation to update publicly or otherwise
revise any forward-looking  statements,  whether as a result of new information,
new estimates,  or other factors, events or circumstances after the date of this
document,  except where expressly required by law.  Accordingly,  you should use
caution in relying  on past  forward-looking  statements  to  anticipate  future
results.

     Factors  and risks  that may  impact our  future  results  and  performance
include,  but are not limited to, those described in Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and
in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. ("SEC").

     CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations  discusses our  consolidated  financial  statements,  which have been
prepared in accordance with United States ("U.S.") generally accepted accounting
principles  ("GAAP").  The  preparation of our financial  statements and related
disclosures  in  conformity  with GAAP and our  discussion  and  analysis of our
financial  condition  and  results of  operations  requires  management  to make
judgments,  assumptions  and estimates  that affect the amounts  reported in our
consolidated  financial  statements  and  accompanying  notes.  The notes to our
December 31, 2008 consolidated financial statements, primarily Note 2, summarize
the significant  accounting  policies and methods used in the preparation of our
consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.

     Management  believes the  following  are critical  accounting  policies the
application  of  which  has  a  material  impact  on  the  Company's   financial
presentation. That is, they are both important to the portrayal of our financial
condition  and  results,  and they  require  management  to make  judgments  and
estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain.

     QUALIFICATION AS A REIT - INCOME TAX EXPENSE:  We believe that we have been
organized  and operated,  and we intend to continue to operate,  as a qualifying
REIT under the Code and  applicable  state laws.  We also believe that  Shurgard
qualified as a REIT.  A REIT  generally  does not pay  corporate  level  federal
income taxes on its REIT taxable income that is distributed to its shareholders,
and  accordingly,  we do not pay  federal  income  tax on the  share of our REIT
taxable income that is distributed to our shareholders.

     We therefore  do not estimate or accrue any federal  income tax expense for
income earned and distributed related to REIT operations. This estimate could be
incorrect,  because  due  to  the  complex  nature  of  the  REIT  qualification
requirements,   the  ongoing  importance  of  factual   determinations  and  the
possibility of future changes in our circumstances, we cannot be assured that we
actually have satisfied or will satisfy the  requirements for taxation as a REIT
for any  particular  taxable  year.  For any  taxable  year that we fail or have
failed to qualify as a REIT and for which applicable  relief  provisions did not
apply,  we would be taxed at the regular  corporate  rates on all of our taxable
income,  whether or not we made or make any  distributions to our  shareholders.
Any resulting  requirement to pay corporate income tax, including any applicable
penalties or interest,  could have a material  adverse  impact on our  financial
condition or results of  operations.  Unless  entitled to relief under  specific
statutory provisions,  we also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for



the four taxable  years  following  the year for which  qualification  was lost.
There can be no assurance that we would be entitled to any statutory  relief. In
addition,  if  Shurgard  failed to qualify as a REIT,  we  generally  would have
succeeded to or incurred significant tax liabilities.

     IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS: Substantially all of our assets consist of
long-lived  assets,  including  real  estate and other  intangible  assets.  The
evaluation of our long-lived assets for impairment includes  determining whether
indicators  of  impairment  exist,  which  is a  subjective  process.  When  any
indicators of impairment  are found,  the evaluation of such  long-lived  assets
then entails  projections of future  operating  cash flows,  which also involves
significant  judgment.  Future events, or facts and circumstances that currently
exist, that we have not yet identified, could cause us to conclude in the future
that our long-lived  assets are impaired.  Any resulting  impairment  loss could
have a  material  adverse  impact on our  financial  condition  and  results  of
operations.

     ESTIMATED  USEFUL  LIVES OF  LONG-LIVED  ASSETS:  Substantially  all of our
assets consist of  depreciable  or  amortizable,  long-lived  assets.  We record
depreciation  and  amortization  expense with respect to these assets based upon
their estimated  useful lives. Any change in the estimated useful lives of those
assets,  caused by functional or economic  obsolescence or other factors,  could
have a  material  adverse  impact  on our  financial  condition  or  results  of
operations.

     ACCRUALS FOR CONTINGENCIES:  We are exposed to business and legal liability
risks with respect to events that have occurred, but in accordance with GAAP, we
have not accrued for such potential  liabilities  because the loss is either not
probable  or not  estimable  or because  we are not aware of the  event.  Future
events and the  results of pending  litigation  could  result in such  potential
losses  becoming  probable and  estimable,  which could have a material  adverse
impact on our  financial  condition  or  results  of  operations.  Some of these
potential  losses,  of  which  we are  aware,  are  described  in Note 13 to our
December 31, 2008 consolidated financial statements.

     ACCRUALS  FOR  OPERATING  EXPENSES:  We accrue for property tax expense and
certain other operating  expenses based upon estimates and historical trends and
current and anticipated  local and state government  rules and  regulations.  If
these estimates and assumptions are incorrect, our expenses could be misstated.

     VALUATION OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES ACQUIRED IN BUSINESS  COMBINATIONS:  We
have estimated the fair value of real estate,  intangible assets,  debt, and the
other  assets and other  liabilities  acquired  in business  combinations,  most
notably the Shurgard  Merger.  We have acquired these assets,  in certain cases,
with non-cash assets, most notably the 38.9 million shares that we issued to the
Shurgard  shareholders.   These  estimates  are  based  upon  many  assumptions,
including  interest  rates,  market values of land and buildings in the U.S. and
Europe,  estimated future cash flows from the then tenant base in place, and the
recoverability  of certain  assets.  We believe that the  assumptions  used were
reasonable,  however,  these assumptions were subject to a significant degree of
judgment,  and others could come to materially  different  conclusions as to the
estimated  values,  if  different  assumptions  were used.  If the  values  were
determined  using different  assumptions  than those used, our  depreciation and
amortization  expense,  interest expense,  gain on disposition of an interest in
Shurgard  Europe,  real  estate,  debt,  and  intangible  assets could have been
materially different.

     OVERVIEW OF MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF OPERATIONS

     Our principal  business  activities  include the acquisition,  development,
ownership and operation of  self-storage  facilities  which offer storage spaces
for lease,  generally on a month-to-month  basis, for personal and business use.
We are the largest  owner and operator of  self-storage  facilities in the U.S.,
and we have an interest in what we believe is the largest  owner and operator of
self-storage facilities in Europe.

     We currently  operate within three reportable  segments:  (i) self-storage,
(ii) Shurgard Europe and (iii) ancillary. The self-storage segment comprises the
direct and indirect ownership, development, and operation of traditional storage
facilities in the U.S. Our Shurgard Europe segment comprises our equity interest
in the  self-storage  and  associated  activities in seven  countries in Western
Europe. Our ancillary segment represents all of our other activities,  which are
reported  as a group,  including  (i)  containerized  storage,  (ii)  commercial
property  operations,  directly  and  through our 46%  ownership  interest in PS
Business Parks, Inc.  ("PSB"),  a publicly traded REIT whose common stock trades
on the New York Stock  Exchange under the symbol "PSB" (as of December 31, 2008,
PSB owned and  operated  19.6  million net  rentable  square feet of  commercial
space),  (iii) the  reinsurance  of policies  against  losses to goods stored by
tenants in our self-storage facilities,  (iv) retail operations conducted at our
self-storage  facilities including  merchandise sales and truck rentals, and (v)
management of self-storage  facilities owned by third-party  owners and domestic
facilities  owned  by the  Unconsolidated  Entities.  See  also  Note  11 to our



December 31, 2008  consolidated  financial  statements  for further  information
regarding our segments.

     We significantly  increased the scope and scale of our operations on August
22, 2006, when we merged with Shurgard Storage Centers, Inc. ("Shurgard" and the
merger  referred to as the "Shurgard  Merger"),  a REIT which had an interest in
487  self-storage  facilities  located in the U.S.  and an  interest in Shurgard
Europe's 160 facilities.  On March 31, 2008, we entered into a transaction  with
an  institutional   investor  (the  transaction   referred  to  as  the  "Europe
Transaction")  whereby  the  investor  acquired  a 51%  equity  interest  in our
European operations ("Shurgard Europe").  Shurgard Europe held substantially all
of our  operations  in Europe.  Since March 31, 2008,  we own the  remaining 49%
interest and are the managing  member of Shurgard  European  Holdings LLC, a new
joint venture formed to own Shurgard Europe's operations.

     Our self-storage  facilities in the U.S. comprise  approximately 90% of our
operating revenue,  and represent the primary driver of growth in our net income
and cash flows from operations.  In addition, much of our ancillary revenues are
derived  at our  self-storage  facility  locations,  either  from  our  existing
self-storage  customer base or from the customer traffic within our self-storage
facilities.  Accordingly, a large portion of management time and focus is placed
upon maximizing  revenues and effectively  managing expenses in our self-storage
facilities.

     The self-storage  industry is not immune to the  recessionary  pressures in
the general economic environment. Demand for self-storage space in both the U.S.
and Europe has softened and, as a result, we are experiencing  downward pressure
on occupancy  levels,  rental rates, and revenue growth in each of our operating
segments.

     An important  determinant  of our long-term  growth is the expansion of our
asset base and deployment of capital.  Acquisitions of  self-storage  facilities
have  been  minimal  over  the  past  year  as we  continue  to  monitor  seller
expectations  and wait for better  opportunities  that may come about as certain
local developers,  who raised capital through the issuance of debt,  endeavor to
refinance such debt in the near-term,  but face the current tight credit markets
as  well as  pressure  on  operating  cash  flow  due to the  current  difficult
operating environment.

     While  historically  we have  developed  real  estate  facilities,  we have
substantially  reduced our development  activities due to the existing recession
and our belief  that our  capital  can be more  effectively  put to use in other
ways.

     We currently  have $680.7 million in cash on hand at December 31, 2008, and
continue  to monitor  the  appropriate  and most  effective  way to deploy  this
capital,  primarily  either through the acquisition of facilities or through the
opportunistic  acquisition of our own debt and equity  securities.  We acquired,
for $66.9 million,  certain of our preferred securities in November and December
2008 at a substantial  discount to  liquidation  value,  and we acquired  $110.2
million of our outstanding senior unsecured notes during February 2009.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

OPERATING  RESULTS FOR 2008 AS  COMPARED TO 2007:  Net income for the year ended
December  31, 2008 was $935.2  million  compared to $457.5  million for the same
period in 2007,  representing an improvement of $477.7 million. This improvement
is primarily due to a gain of $344.7 million  recognized on the disposition of a
51% interest in Shurgard Europe on March 31, 2008, improvements in net operating
income with respect to our domestic  self-storage  facilities and a reduction in
amortization of intangible assets, offset by a foreign currency exchange loss of
$25.4  million  for the year ended  December  31,  2008 as compared to a foreign
exchange gain of $58.4 million in 2007.

     Comparisons  of our revenues  and expenses for the year ended  December 31,
2008 to the year ended  December  31,  2007 are  significantly  impacted  by the
acquisition by an institutional investor of a 51% interest in Shurgard Europe on



March 31,  2008,  which  resulted in the  deconsolidation  of  Shurgard  Europe.
Shurgard  Europe's  revenues and expenses after March 31, 2008 are excluded from
our  statement  of  operations  and,  instead,  our 49% equity share of Shurgard
Europe's  operating results are included in the line item "equity in earnings of
real estate  entities" and we also record interest and other income with respect
to (i) the interest  received on our intercompany  loan from Shurgard Europe and
(ii) license fee income.

     For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, we allocated $205.9 million
and  $236.8  million  of  our  net  income,   respectively,   to  our  preferred
shareholders.  The year-over-year  decrease is due primarily to an allocation of
income  from our  preferred  shareholders  to our common  shareholders  of $33.9
million, representing the excess of original net proceeds from issuance over the
amount  paid  in  the  fourth  quarter  of  2008  pursuant  to  preferred  share
repurchases.

     For the year ended  December 31, 2008,  net income  allocable to our common
shareholders   (after   allocating  net  income  to  our  preferred  and  equity
shareholders)  was $708.1  million or $4.19 per common share on a diluted  basis
compared  to $199.4  million  or $1.17 per common  share for the same  period in
2007,  representing  an improvement of $508.7 million or $3.02 per common share.
These  increases  are  due  primarily  to the  aforementioned  reduction  in the
allocation of net income to our preferred  shareholders  in connection  with the
repurchase of securities,  along with the impact of the factors  described above
with respect to the increase in our net income.

     Weighted  average diluted common shares were  168,883,000 and  170,147,000,
respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. The decline is due
primarily to common share repurchases in the first quarter of 2008.

     OPERATING  RESULTS FOR 2007 AS  COMPARED  TO 2006:  Net income for the year
ended  December 31, 2007 was $457.5  million  compared to $314.0 million for the
same period in 2006,  representing an increase of $143.5 million.  This increase
is primarily due to improved operations from our real estate facilities combined
with an increased  foreign currency exchange gain and a reduction in general and
administrative  expense.  These  items were  partially  offset by  increases  in
depreciation and amortization expense and interest expense.

     Comparisons  of  our  revenues,   expenses,  and  weighted  average  shares
outstanding are significantly  impacted by the Shurgard Merger,  which closed on
August 22, 2006. The results with respect to the assets and liabilities acquired
in the  Shurgard  Merger are included in our  operating  results from August 23,
2006  through  December 31, 2006 during the year ended  December  31,  2006,  as
compared to the entire year ended December 31, 2007.

     Net operating income, before depreciation,  for our self-storage operations
totaled  $1,082.2  million for the year ended  December  31, 2007 as compared to
$810.8 million for the same period in 2006,  representing  an increase of $271.4
million. The increase is primarily due to the addition of 647 facilities that we
acquired in the Shurgard  Merger.  Net operating  income of the former  Shurgard
properties  was  approximately  $347.8  million for the year ended  December 31,
2007, as compared to $110.1 million for the same period in 2006,  which reflects
the  operations of these  facilities  from August 23, 2006 through  December 31,
2006.

         Net income allocable to our common shareholders (after allocating net
income to our preferred and equity shareholders) was $199.4 million or $1.17 per
common share on a diluted basis for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to
$46.9 million or $0.33 per common share on a diluted basis for the same period
in 2006, representing an increase of $152.5 million or $0.84 per common share on
a diluted basis. The increase in net income allocable to common shareholders and
earnings per common share on a diluted basis are due primarily to the impact of
the factors described above with respect to net income, as well as a decrease in
income allocated to preferred shareholders, as described below.


     For the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, we allocated $236.8 million
and  $214.2  million  of  our  net  income,   respectively,   to  our  preferred
shareholders based on distributions paid. The year-over-year  increase is due to
the  issuance  of  additional  preferred  securities,  partially  offset  by the
redemption of preferred securities that had higher dividend rates than the newly
preferred  securities issued. In 2006, we also recorded allocations of income to



our preferred  shareholders  with respect to the  application of EITF Topic D-42
totaling  $31.5  million  (or $0.22  per  common  share on a  diluted  basis) in
connection with the redemption of preferred securities.

     Weighted average diluted shares increased to 170,147,000 for the year ended
December 31, 2007 from  143,715,000  for the year ended  December 31, 2006.  The
increase in weighted  average  diluted  shares is due primarily to the impact of
the issuance of 38.9 million shares in connection with the Shurgard Merger.

REAL ESTATE OPERATIONS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     SELF-STORAGE OPERATIONS: Our self-storage operations are by far the largest
component of our operating  activities,  representing  approximately  91% of our
total  revenues  generated for the year ended  December 31, 2008,  respectively.
Rental income with respect to our  self-storage  operations  declined by 4.9% in
the year ended  December 31, 2008,  when compared to the same period in 2007 due
primarily to the  deconsolidation  of Shurgard  Europe  effective April 1, 2008,
offset  partially  by growth in our  remaining  facilities.  Rental  income with
respect to our  self-storage  operations  grew by 34.1% in 2007,  as compared to
2006.  The  year-over-year  growth in  rental  income  is  primarily  due to the
acquisition  of additional  facilities in  connection  with the Shurgard  Merger
combined  with the addition of new  facilities to our portfolio in 2006 and 2007
and their subsequent fill-up.

     To enhance year-over-year comparisons,  the following table summarizes, and
the  ensuing  discussion  describes  the  operating  results of three  groups of
facilities  that management  analyzes with respect to the Company's  performance
for our  self-storage  segment,  which  includes:  (i)  the  Same  Store  group,
representing our domestic facilities that we have owned and have been stabilized
prior to January 1, 2006, as well as certain of the U.S.  facilities we acquired
in the Shurgard Merger on August 22, 2006 which were stabilized since January 1,
2006, for our Shurgard Europe segment and (ii) all other facilities  included in
our financial  statements other than those owned by Shurgard  Europe,  which are
primarily  those  facilities  that have not been operated at a stabilized  basis
since January 1, 2006 because they are either newly  developed or acquired since
2006 or because expansion  activities were not stabilized since January 1, 2006,
and for the  facilities  operated  by  Shurgard  Europe  which were  acquired in
connection  with the  Shurgard  Merger on August 22,  2006,  and  deconsolidated
effective March 31, 2008.






(a)  Represents the results with respect to Shurgard Europe's properties for the
     periods  consolidated  in  our  financial  statements.  We  acquired  these
     facilities on August 22, 2006 in connection  with the Shurgard  Merger.  As
     described  in  Note 3 to  our  December  31,  2008  consolidated  financial
     statements,  effective March 31, 2008, we  deconsolidated  Shurgard Europe.
     See also  "Equity in  Earnings  of Real  Estate  Entities -  Investment  in
     Shurgard Europe" for further analysis of the historical same store property
     operations of Shurgard Europe.

(b)  Total net operating income before depreciation and amortization or "NOI" is
     a non-GAAP  (generally accepted  accounting  principles)  financial measure
     that excludes the impact of depreciation and amortization expense. See Note
     11 to our December 31, 2008  consolidated  financial  statements,  "Segment
     Information,"  which includes a reconciliation  of NOI for our self-storage
     and  Shurgard  Europe  segments to our  consolidated  net income.  Although
     depreciation and amortization are operating  expenses,  we believe that NOI
     is a meaningful measure of operating performance, because we utilize NOI in
     making  decisions  with  respect to  capital  allocations,  in  determining
     current   property    values,    segment    performance,    and   comparing
     period-to-period  and  market-to-market  property operating results. NOI is
     not  a  substitute  for  net  operating   income  after   depreciation  and
     amortization in evaluating our operating results.




     Same Store Facilities

     We have  1,789 Same  Store  Facilities  that  contain  approximately  109.4
million  net  rentable  square  feet,  representing  approximately  87%  of  the
aggregate net rentable  square feet of our  consolidated  domestic  self-storage
portfolio at December 31, 2008. The  significance  of this pool of facilities is
that they have all  operated on a  stabilized  basis for at least the past three
years. This gives management a meaningful year-over-year comparison of operating
data.  Revenues and operating  expenses with respect to this group are set forth
in the table below:




(a)  For  comparative  purposes,  the 2006  operating  data includes  historical
     amounts for the entire year for the  stabilized  properties  we acquired in
     the  Shurgard  Merger on August  22,  2006.  Included  in our  consolidated
     financial  statements  are only the historical  operating  results of these
     facilities after August 22, 2006.

(b)  Total net operating income before depreciation and amortization  expense or
     "NOI" is a non-GAAP (generally accepted  accounting  principles)  financial
     measure that excludes the impact of depreciation and amortization  expense.
     For our Same  Store  facilities,  NOI  represents  a  portion  of our total
     self-storage  segment's NOI and is reconciled to the  self-storage  segment
     total  in  the   table   "self-storage   operations   summary"   above.   A
     reconciliation of our total self-storage  segment's NOI to consolidated net
     income  is  included  in  Note 11 to our  December  31,  2008  consolidated
     financial  statements,  "Segment  Information."  Although  depreciation and
     amortization  are operating  expenses,  we believe that NOI is a meaningful
     measure  of  operating  performance,  because  we  utilize  NOI  in  making
     decisions  with  respect to capital  allocations,  in  determining  current
     property values,  segment performance,  and comparing  period-to-period and
     market-to-market  property operating  results.  NOI is not a substitute for
     net  operating  income  after  depreciation  and  amortization  expense  in
     evaluating our operating results.



(c)  Square foot occupancies  represent  weighted average  occupancy levels over
     the entire period.

(d)  Realized  annual  rent per  occupied  square  foot is  computed by dividing
     rental income,  which excludes late charges and administrative fees, by the
     weighted  average  occupied square footage for the period.  Realized annual
     rent  per  occupied  square  foot  takes  into  consideration   promotional
     discounts and other items that reduce  rental  income from the  contractual
     amounts due.

(e)  Annualized  rental income per available  square foot ("REVPAF")  represents
     annualized  rental income,  which excludes late charges and  administrative
     fees, divided by total available net rentable square feet.

(f)  Late charges and  administrative  fees are excluded from the computation of
     realized annual rent per occupied square foot and REVPAF because  exclusion
     of these amounts provides a better measure of our ongoing level of revenue,
     by  excluding  the   volatility  of  late  charges,   which  are  dependent
     principally upon the level of tenant delinquency,  and administrative fees,
     which are dependent  principally  upon the absolute level of move-ins for a
     period.

(g)  In place  annual  rent  per  occupied  square  foot  represents  annualized
     contractual   rents  per  occupied  square  foot  without   reductions  for
     promotional discounts, and excludes late charges and administrative fees.

     We believe  that  demand  for our  self-storage  space has been  negatively
impacted  by general  economic  conditions,  the slow down in housing  sales and
moving activity, as well as increased competition.  It is unclear to us how much
we have been  negatively  impacted by these factors,  and how much these factors
may impact us going forward.  In order to most effectively  address the softness
in demand, we have continued to closely monitor and change our media advertising
on a localized basis, increased the level of promotional discounts and have been
conservative   with  rental  rates  during  2008.  We  expect  to  be  similarly
conservative in rental rates and media advertising in the expectation of similar
trends in the near term.

     Rental income increased approximately 2.5% in 2008 as compared to 2007, and
3.0% in 2007 as compared to 2006. These increases were primarily attributable to
higher average realized annual rental rates per occupied square foot, which were
2.4% higher in 2008 as compared to 2007,  and 2.6% higher in 2007 as compared to
2006. Occupancy levels remained consistent during the three years ended December
31, 2008.

     However,  in the three months  ended  December  31,  2008,  revenue  growth
tightened to 1.6% relative to the same period in 2007. At December 31, 2008, our
occupancy is 0.9% lower than at December 31, 2007,  while  in-place  rental rate
per  occupied  square foot was 0.7% higher at December 31, 2008 than at December
31, 2007. We believe that these trends are due to the  aforementioned  reduction
in demand for  self-storage  space,  and it is uncertain  whether the trends may
worsen or when they may improve.

     Cost of operations (excluding  depreciation and amortization)  increased by
1.0% in 2008 as compared to 2007,  and  decreased by 2.0% in 2007 as compared to
2006.  Growth  increased  minimally in 2008 as higher property tax and utilities
expenses were partially offset by lower property  insurance  expense as compared
to 2007. In 2007, we benefited from scale  efficiencies from the Shurgard Merger
as compared to 2006.

     Direct property  payroll  expense  increased by 1.1% in 2008 as compared to
2007. The increase  reflects lower  incentive pay and stagnant growth in average
wage rates,  offset by higher  hours  incurred  due to  adjustments  in staffing
levels. In 2007, payroll expense declined 13.5% over 2006. Prior to the Shurgard
Merger,  Shurgard paid its property  managers higher  compensation  than what we
paid our  property  managers.  Starting  January  1, 2007,  the former  Shurgard
employees who remained had their  compensation  adjusted to the existing  Public
Storage  compensation  levels.  Also in 2007, many of the inefficiencies such as
overtime and increased staffing levels used to manage increased turnover that we
experienced in 2006, as we were  integrating  the Shurgard  facilities  into our
portfolio,  were  eliminated.  For 2009,  we expect  moderate  growth  trends in
payroll.

     Property tax expense  increased by 2.9% in 2008 as compared to 2007, and in
2007 as compared to 2006. These increases are due to increases in assessments of
property  values that have been greater than we experienced  in prior years.  We
expect property tax expense growth of approximately 4% in 2009.

     Repairs  and  maintenance  expenditures  were flat  from  2007 to 2008,  as
compared  to a  2.2%  increase  from  2006  to  2007.  Repairs  and  maintenance
expenditures are dependent upon several factors,  such as weather, the timing of



periodic  needs  throughout  our  portfolio,  inflation,  and random  events and
accordingly  are  difficult  to project  from year to year.  However,  we expect
repairs and maintenance expenditures to grow moderately in 2009.

     Media  advertising for the Same Store Facilities  decreased 3.6% in 2008 as
compared to 2007,  and from $2.6  million in the fourth  quarter of 2007 to $0.9
million in the fourth  quarter of 2008.  In 2007,  media  advertising  increased
31.9%  over 2006.  The  significant  increase  in media  advertising  in 2007 as
compared to 2006 reflects increased media spending in 2006 immediately following
the Shurgard  Merger in order to improve the occupancy  levels of the facilities
we  acquired  in the  merger.  Other  advertising  and  promotion  is  comprised
principally of yellow page and internet advertising, which decreased 3.1% during
2008 as compared to 2007, and 13.4% during 2007 as compared to 2006.

     Due to current  market  conditions  we expect  that we will  continue to be
aggressive  with media  advertising  in the near term,  with  increases in media
advertising  in the first  quarter of 2009 as compared  to the first  quarter of
2008.  Our future  spending on yellow  page,  media,  and  internet  advertising
expenditures will be driven in part by demand for our self-storage  spaces,  our
current occupancy levels, and the relative efficacy of each type of advertising.
Media  advertising  in  particular  can be  volatile  and  increase  or decrease
significantly in the short-term.

     Utility  expenses  increased  4.1% in 2008 as compared to 2007, and 2.3% in
2007 as compared to 2006.  We believe this  negative  impact is due to the rapid
increase in energy prices during the first nine months of 2008,  particularly in
our Texas and New York  markets.  The  recent  downward  trends in other  energy
prices and to the extent that such downward  trends are reflected in our utility
costs,  we experienced  some moderation in utility price increases in the fourth
quarter of 2008 relative to the same period in 2007. It is difficult to estimate
future utility cost levels  because  utility costs are dependent upon changes in
demand driven by weather and temperature,  as well as fuel prices, both of which
are volatile and not predictable.

     Insurance  expense  decreased  15.6%  in  2008 as  compared  to  2007,  and
increased  3.2% in 2007 as  compared  to 2006.  The  decline  in 2008  from 2007
reflects  significant  decreases in property insurance  resulting primarily from
the  softer  insurance  markets as lack of  hurricane  activity  and  additional
competition  from  insurance  providers has  benefited  us. We expect  insurance
expense to be down slightly in 2009 as compared to 2008.

     Telephone  reservation  center costs  remained  flat in 2008 as compared to
2007 after  increasing 6.3% from 2006 to 2007. We expect future increases in our
telephone reservation center to be based primarily upon general inflation.




     The following  table  summarizes  selected  quarterly  financial  data with
respect to the Same Store Facilities:







ANALYSIS OF REGIONAL TRENDS
- ---------------------------

     The  following   table  sets  forth  regional  trends  in  our  Same  Store
Facilities:









     We believe  that our  geographic  diversification  and scale  provide  some
insulation from localized  economic effects and add to the stability of our cash
flows.  However,  it is  difficult  to predict  localized  trends in  short-term
self-storage  demand and operating  results.  Accordingly,  the discussion below
primarily  focuses on the long-term  characteristics  of our markets rather than
the short-term impacts of current economic trends,  notwithstanding,  we believe
that each market has been negatively impacted to some degree by general economic
trends.

     The Southern  California  Market  consists  principally  of the greater Los
Angeles area and San Diego, and has historically  been a source of strong growth
due to its  diverse  economy  and  continued  population  growth.  In  addition,
barriers  to entry  in the form of  difficult  permitting  requirements  tend to
reduce the potential for increased  competition in the infill locations where we
focus our operations.

     The Northern  California  market consists  principally of San Francisco and
related peripheral submarkets/cities.  While this area has a vibrant economy and
relatively strong population growth, it has been subject to periodic  turbulence
in general  economic  conditions,  particularly  associated  with the technology
sector.

     The Texas  market  principally  includes  Dallas,  Houston,  Austin and San
Antonio.  This market has historically been subject to volatility due to minimal
regulatory restraint upon building,  which results in cycles of overbuilding and
absorption.

     The Florida market  principally  includes Miami,  Orlando,  Tampa, and West
Palm Beach.  Florida has suffered  negative  growth trends in 2007 and 2008, and
has been one of our weakest markets.  We believe that the absence of hurricanes,
which created unusual demand following the hurricanes and the rebuilding period,
has adversely impacted growth in Florida.  In addition,  the Florida economy has
underperformed  the U.S. economy for the past two years. We believe that Florida
will continue to experience negative operating trends at least in the near-term.





     OTHER FACILITIES
     ----------------

     In addition to the Same Store  facilities,  at December 31, 2008, we had an
additional  205  facilities.   These  facilities   include   recently   acquired
facilities,  recently  developed  facilities and  facilities  that were recently
expanded by adding  additional  storage units. In general,  these facilities are
not stabilized  with respect to occupancies or rental rates.  As a result of the
fill-up  process  and  timing  of when  the  facilities  were  put  into  place,
year-over-year changes can be significant.

     The  following  table  summarizes  operating  data  with  respect  to these
facilities:








(a)  Includes 66  unstabilized  facilities  which we  acquired  in the  Shurgard
     Merger  (not  including  those  owned by  Shurgard  Europe),  along with 29
     facilities that were otherwise acquired or developed.

(b)  Total net operating income before depreciation and amortization or "NOI" is
     a non-GAAP  (generally accepted  accounting  principles)  financial measure
     that excludes the impact of depreciation and amortization  expense, for our
     self-storage  facilities  represents  a portion  of our total  self-storage
     segment's  net  operating  income  before   depreciation  and  amortization
     expense,  and is denoted  in the table  "self-storage  operations  summary"
     above. A reconciliation of our total  self-storage  segment's net operating
     income before  depreciation  and  amortization  expense to consolidated net
     income  is  included  in  Note 11 to our  December  31,  2008  consolidated
     financial  statements,  "Segment  Information."  Although  depreciation and
     amortization  expense  are  operating  expenses,  we believe  that NOI is a
     meaningful  measure of  operating  performance,  because we utilize  NOI in
     making  decisions  with  respect to  capital  allocations,  in  determining
     current   property    values,    segment    performance,    and   comparing
     period-to-period  and  market-to-market  property operating results. NOI is
     not  a  substitute  for  net  operating   income  after   depreciation  and
     amortization in evaluating our operating results.

(c)  Realized rent per occupied  square foot for the  facilities put in place in
     2006 and 2007 varies significantly between the periods in 2007 and 2008 due
     to the timing of when the specific facilities were put in place.

     Rental income,  cost of  operations,  depreciation,  net operating  income,
weighted  average square foot  occupancies and realized rents per square foot in
the  table  above  represent  the  operating  results  following  the date  each
particular facility began to be included in our consolidated  operating results,
and in the case of acquired  facilities,  do not include any  operating  results
prior to our acquisition of these facilities.

     In 2008,  we  completed  two newly  developed  facilities  with 104,000 net
rentable  square  feet at a total  cost of  $13.4  million,  and  expansions  to
existing  real estate  facilities  (504,000  net  rentable  square  feet) for an



aggregate cost of $46.6 million. At December 31, 2008, our development  pipeline
consists of five projects to expand our existing real estate facilities  located
in the U.S. by 189,000 net rentable  square feet at an  aggregate  cost of $27.1
million.  These  projects  are subject to various  contingencies,  but we expect
completion of these projects over the next year.

     In 2008, we acquired four facilities, in single property transactions,  and
we acquired  the  remaining  interests  that we did not own in three  facilities
previously  owned by the  Unconsolidated  Entities.  The aggregate cost of these
facilities was approximately $56.0 million,  comprised of $43.6 million in cash,
$10.3 million in assumed debt and existing investments with a book value of $2.1
million.  These  facilities  contain  in  aggregate  approximately  554,000  net
rentable square feet, and are located in California, Nevada, and Georgia.

     In 2007, we acquired seven facilities, in single property transactions, for
an  aggregate  cost  of  $72,787,000.  These  facilities  contain  in  aggregate
approximately  511,000 net rentable  square feet,  with one facility  located in
Hawaii and the remainder in California. In addition, we completed development of
three facilities with aggregate square footage of approximately 168,000 and cost
of $16,051,000.

     We believe our presence in and knowledge of substantially  all of the major
markets in the U.S.  enhances  our  ability to identify  attractive  acquisition
opportunities  and  capitalize  on the  overall  fragmentation  in  the  storage
industry.  Our acquisitions consist of facilities that have been operating for a
number of years as well as newly constructed facilities that were in the process
of filling up to stabilized  occupancy levels. In either case, we have been able
to leverage off of our operating  strategies and improve the occupancy levels of
the facilities,  or with respect to the newly developed  facilities we have been
able to accelerate the fill-up pace.

     We expect  that our  non-stabilized  facilities  will  continue  to provide
earnings growth during 2009 as these facilities continue to reach stabilization.
However,  our  non-stabilized  facilities  are subject to the same occupancy and
rate  pressures  that our  same-store  facilities  are facing as a result of the
recession,   and   accordingly  the  pace  at  which  these   facilities   reach
stabilization,  and  the  ultimate  level  of  cash  flows  to be  reached  upon
stabilization, may be negatively impacted.

     Our level of newly  developed  facilities,  and  starts to newly  developed
facilities, has declined significantly in the last few years due to increases in
construction  cost,  increases  in  competition  with retail,  condominium,  and
apartment operators for quality construction sites in urban locations,  and more
difficult  zoning and permitting  requirements,  which has reduced the number of
attractive  sites  available  for  development  and reduced our  development  of
facilities.  In addition,  we have further reduced our  development  pipeline in
late 2008 due to reduced self-storage demand and our belief that our capital can
be put to use in a more advantageous manner. It is unclear when these conditions
will improve.





     ANCILLARY  OPERATIONS:  Ancillary operations include (i) the reinsurance of
policies  against  losses  to  goods  stored  by  tenants  in  our  self-storage
facilities,  (ii) retail  operations,  comprised of merchandise  sales and truck
rental  operations,  and (iii) other  ancillary  operations,  such as commercial
property  operations,  containerized  storage,  and management of facilities for
third parties and facilities owned by the Unconsolidated Enitites.

     The following table sets forth our ancillary operations:

(a)  Revenues  and  expenses  for these items are a component  of our  Ancillary
     segment,  as described  in Note 11 to our  December  31, 2008  consolidated
     financial statements.

(b)  Shurgard  Europe's  merchandise  and  tenant  insurance  operations  are  a
     component of the Shurgard  Europe  segment,  as described in Note 11 to our
     December 31, 2008 consolidated financial statements.

     Tenant  reinsurance  operations:  We reinsure  policies  offered  through a
non-affiliated  insurance  company  against  losses to goods  stored by tenants,
primarily in our domestic self-storage  facilities.  The revenues that we record
are based upon premiums,  which are originally  paid by the customer,  which are
then paid to us by the broker in accordance with our  reinsurance  arrangements.
Cost of operations  primarily  includes  claims paid that are not covered by our
outside third-party insurers, as well as claims adjusting expenses.

     The  increase  in  tenant  reinsurance  revenues  over  the  past  year was
attributable  to higher rates combined with an increase in the percentage of our
existing  tenants  retaining  such  policies.  Approximately  53% and 48% of our
tenants  had such  policies at December  31,  2008 and 2007,  respectively.  The
significant  increase in tenant  reinsurance  operations  in 2007 as compared to
2006 is due primarily to the increase in properties associated with the Shurgard
Merger.

     The future level of tenant  reinsurance  revenues is largely dependent upon
the number of new tenants electing to purchase  policies,  the level of premiums
charged  for  such   insurance,   and  the  number  of  tenants  that   continue
participating  in the  insurance  program.  Future  cost of  operations  will be
dependent  primarily upon the level of losses  incurred,  including the level of
catastrophic  events, such as hurricanes,  that occur and affect our properties.



During the year ended  December 31, 2008,  we reduced our cost of  operations by
$5.8  million  due  to  a  change  in   accounting   estimate  with  respect  to
circumstances prior to 2008.

     Merchandise sales and truck rental  operations:  We sell locks,  boxes, and
packing supplies,  rent on-site trucks, and act as an agent for a national truck
rental company to provide their rental trucks to our customers. These activities
are  conducted  at the  self-storage  facilities  that  we  operate,  and  exist
primarily  to support  and  strengthen  our  existing  self-storage  business by
providing our tenants with goods and services that they need in connection  with
moving and storing their goods.

     The primary factor impacting the level of operations of these activities is
the level of customer  traffic at our  self-storage  facilities,  including  the
level of move-ins. The volume of retail operations has declined primarily due to
reduced  trucking  revenues,  reflective  of the general  slow-down in the truck
rental business.

     Other ancillary  businesses:  We operate  additional  ancillary  businesses
which are largely  independent of the revenue stream from our core  self-storage
operations. These business include (i) our containerized storage business, which
rents storage  containers to customers for storage in central  warehouses,  (ii)
commercial  facilities,  primarily small storefronts and office space located on
or near our existing  self-storage  facilities that are rented to third parties,
and (iii) the  management  of  self-storage  facilities  utilizing  our existing
management   infrastructure,   to  third   party   owners  as  well  as  to  the
Unconsolidated  Entities.  These businesses have remained  largely  unchanged in
scope during the three years ended  December 31, 2008,  and we do not expect any
significant   increases  in  revenues  or  profitability  from  these  ancillary
businesses.

     EQUITY IN EARNINGS OF REAL ESTATE ENTITIES: In addition to our ownership of
equity  interests  in PSB  and  Shurgard  Europe,  we had  general  and  limited
partnership  interests in five limited  partnerships at December 31, 2008 Due to
our limited ownership interest and limited control of these entities,  we do not
consolidate the accounts of these entities for financial reporting purposes, and
account for such investments using the equity method.

     Equity in  earnings  of real  estate  entities  for the three  years  ended
December 31, 2008, consists of our pro-rata share of the Unconsolidated Entities
based upon our ownership interest for the period. The following table sets forth
the  significant  components  of equity in  earnings  of real  estate  entities.
Amounts  with  respect  to PSB,  Shurgard  Europe,  and Other  Investments,  are
included  in  our  Ancillary,   Shurgard  Europe,  and  Self-Storage   segments,
respectively,  as described  in Note 11 to our  December  31, 2008  consolidated
financial statements.


(1) "Other" reflects our share of general and administrative  expense,  interest
expense,  interest  income,  our pro-rata  share of gains on sale of real estate
assets, and other  non-property;  non-depreciation  related operating results of
these entities.



     Investment in PSB
     -----------------

     Throughout  each of the years ended  December 31, 2008,  2007 and 2006,  we
owned 5,418,273 common shares and 7,305,355  operating  partnership units (units
which are convertible into common shares on a one-for-one  basis) in PS Business
Parks,  Inc.,  a public  REIT  (NYSE:  PSB).  Our  percentage  ownership  of PSB
increased in 2008 as PSB  repurchased a portion of its common stock. At December
31,  2008,  PSB owned and  operated  19.6  million net  rentable  square feet of
commercial  space located in eight  states.  PSB also manages  commercial  space
owned by the Company and  affiliated  entities at December 31, 2008  pursuant to
property management agreements.

     Our future  equity  income from PSB will be dependent  entirely  upon PSB's
operating results.  Our investment in PSB provides us with some  diversification
into another asset type. We have no plans of disposing of our investment in PSB.
PSB's filings and selected  financial  information  can be accessed  through the
Securities and Exchange Commission, and on its website, www.psbusinessparks.com.

     Investment in Shurgard Europe
     -----------------------------

     As  described in Note 3 to our  December  31, 2008  consolidated  financial
statements,  due to the  disposition of a 51% interest in Shurgard  Europe,  our
pro-rata share of the operating  results of Shurgard Europe after March 31, 2008
is included in "equity in earnings of real estate entities."  Included in Note 5
to our December 31, 2008 consolidated financial statements is selected financial
data for Shurgard Europe for the three years ended December 31, 2008.

     At December 31, 2008,  Shurgard Europe's operations comprise 180 facilities
with an aggregate of 9,534,000 net rentable square feet. The portfolio  consists
of 108 wholly owned  facilities and 72 facilities owned by the two joint venture
partnerships, in which Shurgard Europe has a 20% equity interest.

     For the period  following the  deconsolidation  of Shurgard Europe on March
31, 2008, our equity in earnings of Shurgard Europe, for the year ended December
31,  2008  totaling  $4,134,000  is  comprised  of  (i) a loss  of  $13,640,000,
representing  our 49% equity  share of Shurgard  Europe's  $27,836,000  net loss
since March 31, 2008,  (ii) income of  $17,161,000  and $613,000,  respectively,
representing  our pro-rata  share of the interest  income and trademark  license
fees received from Shurgard  Europe during the year ended December 31, 2008 (our
pro-rata  share of such amounts  received are presented as equity in earnings of
real estate entities  rather than interest and other income).  Our future equity
income will be dependent upon the future operating results of Shurgard Europe.

     In the year ended  December 31, 2008,  we also  recognized  $17,859,000  in
interest  income on our note  receivable  from  Shurgard  Europe and $637,000 in
trademark license income, for periods following the  deconsolidation of Shurgard
Europe on March 31, 2008  through  December 31,  2008,  representing  51% of the
aggregate amounts paid to us by Shurgard Europe.  See Note 5 to our December 31,
2008  consolidated  financial  statements,  "Investment in Shurgard  Europe" for
further  analysis of the  presentation  of our equity  earnings and interest and
other income from Shurgard Europe.

     In evaluating the  operations of Shurgard  Europe,  management  reviews the
operating  results of 96  facilities,  all of which are wholly owned by Shurgard
Europe,  which have been operated on a stabilized basis by Shurgard Europe since
January 1, 2006.  The  operating  data  presented in the table below reflect the
historical  data through August 22, 2006, the period for which the 96 facilities
were  operated by Shurgard,  combined with the  historical  data from August 23,
2006 through March 31, 2008, the period operated under Public Storage,  and from
April 1, 2008 through December 31, 2008, the period operated by Shurgard Europe.
In addition,  the  operating  data  presented in the table below with respect to
these facilities is reflected  utilizing the average exchange rates for the year
ended  December 31, 2008 for the same periods in 2007 and 2006,  rather than the
respective  exchange  rates in effect for each  period.  We present this data on
such a "constant exchange rate" basis because we believe it allows comparability
of the various  periods,  and  isolates  the impact of  exchange  rates from the
underlying  trends in revenues  and cost of  operations.  As a result,  the data
presented below does not reflect the actual results  included in our operations,
or the  operations of Shurgard  Europe,  for the years ended  December 31, 2008,
2007 and 2006.





(a)  The majority of Shurgard Europe's  operations are denominated in Euros. For
     comparative  purposes,  amounts for 2006,  2007 and 2008 are  translated at
     constant  exchange rates  representing  the average  exchange rates for the
     year ended  December 31, 2008.  The average  exchange rate for the Euro was
     approximately  1.4698 during the year ended  December 31, 2008. The amounts
     that  are  included  in  our  December  31,  2008  consolidated   financial
     statements are based upon the actual exchange rate for each period.

(b)  Revenues  and cost of  operations  do not include  ancillary  revenues  and
     expenses generated at the facilities with respect to tenant reinsurance and
     retail sales.  "Other costs of  management"  included in cost of operations
     principally represents all the indirect costs incurred in the operations of
     the facilities.  Indirect costs principally  include  supervisory costs and
     corporate overhead cost incurred to support the operating activities of the
     facilities.

(c)  Net operating income (excluding  depreciation and amortization  expense) or
     "NOI" is a non-GAAP (generally accepted  accounting  principles)  financial
     measure that excludes the impact of depreciation and amortization  expense.
     Although  depreciation and amortization are operating expenses,  we believe
     that NOI is a  meaningful  measure  of  operating  performance,  because we
     utilize NOI in making  decisions  with respect to capital  allocations,  in
     determining  current property values,  segment  performance,  and comparing
     period-to-period  and  market-to-market  property operating results. NOI is
     not  a  substitute  for  net  operating   income  after   depreciation  and
     amortization expense in evaluating our operating results.

(d)  Square foot occupancies  represent  weighted average  occupancy levels over
     the entire period.

(e)  Realized  annual rent per occupied  square foot is computed by  annualizing
     the result of  dividing  rental  income by the  weighted  average  occupied
     square  footage for the period.  Realized  annual rent per occupied  square
     foot takes into  consideration  promotional  discounts and other items that
     reduce rental income from the contractual amounts due.

(f)  Annualized  rental income per available  square foot ("REVPAF")  represents
     annualized  rental income  divided by total  available net rentable  square
     feet.


(g)  Late charges and  administrative  fees are excluded from the computation of
     realized annual rent per occupied square foot and REVPAF because  exclusion
     of these amounts provides a better measure of our ongoing level of revenue,
     by  excluding  the   volatility  of  late  charges,   which  are  dependent
     principally upon the level of tenant delinquency,  and administrative fees,
     which are dependent  principally  upon the absolute level of move-ins for a
     period.

(h)  In place  annual  rent  per  occupied  square  foot  represents  annualized
     contractual   rents  per  occupied  square  foot  without   reductions  for
     promotional discounts, and excludes late charges and administrative fees.

     We have  recently  seen  softness in Shurgard  Europe's  operations,  as it
appears  to be  impacted  by the same  trends in  self-storage  demand  that our
domestic  facilities are facing,  but to a larger degree.  While  same-store NOI
growth was positive for the year ended December 31, 2008, occupancies as well as
rates  charged  to new  customers  are below that of 2007,  and NOI and  revenue
growth were negative in the fourth quarter of 2008. We expect continued declines
in  operating  results in 2009.  During  the last six  months of 2008,  Shurgard
Europe  terminated  plans  for  future   development  and  will  wind  down  its
development program as existing sites are completed in 2009.


     Other Investments
     -----------------

     The "Other Investments" at December 31, 2008 are comprised primarily of our
equity in earnings from entities that own 19  self-storage  facilities.  Amounts
included in the tables above also include our equity in earnings with respect to
three facilities  owned by the  Unconsolidated  Entities,  until we acquired the
remaining  interest we did not own in these entities  during 2008, and commenced
consolidating these facilities. Our future earnings with respect to the other 19
facilities  will be dependent upon the operating  results of the facilities that
these entities own. See Note 5 to our December 31, 2008  consolidated  financial
statements  for the operating  results of these 19  facilities  under the "Other
Investments."

OTHER INCOME AND EXPENSE ITEMS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     INTEREST AND OTHER  INCOME:  Interest and other income was  $36,155,000  in
2008,  $11,417,000  in 2007,  and  $31,799,000  in 2006. The increase in 2008 as
compared to 2007 is  principally as a result of (i) higher average cash balances
invested in interest  bearing  accounts and (ii) interest income with respect to
notes receivable from Shurgard Europe (described below).

     On March 31, 2008,  we  completed a  transaction  whereby an  institutional
investor  acquired a 51% interest in Shurgard Europe (see Note 3 to our December
31,  2008   consolidated   financial   statements).   In  connection  with  this
transaction,   we  received  net  proceeds   totaling   $609.1   million   which
significantly  increased our average cash on-hand and resulting  interest income
throughout  2008, as compared to 2007. We have $680.7 million in cash on hand at
December 31, 2008 invested  primarily in money-market  funds, which earn nominal
rates of interest in the current  interest  rate  environment.  Future  interest
income will  depend upon the level of interest  rates and the timing of when the
cash on hand is ultimately invested.

     In addition,  as part of the  transaction,  we also have a loan  receivable
from Shurgard  Europe totaling $552.4 million as of December 31, 2008 that bears
interest at the rate of 7.5% per annum.  Interest  income  with  respect to this
loan receivable was approximately $35.0 million in 2008, however,  for financial
reporting  purposes,  51% of this amount ($17.2 million) is included in interest
and other income and the remainder was recorded as additional equity in earnings
for the year ended December 31, 2008. The level of interest  income  recorded in
connection  with the loan receivable from Shurgard Europe will be dependent upon
the balances due from  Shurgard  Europe as well as the exchange rate of the Euro
versus the U.S. Dollar.

     Interest  and  other  income  has  decreased  in 2007 as  compared  to 2006
principally  as a result of lower cash  balances  invested in  interest  bearing
accounts, offset by slightly higher interest rates.

     DEPRECIATION AND  AMORTIZATION:  Depreciation and amortization  expense was
$414,188,000,  $622,400,000  and  $437,555,000  for the years ended December 31,
2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

     The decrease in depreciation and  amortization  expense in 2008 as compared
to the same period in 2007 is due principally to a decline of $196,686,000  from
$247,844,000 in 2007 to $51,158,000 in 2008 in tenant intangible amortization,




principally tenant intangibles acquired in the Shurgard Merger in 2006, that are
being amortized  relative to the expected future benefit of the tenants in place
to  each  period.  We  expect  minimal  amortization  expense  of  our  existing
intangibles in 2009, and future  intangible  amortization will be dependent upon
our future level of acquisition of facilities with existing tenants in place.

     Effective  March 31,  2008,  depreciation  and  amortization  ceased on the
facilities owned by Shurgard Europe,  which was  deconsolidated  effective March
31, 2008.  Included in our depreciation  and  amortization on Shurgard  Europe's
facilities  were  $21,871,000  for the three months  ended March 31,  2008.

     The increase in depreciation and  amortization  expense in 2007 as compared
to 2006 is also  due  primarily  to the  amortization  of  intangibles  acquired
primarily in the Shurgard Merger totaling  $247,844,000 in 2007 and $175,944,000
in 2006,  as well as  depreciation  of the  buildings  acquired in the  Shurgard
Merger, totaling approximately $142,800,000 in 2007 and $61,703,000 in 2006.

     GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSE:  General and administrative expense was
$62,809,000, $59,749,000, and $84,661,000 for the years ended December 31, 2008,
2007 and 2006  respectively.  General  and  administrative  expense  principally
consists of state income taxes,  investor relations expenses,  and corporate and
executive salaries.  In addition,  general and administrative  expenses includes
expenses that vary depending on our activity  levels in certain  areas,  such as
overhead  associated  with  the  acquisition  and  development  of  real  estate
facilities,   certain  expenses  related  to  capital  raising  and  merger  and
acquisition activities, litigation expenditures, employee severance, stock-based
compensation, and incentive compensation.

     General and  administrative  expense includes the following items that vary
depending upon our  activities:  a) costs and expenses  totaling  $5,300,000 and
$44,010,000, respectively, during 2007 and 2006, incurred in connection with the
integration of Shurgard and Public  Storage,  no such costs were incurred during
2008 b) $27,900,000 in additional incentive  compensation in 2008 related to the
disposition of an interest in Shurgard Europe, c) $9,600,000 in costs associated
with our  proposed  offering  of shares  in  Shurgard  Europe  during  2007,  d)
$2,000,000 in costs associated with reorganizing as a Maryland REIT during 2007,
and e) contract termination fees of $2,213,000 in 2006. Certain of these amounts
were  incurred by Shurgard  Europe and  included in our  consolidated  financial
statements.

     General and  administrative  expense  prior to March 31, 2008  includes the
ongoing  levels of general  and  administrative  expense  incurred  by  Shurgard
Europe. Following March 31, 2008 we record no further general and administrative
expense incurred by Shurgard Europe's operations.

     Restricted  stock  and  stock  option  expense  amounted  to  approximately
$12,591,000,  $8,511,000,  and $6,309,000 for the years ended December 31, 2008,
2007 and 2006, respectively.

     INTEREST  EXPENSE:  Interest  expense  was  $43,944,000,  $63,671,000,  and
$33,062,000 for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,  respectively.
The  decrease  in  interest  expense in 2008 as  compared  to 2007 is due to the
deconsolidation of Shurgard Europe. The increases in interest expense in 2007 as
compared to 2006 are primarily due to $24,855,000  and  $58,656,000 for 2006 and
2007,  respectively,  in  interest  incurred  on the  notes  payable  and  other
obligations we assumed in the Shurgard  Merger.  See also Note 6 to our December
31, 2008 consolidated  financial  statements for a schedule of our notes payable
balances, principal repayment requirements, and average interest rates.

     Capitalized interest expense totaled $1,998,000, $4,746,000, and $2,716,000
for the  years  ended  December  31,  2008,  2007  and  2006,  respectively,  in
connection with our development activities.

     Included in our  consolidated  financial  statements  is  interest  expense
incurred by Shurgard  Europe of $6,597,000,  $22,242,000 and $13,109,000 for the
years  ended  December  31,  2008,  2007 and  2006,  respectively,  relative  to
third-party  debt  (excluding  the debt  payable  to Public  Storage).  Interest
expense  incurred by Shurgard Europe after March 31, 2008 is no longer reflected
in our financial statements.



     On February 12, 2009, in  connection  with a tender  offering,  we acquired
approximately  $110 million face amount of our senior  unsecured notes for cash.
This acquisition will reduce annualized  interest expense by approximately  $6.6
million.

     GAIN ON DISPOSITION OF AN INTEREST IN SHURGARD  EUROPE:  On March 31, 2008,
an institutional  investor acquired a 51% interest in Shurgard European Holdings
LLC, a newly formed Delaware limited  liability  company and the holding company
for Shurgard Europe ("Shurgard Holdings").  In connection with this transaction,
we recorded a gain on  disposition of  $344,685,000  for the year ended December
31, 2008.  Public  Storage owns the  remaining  49% interest and is the managing
member of Shurgard  Holdings.  See Note 3 to our December 31, 2008  consolidated
financial  statements for further  information  regarding this transaction.

     GAIN (LOSS) ON DISPOSITION OF REAL ESTATE  INVESTMENTS:  During 2008, 2007,
and 2006 we recorded gains on sale of assets,  principally partial condemnations
and other disposals of real estate facilities, totaling $1,283,000,  $1,354,000,
and $2,177,000  respectively.  During 2008, we recorded a loss on disposition of
an equity  investment in the Real Estate Entities  totaling  $9,423,000.  Future
gains or losses  will be  dependent  upon such  partial  condemnations,  and are
expected to be minimal.  In 2007,  we sold an  approximately  0.6% common equity
interest  in  Shurgard  Europe  to  various  officers  of the  Company  (the "PS
Officers"),  other than our chief executive  officer.  The aggregate sales price
was $4,909,000  and was based upon the pro rata net asset value computed  using,
among  other  sources,  information  provided  by  an  independent  third  party
appraisal  firm of the net asset value of Shurgard  Europe as of March 31, 2007.
In  connection  with the sale,  we recorded a gain of  $1,194,000  during  2007,
representing  the  excess  of the  sales  proceeds  over the  book  value of the
interests sold.

     CASUALTY GAIN OR LOSS: During 2008, we recorded casualty losses of $525,000
due to damage caused by hurricanes  comprised of $250,000 in impairment  charges
to our  facilities  and $275,000 in other  expenses.  During 2007, we recorded a
casualty gain totaling  $2,665,000,  representing  the realization of contingent
proceeds relating to hurricanes which occurred in 2005.

     FOREIGN  EXCHANGE  GAIN  (LOSS):  At  December  31,  2008,  we  had a  loan
receivable from Shurgard  Europe of  approximately  (euro)391.9  million ($552.4
million).  We expect Shurgard  Europe to repay the loan in the near term.  These
amounts are  denominated  in Euros but have not been hedged.  The amount of U.S.
Dollars that will be received on repayment  will depend upon the exchange  rates
at the time.  Based upon the change in  estimated  U.S.  Dollars to be  received
caused by fluctuation in currency rates during the year ended December 31, 2008,
we recorded foreign currency  translation losses of $25,362,000,  as compared to
foreign currency translation gains of $58,444,000, and $4,262,000, for the years
ended December 31, 2007 and 2006,  respectively.  The U.S.  Dollar exchange rate
relative to the Euro was approximately  1.409, 1.472, 1.319 at December 31 2008,
2007 and 2006, respectively.

     Future foreign  exchange  gains or losses will be dependent  primarily upon
the  movement  of the Euro  relative  to the U.S.  Dollar,  the amount owed from
Shurgard Europe and our continued expectation with respect to repaying the loan.
Based upon a closing  exchange rate of the U.S.  Dollar  relative to the Euro of
1.281 on February 26, 2009, we would record an additional  foreign exchange rate
loss totaling $50,163,000 thus far in the quarter ending March 31, 2009.

     MINORITY  INTEREST IN INCOME:  Minority  interest in income  represents the
income allocable to equity interests in the Consolidated Entities, which are not
owned by the Company. The following table summarizes minority interest in income
for each of the three years ended December 31, 2008:






(a)  These amounts reflect income allocated to minority  interests from entities
     we  acquired  in the  Shurgard  Merger.  These  interests  include  the 80%
     partner's  interests in the European  joint  ventures,  First  Shurgard and
     Second  Shurgard.  Included in minority  interest in income is  $3,184,000,
     $11,513,000  and  $3,013,000  in  depreciation  expense for the years ended
     December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

(b)  The other minority  interests include  depreciation  expense of $1,636,000,
     $2,545,000,  and $1,471,000 for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and
     2006, respectively.

     Future  minority  interest  after  March 31,  2008  will no longer  include
minority  interest for the European Joint Ventures,  because Shurgard Europe was
deconsolidated effective March 31, 2008.

     The level of income allocated to the Other Minority Interests in the future
is dependent  upon the operating  results of the storage  facilities  that these
entities own, as well as any minority interests that the Company acquires in the
future.  These  facilities are largely  stabilized  facilities,  and accordingly
growth should be relatively consistent with same-store growth.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     We have $680.7  million of cash on hand at December 31,  2008,  and believe
that these funds,  together with our  internally  generated net cash provided by
operating  activities  and cash on hand will continue to be sufficient to enable
us  to  meet  our  operating  expenses,   capital  improvements,   debt  service
requirements  and  distributions   requirements  to  our  shareholders  for  the
foreseeable future.

     Operating as a REIT,  our ability to retain cash flow for  reinvestment  is
restricted.  In order for us to maintain our REIT status, a substantial  portion
of  our  operating  cash  flow  must  be  used  to  make  distributions  to  our
shareholders (see "REQUIREMENT TO PAY DISTRIBUTIONS"  below).  However,  despite
the  significant  distribution  requirements,  we have  been  able to  retain  a
significant  amount of our operating cash flow. The following  table  summarizes
our  ability  to  fund   distributions  to  the  minority   interests,   capital
improvements to maintain our facilities,  and  distributions to our shareholders
through the use of cash provided by operating  activities.  The  remaining  cash
flow  generated  is  available to make both  scheduled  and  optional  principal
payments on debt and for reinvestment.








(a)  Represents net cash provided by operating  activities  for each  respective
     year as presented in our December 31, 2008 Consolidated  Statements of Cash
     Flows.

(b)  Cash  from  operations   available  for  principal  payments  on  debt  and
     reinvestment  is  not a  substitute  for  cash  flows  from  operations  in
     evaluating  our  liquidity,  ability  to  repay  our  debt,  or to meet our
     distribution requirements.

     Cash  from  operations   available  for  principal  payments  on  debt  and
reinvestment decreased from $338.7 million in 2007 to $227.6 million in 2008 due
primarily to a special distribution paid in 2008 totaling $101.0 million related
to our disposition of a 51% interest in Shurgard Europe.

     Other sources of liquidity and capital resources include  unrestricted cash
on hand at December 31, 2008 totaling $680.7 million,  a $300 million  revolving
line of credit  and a loan  receivable  from  Shurgard  Europe  totaling  $552.4
million that matures on March 31, 2010. The line of credit expires in March 2012
and there were no outstanding borrowings on the line of credit at
March 2, 2009.

     Significant  requirements on our liquidity and capital  resources  include:
(i)  capital   improvements  to  maintain  our  facilities,   (ii)  distribution
requirements  to our  shareholders  to  maintain  our REIT  status,  (iii)  debt
service,  (iv)  acquisition and  development  commitments and (v) commitments to
provide  funding  to  Shurgard  Europe  for  certain   investing  and  financing
activities.

     CAPITAL   IMPROVEMENT   REQUIREMENTS:   During  2009,   we  have   budgeted
approximately $79 million for capital  improvements for our facilities.  Capital
improvements include major repairs or replacements to the facilities, which keep
the  facilities in good  operating  condition and maintain  their visual appeal.
Capital  improvements  do not  include  costs  relating  to the  development  or
expansion of  facilities.  During the year ended  December 31, 2008, we incurred
capital improvements of approximately $76.3 million.

     REQUIREMENT TO PAY DISTRIBUTIONS:  We have operated, and intend to continue
to  operate,  in such a manner as to qualify  as a REIT  under the Code,  but no
assurance can be given that we will at all times so qualify.  To the extent that
the Company  continues to qualify as a REIT, we will not be taxed,  with certain
limited  exceptions,  on the REIT  taxable  income  that is  distributed  to our
shareholders, provided that at least 90% of our taxable income is so distributed
to our  shareholders.  We  believe  we  have  satisfied  the  REIT  distribution
requirement since 1981.

     Aggregate  dividends paid during 2008 totaled $239.7 million to the holders
of our Cumulative Preferred Shares,  $472.8 million to the holders of our common
shares and $21.2 million to the holders of our Equity Shares, Series A. Although



we have not finalized the  calculation  of our 2008 taxable  income,  we believe
that the  aggregate  dividends  paid in 2008 to our  shareholders  enable  us to
continue to meet our REIT distribution requirements.

     During 2008, we paid  distributions  totaling $21.6 million with respect to
our Preferred  Partnership  Units, and expect our 2009 distribution  requirement
based upon preferred  partnership  units outstanding at December 31, 2008, to be
approximately  $21.6  million.  In addition,  we estimate the 2009  distribution
requirements  with respect to our preferred  shares  outstanding at December 31,
2008, to be approximately $234.2 million, assuming no additional preferred share
issuances or redemptions during 2009.

     For  2009,  distributions  with  respect  to  the  common  shares  will  be
determined  based upon our REIT  distribution  requirements  after  taking  into
consideration  distributions to the preferred shareholders.  We anticipate that,
at a minimum,  quarterly  distributions  per common share for 2009 will be $0.55
per common  share.  For the first quarter of 2009, a quarterly  distribution  of
$0.55 per common share has been declared by our Board of Trustees.

     With  respect to the  depositary  shares  representing  the Equity  Shares,
Series A, we have no obligation to pay  distributions  if no  distributions  are
paid  to  the  common  shareholders.  To  the  extent  that  we  do  pay  common
distributions  in any year, the holders of the depositary  shares receive annual
distributions  equal to the lesser of (i) five times the per share  dividend  on
the common shares or (ii) $2.45. The depositary shares are  non-cumulative,  and
have  no  preference  over  our  Common  Shares  either  as to  dividends  or in
liquidation.

     DEBT SERVICE REQUIREMENTS:  At December 31, 2008, we have total outstanding
debt of  approximately  $643.8  million.  See Note 6 to our  December  31,  2008
consolidated  financial statements for approximate  principal maturities of such
borrowings.  It is our current  intention to fully amortize our outstanding debt
as opposed to refinance debt maturities with additional debt. Alternatively,  we
may prepay debt and finance such prepayments  with retained  operating cash flow
or proceeds from the issuance of preferred securities.

     Our portfolio of real estate facilities remains substantially unencumbered.
At December 31, 2008, we have secured debt outstanding of $236.4 million,  which
encumbers  90  self-storage  facilities  with an  aggregate  net  book  value of
approximately $579.5 million.

     On  February  12,  2009,  we  acquired  $110.2  million  face amount of our
existing  senior  unsecured notes pursuant to a tender offer for an aggregate of
$113.1 million,  plus accrued  interest,  reducing ongoing  annualized  interest
payments by approximately $8.3 million.  Approximately $96.7 million of the face
amount was scheduled to be repaid in 2011, and $13.5 million was scheduled to be
repaid in 2013.

     ACQUISITION AND DEVELOPMENT OF FACILITIES: During 2009, we will continue to
seek to acquire additional self-storage facilities from third parties;  however,
it is  difficult  to  estimate  the amount of third party  acquisitions  we will
undertake.

     At December 31, 2008, we have a development  "pipeline" of five projects in
the U.S.  consisting  of expanding  or  repackaging  our  existing  self-storage
facilities.  The development and fill-up of these storage  facilities is subject
to contingencies.  We estimate that the amount remaining to be spent to complete
development to be approximately  $6.8 million and will be incurred over the next
year.

     EUROPEAN  ACTIVITIES:  Pursuant  to our  disposition  of a 51%  interest in
Shurgard  Europe  on  March  31,  2008  (see  Note 3 to our  December  31,  2008
consolidated financial  statements),  the loan owed by Shurgard Europe to Public
Storage was modified, principally to fix the interest rate to 7.5% per annum and
extend  the  maturity  date,  which is now March  31,  2010 as  Shurgard  Europe
extended the maturity  date from the original  date of March 31, 2009 as per the
terms of the loan. The note totaled approximately $552.4 million at December 31,
2008.

     In addition,  if Shurgard Europe acquires its partner's  interests in First
Shurgard and Second Shurgard,  joint ventures in which Shurgard Europe has a 20%
interest,  and is unable  to obtain  third-party  financing,  we have  agreed to
provide  additional  loans to  Shurgard  Europe,  under  the  same  terms as the
existing loans,  for up to (euro)305  million ($429.9 million as of December 31,



2008) for the  acquisition.  Shurgard  Europe has no obligation to acquire these
interests,  and the  acquisition of these interests is contingent on a number of
items,  including  whether  we  assent to the  acquisition.  In  February  2009,
Shurgard  Europe  exercised  their  option  to  extend  the  (euro)305   million
commitment  through  March  31,  2010.  As a result of this  extension,  we will
receive a fee of approximately  (euro)3.5 million from Shurgard Europe in March
2009.

     Shurgard  Europe has a 20%  interest  in two joint  ventures  and one other
partner  owns 80%  interest in each.  The two joint  ventures  collectively  had
approximately   (euro)250  million  ($355  million  at  December  31,  2008)  of
outstanding  debt  payable  to third  parties at  December  31,  2008,  which is
non-recourse to Shurgard  Europe.  One of the loans totaling  (euro)120  million
($170  million) is due May 2009 and the other loan  totaling  (euro)130  million
($185  million) is due in June 2009.  Shurgard  Europe is currently  negotiating
terms with the  respective  lenders to extend  the  maturities  out one to three
years. We expect Shurgard Europe to finalize these extensions within the next 90
days,  although there can be no assurance that such  extensions will actually be
completed.

     If Shurgard Europe was unable to extend the maturity dates of the loans, it
is our expectation that the loans would be repaid with each partner contributing
their pro rata share towards repayment. Shurgard Europe's pro rata share, in the
aggregate,  would be approximately (euro)50 million ($70 million) which Shurgard
Europe could  borrow from us pursuant to our loan  commitment  described  above.
Further,  it is also possible that Shurgard  Europe's joint venture partner will
be unable to  contribute  its pro rata  share to repay the loans and may want to
sell their interest. Shurgard Europe could borrow on the loan commitment we have
provided to consummate such a transaction and repay the loans.

     We  also  committed  to fund  up to  $88.2  million  of  additional  equity
contributions to Shurgard Europe to fund certain  investing  activities.  During
September 2008, we made an equity contribution of approximately $21.8 million to
Shurgard Europe,  reducing our remaining commitment to $66.4 million at December
31, 2008.

     We expect that Shurgard  Europe will repay the existing loan due to us (and
any additional  borrowings  pursuant to our  commitment) no later than March 31,
2010 or sooner if  capital  markets  become  accessible  to  Shurgard  Europe on
appropriate  terms.  Given the difficulty in the credit markets,  it is possible
that  Shurgard  Europe may not able to repay the loans prior to March 31,  2010.
Our business operations are not dependent on the repayment of such loans.

     ACCESS TO CAPITAL: Over the past several months,  accessing capital through
the equity or credit markets has become very difficult,  in part due to the lack
of liquidity,  particularly with respect to real estate companies.  As a result,
our  ability  to  raise  additional  capital  by  issuing  common  or  preferred
securities is not currently a viable option.

     Our   financial    profile   is   characterized   by   a   low   level   of
debt-to-total-capitalization  and a  conservative  dividend  payout  ratio  with
respect to the common shares.  We expect to fund our long-term growth strategies
and debt obligations with (i) cash on hand at December 31, 2008, (ii) internally
generated   retained  cash  flows  and  (iii)   depending  upon  current  market
conditions, proceeds from issuing equity securities. In general, our strategy is
to  continue  to finance our growth with  permanent  capital,  either  common or
preferred   equity  to  the  extent  that  market   conditions   are  favorable,
notwithstanding current market conditions are not favorable.

     Over  the  past  three  years,  we  have  funded  substantially  all of our
acquisitions with permanent capital (both common and preferred  securities).  We
have elected to use preferred  securities as a form of leverage despite the fact
that the dividend rates of our preferred securities exceed the prevailing market
interest rates on conventional debt. We have chosen this method of financing for
the following  reasons:  (i) under the REIT structure,  a significant  amount of
operating  cash flow  needs to be  distributed  to our  shareholders,  making it
difficult  to repay debt with  operating  cash flow  alone,  (ii) our  perpetual
preferred  shares have no sinking fund  requirement  or maturity date and do not
require  redemption,  all of which eliminate any future refinancing risks, (iii)
after the end of a non-call  period,  we have the option to redeem the preferred
shares at any time,  which enable us to refinance higher coupon preferred shares
with new preferred  shares at lower rates if appropriate,  (iv) preferred shares
do not contain  covenants,  thus allowing us to maintain  significant  financial
flexibility, and (v) dividends on the preferred shares can be applied to satisfy
our REIT distribution requirements.



     Our credit ratings on each of our series of preferred  shares are "Baa1" by
Moody's and "BBB" by Standard & Poor's.

     ISSUANCE AND  REDEMPTION  OF  PREFERRED  SECURITIES:  One of our  financing
objectives  over the past  several  years has been to reduce our average cost of
capital with respect to our preferred securities.  Accordingly, we have redeemed
higher rate preferred  securities  outstanding  and have financed the redemption
with cash on-hand or from the proceeds from the issuance of lower rate preferred
securities.

     We believe  that our size and  financial  flexibility  enables us to access
capital when  appropriate  and when market  conditions are favorable.  Since the
beginning of 2005 through December 31, 2008, we have raised  approximately  $2.6
billion of preferred securities and used approximately $1.2 billion of these net
proceeds in order to redeem higher-coupon  preferred  securities.  Over the past
several  months,  accessing  capital  through the credit markets has become very
difficult, in part due to the lack of liquidity.

     At December  31, 2008,  our 7.500%  Series V  Cumulative  Preferred  Shares
($172.5  million),  our 6.500%  Series W  Cumulative  Preferred  Shares  ($132.5
million) and our 6.450% Series X Cumulative  Preferred  Shares ($120.0  million)
were  redeemable  at our option;  however,  we have not called  these shares for
redemption.  In  addition,  in  January  2009 our  6.850%  Series  Y  Cumulative
Preferred  Shares  ($18.8  million),  March 2009 our 6.250%  Series Z Cumulative
Preferred Shares ($112.5  million) and our 6.125% Series A Cumulative  Preferred
Shares ($115.0 million),  in June 2009 our 7.125% Series B Cumulative  Preferred
Shares  ($108.8  million),  and in September 2009 our 6.600% Series C Cumulative
Preferred Shares ($115.0 million) become available for redemption at our option.
Although we may acquire these shares on the open market,  it is not advantageous
to redeem these shares at face  pursuant to our  redemption  option at this time
because,  based upon  current  market  conditions,  we cannot  issue  additional
preferred  securities at a lower coupon rate than the  securities  that would be
called. The timing of redemption of any of these series of preferred shares will
depend upon many factors including when, or if, market  conditions  improve such
that we can  issue new  preferred  shares at a lower  cost of  capital  than the
shares that would be redeemed.

     In the past we have typically raised  additional  capital in advance of the
redemption  dates  to  ensure  that we have  available  funds  to  redeem  these
securities.  Provided  market  conditions  improve in the  future,  we may raise
capital in advance to fund redemptions.

     REPURCHASES OF THE COMPANY'S EQUITY AND PREFERRED SECURITIES

     Dislocations  in  capital  markets  have  provided  opportunities  for  the
repurchase  of our preferred and debt  securities.  During 2008, we  repurchased
certain of our Cumulative Preferred Shares in privately negotiated  transactions
with a liquidation  value of $103.2  million for  approximately  $66.9  million,
including  accrued  dividends,  reducing  our ongoing  dividend  requirement  by
approximately  $7.1 million per year.  Also during 2008, we repurchased  367,000
shares of our Equity Shares,  Series A in privately negotiated  transactions for
approximately  $7.7  million,  reducing  our  ongoing  dividend  requirement  by
approximately $0.9 million per year.

     These  acquisitions  were  funded by us with cash on hand.  We  continue to
monitor the  existing  trading  ranges of our  existing  outstanding  Cumulative
Preferred  Shares  and  Equity  Shares,   Series  A  for  potential   repurchase
opportunities.

     Our Board of Trustees has authorized the repurchase from time to time of up
to 35,000,000 of our common shares on the open market or in privately negotiated
transactions.  On May 8, 2008,  the Board of Trustees  authorized an increase in
the total repurchase  authorization  from 25,000,000 common shares to 35,000,000
common shares.  During 2006 and 2007, we did not  repurchase any shares.  During
2008, we repurchased 1,520,196 shares for approximately $111.9 million. From the
inception of the repurchase program through March 2, 2009, we have repurchased a
total of 23,721,916  common shares at an aggregate cost of approximately  $679.1
million.  Future  levels  of  common  repurchases  will be  dependent  upon  our
available capital, investment alternatives,  and the trading price of our common
shares.

     On February  12,  2009,  we  completed  a fixed price cash tender  offer to
acquire any and all of our  Unsecured  Notes  Payable.  A total of $96.7 million
face  amount of our 7.75%  Notes due 2011 and $13.5  million  face amount of our



5.875% Notes due 2013,  for an aggregate of $113.1  million in cash plus accrued
interest were acquired.

     On February 27,  2009,  we reached an agreement in principle to acquire all
of our  affiliate's  6.40% Series NN preferred  partnership  units ($200 million
carrying  amount)  for  approximately  $130  million,  plus  accrued  and unpaid
distributions  from December 31, 2008 through the closing date. This transaction
is expected to result in an increase in income allocated to common  shareholders
of approximately $70 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2009 based upon the
excess of the carrying  amount over the amount paid.  The purchase is subject to
negotiation and completion of a binding agreement, and there can be no assurance
that the transaction will be completed or the timing thereof,  or that the terms
of any  transaction  completed  will not vary  materially  from those  currently
agreed.

     Also on February 27, 2009,  we reached an agreement in principle to acquire
all of our affiliate's  6.25% Series Z preferred  partnership units ($25 million
carrying  amount) for $25 million.  This should  result in no increase in income
allocated  to the common  shareholders  as they are being  acquired  at par.  As
described in Note 7 to our December 31, 2008 consolidated  financial statements,
the holders of the Series Z preferred  partnership  units have a one-time option
exercisable  on  October  12,  2009 to  require  us to  redeem  their  units for
$25,000,000 in cash, plus any unpaid  distributions.  The purchase is subject to
negotiation and completion of a binding agreement, and there can be no assurance
that the transaction will be completed or the timing thereof,  or that the terms
of any  transaction  completed  will not vary  materially  from those  currently
agreed.





CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS


     Our  significant  contractual  obligations  at December  31, 2008 and their
impact on our cash flows and liquidity are summarized below for the years ending
December 31 (amounts in thousands):


(1)  Amounts  include  interest  payments  on our notes  payable  based on their
     contractual  terms.  See  Note  6 to our  December  31,  2008  consolidated
     financial  statements  for  additional  information  on our notes  payable.
     Approximately $96.7 million of the amounts otherwise due in 2011, and $13.5
     million of the amounts  otherwise due in 2013,  included in the table above
     were repaid in connection with a tender offer on February 12, 2009.

(2)  We lease trucks,  land,  equipment and office space under various operating
     leases. Certain leases are cancelable with substantial penalties.

(3)  Includes   obligations  for  facilities  currently  under  construction  at
     December 31, 2008 as described above under  "Acquisition and Development of
     Facilities."

     We have not included any  additional  funding  requirements  that we may be
required make to Shurgard Europe as a contractual obligation in the table above,
since it is uncertain  whether or not we will be required to fund any additional
amounts and because such funding is subject to our assent.

     OFF-BALANCE  SHEET  ARRANGEMENTS:  At December  31, 2008 we had no material
off-balance sheet arrangements as defined under Regulation S-K 303(a)(4) and the
instructions thereto.

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
          ----------------------------------------------------------

     To limit our exposure to market risk, we principally finance our operations
and growth with permanent equity capital  consisting either of common shares and
preferred  shares.  At December  31,  2008,  our debt as a  percentage  of total
shareholders' equity (based on book values) was 7.4%.

     Our preferred  shares are not  redeemable at the option of the holders.  At
December  31,  2008,  our Series V,  Series W and Series X shares are  currently
redeemable  by us.  Except under  certain  conditions  relating to the Company's
qualification  as a REIT, the preferred shares are not redeemable by the Company
pursuant to its redemption  option prior to the dates set forth in Note 8 to our
December 31, 2008 consolidated financial statements.

     Our market risk sensitive instruments include notes payable,  which totaled
$643,811,000 at December 31, 2008.

     We have foreign  currency  exposures  related to our investment in Shurgard
Europe,  which has a book value of $264.1  million at December 31, 2008. We also
have a loan  receivable  from Shurgard  Europe,  which is  denominated in Euros,
totaling (euro)391.9 million ($552.4 million) at December 31, 2008. We also have
an obligation,  in certain circumstances,  to loan up to an additional (euro)305
million to Shurgard Europe.

     The table below  summarizes  annual debt  maturities  and  weighted-average
interest rates on our  outstanding  debt at the end of each year and fair values
required to evaluate  our  expected  cash-flows  under debt  agreements  and our
sensitivity  to interest  rate changes at December  31, 2008 (dollar  amounts in
thousands).




(1)  Approximately $96.7 million of the amounts otherwise due in 2011, and $13.5
     million of the amounts  otherwise  due in 2013,  were repaid in  connection
     with a tender offer on February 12, 2009.

(2)  Amounts include borrowings under our line of credit, which expires in 2012.
     As of December 31, 2008, we have no borrowings under our line of credit.





ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
         -------------------------------------------

     The  financial  statements of the Company at December 31, 2008 and December
31, 2007 and for each of the three years in the period  ended  December 31, 2008
and the report of Ernst & Young LLP,  Independent  Registered  Public Accounting
Firm,  thereon  and the  related  financial  statement  schedule,  are  included
elsewhere  herein.  Reference is made to the Index to Financial  Statements  and
Schedules in Item 15.

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         ---------------------------------------------------------------
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
         --------------------

         Not applicable.

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
         -----------------------

CONCLUSION REGARDING THE EFFECTIVENESS OF DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

     The Company maintains  disclosure controls and procedures that are designed
to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports the Company files
and submits under the  Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,  ("Exchange
Act") is recorded,  processed,  summarized and reported  within the time periods
specified  in  accordance  with SEC  guidelines  and that  such  information  is
communicated to the Company's management,  including its Chief Executive Officer
and Chief  Financial  Officer,  to allow  timely  decisions  regarding  required
disclosure  based on the definition of "disclosure  controls and  procedures" in
Rules  13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act. In designing and  evaluating
the disclosure controls and procedures,  management recognized that any controls
and  procedures,  no matter how well  designed  and  operated,  can provide only
reasonable  assurance of achieving the desired control objectives and management
necessarily  was required to apply its judgment in evaluating  the  cost-benefit
relationship  of possible  controls  and  procedures  in reaching  that level of
reasonable   assurance.   Also,   the   Company  has   investments   in  certain
unconsolidated  entities.  As the  Company  does not  control  or  manage  these
entities,  its disclosure  controls and procedures with respect to such entities
are  substantially  more  limited  than those it  maintains  with respect to its
consolidated subsidiaries.

     As of December 31, 2008, the Company  carried out an evaluation,  under the
supervision and with the  participation of the Company's  management,  including
the Company's Chief Executive Officer and the Company's Chief Financial Officer,
of the  effectiveness  of the design and operation of the  Company's  disclosure
controls  and  procedures  (as  such  term is  defined  in Rules  13a-15(e)  and
15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act.  Based on that  evaluation,  the Company's  Chief
Executive  Officer and Chief  Financial  Officer  concluded  that the  Company's
disclosure  controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2008, at a
reasonable assurance level.

MANAGEMENT'S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

     Our management is responsible for  establishing  and  maintaining  adequate
internal  control  over  financial  reporting,  as such term is defined in Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) of the Exchange Act. Under the  supervision and with the
participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial  Officer,  we  conducted an  evaluation  of the  effectiveness  of our
internal  control over  financial  reporting  based on the framework in Internal
Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee on Sponsoring Organizations
of the  Treadway  Commission.  Based on our  evaluation  under the  framework in
Internal  Control-Integrated   Framework,  our  management  concluded  that  our
internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2008.

     The  effectiveness  of internal  control  over  financial  reporting  as of
December 31, 2008, has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, independent registered
public  accounting  firm.  Ernst & Young LLP's report on the Company's  internal
control over financial reporting appears below.




CHANGES IN INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

     There have not been any  changes in our  internal  control  over  financial
reporting (as such term is defined in Rules  13a-15(f)  and 15d-15(f)  under the
Exchange  Act) during the fourth  quarter of 2008 to which this  report  relates
that have materially  affected,  or are reasonable likely to materially  affect,
our internal control over financial reporting.

ITEM 9B.  OTHER INFORMATION
          -----------------

     Not Applicable.





             REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Board of Trustees and Shareholders of
Public Storage

We have audited Public Storage's internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in Internal Control--Integrated
Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring  Organizations  of the Treadway
Commission (the COSO criteria).  Public Storage's  management is responsible for
maintaining  effective  internal control over financial  reporting,  and for its
assessment of the  effectiveness  of internal  control over financial  reporting
included in the  accompanying  Annual Report of  Management on Internal  Control
over Financial  Reporting.  Our  responsibility  is to express an opinion on the
company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted  our audit in accordance  with the standards of the Public  Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain  reasonable  assurance  about whether  effective
internal  control  over  financial  reporting  was  maintained  in all  material
respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over
financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing
and evaluating the design and operating  effectiveness of internal control based
on the assessed  risk,  and  performing  such other  procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances.  We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
basis for our opinion.

A company's  internal control over financial  reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable  assurance  regarding the reliability of financial  reporting
and the preparation of financial  statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over
financial  reporting  includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to
the  maintenance  of records that, in reasonable  detail,  accurately and fairly
reflect the  transactions  and  dispositions  of the assets of the company;  (2)
provide  reasonable  assurance  that  transactions  are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting  principles,  and that receipts and  expenditures  of the company are
being made only in accordance with  authorizations of management and trustees of
the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of  unauthorized  acquisition,  use, or  disposition  of the company's
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent  limitations,  internal control over financial reporting
may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate  because of changes in  conditions,  or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, Public Storage maintained,  in all material respects,  effective
internal control over financial  reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on the
COSO criteria.

We also have  audited,  in accordance  with the standards of the Public  Company
Accounting  Oversight Board (United States),  the consolidated balance sheets of
Public  Storage as of December 31, 2008 and 2007,  and the related  consolidated
statements of income,  shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended  December  31, 2008 and our report dated  February 27,
2009 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.


                                                     /s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Los Angeles, California
February 27, 2009








                                    PART III
                                    --------

ITEM 10.   TRUSTEES, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
           -----------------------------------------------------

     The  information  required by this item with  respect to trustees is hereby
incorporated by reference to the material appearing in the Company's  definitive
proxy statement to be filed in connection with the annual shareholders'  meeting
scheduled  to be held on May 7, 2009 (the "Proxy  Statement")  under the caption
"Election of Trustees."

     The  information  required  by this item  with  respect  to the  nominating
process,  the audit committee and the audit committee financial expert is hereby
incorporated by reference to the material appearing in the Proxy Statement under
the caption "Corporate Governance."

     The  information  required  by this  item with  respect  to  Section  16(a)
compliance is hereby  incorporated by reference to the material appearing in the
Proxy Statement under the caption "Section 16(a) Beneficial  Ownership Reporting
Compliance."

     The  information  required by this item with respect to a code of ethics is
hereby  incorporated  by  reference  to the  material  appearing  in  the  Proxy
Statement under the caption "Corporate Governance." Any amendments to or waivers
of the  code of  ethics  granted  to the  Company's  executive  officers  or the
controller  will be  published  promptly on our website or by other  appropriate
means in accordance with SEC rules and regulations.

     The following is a biographical  summary of the current executive  officers
of the Company:

     Ronald L. Havner, Jr., age 51, has been the Vice-Chairman,  Chief Executive
Officer  and a member of the Board of Public  Storage  since  November  2002 and
President  since July 1, 2005. Mr. Havner joined Public Storage in 1986 and held
a variety of senior management  positions until his appointment as Vice-Chairman
and Chief  Executive  Officer in 2002.  Mr.  Havner has been  Chairman of Public
Storage's  affiliate,  PS Business Parks,  Inc. (PSB),  since March 1998 and was
Chief  Executive  Officer of PSB from March 1998 until August 2003. He is also a
member of the Board of  Governors  and the  Executive  Committee of the National
Association  of Real  Estate  Investment  Trusts,  Inc.  (NAREIT).  He is also a
director of Business Machine Security,  Inc., General Finance  Corporation and a
member of the NYU REIT Center Board of Advisors.

     John Reyes, age 48, a certified public accountant, joined Public Storage in
1990 and was  Controller of Public Storage from 1992 until December 1996 when he
became Chief Financial Officer.  He became a Vice President of Public Storage in
November 1995 and a Senior Vice  President of Public  Storage in December  1996.
From 1983 to 1990, Mr. Reyes was employed by Ernst & Young.

     Brian J.  Fields,  age 46,  became  Senior Vice  President  and Chief Legal
Officer  of Public  Storage on April 1, 2008.  From 1997  until  joining  Public
Storage,  Mr.  Fields was  employed  by  WellPoint,  Inc.,  the  largest  health
insurance company in the United States. At WellPoint,  Mr. Fields held a variety
of legal management positions,  serving most recently as Vice President,  Deputy
General Counsel.

     Mark C. Good,  age 52,  became Senior Vice  President  and Chief  Operating
Officer of Public Storage on September 8, 2008.  Before joining Public  Storage,
Mr. Good was with Sears Holdings  Corporation since 1997, where he was Executive
Vice President and General Manager of Sears Home Services,  the nation's largest
home appliance repair and home  improvement  services  organization  with annual
revenues  of  approximately  $3  billion.  Mr. Good also served as a director of
Sears Canada, Inc.

     David F. Doll,  age 50, became Senior Vice  President and  President,  Real
Estate  Group,  in  February  2005,  with  responsibility  for the  real  estate
activities of Public Storage,  including  property  acquisitions,  developments,
repackagings, and capital improvements.  Before joining Public Storage, Mr. Doll
was Senior Executive Vice President of Development for Westfield Corporation,  a
major  international owner and operator of shopping malls, where he was employed
since 1995.



     Candace N. Krol, age 47, became Senior Vice President of Human Resources in
September 2005. From 1985 until joining Public Storage, Ms. Krol was employed by
Parsons  Corporation,  a global  engineering and  construction  firm,  where she
served in various management positions, most recently as Vice President of Human
Resources for the Infrastructure and Technology global business unit.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
          ----------------------

     The information  required by this item is hereby  incorporated by reference
to the material  appearing in the Proxy Statement under the captions  "Corporate
Governance,"  "Executive  Compensation,"  "Compensation Committee Interlocks and
Insider Participation," and "Report of the Compensation Committee."

ITEM 12.  SECURITY  OWNERSHIP  OF CERTAIN  BENEFICIAL  OWNERS AND  MANAGEMENT
          -------------------------------------------------------------------
          AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS
          -------------------------------

     The information  required by this item is hereby  incorporated by reference
to the material  appearing  in the Proxy  Statement  under the  captions  "Stock
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management."

     The following  table sets forth  information as of December 31, 2008 on the
Company's equity compensation plans:


a)   The Company's  stock option and stock  incentive  plans are described  more
     fully  in  Note  10  to  the  December  31,  2008  consolidated   financial
     statements.     All    plans    other    than    the    2000    and    2001
     Non-Executive/Non-Director   Plans,   were   approved   by  the   Company's
     shareholders.

b)   Includes 630,212  restricted share units that, if and when vested,  will be
     settled in common shares of the Company on a one for one basis.

c)   The  outstanding  options granted under plans not approved by the Company's
     shareholders   were   granted   under   the   Company's   2000   and   2001
     Non-Executive/Non-Director  Plan, which does not allow participation by the
     Company's  executive  officers and trustees.  The principal  terms of these
     plans are as follows:  (1)  2,500,000  common  shares were  authorized  for
     grant, (2) this plan is administered by the Equity Awards Committee, except
     that grants in excess of 100,000 shares to any one person requires approval
     by the Executive Equity Awards  Committee,  (3) options are granted at fair
     market value on the date of grant, (4) options have a ten year term and (5)
     options vest over three years in equal installments, or as indicated by the
     applicable grant agreement.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND TRUSTEE INDEPENDENCE
         -----------------------------------------------------------------------
     The information  required by this item is hereby  incorporated by reference
to the material  appearing in the Proxy Statement under the captions  "Corporate
Governance"  and  "Certain  Relationships  and  Related  Transactions  and Legal
Proceedings."



ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES
         --------------------------------------

     The  information  required by this item with  respect to fees and  services
provided  by the  Company's  independent  auditors  is  hereby  incorporated  by
reference to the material  appearing  in the Proxy  Statement  under the caption
"Ratification of  Auditors--Fees  Billed to the Company by Ernst & Young LLP for
2008 and 2007".





                                     PART IV
                                     -------

ITEM 15.  EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
          ------------------------------------------

a.   1. Financial Statements

        The financial statements listed in the accompanying Index to Financial
        Statements and Schedules hereof are filed as part of this report.

     2. Financial Statement Schedules

        The financial statements schedules listed in the accompanying Index to
        Financial Statements and Schedules are filed as part of this report.

     3. Exhibits

        See Index to Exhibits contained herein.

b.   Exhibits:

        See Index to Exhibits contained herein.

c.   Financial Statement Schedules

        Not applicable.





                                 PUBLIC STORAGE

                              INDEX TO EXHIBITS (1)

                           (Items 15(a)(3) and 15(c))


3.1       Articles of  Amendment  and  Restatement  of  Declaration  of Trust of
          Public Storage,  a Maryland real estate investment  trust.  Filed with
          the  Registrant's  Current  Report on Form 8-K dated  June 6, 2007 and
          incorporated by reference herein.

3.2       Bylaws of Public  Storage,  a Maryland real estate  investment  trust.
          Filed with the  Registrant's  Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 6,
          2007 and incorporated by reference herein.

3.3       Articles  Supplementary  for Public Storage  Equity Shares,  Series A.
          Filed with the  Registrant's  Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 6,
          2007 and incorporated by reference herein.

3.4       Articles  Supplementary for Public Storage Equity Shares,  Series AAA.
          Filed with the  Registrant's  Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 6,
          2007 and incorporated by reference herein.

3.5       Articles  Supplementary for Public Storage 7.500% Cumulative Preferred
          Shares,  Series V. Filed with the Registrant's  Current Report on Form
          8-K dated June 6, 2007 and incorporated by reference herein.

3.6       Articles  Supplementary for Public Storage 6.500% Cumulative Preferred
          Shares,  Series W. Filed with the Registrant's  Current Report on Form
          8-K dated June 6, 2007 and incorporated by reference herein.

3.7       Articles  Supplementary for Public Storage 6.450% Cumulative Preferred
          Shares , Series X. Filed with the Registrant's  Current Report on Form
          8-K dated June 6, 2007 and incorporated by reference herein.

3.8       Articles  Supplementary for Public Storage 6.850% Cumulative Preferred
          Shares,  Series Y. Filed with the Registrant's  Current Report on Form
          8-K dated June 6, 2007 and incorporated by reference herein.

3.9       Articles  Supplementary for Public Storage 6.250% Cumulative Preferred
          Shares,  Series Z. Filed with the Registrant's  Current Report on Form
          8-K dated June 6, 2007 and incorporated by reference herein.

3.10      Articles  Supplementary for Public Storage 6.125% Cumulative Preferred
          Shares,  Series A. Filed with the Registrant's  Current Report on Form
          8-K dated June 6, 2007 and incorporated by reference herein.

3.11      Articles  Supplementary for Public Storage 7.125% Cumulative Preferred
          Shares,  Series B. Filed with the Registrant's  Current Report on Form
          8-K dated June 6, 2007 and incorporated by reference herein.

3.12      Articles  Supplementary for Public Storage 6.600% Cumulative Preferred
          Shares,  Series C. Filed with the Registrant's  Current Report on Form
          8-K dated June 6, 2007 and incorporated by reference herein.

3.13      Articles  Supplementary for Public Storage 6.180% Cumulative Preferred
          Shares,  Series D. Filed with the Registrant's  Current Report on Form
          8-K dated June 6, 2007 and incorporated by reference herein.

3.14      Articles  Supplementary for Public Storage 6.750% Cumulative Preferred
          Shares,  Series E. Filed with the Registrant's  Current Report on Form
          8-K dated June 6, 2007 and incorporated by reference herein.

3.15      Articles  Supplementary for Public Storage 6.450% Cumulative Preferred
          Shares,  Series F. Filed with the Registrant's  Current Report on Form
          8-K dated June 6, 2007 and incorporated by reference herein.



3.16      Articles  Supplementary for Public Storage 7.000% Cumulative Preferred
          Shares,  Series G. Filed with the Registrant's  Current Report on Form
          8-K dated June 6, 2007 and incorporated by reference herein.

3.17      Articles  Supplementary for Public Storage 6.950% Cumulative Preferred
          Shares,  Series H. Filed with the Registrant's  Current Report on Form
          8-K dated June 6, 2007 and incorporated by reference herein.

3.18      Articles  Supplementary for Public Storage 7.250% Cumulative Preferred
          Shares,  Series I. Filed with the Registrant's  Current Report on Form
          8-K dated June 6, 2007 and incorporated by reference herein.

3.19      Articles  Supplementary for Public Storage 7.250% Cumulative Preferred
          Shares,  Series K. Filed with the Registrant's  Current Report on Form
          8-K dated June 6, 2007 and incorporated by reference herein.

3.20      Articles  Supplementary for Public Storage 6.750% Cumulative Preferred
          Shares,  Series L. Filed with the Registrant's  Current Report on Form
          8-K dated June 6, 2007 and incorporated by reference herein.

3.21      Articles  Supplementary for Public Storage 6.625% Cumulative Preferred
          Shares,  Series M. Filed with the Registrant's  Current Report on Form
          8-K dated June 6, 2007 and incorporated by reference herein.

3.22      Articles  Supplementary for Public Storage 7.000% Cumulative Preferred
          Shares,  Series N. Filed with the Registrant's  Current Report on Form
          8-K dated June 28, 2007 and incorporated by reference herein.

4.1       Master  Deposit  Agreement,  dated as of May 31, 2007.  Filed with the
          Registrant's  Current  Report  on Form  8-K  dated  June 6,  2007  and
          incorporated by reference herein.

10.1      Amended  Management  Agreement  between  Registrant and Public Storage
          Commercial Properties Group, Inc. dated as of February 21, 1995. Filed
          with Public  Storage Inc.'s ("PSI") Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
          year ended December 31, 1994 (SEC File No.  001-0839) and incorporated
          herein by reference.

10.2      Second  Amended  and  Restated  Management   Agreement  by  and  among
          Registrant  and the entities  listed  therein dated as of November 16,
          1995.  Filed with PS Partners,  Ltd.'s  Annual Report on Form 10-K for
          the  year  ended  December  31,  1996  (SEC  File No.  001-11186)  and
          incorporated herein by reference.

10.3      Limited Partnership Agreement of PSAF Development Partners, L.P. Filed
          with  PSI's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the  quarterly  period
          ended March 31, 1997 (SEC File No. 001-0839) and  incorporated  herein
          by reference.

10.4      Agreement of Limited Partnership of PS Business Parks, L.P. Filed with
          PS  Business  Parks,  Inc.'s  Quarterly  Report  on Form  10-Q for the
          quarterly  period  ended June 30,  1998 (SEC File No.  001-10709)  and
          incorporated herein by reference.

10.5      Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of Storage Trust
          Properties,  L.P. (March 12, 1999).  Filed with PSI's Quarterly Report
          on Form 10-Q for the  quarterly  period  ended June 30, 1999 (SEC File
          No. 001-0839) and incorporated herein by reference.

10.6      Limited Partnership Agreement of PSAC Development Partners, L.P. Filed
          with PSI's  Current  Report on Form 8-K dated  November  15, 1999 (SEC
          File No. 001-0839) and incorporated herein by reference.

10.7      Agreement  of Limited  Liability  Company of PSAC  Storage  Investors,
          L.L.C.  Filed with PSI's Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 15,
          1999 (SEC File No. 001-0839) and incorporated herein by reference.

10.8      Amended  and  Restated   Agreement  of  Limited   Partnership  of  PSA
          Institutional  Partners,  L.P.  Filed with PSI's Annual Report on Form
          10-K for the year ended December 31, 1999 (SEC File No.  001-0839) and
          incorporated herein by reference.



10.9      Amendment to Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited  Partnership of
          PSA Institutional  Partners, L.P. Filed with PSI's Quarterly Report on
          Form 10-Q for the  quarterly  period ended June 30, 2000 (SEC File No.
          001-0839) and incorporated herein by reference.

10.10     Second  Amendment  to  Amended  and  Restated   Agreement  of  Limited
          Partnership  of PSA  Institutional  Partners,  L.P.  Filed  with PSI's
          Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31,
          2004 (SEC File No. 001-0839) and incorporated herein by reference.

10.11     Third   Amendment  to  Amended  and  Restated   Agreement  of  Limited
          Partnership  of PSA  Institutional  Partners,  L.P.  Filed  with PSI's
          Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September
          30, 2004 (SEC File No. 001-0839) and incorporated herein by reference.

10.12     Limited Partnership Agreement of PSAF Acquisition Partners, L.P. Filed
          with PSI's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31,
          2003 (SEC File No. 001-0839) and incorporated herein by reference.

10.13     Credit Agreement by and among Registrant,  Wells Fargo Bank,  National
          Association  and  Wachovia  Bank,  National   Association  as  co-lead
          arrangers,  and the other financial  institutions party thereto, dated
          March 27, 2007.  Filed with PSI's Current  Report on Form 8-K on April
          2, 2007 (SEC File No. 001-0839) and incorporated herein by reference.

10.14     Senior  Credit  Agreement  dated May 26, 2003, as amended by Amendment
          Agreements  dated July 11,  2003 and  December  2, 2003,  by and among
          First  Shurgard  Sprl,  First  Shurgard  Finance Sarl,  First Shurgard
          Deutschland  GmbH,  Societe  Generale  and  others.   Incorporated  by
          reference  to Exhibit  10.1 filed with the Current  Report on Form 8-K
          dated  February  21,  2005 filed by  Shurgard  Storage  Centers,  Inc.
          ("Shurgard") (SEC File No. 001-11455).

10.15     Amendment and Waiver  Agreement  dated February 21, 2005 to the Senior
          Credit  Agreement  dated May 26,  2003,  as amended as of  December 2,
          2003, by and among First Shurgard Sprl,  First Shurgard  Finance Sarl,
          First  Shurgard   Deutschland  GmbH,   Societe  Generale  and  others.
          Incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit  10.2  filed with the  Current
          Report on Form 8-K dated February 21, 2005 filed by Shurgard (SEC File
          No. 001-11455).

10.16     Credit Facility Agreement dated July 12, 2004, between Second Shurgard
          SPRL,  Second  Shurgard  Finance  SARL,  the Royal Bank of Scotland as
          Mandated  Lead  Arranger,  the Royal Bank of Scotland  PLC as Facility
          Agent.  Incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit  10.43  filed with the
          Report on Form  10-Q for the  quarter  ended  June 30,  2004  filed by
          Shurgard (SEC File No. 001-11455).

10.17*    Employment  Agreement between  Registrant and B. Wayne Hughes dated as
          of November 16, 1995.  Filed with PSI's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
          the  year  ended  December  31,  1995  (SEC  File  No.  001-0839)  and
          incorporated herein by reference.

10.18*    Shurgard Storage Centers,  Inc. 1995 Long Term Incentive  Compensation
          Plan.  Incorporated  by  reference to Appendix B of  Definitive  Proxy
          Statement  dated  June  8,  1995  filed  by  Shurgard  (SEC  File  No.
          001-11455).

10.19*    Shurgard  Storage  Centers,   Inc.  2000  Long-Term   Incentive  Plan.
          Incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.27 Annual Report on Form 10-K
          for the year ended  December 31, 2000 filed by Shurgard  (SEC File No.
          001-11455).

10.20*    Shurgard Storage Centers,  Inc. 2004 Long Term Incentive  Compensation
          Plan.  Incorporated  by  reference to Appendix A of  Definitive  Proxy
          Statement  dated  June  7,  2004  filed  by  Shurgard  (SEC  File  No.
          001-11455).

10.21*    Public Storage,  Inc. 1996 Stock Option and Incentive Plan. Filed with
          PSI's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31, 2000
          (SEC File No. 001-0839) and incorporated herein by reference.



10.22*    Public Storage, Inc. 2000 Non-Executive/Non-Director  Stock Option and
          Incentive Plan.  Filed with PSI's  Registration  Statement on Form S-8
          (SEC File No. 333-52400) and incorporated herein by reference.

10.23*    Public Storage, Inc. 2001 Non-Executive/Non-Director  Stock Option and
          Incentive Plan.  Filed with PSI's  Registration  Statement on Form S-8
          (SEC File No. 333-59218) and incorporated herein by reference.

10.24*    Public  Storage,  Inc.  2001 Stock  Option and  Incentive  Plan ("2001
          Plan"). Filed with PSI's Registration  Statement on Form S-8 (SEC File
          No. 333-59218) and incorporated herein by reference.

10.25*    Form of 2001 Plan  Non-qualified  Stock Option  Agreement.  Filed with
          PSI's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the  quarterly  period ended
          September 30, 2004 (SEC File No. 001-0839) and incorporated  herein by
          reference.

10.26*    Form of 2001 Plan Restricted  Share Unit  Agreement.  Filed with PSI's
          Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September
          30, 2004 (SEC File No. 001-0839) and incorporated herein by reference.

10.27*    Form  of  2001  Plan  Non-Qualified   Outside  Director  Stock  Option
          Agreement.  Filed  with  PSI's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the
          quarterly  period ended September 30, 2004 (SEC File No. 001-0839) and
          incorporated herein by reference.

10.28*    Public Storage,  Inc.  Performance Based Compensation Plan for Covered
          Employees.  Filed with PSI's Current  Report on Form 8-K dated May 11,
          2005 (SEC File No. 001-0839) and incorporated herein by reference.

10.29*    Public   Storage   2007   Equity   and   Performance-Based   Incentive
          Compensation  Plan. Filed as Exhibit 4.1 to Registrant's  Registration
          Statement  on Form S-8  (SEC  File No.  333-144907)  and  incorporated
          herein by reference.

10.30*    Form  of  2007  Plan  Restricted  Stock  Unit  Agreement.  Filed  with
          Registrant's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June
          30, 2007 and incorporated herein by reference.

10.31*    Form of 2007 Plan Stock  Option  Agreement.  Filed  with  Registrant's
          Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and
          incorporated herein by reference.

10.32*    Agreement dated April 16, 2008 between Registrant and executive. Filed
          as Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated April
          22, 2008 and incorporated herein by reference.

10.33*    Form of Indemnity Agreement.  Filed with Registrant's  Amendment No. 1
          to  Registration  Statement on Form S-4 (SEC File No.  333-141448) and
          incorporated herein by reference.

10.34*    Offer  letter/Employment  Agreement  dated as of July 28, 2008 between
          Registrant  and Mark  Good.  Filed  as  Exhibit  10.1 to  Registrant's
          Current  Report on Form 8-K dated  September 9, 2008 and  incorporated
          herein by reference.

12        Statement  Re:  Computation  of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and
          Preferred Stock Dividends. Filed herewith.

31.1      Rule 13a - 14(a) Certification. Filed herewith.

31.2      Rule 13a - 14(a) Certification. Filed herewith.

32        Section 1350 Certifications. Filed herewith.

         --------

(1)  SEC File No. 001-33519 unless otherwise indicated.

* Denotes management compensatory plan agreement or arrangement.







                                   SIGNATURES
                                   ----------

     Pursuant  to the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,  the Registrant has duly caused this report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                    PUBLIC STORAGE

Date:  March 2, 2009                By:   /s/ Ronald L. Havner, Jr.
                                          -------------------------
                                          Ronald L. Havner, Jr., Vice-Chairman
                                          of the Board, Chief Executive Officer
                                          and President

     Pursuant  to the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.





                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  AND SCHEDULES

                                  (Item 15 (a))



All other  schedules  have been omitted  since the required  information  is not
present or not  present  in amounts  sufficient  to  require  submission  of the
schedule,  or because the information  required is included in the  consolidated
financial statements or notes thereto.





             REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM



The Board of Trustees and Shareholders
Public Storage


We have audited the accompanying  consolidated  balance sheets of Public Storage
as of December 31, 2008 and 2007,  and the related  consolidated  statements  of
income,  shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2008. Our audits also included the financial statement
schedule  listed in the Index at Item  15(a).  These  financial  statements  and
financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management.
Our  responsibility  is to express an opinion on these financial  statements and
financial statement schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance  with the standards of the Public  Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and  perform  the  audit  to  obtain  reasonable  assurance  about  whether  the
consolidated  financial statements are free of material  misstatement.  An audit
includes  examining,  on a test  basis,  evidence  supporting  the  amounts  and
disclosures in the financial  statements.  An audit also includes  assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well
as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated  financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects,  the consolidated financial position of Public
Storage at December  31, 2008 and 2007,  and the  consolidated  results of their
operations  and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December  31,  2008,  in  conformity  with U.S.  generally  accepted  accounting
principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when
considered  in  relation  to the basic  financial  statements  taken as a whole,
presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.

We also have  audited,  in accordance  with the standards of the Public  Company
Accounting  Oversight Board (United States),  Public Storage's  internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria  established
in Internal  Control-Integrated  Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway  Commission and our report dated February 27, 2009
expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.





                                                      /s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Los Angeles, California
February 27, 2009


                                      F-1



                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                           December 31, 2008 and 2007
                    (Amounts in thousands, except share data)




                            See accompanying notes.
                                      F-2



                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                 For each of the three years in the period ended
                                December 31, 2008
                (Amounts in thousands, except per share amounts)


                           See accompanying notes.
                                      F-3




                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
               CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY For
          each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008
           (Amounts in thousands, except share and per share amounts)




                           See accompanying notes.
                                      F-4




                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
       For each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008
                             (Amounts in thousands)


                           See accompanying notes.
                                      F-5



                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
       For each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008
                             (Amounts in thousands)

                                   (Continued)


                           See accompanying notes.
                                      F-6



                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
       For each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008
                             (Amounts in thousands)

                                   (Continued)



                           See accompanying notes.
                                      F-7



                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2008

1.   Description of the Business
     ---------------------------

          Public Storage, Inc., formerly a California corporation, was organized
     in 1980. Effective June 1, 2007, following approval by our shareholders, we
     reorganized  Public  Storage,  Inc.  into Public  Storage,  a Maryland real
     estate investment trust (referred to herein as "the Company",  "the Trust",
     "we",  "us",  or "our").  Our  principal  business  activities  include the
     acquisition,   development,   ownership  and   operation  of   self-storage
     facilities   which  offer  storage   spaces  for  lease,   generally  on  a
     month-to-month  basis,  for  personal and  business  use. Our  self-storage
     facilities  are located  primarily in the United States  ("U.S.").  We also
     have interests in self-storage facilities located in seven Western European
     countries.

          At December 31, 2008, we had direct and indirect  equity  interests in
     2,012  self-storage  facilities  located in 38 states  operating  under the
     "Public  Storage" name, and 181 self-storage  facilities  located in Europe
     which  operate  under the  "Shurgard  Storage  Centers"  name. We also have
     direct and  indirect  equity  interests  in  approximately  21 million  net
     rentable  square feet of commercial  space located in 11 states in the U.S.
     primarily  operated  by PS  Business  Parks,  Inc.  ("PSB")  under  the "PS
     Business Parks" name.

          Any reference to the number of properties,  square footage,  number of
     tenant reinsurance  policies outstanding and the aggregate coverage of such
     reinsurance policies are unaudited and outside the scope of our independent
     registered public  accounting  firm's audit of our financial  statements in
     accordance  with the standards of the Public Company  Accounting  Oversight
     Board.

2.   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
     ------------------------------------------

          Basis of Presentation
          ---------------------

          The  consolidated  financial  statements  are  presented on an accrual
     basis in accordance  with U.S.  generally  accepted  accounting  principles
     ("GAAP")  and  include the  accounts  of the  Company and our  consolidated
     subsidiaries.   All  intercompany   balances  and  transactions  have  been
     eliminated in consolidation.

          Certain amounts previously  reported have been reclassified to conform
     to the December 31, 2008 presentation.  In previous presentations,  certain
     cash balances held by our captive  insurance  entities which are restricted
     as to their  use  were  included  in  restricted  cash in our  consolidated
     balance  sheets.  These  restricted  balances  are  reclassified  as "other
     assets."

          The  results of  operations  with  respect  to assets and  liabilities
     acquired on August 22,  2006 in  connection  with the merger with  Shurgard
     Storage  Centers,  Inc.  ("Shurgard"  and  the  merger  referred  to as the
     "Shurgard Merger") are included in our accompanying  consolidated financial
     statements for periods after the acquisition.

          Consolidation Policy
          --------------------

          Entities in which we have an interest are first evaluated to determine
     whether,  in accordance  with the  provisions  of the Financial  Accounting
     Standards  Board's  Interpretation  No.  46R,  "Consolidation  of  Variable

                                      F-8


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2008

     Interest  Entities," they represent  Variable Interest Entities  ("VIE's").
     VIE's in which we are the primary  beneficiary are  consolidated.  Entities
     that are not VIE's that we control are consolidated.

          When we are the  general  partner,  we are  considered  to control the
     partnership unless the limited partners possess  substantial  "kick-out" or
     "participative"  rights as defined in Emerging  Issues Task Force Statement
     04-5 - "Determining  whether a general partner or the general partners as a
     group,  controls a limited  partnership  or similar entity when the limited
     partners have certain rights" ("EITF 04-5").  All significant  intercompany
     balances and transactions have been eliminated.

          The  accounts of the  entities we control,  along with the accounts of
     the VIE's for which we are the  primary  beneficiary,  are  included in our
     consolidated  financial  statements.  We  account  for  our  investment  in
     entities that we do not  consolidate  using the equity method of accounting
     or, if we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence over an
     investee,  the cost method of accounting.  Changes in consolidation  status
     are reflected  effective the date the change of control or determination of
     primary  beneficiary status occurred,  and previously  reported periods are
     not restated. The entities that we consolidate during the periods, to which
     the reference  applies,  are referred to hereinafter  as the  "Consolidated
     Entities." The entities that we have an interest in but do not  consolidate
     during  the  periods,  to which the  reference  applies,  are  referred  to
     hereinafter as the "Unconsolidated Entities."

          Collectively,  at December 31, 2008, the Company and the  Consolidated
     Entities own a total of 2,002 real estate  facilities,  consisting of 1,993
     self-storage  facilities in the U.S., one self-storage  facility in London,
     England and eight commercial facilities in the U.S.

          At December 31, 2008,  the  Unconsolidated  Entities are  comprised of
     PSB,  Shurgard  Europe,  as well  as  various  limited  and  joint  venture
     partnerships  (referred  to as the "Other  Investments").  At December  31,
     2008,  PSB  owns   approximately  19.6  million  rentable  square  feet  of
     commercial  space,  Shurgard  Europe  has  interests  in  180  self-storage
     facilities  in Europe with 9.5 million net rentable  square  feet,  and the
     Other Investments own in aggregate 19 self-storage facilities in the U.S.

          Use of Estimates
          ----------------

          The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity
     with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect
     the  amounts  reported  in  the  consolidated   financial   statements  and
     accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

          Income Taxes
          ------------

          For all taxable years  subsequent  to 1980,  the Company has qualified
     and  intends  to  continue  to qualify as a real  estate  investment  trust
     ("REIT"),  as defined in Section 856 of the  Internal  Revenue  Code.  As a
     REIT, we do not incur federal or  significant  state tax on that portion of
     our taxable income which is distributed to our shareholders,  provided that
     we meet  certain  tests.  We believe we have met these tests  during  2008,
     2007, and 2006 and, accordingly,  no provision for federal income taxes has
     been made in the accompanying  consolidated  financial statements on income
     produced and distributed on real estate rental operations. Our taxable REIT
     subsidiaries are subject to regular  corporate tax on their taxable income,
     and such  corporate  taxes are presented in ancillary cost of operations in
     our accompanying  consolidated statements of income. We also are subject to
     certain   state  income   taxes,   which  are   presented  in  general  and
     administrative  expense  in our  accompanying  consolidated  statements  of
     income.

          We adopted the  provisions  of Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board
     ("FASB") Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes
     - an  interpretation  of FASB  Statement No. 109" ("FIN 48"), on January 1,
     2007.  FIN 48 clarifies  the  accounting  for  uncertainty  in income taxes
     recognized in an enterprise's  financial  statement in accordance with FASB
     Statement 109,  "Accounting for Income Taxes", and prescribes a recognition
     threshold and measurement process for financial  statement  recognition and
     measurement  of a tax  position  taken  or  expected  to be  taken in a tax
     return.  FIN 48 also provides  guidance on  derecognition,  classification,
     interest and  penalties,  accounting in interim  periods,  disclosures  and
     transition.

          Based  on  our  evaluation,  we  have  concluded  that  there  are  no
     significant  uncertain tax positions requiring recognition in our financial

                                      F-9


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2008

     statements.  Our  evaluation was performed for the tax years ended December
     31,  2005,  2006,  2007 and 2008,  the tax years  which  remain  subject to
     examination by major tax jurisdictions as of December 31, 2008.

          Financial Instruments
          ---------------------

          We have  estimated the fair value of our financial  instruments  using
     available  market  information  and  appropriate  valuation  methodologies.
     Considerable  judgment is required in  interpreting  market data to develop
     estimates  of market  value.  Accordingly,  estimated  fair  values are not
     necessarily  indicative  of the  amounts  that could be realized in current
     market exchanges.

          For  purposes of  financial  statement  presentation,  we consider all
     highly liquid financial instruments such as short-term treasury securities,
     money  market funds with daily  liquidity  and a rating in excess of AAA by
     Standard and Poor's,  or investment grade short-term  commercial paper with
     remaining  maturities of three months or less at the date of acquisition to
     be  cash  equivalents.  Any  such  cash  and  cash  equivalents  which  are
     restricted from general corporate use (restricted cash) due to insurance or
     other regulations, or based upon contractual requirements,  are included in
     other assets.

          Due to the short period to maturity of our cash and cash  equivalents,
     accounts  receivable  and other  financial  instruments  included  in other
     assets, and accrued and other  liabilities,  we believe the carrying values
     as presented on the consolidated balance sheets are reasonable estimates of
     fair value.

          Financial assets that are exposed to credit risk consist  primarily of
     cash and cash  equivalents,  notes  receivable from  affiliate,  as well as
     accounts  receivable and restricted cash which are included in other assets
     on our accompanying  consolidated balance sheets. Cash and cash equivalents
     and  restricted  cash,  consisting  of  short-term  investments,  including
     commercial  paper,  are only  invested in  investment  instruments  with an
     investment grade rating.  Accounts receivable are not a significant portion
     of  total  assets  and are  comprised  of a large  number  of  individually
     insignificant  customer  balances.  We have a loan receivable from Shurgard
     Europe totaling $552,361,000 at December 31, 2008. Although there can be no
     assurance,  we believe that Shurgard  Europe has  sufficient  liquidity and
     collateral,  and we have sufficient  creditor rights, such that credit risk
     is  minimal.  In  addition,  we  believe  the  interest  rate  on the  loan
     approximates the market rate for loans with similar credit  characteristics
     and  tenor.  Accordingly,  we  believe  the  carrying  value  of  the  loan
     approximates  fair based on these  characteristics  and other  market data,
     which represent significant unobservable inputs, which are "Level 3" inputs
     as the term is utilized in SFAS No. 157, "Fair Value  Measurement" (or SFAS
     No. 157).

          At December 31, 2008,  due  primarily  to our  investment  in and loan
     receivable from Shurgard Europe,  our operations and our financial position
     are affected by fluctuations in the exchange rates between the Euro, and to
     a lesser extent, other European currencies, against the U.S. Dollar.

          Real Estate Facilities
          ----------------------

          Real estate facilities are recorded at cost. Costs associated with the
     acquisition,  development,  construction,  renovation  and  improvement  of
     properties  are  capitalized.  Interest,  property  taxes and  other  costs
     associated with  development  incurred during the  construction  period are
     capitalized as building cost. Costs associated with the sale of real estate
     facilities  or  interests  in  real  estate  investments  are  expensed  as
     incurred.  The purchase cost of existing  self-storage  facilities  that we
     acquire are allocated based upon relative fair value of the land,  building
     and tenant intangible components of the real estate facility.  Expenditures
     for  repairs and  maintenance  are  expensed  when  incurred.  Depreciation
     expense is  computed  using the  straight-line  method  over the  estimated
     useful lives of the buildings and improvements,  which generally range from
     5 to 25 years.

                                      F-10


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2008

          Other Assets
          ------------

          Other assets primarily  consists of prepaid  expenses,  investments in
     held-to-maturity debt securities, accounts receivable, interest receivable,
     restricted cash, merchandise inventory held for sale, as well as trucks and
     other  equipment  associated  with our ancillary  operations.  Other assets
     included a total of $56,714,000  related to Shurgard Europe at December 31,
     2007, which we deconsolidated effective March 31, 2008 as described in Note
     3.

          Accrued and Other Liabilities
          -----------------------------

          Accrued and other  liabilities  consist primarily of real property tax
     accruals,  tenant prepayments of rents, accrued interest payable, and trade
     payables.  They also include losses and loss adjustment liabilities for our
     own exposures,  as well as estimated losses related to our tenant insurance
     activities,  which  are not  covered  by  third-party  insurance  carriers,
     aggregating  $26,724,000 at December 31, 2008  ($26,643,000 at December 31,
     2007).  In addition,  at December 31, 2007,  accrued and other  liabilities
     included  $100,366,000  related to Shurgard Europe, which we deconsolidated
     effective March 31, 2008 as described in Note 3.

          Goodwill
          --------

          Goodwill represents the excess of acquisition cost over the fair value
     of net tangible and  identifiable  intangible  assets  acquired in business
     combinations.  Each business  combination from which our goodwill arose was
     for the acquisition of single businesses and accordingly, the allocation of
     our  goodwill  to  our  business   segments  is  based   directly  on  such
     acquisitions.  Our goodwill has an indeterminate life. Our goodwill balance
     of $174,634,000 is reported net of accumulated  amortization of $85,085,000
     as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 in our accompanying  consolidated  balance
     sheets.

          We evaluate impairment of goodwill annually by comparing the aggregate
     book value (including  goodwill) of each reporting unit to their respective
     estimated  fair value.  No impairment of our goodwill was identified in our
     annual evaluation at December 31, 2008.

          Intangible Assets
          -----------------

          We acquire finite-lived  intangible assets representing  primarily the
     tenants in place (a "Tenant  Intangible") at the date of the acquisition of
     each respective facility,  and Tenant Intangibles are amortized relative to
     the benefit of the tenants in place to each  period.  At December 31, 2008,
     our Tenant  Intangibles have a net book value of $33,181,000  ($154,921,000
     at  December  31,  2007),  which  is net  of  accumulated  amortization  of
     $336,005,000  ($423,788,000 at December 31, 2007).  During 2008, our Tenant
     Intangibles were increased by approximately $4,528,000 due to the impact of
     changes in foreign currency  exchange rates,  $1,259,000 in connection with
     the acquisition of the remaining  interest we did not own in certain of the
     Other   Investments  (Note  4),  and  $1,766,000  in  connection  with  the
     acquisition  of  self-storage  facilities  (Note 4). On March 31, 2008, our
     Tenant  Intangibles   decreased   approximately   $78,135,000  due  to  the
     deconsolidation of Shurgard Europe, as described more fully in Note 3.

          Amortization expense of $51,158,000, $247,844,000 and $175,944,000 was
     recorded for our Tenant  Intangibles for the years ended December 31, 2008,
     2007 and 2006, respectively.  The estimated future amortization expense for
     our finite-lived intangible assets is as follows:

     2009                                       $     4,928,000
     2010                                             2,742,000
     2011                                             2,430,000
     2012                                             2,350,000
     2013                                             2,232,000
     2014 and beyond                                 18,499,000
                                                ----------------
                                                $    33,181,000
                                                ================

                                      F-11


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2008

          We also have an intangible  representing  the value of the  "Shurgard"
     trade  name,  which is used by  Shurgard  Europe  pursuant  to a  licensing
     agreement  described more fully in Note 3, with a book value of $18,824,000
     at December 31, 2008 and 2007.  The Shurgard  trade name has an  indefinite
     life and, accordingly, we do not amortize this asset but instead analyze it
     on an annual  basis for  impairment.  No  impairments  were  noted from our
     evaluations  in any periods  presented in these  accompanying  consolidated
     financial statements.

          Evaluation of Asset Impairment
          ------------------------------

          We evaluate our real-estate and Tenant Intangibles for impairment on a
     quarterly   basis.  We  first  evaluate  these  assets  for  indicators  of
     impairment,  and if any  indicators of impairment  are noted,  we determine
     whether  the  carrying  value of such  assets is in  excess  of the  future
     estimated undiscounted cash flows attributable to these assets. If there is
     excess  carrying  value  over  such  future  undiscounted  cash  flows,  an
     impairment  charge is booked  for the  excess of  carrying  value  over the
     assets' estimated fair value. Any long-lived assets which we expect to sell
     or otherwise  dispose of prior to their estimated useful life are stated at
     the lower of their  estimated net  realizable  value (less cost to sell) or
     their carrying  value. No impairment was identified from our evaluations in
     any  periods   presented  in  the   accompanying   consolidated   financial
     statements.

          Revenue and Expense Recognition
          -------------------------------

          Rental income,  which is generally  earned pursuant to  month-to-month
     leases for storage space, as well as late charges and administrative  fees,
     are  recognized  as  earned.  Promotional  discounts  are  recognized  as a
     reduction to rental income over the promotional period,  which is generally
     during the first month of  occupancy.  Ancillary  revenues and interest and
     other income is recognized  when earned.  Equity in earnings of real estate
     entities is recognized  based on our ownership  interest in the earnings of
     each of the Unconsolidated Entities.

          We accrue for property tax expense  based upon actual  amounts  billed
     for the  related  time  periods  and, in some  circumstances  due to taxing
     authority assessment timing and disputes of assessed amounts, estimates and
     historical trends. If these estimates are incorrect,  the timing and amount
     of expense recognition could be affected.  Cost of operations,  general and
     administrative  expense,  interest expense,  as well as television,  yellow
     page, and other advertising expenditures are expensed as incurred. Casualty
     losses or gains are  recognized  in the period the casualty  occurs,  based
     upon the  differential  between  the book  value of  assets  destroyed  and
     estimated  insurance  proceeds,  if  any,  that we  expect  to  receive  in
     accordance with our insurance contracts.

          Foreign Currency Exchange Translation
          -------------------------------------

          The  local  currency  is  the  functional  currency  for  the  foreign
     operations for which we have an interest.  Assets and liabilities  included
     on our  consolidated  balance  sheet,  including  our equity  investment in
     Shurgard  Europe,  are translated at  end-of-period  exchange rates,  while
     revenues,  expenses,  and equity in  earnings  of the  related  real estate
     entities, are translated at the average exchange rates in effect during the
     period.  The Euro,  which  represents  the  functional  currency  used by a
     majority  of the  foreign  operations  for which we have an  interest,  was
     translated at an end-of-period  exchange rate of  approximately  1.409 U.S.
     Dollars per Euro at December  31, 2008 (1.472 at December  31,  2007),  and
     average  exchange rates of 1.470 and 1.370 for the years ended December 31,
     2008 and 2007,  respectively.  Equity is translated at historical rates and
     the  resulting  cumulative  translation  adjustments,  to  the  extent  not
     included in net income,  are included as a component of  accumulated  other
     comprehensive income (loss) until the translation adjustments are realized.
     See "Other  Comprehensive  Income" below for further information  regarding
     our foreign currency translation gains and losses.

                                      F-12


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2008

          Fair Value Accounting
          ---------------------

          In 2006,  the FASB issued SFAS No. 157. SFAS No. 157 expands  required
     fair value  disclosures,  whenever other  accounting  standards  require or
     permit fair value  measurements,  including the information used to measure
     fair value, and the effect of fair value measurements on earnings. SFAS No.
     157  clarifies  that fair value is an exit price,  representing  the amount
     that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability  in
     an orderly  transaction  between  market  participants,  and  establishes a
     three-tier  fair value  hierarchy,  which  prioritizes  the inputs  used in
     measuring fair value.  The Company adopted SFAS No. 157 on January 1, 2008,
     which had no effect on our financial  position,  operating  results or cash
     flows.

          Loan Receivable from Shurgard Europe
          ------------------------------------

          As of December 31, 2008, we had a loan receivable from Shurgard Europe
     totaling  $552,361,000  ($561,182,000  at  December  31,  2007,  which  was
     eliminated in consolidation).  Effective March 31, 2008, as a result of the
     disposition of an interest in Shurgard Europe (see Note 3), Shurgard Europe
     is no longer consolidated, accordingly, the loan is no longer eliminated in
     consolidation.

          In  connection  with the  disposition,  the  terms  of the  loan  were
     modified and the balance was  increased by  approximately  (euro)10,529,000
     ($16,626,000)  on March 31, 2008 due to the  conversion of a portion of our
     equity  investment  into  intercompany  debt.  The loan bears interest at a
     fixed rate of 7.5% per annum,  and has an initial term of one year expiring
     March 31, 2009, and an additional  one year extension at Shurgard  Europe's
     option. In addition, if Shurgard Europe acquires its partner's interests in
     First Shurgard and Second Shurgard  (collectively,  the "Existing  European
     Joint  Ventures"),  joint  ventures  in  which  Shurgard  Europe  has a 20%
     interest, and is unable to obtain third-party financing,  we have agreed to
     provide  additional loans to Shurgard  Europe,  under the same terms as the
     existing loans, for up to (euro)305  million ($429.9 million as of December
     31, 2008) for the acquisition. Shurgard Europe has no obligation to acquire
     these interests,  and the acquisition of these interests is contingent on a
     number of  items,  including  whether  we  assent  to the  acquisition.  In
     February  2009,  Shurgard  Europe  exercised  their  option to  extend  the
     existing loan and the (euro)305 million commitment through March 31, 2010.

          The loan  receivable  from Shurgard Europe is denominated in Euros and
     is converted to U.S.  Dollars on our balance sheet.  During each applicable
     period,  because  we have  expected  repayment  within  two  years  of each
     respective  balance sheet date, we have been  recognizing  foreign exchange
     rate gains or losses as a result of changes in exchange  rates  between the
     Euro and the U.S.  Dollar  during  each  period in 2008 and  2007.  For the
     period from April 1, 2008 through  December 31, 2008, we recorded  interest
     income of approximately $17,859,000 related to the loan.

          The  $17,859,000 in interest  income reflects the gross amount charged
     to  Shurgard  Europe  totaling   $35,020,000   less  our  portion  totaling
     $17,161,000  which is  reflected  as  equity  in  earnings  of real  estate
     entities rather than interest and other income.

          Other Comprehensive Income
          --------------------------

          We reflect other comprehensive income (loss) for our pro-rata share of
     currency  translation  adjustments  related to the foreign  operations  for
     which we have an interest that is not already recognized in our net income.
     Such other comprehensive  income (loss) is reflected as a direct adjustment
     to "Accumulated  Other  Comprehensive  Income" in the equity section of our
     consolidated  balance sheet,  and is added to our net income in determining
     total comprehensive income for the period.

                                      F-13


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2008

              The following table reflects the components of our other
     comprehensive (loss) income, and our total comprehensive income, for each
     respective period:


          Discontinued Operations
          -----------------------

          We segregate all of our disposed  facilities that have operations that
     can be  distinguished  from the rest of the  Company  (generally,  complete
     self-storage,  commercial or containerized  storage facilities) and will be
     eliminated  from the ongoing  operations  of the Company,  due to a sale or
     facility closure.

          Net Income per Common Share
          ---------------------------

          In computing net income allocated to our common shareholders, we first
     allocate net income to our preferred  shareholders  to arrive at net income
     allocable  to our common  shareholders.  Net income  allocated to preferred
     shareholders  includes dividends declared (or accumulated),  in addition to
     any excess of the cash required to redeem any  preferred  securities in the
     period over the net proceeds from the original  issuance of the  securities
     (or,  if  securities  are  redeemed  for less  than the  original  issuance
     proceeds, income allocated to preferred shareholders is reduced.)

          The remaining net income is allocated  among our regular common shares
     and our Equity  Shares,  Series A based  upon the  dividends  declared  (or
     accumulated) for each security in the period, combined with each security's
     rights to earnings (or losses) that were not distributed to shareholders.

          Basic net  income per share is  computed  using the  weighted  average
     common shares  outstanding.  Diluted net income per share is computed using
     the weighted average common shares outstanding, adjusted for the impact, if
     dilutive,  of stock options and restricted  share units  outstanding  (Note
     10).  There  were  no  securities  outstanding  which  would  have  had  an
     anti-dilutive  effect upon  earnings  per common share in each of the three
     years ended December 31, 2008.


                                      F-14


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2008

          The following  table reflects the components of our earnings per share
     for each respective period:


(a) See "Net Income per Common Share" above and the underlying discussion on
Emerging Issues Task Force Topic D-42.

3.   Disposition of an Interest in Shurgard Europe
     ---------------------------------------------

          On March 31, 2008, an institutional  investor  acquired a 51% interest
     in  Shurgard  European  Holdings  LLC,  a  newly  formed  Delaware  limited
     liability  company and the holding company for Shurgard  Europe  ("Shurgard
     Holdings").  Public  Storage  owns the  remaining  49%  interest and is the
     managing member of Shurgard  Holdings.  In exchange for the 51% interest in
     Shurgard  Holdings,  the investor  paid  Shurgard  Holdings an aggregate of
     $613,201,000,  comprised of approximately (euro)383,200,000  ($605,627,000)
     received  on  March  31,  2008  and,  on  June  20,  2008,   an  additional
     (euro)4,797,000  ($7,574,000)  was  received,  representing  the  operating
     results (as defined)  generated by Shurgard  Europe during the three months
     ended March 31, 2008.

          In connection with the disposition,  the loan receivable from Shurgard
     Europe to Public  Storage was modified  (see Note 2 under "Loan  Receivable
     from Shurgard Europe").

          Based  upon  the  provisions  of  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting
     Standards  No. 66 ("FAS  66"),  we have  determined  that this  transaction
     constitutes the partial  disposition of an interest in Shurgard Europe that
     is eligible for full profit  recognition.  We have  evaluated the governing
     documents,    capitalization,    and   other    risk-sharing   and   voting
     characteristics  of  Shurgard  Holdings  and  determined  that it does  not
     represent a variable  interest  entity in accordance with the provisions of
     FASB Interpretation No. 46R, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities -
     An Interpretation of ARB No. 51" ("FIN 46R").

                                      F-15


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2008

          The  provisions  of  Emerging  Issues  Task Force  04-5,  "Determining
     Whether a General Partner,  or the General Partners as a Group,  Controls a
     Limited  Partnership  or Similar  Entity  When the  Limited  Partners  Have
     Certain  Rights,"  indicate there is a presumption that the managing member
     of a limited  liability  company  controls  the  company,  unless the other
     member has substantive  "participating" or "kick-out" rights as those terms
     are defined in the  accounting  standard.  Even though we are the  managing
     member,  based  upon  the  terms of the  governing  documents  of  Shurgard
     Holdings,  the  institutional  investor shares with us the  decision-making
     authority  with  respect  to a) the  significant  operating,  capital,  and
     investing  decisions of Shurgard  Europe,  including the  establishment  of
     annual budgets,  and b) the level of  compensation  of, and replacement and
     selection of Shurgard Europe's senior operating  officers.  As a result, we
     have   concluded   that  the   institutional   investor   has   substantive
     participating rights and,  accordingly,  we do not control Shurgard Europe.
     Therefore,  we  have  deconsolidated  the  operations  of  Shurgard  Europe
     effective March 31, 2008.

          As a result of the  deconsolidation of Shurgard Europe, our investment
     in real estate entities  increased by  $588,801,000,  representing  our net
     investment  in  Shurgard  Europe at March 31, 2008  immediately  before the
     transaction.  The  following  adjustments  were  made  to our  consolidated
     balance sheet to reflect the  deconsolidation of our investment in Shurgard
     Europe as of March 31, 2008 (amounts in thousands):

                                                          Total
                                                      --------------
     Real estate facilities, net.................      $(1,693,524)
     Construction in progress....................          (10,886)
     Intangible assets...........................          (78,135)
     Cash........................................          (34,588)
     Loan receivable from Shurgard Europe........           618,822
     Other assets................................          (68,486)
     Notes payable...............................           424,995
     Accrued and other liabilities...............           104,100
     Minority   interest   -  other   partnership
     interests...................................           148,901
                                                      --------------
                                                          $(588,801)
                                                      ==============

          Our  net  proceeds  from  the  transaction  aggregated   $609,059,000,
     comprised  of  $613,201,000  paid  by  the   institutional   investor  less
     $4,142,000 in legal, accounting,  and other expenses incurred in connection
     with the transaction.  As a result of the disposition, we recognized a gain
     of  $306,831,000,  representing  the  difference  between the net  proceeds
     received and the portion of our investment sold.

          In  addition,  as a result  of our  disposition  of this  interest,  a
     portion  of the  cumulative  currency  exchange  gains  we  had  previously
     recognized in Other  Comprehensive  Income with respect to Shurgard  Europe
     was realized.  Accordingly,  we recognized a cumulative  currency  exchange
     gain of $37,854,000,  representing 51% (the portion of Shurgard Europe that
     was sold) of the cumulative  currency exchange gain previously  included in
     Other Comprehensive Income.

          The gain upon  disposition of  $306,831,000  and  associated  realized
     currency  exchange gain totaling  $37,854,000 are both included in the gain
     on disposition  of an interest in Shurgard  Europe of  $344,685,000  in our
     consolidated statement of income for year ended December 31, 2008.

          The results of operations of Shurgard Europe have been included in our
     consolidated statements of income for the three months ended March 31, 2008
     and years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 (since the Shurgard  Merger date
     of August  22,  2006).  Commencing  April 1,  2008,  our pro rata  share of
     operations  of Shurgard  Europe are  reflected on our  consolidated  income
     statement  under  equity in earnings of real estate  entities.  See Note 5,
     "Investment in Shurgard  Europe" for further  analysis of our earnings from
     Shurgard Europe for the year ended December 31, 2008.

                                      F-16


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2008

4.       Real Estate Facilities
         ----------------------

          Activity in real estate  facilities  during 2008,  2007 and 2006 is as
     follows:


          During 2008,  we completed two newly  developed  facilities at a total
     cost of $13,431,000,  as well as various expansion projects at a total cost
     of $39,972,000 and one expansion project in London, England at a total cost
     of $6,550,000. During 2008, we acquired four self-storage facilities in the
     U.S. from third parties for an aggregate cost of $41,858,000, consisting of
     $31,608,000  in cash and assumed  mortgage debt totaling  $10,250,000.  The
     aggregate  cost was allocated  $40,092,000  to real estate  facilities  and
     $1,766,000 to intangibles, based upon the estimated relative fair values of
     the land, buildings and intangibles.

          We also acquired in 2008 the remaining  interests  that we did not own
     in three facilities previously owned by the Unconsolidated  Entities for an
     aggregate  cost of  $14,099,000,  consisting  of  $11,961,000  in cash  and
     $2,138,000  of  existing  investments.  The  aggregate  cost was  allocated
     $12,840,000 to real estate facilities and $1,259,000 to intangibles,  based
     upon  the  estimated  relative  fair  value  of  the  land,  buildings  and
     intangibles.

                                      F-17


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2008

          Also  in  the  three  months  ended  March  31,  2008,  prior  to  its
     deconsolidation,  Shurgard Europe completed three  development  projects in
     Europe at a total cost of $33,463,000.

          During 2007,  we completed  three  development  and various  expansion
     projects  in the U.S.  at a total  cost of  $66,676,000.  Also in 2007,  we
     completed nine development projects in Europe which in aggregate at a total
     cost of $90,075,000. During 2007, we acquired seven self-storage facilities
     in the U.S. from third  parties for an aggregate  cost of  $72,787,000,  in
     cash;  $71,258,000  was allocated to real estate  facilities and $1,529,000
     was allocated to intangibles, based upon the estimated relative fair values
     of the land, buildings and intangibles.

          Construction  in process at December 31, 2008 includes the development
     costs   relating  to  expansions  to  existing   self-storage   facilities.
     Approximately  $6.8 million  (unaudited) in remaining costs are expected to
     complete these projects.

          During 2008,  2007, and 2006, we received net proceeds from partial or
     complete   facility   disposal   transactions    (primarily    condemnation
     proceedings)    totaling   $2,227,000,    $8,708,000,    and   $14,545,000,
     respectively.  Aggregate gains on disposition were $1,283,000,  $5,690,000,
     and  $3,551,000  in 2008,  2007,  and  2006,  respectively,  of which  nil,
     $4,336,000,  and  $1,374,000  in such gains were  included in  discontinued
     operations.  In addition,  $250,000,  representing the book value of assets
     destroyed, was included in the income statement line-item "caualty loss".

          At December 31, 2008, the adjusted basis of real estate facilities for
     federal tax purposes was approximately $7.5 billion (unaudited).

5.   Investments in Real Estate Entities
     -----------------------------------

          During  2008,  2007,  and  2006,  we  recognized   earnings  from  our
     investments  in real  estate  entities  of  $20,391,000,  $12,738,000,  and
     $11,895,000,  respectively,  and  received  cash  distributions  from  such
     investments,   totaling   $43,455,000,    $23,606,000,   and   $17,699,000,
     respectively.  During 2008, we disposed of one of the Other  Investments in
     exchange  for an other asset valued at  $5,300,000,  and recorded a loss of
     disposition of real estate investments for a total of $9,423,000.

          During 2008, in addition to the impact of earnings recognized and cash
     distributions  received,  our investments in real estate entities increased
     by  $260,919,000,  net, due to (i) the  deconsolidation  of Shurgard Europe
     which  increased  our  investment  by  $286,573,000   and  (ii)  additional
     investments in Shurgard  Europe totaling  $54,702,000,  offset by decreases
     due to (iii) foreign currency translation adjustments totaling $63,495,000,
     (iv) $2,138,000 due to the  acquisition of the remaining  interests that we
     did not own in  certain  of the  Other  Investments  and (v) a  $14,723,000
     reduction due to disposal of an investment in 2008.

          The  following  table sets forth our  investments  in the real  estate
     entities at December 31, 2008 and 2007,  and our equity in earnings of real
     estate  entities  for each of the  three  years  ended  December  31,  2008
     (amounts in thousands):


                                      F-18


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2008

          Investment in PSB
          -----------------

          PSB is a REIT traded on the New York Stock Exchange, which controls an
     operating partnership (collectively, the REIT and the operating partnership
     are referred to as "PSB").  At December  31,  2008,  PSB owned and operated
     approximately 19.6 million net rentable square feet of commercial space and
     manages certain of our commercial space.

          We have a 46% common  equity  interest in PSB as of December  31, 2008
     comprised of our  ownership  of 5,418,273  shares of PSB's common stock and
     7,305,355  limited  partnership  units in the  operating  partnership.  The
     limited partnership units are convertible at our option, subject to certain
     conditions,  on a one-for-one  basis into PSB common stock.  Based upon the
     closing price at December 31, 2008 ($44.66 per share of PSB common  stock),
     the shares and units had a market value of approximately  $568.2 million as
     compared to a book value of $265.7 million.

          The following table sets forth selected financial  information of PSB;
     the amounts represent 100% of PSB's balances and not our pro-rata share.





     Investment in Shurgard Europe
     -----------------------------

          At  December  31,  2008 we had a 49%  equity  investment  in  Shurgard
     Europe.  As a result of our disposition of an interest in Shurgard  Europe,
     we deconsolidated Shurgard Europe effective March 31, 2008 (see Note 3).

          For the period of April 1, 2008 through December 31, 2008, we recorded
     an aggregate of  $4,134,000  in equity in earnings of real estate  entities
     with respect to our  investment in Shurgard  Europe.  During the year ended
     December 31,  2008,  our  investment  in Shurgard  Europe was  decreased by
     approximately  $63,495,000 due to the impact of changes in foreign currency
     exchange rates, primarily between the Euro and the U.S. Dollar.

          The  following  table sets forth  selected  financial  information  of
     Shurgard  Europe.  These  amounts are based upon 100% of Shurgard  Europe's
     balances,  rather  than  our pro  rata  share  and are  based  upon  Public
     Storage's historical acquired book basis.


                                      F-19


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2008

          Amounts for all periods are presented,  notwithstanding  that Shurgard
     Europe  was  deconsolidated  effective  March 31,  2008.  Accordingly,  all
     amounts  (net of  intercompany  eliminations)  prior to  April 1,  2008 are
     included in our consolidated financial statements.




          Our equity in earnings of Shurgard  Europe for the year ended December
     31, 2008,  totaling  $4,134,000 is comprised of (i) a loss of  $13,640,000,
     representing  our share of  Shurgard  Europe's  $27,836,000  net loss since
     March 31, 2008 and (ii) income of $17,161,000  and $613,000,  respectively,
     representing  our share of the interest  income and trademark  license fees
     received  from  Shurgard  Europe  since  March 31,  2008 (such  amounts are
     presented  as  equity in  earnings  of real  estate  entities  rather  than
     interest and other income).

          Other Investments
          -----------------

          At December 31, 2008,  other  investments  include an aggregate common
     equity ownership of approximately  24% in entities that collectively own 19
     self-storage facilities.

                                      F-20


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2008

          The following table sets forth certain condensed financial information
     (representing  100% of these entities' balances and not our pro-rata share)
     with respect to the 19  facilities  that we have an interest in at December
     31, 2008:

                                              2008        2007          2006
                                           ---------- -----------  -----------
                                                 (Amounts in thousands)
 For the year ended December 31,
 Total revenue........................     $  17,154  $  16,421     $  15,986
 Cost of operations and other expenses        (6,159)    (6,173)       (6,120)
 Depreciation and amortization........        (2,023)    (1,890)       (1,755)
                                           ---------- -----------  -----------
     Net income.......................     $   8,972  $   8,358     $   8,111
                                           ========== ===========  ===========

                                           2008             2007
                                       ------------   ------------
                                          (Amounts in thousands)
 At December 31,
 Total assets (primarily self-storage
     facilities)...................... $    40,168    $  38,250
 Total accrued and other liabilities.          888          299
 Total Partners' equity..............       39,280       37,951

6.   Notes Payable and Line of Credit

          The  carrying  amounts of our notes  payable at December  31, 2008 and
     2007 consist of the following (dollar amounts in thousands):



          (a)  Fair values are determined based upon discounting the future cash
               flows  under  each  respective  note  at an  interest  rate  that
               approximates those of loans with similar credit  characteristics,
               term  to  maturity,   and  other  market  data  which   represent
               significant  unobservable  inputs,  which are "Level 3" inputs as
               the term is utilized in SFAS No. 157.

                                      F-21


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2008

          When assumed in connection with property or other acquisitions,  notes
     payable  are  recorded  at their  respective  estimated  fair  values  upon
     acquisition,  based upon  discounting  the future  interest  and  principal
     payments using  estimated  market rates for debt  instruments  with similar
     terms and  ratings.  Any  initial  premium or  discount,  representing  the
     difference  between  the stated note rate and  estimated  fair value on the
     respective date of assumption,  is amortized over the remaining term of the
     notes using the effective  interest method.  During the year ended December
     31, 2008, we assumed mortgage debt totaling  $10,250,000 in connection with
     the acquisition of a real estate facility.  This mortgage debt had a stated
     note balance of  $9,776,000,  and we recorded a premium,  representing  the
     differential  between  the fair value of the  mortgage  note and the stated
     note balance of $474,000.  In addition,  one of the  Consolidated  Entities
     obtained a fixed rate loan for  $12,750,000  during the year ended December
     31, 2008.

          The Joint  Venture  debt  represented  the equity  interest  held by a
     third-party  investor in a partnership which acquired exisiting real estate
     facilities  from us, and  because of our  contractual  right to acquire the
     interest  and our intent and  ability  to do so,  the equity  interest  was
     accounted for as in-substance debt financing.  We exercised our contractual
     right to acquire  this  interest on July 21, 2008 and thereby  extinguished
     this debt.

          Shurgard Europe's debt at December 31, 2007 was comprised primarily of
     debt held by joint ventures in which it had a 20% equity interest. On March
     31, 2008, we deconsolidated  Shurgard Europe and, as a result,  the related
     notes payable are no longer included in our consolidated balance sheet.

          At December 31, 2008, we have a five-year  revolving  credit agreement
     (the "Credit Agreement") which expires on March 27, 2012, with an aggregate
     limit with  respect to  borrowings  and letters of credit of $300  million.
     Amounts drawn on the Credit  Agreement bear an annual interest rate ranging
     from the London  Interbank  Offered Rate ("LIBOR") plus 0.35% to LIBOR plus
     1.00%  depending  on our credit  ratings  (LIBOR plus 0.35% at December 31,
     2008). In addition, we are required to pay a quarterly facility fee ranging
     from 0.10% per annum to 0.25% per annum  depending  on our  credit  ratings
     (0.10% per annum at December 31, 2008). We had no outstanding borrowings on
     our Credit Agreement at December 31, 2007, December 31, 2008 or at March 2,
     2009. At December 31, 2008, we had undrawn standby letters of credit, which
     reduce our borrowing  capability  with respect to our line of credit by the
     amount of the  letters  of credit,  totaling  $17,736,000  ($20,408,000  at
     December 31, 2007).

          Our notes payable and our Credit Agreement each have various customary
     restrictive covenants, all of which have been met at December 31, 2008.

          At December 31, 2008,  approximate  principal  maturities of our notes
     payable are as follows (amounts in thousands):

                                      Unsecured    Mortgage Notes
                                    Notes Payable     Payable         Total
                                  --------------- ---------------- ------------
2009.........................     $     3,600     $     9,130      $   12,730
2010.........................           3,833          11,037          14,870
2011.........................         200,000          27,819         227,819
2012.........................               -          55,575          55,575
2013.........................         200,000          64,976         264,976
Thereafter...................               -          67,841          67,841
                                  --------------- ---------------- ------------
                                  $   407,433     $   236,378      $  643,811
                                  =============== ================ ============
Weighted average effective rate          5.8%            5.5%           5.7%
                                  =============== ================ ============

          See Note 15, "Subsequent  Events," for further  information  regarding
     our cash tender offer for our Unsecured Notes Payable.

                                      F-22


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2008

          We incurred interest expense (including  interest  capitalized as real
     estate) with respect to our notes payable,  capital  leases,  debt to joint
     venture partner and line of credit aggregating $45,942,000, $68,417,000 and
     $35,778,000  for  the  years  ended  December  31,  2008,  2007  and  2006,
     respectively. These amounts were comprised of $50,977,000,  $73,278,000 and
     $38,887,000  in cash paid for the years ended  December 31, 2008,  2007 and
     2006,   respectively,   less  $5,035,000,   $4,861,000  and  $3,109,000  in
     amortization of premium, respectively.

7.   Minority Interest
     -----------------

          In consolidation, we classify ownership interests in the net assets of
     each of the Consolidated Entities, other than our own, as minority interest
     in the  consolidated  financial  statements.  Minority  interest  in income
     consists of the minority  interests' share of the operating  results of the
     Consolidated Entities.

          The following table sets forth our minority  interests at December 31,
     2008 and 2007,  as well as the income  allocated to minority  interests for
     the three years ended December 31, 2008:


          Distributions  paid to minority interests for the years ended December
     31, 2008,  2007 and 2006 were  $39,328,000,  $41,659,000  and  $35,355,000,
     respectively.   In  addition  to  the  impact  of  income   recognized  and
     distributions paid, minority interests increased $7,249,000, $9,740,000 and
     $3,905,000 as a result of the impact of foreign currency translation in the
     years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

         Preferred Partnership Interests
         -------------------------------

          At  December  31,  2008 and  2007,  our  preferred  partnership  units
     outstanding  were  comprised  of  8,000,000  units of our 6.400%  Series NN
     ($200,000,000 carrying amount,  redeemable March 17, 2010), 1,000,000 units
     of our 6.250% Series Z ($25,000,000 carrying amount, redeemable October 12,
     2009),  and 4,000,000 units of our 7.250% Series J  ($100,000,000  carrying
     amount, redeemable May 9, 2011).

          Subject  to certain  conditions,  the  Series NN  preferred  units are
     convertible  into our  6.40%  Series  NN  Cumulative  Preferred  Shares  of
     beneficial interest,  the Series Z preferred units are convertible into our
     6.25% Series Z Cumulative  Preferred Shares of beneficial  interest and the
     Series J preferred units are convertible into our 7.25% Series J Cumulative
     Preferred Shares of beneficial interest.

          The  holders  of the  Series  Z  preferred  partnership  units  have a
     one-time  option  exercisable  on October  12, 2009 to require us to redeem
     their units for $25,000,000 in cash, plus any unpaid distribution.

                                      F-23


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2008

          Shurgard Europe's Joint Ventures
          --------------------------------

          Shurgard  Europe  has a 20%  equity  interest  in  two  joint  venture
     entities which developed  self-storage  facilities in Europe,  and which we
     determined to be VIE's,  with Shurgard  Europe as the primary  beneficiary.
     The  remaining  80%  equity  interest  in  these  entities  is  owned by an
     unaffiliated   investor.   On  March  31,   2008,   Shurgard   Europe   was
     deconsolidated   (see  Note  3),  reducing  these  minority   interests  by
     $145,492,000  at March 31, 2008.  See Note 5 under  "Investment in Shurgard
     Europe" for  further  historical  information  regarding  Shurgard  Europe,
     including historical income allocated to these minority interests.

          PS Officers' Europe Investment
          ------------------------------

          In 2007,  we sold an  approximately  0.6%  common  equity  interest in
     Shurgard  Europe to various  officers of the Company  (the "PS  Officers"),
     other than our chief  executive  officer.  The  aggregate  sales  price was
     $4,909,000 and was based upon the pro rata net asset value computed  using,
     among other sources,  information  provided by an  independent  third party
     appraisal  firm of the net asset value of  Shurgard  Europe as of March 31,
     2007. In connection with the sale, we recorded a gain of $1,194,000  during
     2007,  representing the excess of the sales proceeds over the book value of
     the interests  sold. For periods  commencing  from the sale of the interest
     through March 31, 2008,  the PS Officers' pro rata share of the earnings of
     Shurgard Europe are reflected in minority interest in income.

          As described in Note 3, on March 31, 2008, we deconsolidated  Shurgard
     Europe and, as a result,  minority  interest was reduced by $3,409,000 with
     respect to the PS Officers'  investment.  See Note 5 under  "Investment  in
     Shurgard  Europe" for further  historical  information  regarding  Shurgard
     Europe.

          Other Minority Interests
          ------------------------

          At  December  31,  2008,  the  Other  Minority  Interests  consist  of
     interests that we do not own in 33 entities  (generally  partnerships) that
     own in aggregate 177 self-storage facilities.

          We estimate  the fair value of the Other  Minority  Interests  of $240
     million at December 31, 2008,  based upon our estimate of the fair value of
     the underlying net assets  (principally  real estate assets),  applying the
     related liquidation provisions of the related partnership agreements.

8.   Shareholders' Equity
     --------------------

          Cumulative Preferred Shares
          ---------------------------

          At  December  31,  2008  and  2007,  we had the  following  series  of
     Cumulative Preferred Shares of beneficial interest outstanding:

                                      F-24


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2008



          The holders of our Cumulative Preferred Shares have general preference
     rights with respect to liquidation and quarterly distributions.  Holders of
     the preferred shares,  except under certain  conditions and as noted below,
     will not be entitled to vote on most matters.  In the event of a cumulative
     arrearage  equal to six  quarterly  dividends or failure to maintain a Debt
     Ratio (as  defined) of 50% or less,  holders of all  outstanding  series of
     preferred  shares  (voting as a single class without regard to series) will
     have the right to elect  two  additional  members  to serve on our Board of
     Trustees  until  events of default  have been cured.  At December 31, 2008,
     there were no dividends in arrears.

          Except   under   certain   conditions   relating   to  the   Company's
     qualification as a REIT, the Cumulative Preferred Shares are not redeemable
     prior the dates  indicated on the table above.  On or after the  respective
     dates,  each  of  the  series  of  Cumulative   Preferred  Shares  will  be
     redeemable,  at the option of the Company,  in whole or in part,  at $25.00
     per  share (or  depositary  shares as the case may be),  plus  accrued  and
     unpaid  dividends.  Holders of the Cumulative  Preferred Shares do not have
     the right to require the Company to redeem such shares.

          Upon  issuance  of  our  Cumulative  Preferred  Shares  of  beneficial
     interest,  we classify the  liquidation  value as  preferred  equity on our
     consolidated  balance sheet with any issuance costs recorded as a reduction
     to paid-in capital.

          During  November  and December  2008,  we  repurchased  certain of our
     Cumulative  Preferred  Shares  in  privately  negotiated   transactions  as
     follows:   Series  Y  -  849,100  Preferred  Shares  at  a  total  cost  of
     $14,091,000,  Series K - 1,409,756  depositary  shares,  each  representing
     1/1,000 of a share of our  Cumulative  Preferred  Shares at a total cost of

                                      F-25


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2008

     $23,786,000,  Series  L -  933,400  depositary  shares,  each  representing
     1/1,000 of a share of our  Cumulative  Preferred  Shares at a total cost of
     $14,626,000 and Series M - 934,647  depositary  shares,  each  representing
     1/1,000 of a share of our  Cumulative  Preferred  Shares at a total cost of
     $14,375,000.  The carrying value of the shares  repurchased  totaled $100.8
     million  ($103.2  million  liquidation  preference  less  $2.4  million  of
     original  issuance costs)  exceeded the aggregate  repurchase cost of $66.9
     million by  approximately  $33.9 million.  For purposes of determining  net
     income  per share,  income  allocated  to our  preferred  shareholders  was
     reduced by the $33.9 million.

          During  2007,  we issued two series of  Cumulative  Preferred  Shares:
     Series M - issued January 9, 2007, net proceeds  totaling  $484,767,000 and
     Series N - issued July 2, 2007, net proceeds totaling $167,125,000.

          During 2006,  we issued four series of  Cumulative  Preferred  Shares:
     Series H - issued  January 19, 2006,  net proceeds  totaling  $101,492,000,
     Series I - issued May 3, 2006, net proceeds totaling $501,601,000, Series K
     - issued August 8, 2006, net proceeds totaling  $445,852,000 and Series L -
     issued October 20, 2006, net proceeds totaling $223,623,000.

          During  2006,  we  redeemed  our  Series  R and  Series  S  Cumulative
     Preferred Shares at par value plus accrued dividends.  In December 2006, we
     called  for  redemption  our  Series T and  Series U  Cumulative  Preferred
     Shares,  at par. The aggregated  redemption  value of $302,150,000 of these
     two series was classified as a liability at December 31, 2006 and repaid in
     January 2007.

          EQUITY SHARES, SERIES A

          At  December  31,  2008,  we  had   8,377,193  of  depositary   shares
     outstanding, (8,744,193 at December 31, 2007), each representing 1/1,000 of
     an Equity Share,  Series A. During November 2008, we repurchased a total of
     367,000 of our Equity  Shares,  Series A for an aggregate of  approximately
     $7.7 million.  The Equity  Shares,  Series A rank on parity with our common
     shares  and  junior to the  Cumulative  Preferred  Shares  with  respect to
     general preference rights and have a liquidation amount which cannot exceed
     $24.50 per share. Distributions with respect to each depositary share shall
     be the  lesser  of:  (i) five  times the per share  dividend  on our common
     shares or (ii) $2.45 per annum. We have no obligation to pay  distributions
     on  the  depositary   shares  if  no  distributions   are  paid  to  common
     shareholders.

          Except in order to preserve the Company's Federal income tax status as
     a REIT, we may not redeem the  depositary  shares  representing  the Equity
     Shares, Series A before March 31, 2010. On or after March 31, 2010, we may,
     at our option, redeem the depositary shares at $24.50 per depositary share.
     If the Company  fails to preserve its Federal  income tax status as a REIT,
     each of the  depositary  shares  will be  convertible  at the option of the
     shareholder  into .956 common shares.  The depositary  shares are otherwise
     not convertible into common shares.  Holders of depositary shares vote as a
     single class with holders of our common shares on shareholder  matters, but
     the  depositary  shares  have the  equivalent  of  one-tenth  of a vote per
     depositary share.

                                      F-26


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2008

        COMMON SHARES

          Common Shares
          -------------

          During 2008, 2007 and 2006, activity with respect to our common shares
     was as follows:


          Our Board of Trustees  previously  authorized the repurchase from time
     to time of up to  25,000,000  of our common shares on the open market or in
     privately negotiated  transactions.  On May 8, 2008, such authorization was
     increased to 35,000,000  common shares.  During the year ended December 31,
     2008,  we  repurchased  a total of  1,520,196  of our common  shares for an
     aggregate of  approximately  $111.9 million.  Through December 31, 2008, we
     have  repurchased a total of  23,721,916  of our common shares  pursuant to
     this authorization.

          At December  31, 2008 and 2007,  we had  3,027,544  and  2,298,242  of
     common shares reserved in connection with our share-based  incentive plans,
     respectively,  (see Note 10) and 231,978 shares reserved for the conversion
     of Convertible Partnership Units, respectively.

          Dividends
          ---------

          The unaudited  characterization  of dividends  for Federal  income tax
     purposes is made based upon earnings and profits of the Company, as defined
     by the Internal Revenue Code. Common share dividends totaled $472.8 million
     ($2.80 per share),  $340.0  million  ($2.00 per share),  and $298.2 million
     ($2.00 per share),  for the years ended December 31, 2008,  2007, and 2006,
     respectively.  Equity  Shares,  Series A dividends  totaled  $21.2  million
     ($2.45 per  share),  $21.4  million  ($2.45 per share),  and $21.4  million
     ($2.45 per share),  for the years ended December 31, 2008,  2007, and 2006,
     respectively.  Preferred  share  dividends  pay fixed  rates from 6.125% to
     7.500% with a total  liquidation  amount of  $3,424,327,000 at December 31,
     2008 ($3,527,500,000 at December 31, 2007) and dividends aggregating $239.7
     million, $236.8 million and $214.2 million for the years ended December 31,
     2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

          For the tax year ended December 31, 2008, distributions for the common
     shares,  Equity  Shares,  Series A, and all the various series of preferred
     shares were classified as follows:

                                          2008 (unaudited)
                          ---------------------------------------------------
                           1st Quarter  2nd Quarter  3rd Quarter  4th Quarter
                          ------------- -----------  ------------ -----------
Ordinary Income               99.97%       99.65%       99.83%       100.00%
Long-Term Capital Gain         0.03%        0.35%        0.17%         0.00%

Total                        100.00%      100.00%      100.00%       100.00%

          The  ordinary  income  dividends  distributed  for the tax year  ended
     December 31, 2008 do not constitute qualified dividend income.

                                      F-27


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2008

9.   Related Party Transactions
     --------------------------

          Mr.  Hughes,  the Company's  Chairman of the Board of Trustees and his
     family  (collectively the "Hughes Family") have ownership interests in, and
     operate  approximately  49  self-storage  facilities  in  Canada  using the
     "Public  Storage"  brand  name ("PS  Canada")  pursuant  to a  royalty-free
     trademark license  agreement with the Company.  We currently do not own any
     interests in these  facilities nor do we own any facilities in Canada.  The
     Hughes Family owns  approximately  21% of our common shares  outstanding at
     December 31, 2008. We have a right of first refusal to acquire the stock or
     assets of the corporation  that manages the 49  self-storage  facilities in
     Canada,  if the  Hughes  Family or the  corporation  agrees  to sell  them.
     However, we have no interest in the operations of this corporation, we have
     no right to acquire this stock or assets unless the Hughes  Family  decides
     to sell and we receive no benefit  from the profits and  increases in value
     of the Canadian self-storage facilities.

          We reinsure  risks  relating to loss of goods stored by tenants in the
     self-storage  facilities  in Canada.  During the years ended  December  31,
     2008,  2007  and  2006,  we  received  $768,000,   $906,000  and  $989,000,
     respectively,   in  reinsurance  premiums   attributable  to  the  Canadian
     facilities.  Since our right to provide tenant  reinsurance to the Canadian
     facilities may be qualified, there is no assurance that these premiums will
     continue.

          The  Company  and  Mr.  Hughes  are  co-general  partners  in  certain
     consolidated  partnerships and affiliated  partnerships of the Company that
     are not consolidated.  The Hughes Family owns 47.9% of the voting stock and
     the  Company  holds  46% of the  voting  and  100% of the  nonvoting  stock
     (representing  substantially all the economic  interest) of a private REIT.
     The private REIT owns  limited  partnership  interests  in five  affiliated
     partnerships.  The Hughes Family also owns limited partnership interests in
     certain of these  partnerships and holds securities in PSB. PS Canada holds
     approximately  a 2.4%  interest  in  Stor-RE,  a  consolidated  entity that
     provides  liability and casualty  insurance for PS Canada,  the Company and
     certain  affiliates of the Company,  for occurrences prior to April 1, 2004
     as described below. The Company and the Hughes Family receive distributions
     from  these  entities  in  accordance  with the  terms  of the  partnership
     agreements or other organizational documents.

          From time to time,  the  Company and the Hughes  Family have  acquired
     limited   partnership   units  from  limited   partners  of  the  Company's
     consolidated  partnerships.  In connection with the acquisition in 1998 and
     1999 of a total of 638 limited partnership units by Tamara Hughes Gustavson
     and H-G Family Corp., a company owned by Hughes Family members, the Company
     was granted an option to acquire the limited  partnership units acquired at
     cost,  plus  expenses.  During the  fourth  quarter  of 2008,  the  Company
     exercised  its option to acquire  the units for a total  purchase  price of
     approximately  $239,000.  The  transaction  was approved by the independent
     members of the Board of Trustees  after  considering  that the value of the
     units  had  appreciated  significantly  since  1998  and  1999 and that the
     exercise price for the Company was  substantially  below the prices paid to
     acquire  similar  limited  partner units in third party  transactions.  The
     acquisition was effective January 1, 2009.

10.  Share-Based Compensation
     ------------------------

          Stock Options
          -------------

          We have various  stock option plans  (collectively  referred to as the
     "PS Plans"). Under the PS Plans, non-qualified options have been granted to
     certain  trustees,  officers and key employees to purchase common shares at
     an exercise  price equal to the fair value of the common shares at the date
     of grant.  Fair value,  as denoted below,  is based upon the closing market
     price of our  common  shares  on the  relevant  date.  Stock  options  vest
     generally over a five-year period and expire ten years after issuance.  The
     PS Plans also provide for the grant of restricted  share units to officers,
     key  employees and service  providers on terms  determined by an authorized
     committee of our Board.

                                      F-28


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2008

          We recognize  compensation  expense for stock option grants based upon
     their fair value on the date of grant amortized over the applicable vesting
     period,  net of  estimates  for future  forfeitures.  The fair value of the
     stock options is  determined  utilizing the  Black-Scholes  option  pricing
     model.  This pricing  model  utilizes  several  assumptions,  including the
     estimated  life of the stock  options,  the  average  risk-free  rate,  the
     expected  dividend  yield,  and  expected  volatility,  all  of  which  are
     disclosed in the table below.

          Outstanding  stock options are included on a one-for-one  basis in our
     diluted  weighted  average shares,  less a reduction for the treasury stock
     method,  to the extent  dilutive with respect to each grant,  applied to a)
     the average  cumulative  measured  but  unrecognized  compensation  expense
     during  the  period  and b) the strike  price  proceeds  expected  from the
     employee upon exercise.

          The stock options  outstanding  at December 31, 2008 have an aggregate
     intrinsic  value  of  approximately  $25,692,000,   and  remaining  average
     contractual  lives of approximately  seven years.  The aggregate  intrinsic
     value of  exercisable  stock  options at  December  31,  2008  amounted  to
     approximately  $23,028,000.  Intrinsic  value  includes  only  those  stock
     options whose exercise price is less than the fair value.

          Additional information with respect to stock options during 2008, 2007
     and 2006 is as follows:

                                      F-29


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2008





          RESTRICTED SHARE UNITS

          Outstanding  restricted  share  units  vest  ratably  over a  five  or
     eight-year period from the date of grant. The employee receives  additional
     compensation   equal  to  the  per-share   dividends   received  by  common
     shareholders  with  respect to  restricted  share units  outstanding.  Such
     compensation  is accounted for as dividends  paid.  Any  dividends  paid on
     units which are  subsequently  forfeited  are expensed.  Upon vesting,  the
     employee  receives  common shares equal to the number of vested  restricted
     share units in exchange for the units.

          The total value of each  restricted  share unit grant,  based upon the
     market price of our common shares at the date of grant,  is amortized  over
     the related service periods,  net of estimates for future  forfeitures,  as
     compensation  expense.  The related  employer  portion of payroll  taxes is
     expensed  as  incurred.  Cash paid to holders  upon  vesting in lieu of the
     issuance  of common  shares,  all of which are for the  unitholder  to meet
     their  statutory  tax  payment  requirement,  is  charged  against  paid in
     capital.

                                      F-30


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2008

          Outstanding restricted share units are included on a one-for-one basis
     in our diluted weighted  average shares,  less a reduction for the treasury
     stock method applied to the average  cumulative  measured but  unrecognized
     compensation expense during the period.

          The fair value of restricted  share units  outstanding at December 31,
     2008 was  approximately  $51,102,000  and had a grant-date  aggregate  fair
     market  value  of  approximately  $53,132,000.  This  $53,132,000,  net  of
     expected forfeitures,  is expected to be recognized as compensation expense
     over  approximately  the next four years.  The  following  table sets forth
     relevant  information with respect to restricted  shares (dollar amounts in
     thousands):


11.   Segment Information
      -------------------

          Description of Each Reportable Segment
          --------------------------------------

          Our reportable segments reflect significant  operating activities that
     are evaluated separately by management, comprised of the following segments
     which are organized based upon their operating characteristics.

          Our self-storage segment comprises the direct ownership,  development,
     and operation of traditional  self-storage  facilities in the U.S., and the
     ownership of equity interests in entities that own self-storage  facilities
     in the U.S.,  and our interest in the  operations  of a facility in London,
     England.  Our  Shurgard  Europe  segment  comprises  our  interest  in  the
     self-storage and associated  activities owned by Shurgard Europe.  See also
     Note  3 for  a  discussion  of  the  disposition  of an  interest  in,  and
     deconsolidation of, Shurgard Europe effective March 31, 2008.

          Our ancillary segment includes (i) the reinsurance of policies against
     losses to goods  stored by tenants  in our  self-storage  facilities,  (ii)
     retail  operations,   comprised  of  merchandise  sales  and  truck  rental
     operations,  and  (iii)  other  ancillary  operations,  such as  commercial
     property  operations,  containerized  storage, and management of facilities
     for third parties and facilities owned by the Unconsolidated Entities.

                                      F-31


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2008

          Measurement of Segment Income (Loss) and Segment Assets - Self-Storage
          ----------------------------------------------------------------------
          and Ancillary
          -------------

          The  self-storage  and ancillary  segments are evaluated by management
     based upon the net  segment  income of each  segment.  Net  segment  income
     represents  net  income  in  conformity   with  GAAP  and  our  significant
     accounting policies as denoted in Note 2, before interest and other income,
     interest  expense,  and  corporate  general  and  administrative   expense.
     Interest  and  other  income,  interest  expense,   corporate  general  and
     administrative expense, minority interest in income and gains and losses on
     sales of real estate  assets are not  allocated to these  segments  because
     management  does not utilize them to evaluate the results of  operations of
     each segment.  In addition,  there is no presentation of segment assets for
     these  other  segments  because  total  assets  are not  considered  in the
     evaluation of these segments.

          Measurement  of Segment  Income  (Loss) and Segment  Assets - Shurgard
          ----------------------------------------------------------------------
          Europe
          ------

          Shurgard  Europe's  operations are primarily  independent of our other
     segments, with a separate management team that makes the financing, capital
     allocation,  and other significant decisions.  As a result, this segment is
     evaluated by management as a stand-alone business unit. The Shurgard Europe
     segment presentation includes all of the revenues, expenses, and operations
     of  this  business  unit  to  the  extent  consolidated  in  our  financial
     statements,  and for  periods  following  the  deconsolidation  of Shurgard
     Europe,  the  presentation  below  includes  our equity  share of  Shurgard
     Europe's  operations,  the interest and other income received from Shurgard
     Europe, as well as specific general and administrative expense, disposition
     gains,  and foreign  currency  exchange  gains and losses  that  management
     considers in evaluating our investment in Shurgard Europe.  At December 31,
     2007,  assets of Shurgard  Europe  include real estate with a book value of
     approximately  $1.6  billion,  intangible  assets  with  a  book  value  of
     approximately  $87  million,   and  other  assets  with  a  book  value  of
     approximately  $57 million.  At December 31, 2007,  liabilities of Shurgard
     Europe  include loans  payable to us of $561  million,  third party debt of
     $384 million, and accrued and other liabilities of $95 million. At December
     31, 2008, our consolidated balance sheet includes an investment in Shurgard
     Europe  with a book  value of $264.1  million  and a loan  receivable  from
     Shurgard Europe totaling (euro)391.9 million ($552.4 million).

          Presentation of Segment Information
          -----------------------------------

          The following  table  reconciles the  performance of each segment,  in
     terms of  segment  income,  to our  consolidated  net  income  (amounts  in
     thousands):

                                      F-32


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2008

For the year ended December 31, 2008



                                      F-33


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2008

For the year ended December 31, 2007



                                      F-34


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2008

For the year ended December 31, 2006



                                      F-35


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2008

12.  Recent Accounting Pronouncements and Guidance
     ---------------------------------------------

     Business Combinations
     ---------------------

          In  December  2007,  the  Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board (the
     "FASB")  issued SFAS No.  141(R) and  requires  the  acquiring  entity in a
     business  combination to measure the assets acquired,  liabilities  assumed
     (including  contingencies) and any  noncontrolling  interests at their fair
     values  on  the   acquisition   date.  The  statement  also  requires  that
     acquisition-related  transaction costs be expensed as incurred and acquired
     research   and   development    value   be   capitalized.    In   addition,
     acquisition-related  restructuring costs are to be capitalized only if they
     meet  certain  criteria.  SFAS No.  141(R) is  effective  for fiscal  years
     beginning  after December 15, 2008. The application of SFAS No.141(R) would
     have  an  impact  on our  results  of  operations  and  financial  position
     beginning  January  1, 2009 to the extent  that we enter into any  business
     combinations in the future.

     Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements
     -------------------------------------------------------------

          In December  2007, the FASB issued  Statement of Financial  Accounting
     Standards  No. 160,  "Noncontrolling  Interests in  Consolidated  Financial
     Statements,  an amendment of Accounting  Research Bulletin No. 51" (or SFAS
     No.  160).  SFAS No. 160  requires  the  classification  of  noncontrolling
     interests  (formerly,  minority  interests)  as a component  of equity.  In
     addition,  net income  will  include the total  income of all  consolidated
     subsidiaries  with the  attribution  of  earnings  and other  comprehensive
     income  between  controlling  and  noncontrolling  interests  reported as a
     separate disclosure on the face of the consolidated  income statement.  The
     calculation  of  earnings  per share  will  continue  to be based on income
     amounts  attributable to the parent. SFAS No. 160 also addresses accounting
     and  reporting  for a change in  control of a  subsidiary.  SFAS No. 160 is
     effective  for fiscal years  beginning  after  December  15,  2008,  and is
     required  to be  adopted  prospectively,  except for the  presentation  and
     disclosure requirements,  which are required to be adopted retrospectively.
     We are currently  evaluating the impact of the  application of SFAS No. 160
     on our results of operations and financial  position,  and expect that this
     will increase our equity, and decrease minority interests,  $364,417,000 at
     December 31, 2008, with similar adjustments to be reflected for 2007.

13.   Commitments and Contingencies
      -----------------------------

      Brinkley v. Public  Storage,  Inc.  (filed April 2005)  (Superior Court of
      --------------------------------------------------------------------------
      California - Los Angeles County)
      --------------------------------


          The  plaintiff  sued the  Company  on behalf of a  purported  class of
     California  non-exempt  employees based on various California wage and hour
     laws and seeking  monetary  damages and injunctive  relief.  In May 2006, a
     motion  for  class   certification   was  filed  seeking  to  certify  five
     subclasses.   Plaintiff  sought   certification  for  alleged  meal  period
     violations, rest period violations, failure to pay for travel time, failure
     to pay for mileage  reimbursement,  and for wage statement  violations.  In
     October  2006,  the  Court  declined  to  certify  three  out of  the  five
     subclasses.  The Court did,  however,  certify  subclasses based on alleged
     meal period and wage statement violations.  Subsequently, the Company filed
     a motion  for  summary  judgment  seeking  to  dismiss  the  matter  in its
     entirety.  On June 22,  2007,  the  Court  granted  the  Company's  summary
     judgment  motion  as to the  causes of action  relating  to the  subclasses
     certified and dismissed those claims.  The only surviving  claims are those
     relating to the named  plaintiff.  The plaintiff has filed an appeal to the
     Court's June 22, 2007 summary  judgment  ruling.  On October 28, 2008,  the
     Court of Appeals sustained the trial court's ruling.  The plaintiff filed a
     petition for review with the California  Supreme  Court,  which was granted
     but further action in this matter was deferred  pending  consideration  and
     disposition  of a related  issue in Brinker  Restaurant  Corp.  v. Superior
     Court which is currently pending before the California Supreme Court.

      European Joint Venture Arbitration Proceeding
      ---------------------------------------------

              Shurgard Europe holds a 20% interest in each of two joint ventures
     in Europe,  First Shurgard and Second  Shurgard,  that  collectively own 72
     self-storage properties in Europe. On August 24, 2006, the Company, through
     its affiliate, Shurgard Europe, served an exit notice on the European joint
     venture  partners  informing  them  of  its  intention  to  purchase  their
     interests in First Shurgard and Second  Shurgard  pursuant to an early exit
     procedure that the Company believes is provided for in the respective joint

                                      F-36


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2008

     venture  agreements.  The exit  notice  offered  to pay the  joint  venture
     partners an amount for their interests in accordance with the provisions of
     the joint venture agreements.  The joint venture partners contested whether
     the Company has the right to purchase  its  interests  under the early exit
     procedures of the joint venture  agreements.  On January 17, 2007, Shurgard
     Europe  filed an  arbitration  request  with the  International  Chamber of
     Commerce to compel arbitration of the matter.  The arbitration  proceedings
     occurred from June 30, 2008 through July 3, 2008.

              The  arbitration  panel recently  issued a ruling  concluding that
     Shurgard Europe did not have the right to start the exit  procedures  under
     the early exit provision of joint venture  agreements.  However,  the panel
     held that  Shurgard  Europe did not act  unreasonably  in raising a genuine
     issue and ruled that each party is to bear its own costs.  The  arbitration
     panel's  decision  does not affect  Shurgard  Europe's  ability to exit the
     joint ventures in accordance with the ordinary (as compared to the "early")
     exit  provisions  of the  joint  venture  agreements  if  market  and other
     conditions  make a  termination  of  one or  both  of  the  joint  ventures
     advisable.  The ordinary exit procedure is currently  exercisable for First
     Shurgard and will be exercisable in May 2009 for Second Shurgard.

              Other Items
              -----------

              We are a party to  various  claims,  complaints,  and other  legal
     actions that have arisen in the normal course of business from time to time
     that are not  described  above.  We believe  that it is  unlikely  that the
     outcome of these other pending legal proceedings  including  employment and
     tenant claims,  in the aggregate,  will have a material adverse impact upon
     our operations or financial position.

              Insurance and Loss Exposure
              ---------------------------

              We  have  historically  carried  customary  property,  earthquake,
     general liability and workers compensation coverage through internationally
     recognized insurance carriers,  subject to customary levels of deductibles.
     The aggregate limits on these policies of $75 million for property coverage
     and $102 million for general liability are higher than estimates of maximum
     probable  loss  that  could  occur  from  individual   catastrophic  events
     determined in recent engineering and actuarial studies; however, in case of
     multiple catastrophic events, these limits could be exhausted.

              Our tenant  insurance  program  reinsures a program that  provides
     insurance to certificate  holders against claims for property losses due to
     specific  named  perils  (earthquakes  and floods are not  covered by these
     policies) to goods  stored by tenants at our  self-storage  facilities  for
     individual limits up to a maximum of $5,000. We have third-party  insurance
     coverage  for  claims  paid  exceeding  $1,000,000  resulting  from any one
     individual  event, to a limit of $25,000,000.  At December 31, 2008,  there
     were  approximately  548,000  certificate  holders  participating  in  this
     program in the U.S.  representing  aggregate coverage of approximately $1.2
     billion.  We  rely  on a  third-party  insurance  company  to  provide  the
     insurance  and are subject to licensing  requirements  and  regulations  in
     several  states.  No assurance can be given that this activity can continue
     to be conducted in any given jurisdiction.

              Operating Lease Obligations
              ---------------------------

              We lease trucks, land, equipment and office space. At December 31,
     2008,  the future  minimum  rental  payments  required  under our operating
     leases  for the years  ending  December  31,  are as  follows  (amounts  in
     thousands):

     2009......................................    $   10,466
     2010......................................         7,296
     2011......................................         6,271
     2012......................................         5,854
     2013......................................         5,583
     Thereafter................................        78,238
                                                   -----------
                                                   $  113,708
                                                   ===========

              Expenses under operating leases were approximately  $11.4 million,
     $14.7  million and $9.8 million for each of the three years ended  December
     31,  2008,  respectively.  Certain of our land  leases  include  escalation
     clauses, and we recognize related lease expenses on a straight-line basis.

                                      F-37


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2008

14.  Supplementary Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited)
     --------------------------------------------------



(a)  Revenues and cost of  operations as presented in this table differ from the
     revenue and cost of operations as presented in our quarterly reports due to
     the impact of discontinued operations accounting as described in Note 2.

(b)  Gain  on  disposition  of an  interest  in  Shurgard  Europe,  income  from
     continuing  operations,  net income, and net income per common share differ
     from the  amounts  previously  presented  in our March 31,  2008  financial
     statements.  We recorded a $2,820,000 increase to gain on disposition of an
     interest in Shurgard  Europe in the quarter ended December 31, 2008,  which
     was for the quarter ended March 31, 2008.

15.  Subsequent Events (unaudited)
     -----------------------------

          On February 12, 2009,  we completed a fixed price cash tender offer to
     acquire  any and all of our  Unsecured  Notes  Payable.  A total  of  $96.7
     million  face  amount of our 7.75%  Notes due 2011 and $13.5  million  face
     amount of our 5.875% Notes due 2013,  for an aggregate of $113.1 million in
     cash plus accrued interest were acquired.

                                      F-38


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2008

          On February 27, 2009,  we reached an agreement in principle to acquire
     all of our affiliate's  6.40% Series NN preferred  partnership  units ($200
     million carrying amount) for approximately  $130 million,  plus accrued and
     unpaid  distributions from December 31, 2008 through the closing date. This
     transaction  is expected to result in an  increase in income  allocated  to
     common  shareholders  of  approximately  $70 million for the quarter  ended
     March 31,  2009 based upon  excess of the  carrying  amount over the amount
     paid.  The purchase is subject to  negotiation  and completion of a binding
     agreement,  and  there can be no  assurance  that the  transaction  will be
     completed  or the  timing  thereof,  or that the  terms of any  transaction
     completed will not vary materially from those currently agreed.

          Also on February  27,  2009,  we reached an  agreement in principle to
     acquire all of our affiliate's  6.25% Series Z preferred  partnership units
     ($25 million  carrying  amount) for $25 million.  This should  result in no
     increase in income  allocated to the common  shareholders as they are being
     acquired  at par.  As  described  in Note 7, the  holders  of the  Series Z
     preferred  partnership units have a one-time option  exercisable on October
     12, 2009 to require us to redeem their units for  $25,000,000 in cash, plus
     any unpaid  distributions.  The  purchase  is subject  to  negotiation  and
     completion of a binding  agreement,  and there can be no assurance that the
     transaction  will be completed or the timing thereof,  or that the terms of
     any  transaction  completed will not vary  materially  from those currently
     agreed.

                                      F-39



                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-40


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-41

                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-42


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-43


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-44


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-45


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-46


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-47


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-48


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-49


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-50


                                PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-51


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-52


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-53


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-54


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-55


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-56


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-57


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-58


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-59


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-60


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-61


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-62


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-63


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-64


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-65


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-66


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-67


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-68


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-69


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-70


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-71


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-72


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-73


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-74


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-75


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-76


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-77


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-78



                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-79


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-80


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-81


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-82


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-83


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-84


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-85


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-86


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-87


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-88


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-89


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-90

                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





Note: Buildings are depreciated over a useful life of 25 years.

                                      F-91

