10-K


psa-20171231x10k.htm

10-K

psa-20171231 10K

﻿

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549

FORM 10

‑K

[X]  Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 201


.

or

[  ]  Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

For the transition period from

to

.

Commission File Number:  001

‑33519

PUBLIC STORAGE

(

Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

﻿

(818) 244

‑8080

(

Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:


Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act

: None

(Title of class)

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.

Yes

[

X

]

No [

]

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act.

Yes [   ]

No [X]

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes [X]

No [   ]

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).

Yes [X]

No [   ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K

(§229.405)

is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  [

]

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company.  See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

﻿

Large accelerated

filer

Accelerated

filer

Non-accelerated

filer

Smaller reporting company

Emerging growth company

[X]

[   ]

[   ]

[   ]

[   ]


If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. [   ]

﻿

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).

Yes [   ]

No [X]

The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common shares held by non-affiliates of the Registrant as of June 30, 201


:

Common Shares, $0.10 Par

Value

Per

Sh

are –

$


,


,


,000

(

computed on the basis of $208

.5


per share, which was the reported closing sale price of the Company's Common Shares on the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) on June 30

, 201


).

As of

February 2


,



,

there were

174,215

,


outstanding

Common Shares, $.10 par value

per share

.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the definitive proxy statement to be filed in connection with the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held in


are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K to the extent described therein.

﻿


﻿

﻿

PART I

ITEM 1.

Business

Forward Looking Statements

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

All statements in this document, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements which may be identified by the use of the words "expects,"  "believes,"  "anticipates," "should," "estimates" and similar expressions.

These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, which may cause our actual results and performance to be materially different from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements.

Factors and risks that may impact future results and performance include, but are not limited to, those described in Part 1,

Item 1A, "Risk Factors"

and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) including:

·

general risks associated with the ownership and operation of real estate, including changes in demand, risk related to development of self-storage facilities, potential liability for environmental contamination, natural disasters and adverse changes in laws and regulations governing property tax, real estate and zoning;

·

risks associated with downturns in the national and local economies in the markets in which we operate, including risks related to current economic conditions and the economic health of our customers;

·

the impact of competition from new and existing self-storage and commercial facilities and other storage alternatives;

·

difficulties in our ability to successfully evaluate, finance, integrate into our existing operations, and manage acquired and developed properties;

·

risks associated with international operations including, but not limited to, unfavorable foreign currency rate fluctuations, changes in tax laws, and local and global economic uncertainty that could adversely affect our earnings and cash flows;

·

risks related to our participation in joint ventures;

·

the impact of the regulatory environment as well as national, state and local laws and regulations including, without limitation, those governing environmental, taxes, our tenant reinsurance business and labor, and risks related to the impact of new laws and regulations;

·

risks of increased tax expense associated either with a possible failure by us to qualify as a real estate investment trust (“REIT”), or with challenges to the determination of taxable income for our taxable REIT subsidiaries;

·

changes in

United States (“U.S.”)

federal or state tax laws related to the taxation of REITs and other corporations;

·

security breaches or a failure of our networks, systems or technology could adversely impact our

business

, customer and employee relationships;


·

risks

associated

with the self-insurance of certain business risks, including property and casualty insurance, employee health insurance and workers compensation liabilities;

·

difficulties in raising capital at a reasonable cost;

·

delays in the development process;

·

ongoing litigation and other legal and regulatory actions which may divert management’s time and attention, require us to pay damages and expenses or restrict the operation of our business; and

·

economic uncertainty due to the impact of war or terrorism.

These forward looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or as of the dates indicated in the statements.  All of our forward-looking statements, including those in this report, are qualified in their entirety by this statement.  We expressly disclaim any obligation to update publicly or otherwise revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, new estimates, or other factors, events or circumstances after the date of these forward looking statements,

except when

expressly required by law.  Given these risks and uncertainties, you should not rely on any forward-looking statements in this report, or which management may make orally or in writing from time to time, neither as predictions of future events nor guarantees of future performance.

General

Public Storage (referred to herein as “the Company”, “we”, “us”, or “our”), a Maryland REIT, was organized in 1980.

At December 31, 201


, our principal business activities were as follows:

(i)

Self-storage Operations

:  We acquire, develop, own

and operate self-storage facilities

,

which offer storage spaces

for lease on a month-to-month basis, for personal and business use.  We are the largest owner and operator of self-storage facilities in the

U.S.

We have direct and indirect equity interests in

2,3



self-storage facilities

that we consolidate

(an aggregate of



million net rentable square feet of space) located in 38 states within the U.S. operating under the “Public Storage” brand name.  We

also own one self

-storage facility in London, England which is managed by Shurgard Europe (defined below).

(ii)

Ancillary Operations

:  We reinsure policies against losses to goods stored by customers

in our self-storage facilities

and sell merchandise, primarily locks and cardboard boxes, at our self-storage facilities.

(iii)

Investment in PS Business Parks

:  We have a

42% equity

interest in PS Business Parks, Inc. (“PSB”), a publicly held REIT that owns, operates, acquires and develops commercial properties, primarily multi-tenant flex, office, and industrial parks.  At December 31, 201


, PSB owns and operates 28.


million rentable square feet of commercial space.

(iv)

Investment in Shurgard Europe

:  We

have a 49% equity interest in Shurgard Self Storage Europe Limited (“Shurgard Europe”)

which owns


self-storage facilities (twelve million net rentable square feet) located in seven countries in Western Europe operated under the “Shurgard” brand name.  We believe Shurgard Europe is the largest owner

and operator of self-storage facilities in Western

Europe.

We also manage approximately


self-storage facilities for third parties

.  We are seeking to expand our third-party management operations to further increase our economies of scale and leverage our brand; however, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so.  We also

own

0.9

million

net rentable square feet of commercial space which is managed primarily by PSB

.


For all periods presented herein, we have elected to be treated as a REIT, as defined in the

Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “

Code

”)

.  As a REIT, we do not incur

U.S.

federal income tax if we distribute 100% of our

“

REIT taxable income

”

(generally, net rents and gains from real property, dividends, and interest) each year (for this purpose, certain distributions paid in a subsequent year may be considered), and if we meet certain organizational and operational rules.  We believe we met these requirements

in all periods presented herein

and we expect to continue to elect and qualify as a REIT.

We report annually to the SEC on Form 10-K, which includes financial statements certified by our independent registered public accountants.  We

also report

quarterly to the SEC on Form 10-Q, which includes unaudited financial statements.  We expect to continue such reporting.

On our website,

www.publicstorage.com

, we make available, free of charge

, our Annual Reports on Form 10-

K,

quarterly reports on Form 10-Q,

current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports and amendments are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC.

The information contained on our website is not a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Competition

We believe that

our

customers generally store their goods within a five mile radius of their home or business

.  Our

facilities compete with nearby self-storage facilities

owned by other operators using marketing channels similar to ours

, including Internet advertising, signage, and banners

and offer services similar to ours

.

A

s a result, competition is significant and affects the occupancy levels, rental rates, rental income and operating expenses of our facilities.

There has been an increase in supply of newly constructed self-storage facilities in several of our markets, most notably Atlanta, Austin, Charlotte, Chicago, Dallas, Denver, Houston, and New York.

Ownership and operation of self-

storage facilities is highly fragmented.  As the largest owner of self-storage facilities, we believe that we own approximately


% of the self-storage square

footage

in the U.S. and that collectively the five largest self-storage owners in the U.S. own approximately


%,

with the

remaining 8


% owned by numerous regional and local operators.

We generally

own

facilities in major markets.  We believe that we have significant market share and

concentration in major metropolitan centers, with

approximately


%

of our 201


same-store revenues

generated

in the 20 Metropolitan Statistical Areas (each, an “MSA”, as defined by the U.S. Census Bureau) with the highest population levels.  We believe this is a competitive advantage relative to other self-storage operators, which do not have our geographic

concentration and market share.

Industry

fragmentation also provides opportunities for us to acquire additional facilities; however, we compete with a wide variety of institutions and other investors who also view self-storage facilities as attractive investments.  The amount of capital available for real estate investments greatly influences the competition for ownership interests in facilities and, by extension, the yields that we can achieve on newly acquired investments.

Business Attributes

We believe that we possess several primary business attributes that permit us to compete effectively:

Centralized information networks:

Our centralized reporting and information network enables us to identify changing market conditions and operating trends a

s well as analyze customer data

and quickly change each of our individual properties’ pricing and promotion

s

on an automated basis.

Convenient shopping experience:

Customers can conveniently shop

for available storage space,

reviewing attributes such as facility location, size, amenities such as climate-control, as well as pricing, through the following marketing channels:


·

Our

Desktop and Mobile

Website

s

:

The online marketing channel

is a key source of customers.  A

pproximately


%

of our move-ins in 201


were

sourced through our website

s

and we believe that many of our other customers who reserved directly through our call center or arrived at a facility and moved in without a reservation, have reviewed our pricing and availability online through our websites.

We invest extensively in advertising on the Internet to attract potential customers, primarily through the use of search engin

es, and we regularly update

our website

s

to enhance

their

productivity.

·

Our Call Center:

Our call center is staffed by skilled s

ales specialists.  Customers

primarily

reach our call center by calling our advertised toll-free telephone numbers provided on

search engines or our website

.  We believe giving customers the option to interact with a call center agent, despite the higher marginal cost relative to

a

reservation

mad

e

on our website

enhances our ability to close sales with

potential customers.

·

Our Properties

:

Customers can also shop at any one of our facilities.  Property managers access the same information that is available on our website and to our call center agents, and can inform the customer of

available space

at that site or our other nearby storage facilities.  Pr

operty managers are

trained to maximize the conversion of such “walk in” shoppers into customers.

Economies of scale:

The size and scope of our operations have enabled us to achieve high operating margins and a low level of administrative costs relative to revenues through the centralization of many functions, such as facility maintenance, employee compensation and benefits programs, revenue management, as well as the development and documentation of standardized operating procedures.  We also believe that our major market concentration provides managerial efficiencies stemming from having a large

percentage

of

our

facilities in close proximity to each other.

Brand name recognition:

We believe that the “Public Storage” brand name is the most recognized and established nam

e in the self-storage industry

, due to our national reach

in major markets in 38

states, our highly visible facilities,

and our facilities’

distinct o

range colored doors and signage

.  We believe the “Public Storage” name is one of the most frequently used search terms used by customers using Internet search engines for self-storage.  We believe that the “Shurgard” brand, used by Shurgard Europe, is a

well

-

established and valuable brand in Europe.  We believe that the awareness of our brand name results in a high percentage of potential storage custo

mers considering our facilities

relative to other operators.

Marketing and advertising efficiencies

: Our major-market concentration relative to the fragmented ownership and operation of the rest of the industry, combined with our well-recognized brand name, improves our prominence in unpaid

online

search results for self-storage

and

reduces our average cost per “click” for

multiple-keyword advertising.

The

large number of facilities

we have

in major

metropolitan centers

enables us to efficiently use television advertising

from time to time

.

Our

competitors

generally

do not use television advertising

because they

lack the scale in major metropolitan centers

.

Growth and Investment Strategies

Our growth strategies consist of: (i) improving the operating performance of our existing self-storage facilities, (ii) acquiring more facilities, (iii) developing new

facilities and adding more

self-storage space

to existing facilities, (iv)

participating

in the growth of our investment in PSB, and (v) participating in the growth of

our investment in

Shurgard Europe.  While our long-term strategy includes each of these elements, in the short run the level of growth in our asset base in any period is dependent upon the cost and availability of capital, as well a

s the relative attractiveness of available

investment alternatives.

Improve the operating performance of existing facilities:

We seek to increase the net cash flow

of

our existing self-storage facilities by

(i

) regularly analyzing our call volume, reservation activity,

Internet activity,

move-in/move-out rates and other market supply and demand factors and responding by adjusting our marketing

and promotional

activities and rental rates

charged to new and existing customers

,

(ii

) attempting to maximize revenues


through evaluating the appropriate balance between occupancy, rental rates, and promotional discounting and

(iii

) controlling operating costs.  We believe that our property management personnel,

information technology

, our convenient shopping options for the customer,

our economies of scale,

and our

Internet marketing and

advertising programs will continue to enhance our ability to meet these goals.

Acquire properties owned by others in the U.S.:

We seek to capitalize on the fragmentation of the self-storage business through acquiring attractively priced, well-located existing self-storage facilities.  We believe our presence in and knowledge of substantially all of the major markets in the U.S. enhances our ability to identify attractive acquisition opportunities.  Data on the rental rates and occupancy levels of our existing facilities provide

s

us an advantage in evaluating the potential of acquisition opportunities.

Self-storage owners decide whether to market their facilities for sale based upon many factors, including potential reinvestment returns, expectations of future growth, estimated value, the cost of debt financing, as well as personal consideration

s.  Our aggressiveness in bidd

ing for particular marketed facilities depends

upon many factors including the potential for future growth, the quality of construction and location,

the cash flow we expect from the facility when operated on our platform, how well the facility fits into our current geographic footprint, as well as

our yield expectations.

During



,



and 201


, we

acquired


,


and


facilities, respectively, from third parties for

approximately

$


million

, $429

mi

llion and

$


million, respectively, primarily through

one to five property

portfolio acquisitions.

On December 31, 2017, we acquired the remaining 74

.25

% of the interests which we did not own in

a limited partnership

that own

s

12 self-storage facilities for

a total cost of

approximately

$136

million

.

We

will continue to seek to acquire properties in 201


; however, there is significant competition to acquire existing facilities.  As a result, there can be no assurance as to the level of facilities we may acquire.

Develop new self-storage facilities and expansion of existing facilities

:

The development of new self-storage locations and the expansion of existing facilities has been

an important source of growth.

Since the beginning of 201


, we have

expanded our development efforts due in part to the significant increase in prices being paid for existing facilities, in many cases well above the cost of developi

ng new facilities.

At December

31, 201


, we had a development pipeline

to develop new self-storage facilities and, to a lesser extent,

expand existing self-storage facilitie

s,

which will add approximately

4.6

million net rentable square feet of self-storage space, at a total cost of $

613.8

million

.

Some of these projects are subject to significant contingencies such as entitlement approval.  We expect to continue to seek additional development projects; however,

the level of future development may be limited due to various constraints such as difficulty in finding projects that meet our risk-adjusted yield expectations, challenges in obtaining building permits for self-storage activities in

certain municipalities

, as well as challenges in sourcing quality construction materials, labor, and design elements.

Participate in the growth of PS Business Parks, Inc.:

Our investment in PSB provides diversification into another asset type

.

PSB is a stand-alone public company traded on the

NYSE

.

As of December 31, 201


, we have a 42% equity interest in PSB.

PSB seeks to grow its a

sset base in

favorable markets as well as increase the cash flows from its existing portfolio.

As of December 31, 201


, PSB owned and operated approximately 28.


million rentable square feet of commercial space, and had an enterprise value of approximately $


.4

billion (based

upon

the trading price of PSB’s common stock combined with the liquidation value of its

preferred

stock as of December 31, 201


).

Participate in the growth of Shurgard Europe:

We believe S

hurgard Europe is the largest self-storage

company in Western Europe

.  It owns and

operates


self

-storage facilities with

approximately 12 millio

n

net rentable square feet in:

France (principally Paris), Sweden (principally Stockholm), the United Kingdom (principally London), the Netherlands, Denmark (principally Copenhagen), Belgium and Germany.  We own 49% of Shurgard Europe, with the other 51% owned by a large U.S. institutional investor.

Customer awareness and availability of self-storage is significantly lower in

Europe

than in the U.S.

However, w

ith more awareness and product supply, we believe there is potential for increased demand for storage space in Europe.  In the long run, we believe Shurgard Europe could capitalize on potential increased demand through the development of new facilities or, to a lesser extent, acquiring existing facilities.

From 2014 through


, Shu

rgard Europe

acquired


facilities with

an approximate

1.


million net rentable square feet in Germany

,

the Netherlands

,

the United Kingdom

and France

for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $2

66.0

million

.

In


addition, from 2014 through



,

Shurgard Europe opened

six

development properties in the United Kingdom containing


,000

net rentable square feet at a cost of $

81.1

million

.

Financing of the Company’s Growth Strategies

Overview of financing strategy

and sources of capital

:  As a REIT, we generally distribute 100% of our taxable income to our shareholders, which relative to a taxable C corporation, limits the amount of cash flow from operations that we can retain for investments.  As a result, in order to grow our asset base, access to capital is important.

Our financial profile is characterized by strong credit metrics, including low leverage relative to our total capitalization and operating cash flows.  We are one of the highest rated REITs, as rated by major rating agencies Moody’s and Standard

&

Poor’s.  Our senior debt has an “A” credit rating by Standard

&

Poor’s and “A2” by Moody’s.  Our credit ratings on each of our series of preferred shares are “A3” by Moody’s and “BBB+” by Standard & Poor’s.  Our credit profile and ratings enables us to effectively access both the public and private capital markets to raise capital.

Sources of capital available to us include retained

operating

cash flow, the issuance of preferred and common securities, the issuance of medium and long-ter

m debt, joint venture financing

and the sale of properties.  We view our line of credit, as well as short-term bank loans, as bridge financing.

Historically, we have financed our cash investment activities primarily with retained operating cash flow and the issuance of preferred securities.  While we have issued common shares, such issuances have been minimal, because preferred securities have had a more attractive cost of capital.  In 2015 and 2016, we issued euro-denominated medium-term debt primarily as a hedge to our euro-denominated investment in Shurgard Europe.

On September 18, 2017, we completed a public offering of $1.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of unsecured notes in two

equal

tranches (collectively, the “U.S. Dollar Notes”)

, one maturing in September 2022 bearing interest at 2.370%, and another maturing in September 2027 bearing interest at 3.094%.

While we

have

increase

d

the level of debt in our capital structure, we expect to continue to remain conservatively capitalized and not subject ourselves to significant refinancing risk.

We do not expect to use joint

venture financing or the sale of

properties as sources of capital; however, there can be no assurance that we will not.

We select among the

sources of capital

available to us

based upon relative cost, availability, the desire for leverage, as well as intangibles such as covenants in the case of debt.

Retained operating cash flow

:  Although we are required to generally distribute 100% of our taxable income

to our

shareholders

, we are nonetheless able to retain

operating

cash flow to the extent that our tax depreciation exceeds our maintenance capital expenditures.  In recent years, we have retained approximately

$200 million to

$300 million per year in cash flow

.

Preferred equity:

As noted above, w

e view preferred equity as an important source of capital over the long term.  However, rates and market conditions for the issuance of preferred securities can be volatile or inefficient from time to time, particularly so in the last few years.  Since 2013, we have issued preferred securities at fixed rates ranging from 4.900% to 6.375%.

Most recently, in

August 2017

, we issued $3


million of preferred securities at a fixed rate of


.


0%.

We believe that the market coupon rate of our preferred securities is influenced by long-term

interest rates, as well as demand specifically from retail

investors.  Institutional investors are generally not buyer

s of our preferred securities.

At December 31, 201

7, we have approximately $4.0

billion in preferred securities outstanding with an average coupon rate of 5.


% and an average market yield of 5.


%.

As of

February 28,


, we have

four

series of preferred securities that are eligible for redemption, at our option and with 30 days’ notice; our 5.625% Series U Preferred Shares, with $287.5 million outstanding, our 5.375% Series V Preferred Shares with $495.0 million outstanding

,

our 5.200% Series

W

Preferred Shares with $500.0 million outstanding

and our 5.200% Series X Preferred Shares with $225.0 million outstanding

.  Redemption of such preferred shares will depend upon many


factors

, including the rate at which we could issue replacement preferred securities

.  None of our preferred securities are redeemable at the option of the holders.

Medium or long-term debt:

We have broad powers to issue debt to fund our business.

Our corporate credit ratings are “A” by Standard

&

Poor’s and “A2” by Moody’s.  We believe this high rating, combined with our

current

level of debt, could allow us to issue a

dditional

unsecured debt at lower interest rates than the coupon rates on preferred securities.

At December 31, 201


,

we have $1.0 billion of U.S. Dollar Notes, as noted above, and approximately €342

million of Euro-denominated senior unsecured notes (the “

Euro

Notes”)

outstanding

, which were issued

to institutional investors

in 2015 and 2016.

Common equity:

Except in connection with mergers, most notably a merger in 2006 with Shurgard Storage Centers, we have not raised capital throug

h the issuance of common equity

because lower cost alternatives have been available.

However, we believe that the market for our common equity is liquid and

,

as a result

,

common equity is a significant potential source of capital.

Bridge

f

inancing

:  We have a $500.0 million revolving line of credit which we occasionally use as temporary “bridge” financing

, along with short-term bank loans,

un

til we are able to raise longer-

term capital.  As of December

31, 201


, there we

re

no borrowings outstanding on our revolving line of credit

and no short-term bank loans

.

Unlikely capital

alternatives:

We have issued both our common and preferred securities in exchange for real estate and other investm

ents in the past.

We do not expect such issuances to be a material source of capital in the future, though there can be no assurance.

We have participated in joint ventures with institutional investors in the past to acquire, develop, and operate self-storage facilities, most notably Shurgard Europe, in which we own a 49% interest and an institutional i

nvestor owns the remaining 51%.  We do not expect

joint venture financing to be a material sou

rce of capital in  the future

because we have other sources of c

apital that are less expensive

and because of potential constraints resulting from joint management

.

However, there can be no assurance that we will not.

Generally, we have disposed of self-storage facilities only when compelled to do so through condemnation proceedings.

Because we believe that we are an optimal operator of self-storage facilities, we have generally found that we cannot obtain sufficient value in selling properties.  As a result, we do not expect to raise significant capital selling self-storage facilities; however,

though there can be no assurance that we will not.

Investments in Real Estate and Unconsolidated Real Estate Entities

Investment Policies and Practices with respect to our investments

: Following are our investment practices and policies which, though we do not anticipate any significant alteration, can be changed by our

b

oard of

t

rustees

(the “Board”)

without a shareholder vote:

·

Our investments primarily consist of direct ownership of self-storage facilities (the nature of our self-storage facilities is described in Item 2, “Properties”), as well as partial interests in entities that own self-storage facilities.

·

Our partial ownership interests primarily reflect general and limited partnership interests in entities that

we control that

own self-storage facilities that are managed by us under the “Public Storage” brand name in the U.S., as well as storage facilities

located

in Europe

managed

by Shurgard Europe

under the “Shurgard” brand name

.

·

Additional acquired interests in real estate (other than the acquisition of properties from third parties) will include common equity interests in entities in which we already have an interest.


·

To a lesser extent, we have interests in existing commercial properties (described in Item 2, “Properties”), containing commercial and industrial rental space, primarily through our investment in PSB.

Facilities Owned by Unconsolidated Real Estate Entities

At December 31, 201


, we had ownership interests in

PSB and

Shurgard Europe (

each

discussed above)

, which

we do not control or consolidate

.

On December 31, 2017, we acquired the remaining 74

.25

% of the int

erests which we did not own in a partnership owning 12

self-storage facilities

.

PSB and Shurgard Europe, have debt and other obligations that we do not consolidate in our financial statements.

Such debt or other obligations

have no recourse to us

.

See Note 4 to our December 31, 201


financial statements for further disclosure regarding the assets, liabilities and operating results of

PSB and Shurgard Europe

, as well as PSB’s public filings which are available at its website,

www.psbusinessparks.com

and on the SEC website

.

Canadian self-storage facilities owned by

Former Chairman and Member of Board of Trustees

At December 31, 2017, B. Wayne Hughes, our former Chairman and his daughter, Tamara Hughes Gustavson, a member of our Board of Trustees together owned and controlled 5


self-storage facilities in Canada.  These facilities operate under the “Public Storage” tradename, which we license to the owners of these facilities for use in Canada on a royalty-free, non-exclusive basis.  We have no ownership interest in these facilities and we do not own or operate any facilities in Canada.  If we chose to acquire or develop our own facilities in Canada, we would have to share the use of the “Public Storage” name in Canada.  We have a right of first refusal, subject to limitations, to acquire the stock or assets of the corporation engaged in the operation of these facilities if their owners agree to sell

them.  Our subsidiaries reinsure risks relating to loss of goods stored by customers in these facilities, and have received approximately $


.1 million

, $848,000 and $562,0

00 for the years ended December

31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  Our right to continue receiving these premiums may be qualified.

Limitations on Debt

Our revolving credit facility

, U.S. Dollar Notes and Euro Notes

contain various customary financial covenants, including limitations

on our ability to encumber our properties with mortgage

s and

limitations

on the level of indebtedness.  We believe we were in compliance with each of these covenants as of December 31, 201


.

Employees

We had approximately 5,


00 employees

in the U.S. at December 31, 201


who are engaged primarily in property operations.

Seasonality

We experience minor seasonal fluctuations in the

demand for

self-storage

space, with demand and rental rates generally

higher in the summer months than in the winter months.  We believe that these fluctuations result in part from increased moving activity during the summer months.

Insurance

We have historically carried property, earthquake, general liability, employee medical insurance and workers compensation coverage through internationally recognized insurance carriers, subject to deductibles.  Our deductible for general liability is $2.0 million per occurrence.  Our annual deductibles for property losses are $25.0 million for first occurrence with an aggregate of $35.0 million for

multiple

occurrences and

$5.0 million per occurrence thereafter.

Insurance carriers’ aggregate limits on these policies of $75.0 million for property losses and $102.0 million for general liability losses are higher than estimates of maximum probable losses that could occur from individual catastrophic events determined in recent engineering and actuarial studies; however, in case of multiple catastrophic events, these limits could be exceeded.


We reinsure a program that provides insurance to our customers from an independent third-party insurer.  This program covers tenant claims for losses to goods stored at our facilities as a result of specific named perils (earthquakes are not covered by this program), up to a maximum limit of $5,000 per storage unit.  We reinsure all risks in this program, but purchase insurance to cover this exposure for a limit of $15.0 million for losses in excess of $5.0 million per occurrence.

The program is

subject to licensing requirements and

regulations in several states.  Customers participate in the program at their option.  At December 31, 2017, there were approximately


,000 certificates held by our self-storage customers, representing aggregate coverage of approximately $2.


billion

.

ITEM 1A.

Risk Factors

In addition to the other information in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should consider the risks described below that

we believe may be material to investors in evaluating the Company.  This section contains forward-looking statements, and in considering these statements, you should refer to the qualifications and limitations on our forward-looking statements that are described in

Item 1,

“

Business

.”

We have significant exposure to real estate risk.

Since our business consists primarily of acquiring and operating real estate, we are subject to the risks related to the ownership and operation of real estate that

could result in reduced revenues, increased expenses, increased capital expenditures, or increased borrowings, which could negatively impact our operating results, cash flow available for distribution or reinvestment, and our stock price

:

Natural disasters or terrorist attacks could cause damage to our facilities, resulting in increased costs and reduced revenues.

Natural disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods, or terrorist attacks could cause significant damage and require significant repair costs, and make facilities temporarily uninhabitable, reducing our revenues.  Damage and business interruption losses could exceed the aggregate limits of our insurance coverage.  In addition, because we self-insure a portion of our risks, losses below a certain level may not be cov

ered by insurance.   See Note

13 to

our December 31, 201


financial statements for a description of the risks of losses that are not covered by third-party insurance contracts.  We

may not have sufficient insurance coverage for losses caused by a terrorist attack, or such insurance may not be maintained, available or cost-effective.  In addition, significant natural disasters, terrorist attacks, threats of future terrorist attacks, or resulting wider armed conflicts could have negative impacts on the U.S. economy, reducing storage demand.

Operating costs

, including property taxes,

could increase

.  We could be subject to increases in insurance premiums,

property

or other taxes, repair and maintenance costs, payroll, utility costs, workers compensation, and other operating expenses due to various factors such as inflation, labor shortages, commodity and energy price increases

, weather,

increases to minimum wage rates, changes to governmental safety and real estate use limitations, as well as other governmental actions.

Our property tax expense, which totaled approximately $

236.4

million during the year ended December 31, 2017, generally depends upon the assessed value of our real estate facilities as determined by assessors and government agencies, and accordingly could be subject to substantial increases if such agencies changed their valuation approaches or opinions or if new laws are enacted.

The acquisition of existing properties is subject to risks that may adversely affect our growth and financial results.

We have acquired self-storage facilities from third parties in the past, and we expect to continue to do so in the future.

We face significant competition for suitable acquisition properties from other real estate investors.  As a result, we may be unable to acquire additional properties we desire or the purchase price for desirable properties may be significantly increased.

Failures or unexpected circumstances in integrating newly acquired properties into our operations or circumstances we did not detect during due diligence, such as environmental matters, needed repairs or deferred maintenance, or the effects of increased property tax following reassessment of a newly-acquired property, as well as the general risks of real estate investment, could jeopardize realization of the anticipated earnings from an acquisition.

Development of self-storage facilities can subject us to risks.

At December 31, 201


, we have a pipeline of development projects

totaling $


million (subject to contingencies), and we expect to continue to seek additional development projects.  There are significant risks involved in developing self-storage facilities, such as delays or cost


increases due to changes in or failure to meet government or regulatory requirements,

failure of revenue to meet our underwriting estimates,

weather issues

, unforeseen site conditions, or personnel problems.  Self-storage space is generally not pre-leased, and rent-up of newly developed space can be delayed or ongoing cash flow yields can be reduced due to competition, reductions in storage demand, or other factors.

There is significant

competition among self-storage operators

and from other storage alternatives

.

Our

self-storage facilities

generate

most of our revenue

and earnings

.  Competition in the local market areas in which many of our properties are located is significant and has affected our occupancy levels, rental rates and operating

expenses.  Development of self-storage facilities has increased in recent years, which has intensified competition and will continue to do so as newly developed facilities are opened.  D

evelopment of self-storage facilities by other operators

could continue

to increase, due to increases in availability of funds for investment or other reasons,

and further

intensify

competition

.

We may incur significant liabilities from

environmental contamination

or moisture infiltration

.   Existing or future laws impose or may impose liability on us to clean up environmental contamination on or around properties that we currently or previously owned

or operated, even if we were not

responsible for or aware of the environmental contamination or even if such environmental contamination occurred prior to our involvement with the property.  We have conducted preliminary environmental assessments on most of our properties, which have not identified material liabilities.  These assessments, commonly referred to as “Phase 1 Environmental Assessments,” include an investigation (excluding soil or groundwater sampling or analysis) and a review of publicly available information regarding the site and other nearby properties.

We are also subject to potential liability relating to moisture infiltration, which can result in mold or other damage to our or our

customers

’ property, as well as potential health concerns.  When we receive a complaint or otherwise become aware that an air quality concern exists, we implement corrective measures and seek to work proactively with our

customers

to resolve issues, subject to our contractual limitations on liability for such claims.

We are not aware of any

environmental contamination

or moisture infiltration related liabilities that could be material to our overall business, financial condition, or results of operation.  However, we may not have detected all material liabilities, we could acquire properties with material undetected liabilities, or new conditions could ar

ise or develop

at our properties, any of

which would result in a cash settlement or adversely affect our ability to sell, lease, operate, or encumber affected facilities

.

Economic conditions can adversely affect our business, financial condition, growth and access to capital.

Our revenues and operating cash flow can be negatively impacted by reductions in employment and population levels, household and disposable income, and other general economic factors that lead to a reduction in demand for rental space in each of the markets in which we operate.

Our ability to

raise

capital

to fund our activities may be

adversely affected by challenging market conditions.

I

f we were unable

to raise capital

at reasonable rates, prospective earnings growth through expanding our asset base

c

ould be limited.

We have exposure to European operations through our ownership in Shurgard Europe.

We own a

49%

equity interest in Shurgard Europe, with our investment having a

$



million book value at December 31, 201


, and $



.


million in equity in earnings in 201


.  As a result, we are exposed to additional risks related to international operations that may adversely impact our business and financial results, including the following:

·

Currency risks:

Currency fluctuations can impact the fair value of our

equity

investment in Shurgard Europe,

as well as future repatriation of cash

.

·

Legislative, tax, and regulatory risks:

We are subject to complex foreign laws and regulations related to


permitting and land use, the environment, labor, and other areas, as well as income, property, sales, value added and employment tax laws.  These laws can be difficult to apply or interpret and can vary in each country or locality, and are subject to unexpected changes in their form and application due to regional, national, or local political uncertainty and other factors.  Such changes, or Shurgard’s failure to comply with these laws, could subject it to penalties or other sanctions, adverse changes in business processes, as well as potentially adverse income tax, property tax, or other tax burdens.

·

Impediments to capital repatriation could negatively impact the realization of our investment in Shurgard Europe:

Laws in Europe and the U.S. may create, impede or increase

our

cost to

repatriate capital or earnings from

Shurgard Europe.

·

Risks of collective bargaining and intellectual property:

Collective bargaining, which is prevalent in certain areas in Europe, could negatively impact Shurgard Europe’s labor costs or operations.

Many of Shurgard Europe’s employees participate in various national unions.

·

Potential operating and individual country risks:

Economic slowdowns or extraordinary political or social change in the countries in which it operates

have posed, and could continue to

pose

,

challenges or result in future reductions of Shurgard Europe’s

operating cash flows

.

·

Impediments of Shurgard Europe’s joint venture structure:

Shurgard Europe’s s

trategic

decisions, involving activities such as borrowing money, capital contributions, raising capital from third parties, as well as selling or acquiring significant assets, require the consent of our joint venture partner.  As a result, Shurgard Europe may be precluded from taking advantage of opportunities that we would find attractive

but that we may not be able to pursue economically outside the joint venture.

In addition,

our 49% equity investment may not be easily sold or readily accepted as collateral by potential lenders to Public Storage due to the joint venture structure.

The Hughes Family could control us and take actions adverse to other shareholders.

At December 3


, 201


, B. Wayne Hughes, our former Chairman and his family, which includes his daughter, Tamara Hughes Gustavson and his son, B. Wayne Hughes

,

Jr., who are both members of our Board of Trustees (collectively, the “Hughes Family”), owned

approximately 14.


% of

our aggre

gate outstanding common shares.

Our declaration of trust permits the Hughes Family to own up to 35.66% of our outstanding common shares while it generally restricts the ownership by other persons and entities to 3% of

our outstanding common shares.

Consequently, the Hughes Family may significantly influence matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including electing trustees, amending our organizational documents, dissolving and approving other extraordinary transactions, such as a takeover attempt, resulting in an outcome that may not be favorable to other shareholders.

Takeover attempts or changes in control could be thwarted, even if beneficial to shareholders.

In certain circumstances, shareholders might desire a change of control or acquisition of us, in order to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our shares or for other reasons.  However, the following could prevent, deter, or delay such a transaction:

·

Provisions of Maryland law may impose limitations that may make it more difficult for a third party to negotiate or effect a business combination transaction or control share acquisition with Public Storage.  Currently, the Board has opted not to subject the Company to these provisions of Maryland law, but it could choose to do so in the future without shareholder approval.

·

To protect against the loss of our REIT status due to concentration of ownership levels, our declaration of trust generally limits the ability of a person, other than the Hughes Family or “designated investment entities” (each as defined in our declaration of trust), to own, actually or constructively, more than 3% of our outstanding common shares or 9.9% of the outstanding shares of any class or series of preferred or equity shares

.  Our Board may grant a specific exemption

.


These limits could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of

the Company

not approved by our

Board

.

·

Similarly, current provisions of our declaration of t

rust and powers of our Board

could have the same effect, including (1) limitations on removal of trustees, (2) restrictions on the acquisition of our shares of beneficial interest, (3) the power to issue additional common shares, preferred shares or equity shares on terms approved by the Board without obtaining shareholder approval, (4) the advance notice provisions of our bylaws and (5) the Board’s ability under Maryland law, without obtaining shareholder approval, to implement takeover defenses that we may not yet have and to take, or refrain from taking, other actions that could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a transaction or a change in control.

If we failed to qualify as a REIT, we would have to pay substantial income taxes.

REITs are subject to a range of complex organizational and operational requirements.  A qualifying REIT does not generally incur federal income tax on its net income that is distributed to its shareholders.  Our REIT status is also dependent upon the ongoing REIT qualification of PSB as a result of our substantial ownership interest in

it

. We believe

we

have

qualified

as a REIT and we intend to continue to maintain our REIT status.

There can be no assurance that we qualify or will continue to qualify as a REIT, because of the highly technical nature of the REIT rules, the ongoing importance of factual determinations, the possibility of unidentified issues in prior periods or changes in our circumstances, as well as share ownership limits in our articles of incorporation that do not necessarily ensure that our shareholder base is sufficiently diverse for us to qualify as a REIT. For any year we fail to qualify as a REIT, unless certain relief provisions apply (the granting of such relief could nonetheless result in significant excise or penalty taxes), we would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid, we would be subject to corporate tax on our taxable income, and generally we would not be allowed to elect REIT status until the fifth year after such a disqualification. Any taxes, interest, and penalties incurred would reduce our cash available for distributions to shareholders and could negatively affect our stock price. However, for years in which we failed to qualify as a REIT, we would not be subject to REIT rules which require us to distribute substantially all of our taxable income to our shareholders.

Holders of our preferred shares have dividend, liquidation and other rights that are senior to the rights of the holders of shares of our common stock.

Holders of our preferred shares are entitled to cumulative dividends before any dividends may be declared or set aside on our common stock.  Upon liquidation, holders of our preferred shares will receive a liquidation preference of $25,000 per share (or $25.00 per depositary share) plus any accrued and unpaid distributions before any payment is made to the common shareholders.  These preferences may limit the amount received by our common shareholders either from ongoing distributions or upon liquidation.  In addition, our preferred shareholders have the right to elect two additional directors to our Board whenever dividends are in arrears in an aggregate amount equivalent to six or more quarterly dividends, whether or not consecutive.

Recent and p

otential changes in tax laws could negatively impact us.

The United States Treasury Department and Congress frequently review federal income tax legislation, regulations and other guidance.  We cannot predict whether, when or to what extent new federal tax laws, regulations, interpretations or rulings will be adopted.  Any legislative action may prospectively or retroactively modify our tax treatment and, therefore, may adversely affect taxation of us or our shareholders.  In particular, the legislation passed last December, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “TCJA”), which was signed into law on December 22, 2017 and which generally takes effect for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2018 (subject to certain exceptions), makes many significant changes to the federal income tax laws that will profoundly impact the taxation of individuals and corporations (both regular C corporations as well as corporations that have elected REIT status).  A number of changes that affect non-corporate taxpayers will expire at the end of 2025 unless Congress acts to extend them.  These changes will impact us and our shareholders in various ways, some of which are potentially


adverse compared to prior law.  To date, the IRS has issued only limited guidance with respect to certain of the new provisions, and there are numerous interpretive issues that will require guidance.  It is highly likely that technical corrections legislation will be needed to clarify certain aspects of the new law and give proper effect to Congressional intent.  There can be no assurance, however, that technical corrections needed to prevent unintended or unforeseen tax consequences will be enacted by Congress in the near future or that any corrections made may not have further adverse, unintended or unforeseen tax consequences.

﻿

Changes made by the TCJA will limit our ability to deduct compensation in excess of $1 million paid to certain senior executives.  This could require us to increase distributions to our shareholders in order to avoid paying tax and to maintain our REIT status.

﻿

We may pay some taxes, reducing cash available for shareholders.

Even if we qualify as

a

REIT for federal income

tax

purposes, we may be subject to some federal, foreign, state and local

taxes on our

income and property.  Since January 1, 2001, certain

consolidated

corporate subsidiaries of the Company have elected to be treated as “taxable REIT subsidiaries” for federal income tax purposes, and are taxable as regular corporations and subject to certain limitations on intercompany transactions.  If tax authorities determine that amounts paid by our taxable REIT subsidiaries to us are

not reasonable compared to

similar arrangements among unrelated parties, we could be subject to a 100% penalty tax on the excess payments, and ongoing intercompany arrangements could have to change, resulting in higher ongoing tax payments.  To the extent the Company is required to pay federal, foreign, state or local taxes or federal penalty taxes

due to existing laws or changes thereto

, we will have less cash available fo

r distribution to shareholders.

In addition, certain local and s

tate governments have imposed

tax

es

on self-storage rent

.  W

hile in most cases

those taxes are

paid by our customers,

they increase

the cost of self-storage rental to our customers and can negatively impact our revenues.  Other local and

state governments may impose

self-storage rent tax

es

in the future.

We are exposed to ongoing litigation and other legal and regulatory actions, which may divert management’s time and attention, require us to pay damages and expenses or restrict the operation of our business.

We have over 5,500 employees and 1.5 million customers at any point of time, and we conduct business at facilities with 159 million net rentable square feet of storage space.  As a result, w

e are subject to the risk of legal claims and proceedings

(including class actions)

and regulatory enforcement actions in the ordinary course of our business and otherwise, and we could incur significant liabilities and substantial legal fees as a result of these actions.  Resolution of these claims and actions may divert time and attention by our management and could involve payment of damages or expenses by us, all of which may be significant.  In addition, any such resolution could involve our agreement to terms that restrict the operation of our business.  The results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty.  We cannot guarantee losses incurred in connection with any current or future legal or regulatory proceedings or actions will not exceed any provisions we may have set aside in respect of such proceedings or actions or will not exceed any available insurance coverage.

The impact of any such legal claims, proceedings, and regulatory enforcement actions

and

could negatively impact our operating results, cash flow available for distribution or reinvestment, and

or

the

price of our common shares

.

We are heavily dependent on computer systems, telecommunications and the Internet to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business

.  Se

curity breaches or a failure of such networks, systems or technology could adversely impact our business

,

customer

, and employee

relationships.

We are heavily dependent upon automated information technology and Internet commerce, with

more than

half of our new

customers

coming from the telephone or over the Internet, and the nature of our business involves the receipt and retention of personal information about our customers.

We also maintain personally identifiable information about our employees.

We centrally manage significant components of our operations with our computer systems, including our financial information, and we also rely extensively on third-party vendors to retain data, process transactions and provide other systems services.  These systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer worms, viruses and other destructive or disruptive security breaches and catastrophic events.


As a result, our operations could be severely impacted by a natural disaster, terrorist attack or

other circumstance that results

in a significant outage

of

our systems or those of our third party providers, despite our use of back up and redundancy measures.

Our or our customers’ or employees’ confidential information could be compromised or misappropriated, due to a breach of our network security.  Such cybersecurity and data security breaches as well as system

s

disruptions and shutdowns could result in additional costs to repair or replace such networks or information systems and possible legal liability, including government enforcement actions and private litigation.

In addition, our customers could lose confidence in our ability to protect their personal information, which could cause them to discontinue leasi

ng our self-storage facilities.

Such events could lead to lost future

revenue

s and adversely affect our results of operations

and could result in remedial and other costs, fines or lawsuits, which could be in excess of any available insurance that we have procured

.

We are subject to laws and governmental regulations and actions that require us to incur compliance costs affecting our operating results and financial condition.

Our business is subject to regulation under a wide variety of U.S. federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies including those imposed by the SEC, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and

NYSE

, as well as applicable

local, state, and national

labor laws. Although we have policies and procedures designed to comply with applicable laws and regulations, failure to comply with the various laws and regulations may result in civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased costs of compliance, restatement of our financial statements and could also affect the marketability of our real estate facilities.

In response to current economic conditions or the current political environment or otherwise, laws and regulations could be implemented or changed in ways that adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, such as legislation that could facilitate union activity or that would otherwise increase operating costs.

All

of

our properties must comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and with related regulations and similar state law requirements, as well as various real estate and zoning laws and regulations, which are subject to change and could become more costly to comply with in the future.  Compliance with these requirements can require us to incur significant expenditures, which would reduce cash otherwise available for distribution to shareholders.  A failure to comply with these laws could lead to fines or possible awards of damages to individuals affected by the non-compliance.  Failure to comply with these requirements could also affect the marketability of our real estate facilities.

Our tenant

re

insurance business is subject to governmental regulation which could reduce our profitability or limit our growth.

We hold Limited Lines Self-Service Storage Insurance Agent licenses from a number of individual state Departments of Insurance and are subject to state governmental regulation and supervision.  Our continued ability to maintain these Limited Lines Self-Service Storage Insurance Agent licenses in the jurisdictions in which we are licensed depends on our compliance with related rules and regulations.  The regulatory authorities in each jurisdiction generally have broad discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals, to promulgate, interpret, and implement regulations, and to evaluate compliance with regulations through periodic examinations, audits and investigations of the affairs of insurance

agents.  As a result of regulatory or private action in any jurisdiction, we may be temporarily or permanently suspended from continuing

some or all of our reinsurance activities

,

or otherwise fined or penalized or suffer an adverse judgment

, which could reduce our net income

.

ITEM 1B.

Unresolved Staff Comments

None.


﻿

ITEM 2.

Properties

At December 31, 201


,

we had direct and indirect ownership interests in

2,386

self-storage facilities located in 38 states within the U.S. and


(including

one wholly-owned facility)

storage facilities

located in seven

Western European

nations:

﻿


(a)

See Schedule III:  Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation in the Company’s 201


financials, for a

summary of land, building, and accumulated depreciation by market

.

(b)

The facilities located in Europe include one facility in the United Kingdom that we wholly own, as well as the facilities owned by Shurgard Europe.

We seek to maximize our facilities’ cash flow through the regular review and adjustment of rents charged

and promotions granted

to our existing and new incoming

customers

, and controlling expense

s.  For the year ended December

31,



,

the weighted average occupancy level and the average realized rent per occupied square foot for our self-storage facilities were approximately

92.1

% and $

16.78

, respectively, in the U.S. and 86.7% and $

22.15

, respectively, in Europe.

At December

31, 2017, 30 of our U.S. facilities with a net book value of $1


million

were encumbered by an aggregate of

$


million in

mortgage

notes payable.

We have no specific policy as to the maximum size of any one particular self-storage facility.  However, none of our facilities involves, or is expected to involve, 1% or more of our total assets, gross revenues or net income.

Description of Self-Storage Facilities:

Self-storage facilities, which comprise the majority of our investments, offer accessible storage space for personal and business use at a relatively low cost.  A user rents a fully enclosed space, securing the space with their lock, which is for the user's exclusive use and to

which only the user has access.  P

roperty managers

operate the facility and

are supervised by district managers.  Some self-storage facilities also include rentable uncovered parking areas for vehicle storage.

Space is rented on a month-to-month basis and r

ental rates vary according to the location of the property, the size of t

he storage space

and other characteristics that affect the relative attractiveness of each particular space, such as whether the space has “drive-up” access

,

its proximity to elevators

, or if the space is climate controlled

.  All of our self-storage facilities in the U.S. are operated under the "Public Storage" brand name, while our facilities in Europe are operated under the “Shurgard” brand name.

Users include individuals from virtually all demographic groups, as well as businesses.  Individuals usually

store

furniture, household appliances, personal belongings, motor vehicles, boats, campers, motorcycles and other household goods.  Businesses normally

store

excess inventory, business records, seasonal goods, equipment and fixtures.

Our self-storage facilities generally consist of be

tween 350 to 750 storage spaces.  M

ost

spaces

have between 25 and 400 square feet and an interior height of approximately eight to 12 feet.

We experience minor seasonal fluctuations in the occupancy levels of self-storage facilities with occupancies generally higher in the summer months than in the winter months.  We believe that these fluctuations result in part from increased

demand from

moving activity during the summer months and incremental demand from college students.

Our self-storage facilities are geographically diversified and are located primarily in or near major metropolitan markets in 38 states in the U.S.  Generally our self-storage facilities are located in heavily populated areas and close to concentrations of apartment complexes, single family residences and commercial developments.

Competition from other self-storage

facilities is significant and affects the occupancy levels,

rental rates

, rental income and operating expenses

of our facilities.

We believe that self-storage facilities, upon achieving stabilized occupancy levels of approximately 90%, have attractive characteristics consisting of high profit margins, a broad tenant base

,

low levels of capital expenditures to maintain their condition and appearance

, and excellent returns on invested capital

.  Historically, upon

reaching

stabilization, our U.S. self-storage facilities have generally shown a high degree of stability in generating cash flows.

Description of Commercial Properties

: We have an interest in PSB,

which, as of December 31, 2017, owns and operates approximately 28.


million rentable square feet of commercial space in six states

.  At December 31,




,

the $

400.1

million book value and $1.


billion

market value, respectively, of our investment in PSB represents

approximately 4% and 17%, respectively, of our total

book value

assets.  We also directly own

0.9

million net rentable square feet of commercial space managed primarily

by PSB.

The commercial properties owned by PSB consist primarily of flex, multi-tenant office and industrial space.  Flex space is defined as buildings that are configured with a combination of office and warehouse space and can be designed to fit a wide variety of uses (including office, assembly, showroom, laboratory, light manufacturing and warehouse space).

Environmental Matters:

We accrue environmental assessments and estimated remediation cost when it is probable that such efforts will be required and the related costs can be reasonably estimated.  Our current practice is to conduct environmental investigations in connection with property acquisitions.  Although there can be no assurance, we are not aware of any environmental contamination of any of our facilities, which individually or in the aggregate would be material to our overall business, financial condition, or results of operations.

ITEM 3.

Legal Proceedings

We are a party to various

legal proceedings and subject to various claims and complaints

; however,

we

believe that the likelihood of these contingencies resulting in a material loss to the Company, either individually or in the aggregate, is remote.

ITEM 4.

Mine Safety Disclosures

Not applicable.


PART II

ITEM 5.

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

a.

Market Information of the Registrant’s Common Equity:

Our Common Shares of beneficial interest (the “Common Shares”) (

NYSE: PSA) have been listed on the

NYSE since October 19, 1984.

The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices of our Common Shares on the

NYSE

composite tapes for the applicable periods.

As of

February



, 201


, there were approximately


2,795

holders

of record of our Common Shares.  Because many of our shares of common stock are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of stockholders, we are unable to estimate the total number

of stockholders represented by these record holders.

b.

Dividends

We have

continuously

paid quarterly distributions to our shareholders since 1981, our first full year of

operations.

During 2017 we paid distributions to our common shareholders of $

2.00

per common share for each of the quarters ended

March 31,

June 30

,

September 30 and December 31, representing an aggregate of $

1.388

billion or $


.


0 per share.

During 2016 we paid distributions to our common shareholders of $1.70 per common share for the quarter ended March 31, $1.80 per common share for each of the quarters ended June 30

and

September 30 and

$2.00

per common share for

the quarter ended

December 31, representing an aggregate

of $1.


b

illion or $

7.30

per share.

During 201


we paid distributions to our common shareholders of $1.


per common share for

the quarter

ended March 31

and

$1.70 per common share for each of the quarters ended

June 30, September 30 and December 31, representing an aggregate of

$1.122

b

illion or $

6.50

per share

.

Holders of common shares are entitled to receive distributions when and if declared by our

Board

out of any funds legally available for that purpose.  As a REIT, we do not incur federal income tax on our REIT taxable income (generally, net rents and gains from real property, dividends, and interest) that is fully distributed each year (for this purpose, certain distributions paid in a subsequent year may be considered), and if we meet certain organizational and operational rules.  We believe we have met these requirements in all periods presented herein, and we expect to continue to elect and qualify as a REIT.

For Federal income tax purposes, distributions to shareholders are treated as ordinary income, capital gains, return of capital or a combination thereof.

For 2017

, 0.0743%, 0.0805% and 0.5352%

of the dividends paid in the

first, second and fourth

quarter

s, respectively,

were classified as long-term capital gain, with the remainder and all other dividends being classified as 100% ordinary income.

For 2016, the dividends paid on common shares and preferred shares were all classified as 100% ordinary income.

﻿


c.

Equity Shares

We are authorized to issue 100,000,000 equity shares from time to time in one or more series and our Board has broad authority to fix the dividend and distribution rights, conversion and voting rights, redemption provisions and liquidation rights of each series of equity shares.

We had no equity shares outstanding for any period in the years ended December 31, 201


, 2016

or



.

We have no plans to issue equity shares.

d.

Common Share Repurchases

Our Board has authorized

management to repurchase

up to 35,000,000 of our common shares on the open

market or in privately negotiated transactions.  From the inception of the repurchase program through

February 28,



, we have repurchased a total of 23,721,916 common shares (all purchased prior to 2010) at an aggregate cost of approximately

$679.1 million.  Our common share repurchase program does not have an expiration date

and

there are

11,278,084 common shares

that may yet be repurchased under our repurchase program as of December 31, 201


.  We have no current plans to repurchase shares; however, f

uture levels of common share repurchases will be dependent upon our available capital, investment alternatives, and the trading price of our common shares.

e.

Preferred Share Redemptions

We

had no preferred redemptions during the three months ended December 31, 201


.

﻿

﻿


ITEM 6.

Selected Financial Data

﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿


ITEM 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and notes thereto.

Critical Accounting Policies

Our MD&A discusses our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with United States (“U.S.”) generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), and are affected by our judgments, assumptions and estimates.  The notes to our December 31, 2017 financial statements, primarily Note 2, summarize our significant accounting policies.

We believe the following are our critical accounting policies, because they have a material impact on the portrayal of our financial condition and results, and they require us to make judgments and estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain.

Income Tax Expense:

We have elected to be treated as a REIT, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”).  As a REIT, we do not incur federal income tax on our REIT taxable income that is fully distributed each year (for this purpose, certain distributions paid in a subsequent year may be considered), and if we meet certain organizational and operational rules.  We believe we have met these REIT requirements for all periods presented herein.  Accordingly, we have recorded no federal income tax expense related to our REIT taxable income.

Our evaluation that we have met the REIT requirements could be incorrect, because compliance with the tax rules requires factual determinations, and circumstances we have not identified could result in noncompliance with the tax requirements in current or prior years.  For any taxable year that we fail to qualify as a REIT and for which applicable statutory relief provisions did not apply, we would be taxed at the regular corporate rates on all of our taxable income for at least that year and the ensuing four years, we could be subject to penalties and interest, and our net income would be materially different from the amounts estimated in our financial statements.

In addition, certain of our consolidated corporate subsidiaries have elected to be treated as “taxable REIT subsidiaries” for federal income tax purposes, which are taxable as regular corporations and subject to certain limitations on intercompany transactions.  If tax authorities determine that amounts paid by our taxable REIT subsidiaries to us are not reasonable compared to similar arrangements among unrelated parties, we could be subject to a 100% penalty tax on the excess payments.  Such a penalty tax could have a material adverse impact on our net income.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets:

The analysis of impairment of our long-lived assets involves identification of indicators of impairment, projections of future operating cash flows, and estimates of fair values, all of which require significant judgment and subjectivity.  Others could come to materially different conclusions.  In addition, we may not have identified all current facts and circumstances that may affect impairment.  Any unidentified impairment loss, or change in conclusions, could have a material adverse impact on our net income.

Accrual for Uncertain and Contingent Liabilities:

We accrue for certain contingent and other liabilities that have significant uncertain elements, such as property taxes, workers compensation claims, tenant reinsurance claims, as well as other legal claims and disputes involving customers, employees, governmental agencies and other third parties.  We estimate such liabilities based upon many factors such as assumptions of past and future trends and our evaluation of likely outcomes.  However, the estimates of known liabilities could be incorrect or we may not be aware of all such liabilities, in which case our accrued liabilities and net income could be misstated.

Accounting for Acquired Real Estate Facilities:

We estimate the fair values of the land, buildings and intangible assets acquired for purposes of allocating the purchase price.  Such estimates are based upon many assumptions and judgments, including (i) market rates of return and capitalization rates on real estate and intangible assets, (ii) building and material cost levels, (iii) comparisons of the acquired underlying land parcels to recent land transactions, and (iv) future cash flows from the real estate and the existing tenant base.  Others could come to


materially different conclusions as to the estimated fair values, which would result in different depreciation and amortization expense, gains and losses on sale of real estate assets, and real estate and intangible assets.

Overview

Our self-storage operations generate most of our net income, and we believe that our earnings growth is most impacted by the level of organic growth in our existing self-storage portfolio.  Accordingly, a significant portion of management’s time is devoted to maximizing cash flows from our existing self-storage facilities.

Most of our facilities compete with other well-managed and well-located competitors and we are subject to general economic conditions, particularly those that affect the spending habits of consumers and moving trends.  We believe that our centralized information networks, national telephone and online reservation system, the brand name “Public Storage,” and our economies of scale enable us to meet such challenges effectively.

We plan on growing organically as well as

through the acquisition and development of additional facilities.  Since the beginning of 2013 through December 31, 2017, we acquired a total of


facilities with

19.0

million net rentable square feet from third parties for approximately $

2.5

b

illion, and we opened newly developed and redeveloped self-storage space for a total cost of $

887.4

million

,

adding approximately

8.1

million

net rentable square feet.

Subsequent to December 31, 2017, we acquired or were under contract to acquire

(subject to customary closing conditions)

two

self-storage facilities for $

18.3

million.  We will continue to seek to acquire properties; however, there is significant competition to acquire existing facilities and there can be no assurance as to the level of facilities we may acquire.

As of

December 31, 2017, we had additional development and redevelopment projects

in process

which will add approximately

4.6

million net rentable square feet at a total cost of approximately $

613.8

million.  We expect to continue to seek additional development projects; however, the level of such activity may be limited due to various constraints such as difficulty in finding available sites that meet our risk-adjusted yield expectations, as well as challenges in obtaining building

permits for self-storage activities in certain municipalities.

We believe that our development and redevelopment activities are beneficial to our business over the long run.  However, in the short run, such activities dilute our earnings due to the three to four year period that it takes to fill up newly developed and redeveloped storage facilities and reach a stabilized level of cash flows offset by the cost of capital to fund the cost, combined with related overhead expenses flowing through general and administrative expense.  We believe this dilution will increase in 2018 and beyond, because of an increased level of net rentable square feet being added to our portfolio due to continued development and redevelopment efforts.

On September 18, 2017, we completed a public offering of $1.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of unsecured notes in two equal tranches (collectively, the “U.S. Dollar Notes”), one maturing in September 2022 bearing interest at 2.370%, and another maturing in September 2027 bearing interest at 3.094%.

This was our first public offering of debt, which should also serve to facilitate future offerings.

As of December 31, 2017, our capital resources over the next year are expected to be approximately

$

1.2

billion

which exceeds our current planned capital needs over the next year of

approximately $


.9

million

.  Our capital resources

include: (i) $

433.4

million of cash as of December 31, 2017, (ii) $

483.9

million of available borrowing capacity on our revolving line of credit, and (iii)

approximately $2


million

to $300 million

of expected retained operating cash flow for the next twelve months.  Retained operating cash flow represents our expected cash flow provided by operating activities, less shareholder distributions and capital expenditures to maintain our real estate facilities.

Our planned capital needs over the next year

consist of (i) $


.4

million of remaining spend on our current development pipeline, (ii) $

18.3

million in property acquisitions currently under contract, and (iii) $

11.2

million

in principal repayments on existing debt.  Our capital needs may increase significantly over the next year as we expect


to increase our development pipeline and acquire additional properties.  In addition to other investment activities, we may also redeem outstanding preferred securities or repurchase shares of our common stock in the future.

In August and Sept

ember of 2017, due to Hurricane

s

Harvey and Irma,

we

recorded a $7.8 million casualty loss due to damaged buildings and associated expenses, as well as $5.2 million in incremental ancillary cost of operations representing claims costs resulting from the hurricanes with respect

to tenants covered under our tenant reinsurance program.  Current loss estimates (including business interruption) are less than our insurance deductibles, as a result, we do not expect to receive any insurance proceeds.

See

Liquidity and Capital Resources

for further information regarding our capital requirements and anticipated sources of capital to fund such requirements.

Results of Operations

Operating results for 2017 and 2016

In 2017, net income allocable to our common shareholders was $1,171.6 million or $6.73 per diluted common share, compared to $1,183.9 million or $6.81 per share in 2016 representing a decrease of $12.3 million or $0.08.  The decrease primarily reflects  (i) a $67.6 million reduction due to the impact of foreign exchange translation gains and losses associated with our euro denominated debt, (ii) an $8.5 million increase in interest expense associated with higher outstanding debt balances and (iii) a $7.8 million casualty loss and $5.2 million in incremental tenant reinsurance losses related to Hurricane

s

Harvey and Irma offset partially by (iv) a $66.9 million increase in self-storage net operating income (described below) and (v) an $18.9 million increase in our equity in earnings of unconsolidated real estate entities.

The $66.9 million increase in self-storage net operating income is a result of a $44.6 million increase in our Same Store Facilities

(as defined below)

and a $22.3 million increase in our Non Same Store Facilities

(as defined below)

.  Revenues for the Same Store Facilities increased 3.0% or $63.0 million in 2017 as compared to 2016, due primarily to higher realized annual rent per occupied square foot.  Cost of operations for the Same Store Facilities increased by 3.4% or $18.4 million in 2017 as compared to 2016, due primarily to increased property taxes, advertising and selling expense and repairs and maintenance costs, offset partially by lower snow removal costs.  The increase in net operating income for the Non Same Store Facilities is due primarily to the impact of 345 self-storage facilities acquired, developed or expanded since January 2015.

Operating results for 2016 and 2015

In

2016, net income allocable to our c

ommon shareholders was $1,183.9

million or $6.81 per diluted common share, compared to $1,053.1 million or $6.07

per share

in 2015 representing an increase of $130.8 million or $0.74

per share

.  The increase is primarily due to (i) a $139.1 million increase in self-storage net operating income

and (ii) a $17.3 million increase in foreign exchange translation gains associated with our euro denominated debt offset partially by (iii) a $29.


million reduction in gains on sales of real estate investments, including our equity share and (iv) a $20.0 million increase in EITF D

-

42 charges, including our equity share, as a result of preferred redemption activities.

The $139.1 million

increase in self-storage net operating income is a result of a $

104.6

million increase in our Same Store Facilities and a $

34.5

million increase in our Non Same Store Facilities.  Revenues for the Same Store Facilities increased

5.8

% or $11

7.6

million in the

year ended December 31, 2016 as compared to 2015, due primarily

to higher realized annual rent per occupied square foot.  Cost of operations for the Same Store Facilities increased by 2.5% or $13.1 million in the year ended December 31, 2016 as compared to 2015, due primarily to increased property taxes, on-site

property manager payroll and repairs and maintenance, offset partially by lower snow removal costs.  The increase in net operating income for the Non Same Store Facilities is du

e primarily to the impact of 295

self-storage facilities acqui

red, developed or expanded in 2015 and 2016

.


Funds from Operations and Core Funds from Operations

Funds from Operations (“FFO”) and FFO per share are non-GAAP measures defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts and are considered helpful measures of REIT performance by REITs and many REIT analysts.  FFO represents net income before real estate depreciation, which is excluded because it is based upon historical real estate costs and assumes that building values diminish ratably over time, while we believe that real estate values fluctuate due to market conditions.  FFO also excludes gains or losses on sale of real estate assets and real estate impairment charges, which are also based upon historical real estate costs and are impacted by historical depreciation.  FFO and FFO per share are not a substitute for net income or earnings per share.  FFO is not a substitute for GAAP net cash flow in evaluating our liquidity or ability to pay dividends, because it excludes investing and financing activities presented on our statements of cash flows.  In addition, other REITs may compute these measures differently, so comparisons among REITs may not be helpful.

For

each of

the year

s

ended December 31, 2017

and 2016

,

FFO was $

9.70

per diluted

common share

,

as compared to $8.79 for the same period in 2015, representing an increase

in 2016

of 10.4%, or $0.91 per diluted common share.

The following tables reconcile diluted earnings per share to FFO per share and set forth the computation of FFO per share:

We also present “Core FFO per share,” a non-GAAP measure that represents FFO per share excluding the impact of (i) foreign currency exchange gains and losses, (ii) EITF D-42 charges related to the redemption of preferred securities, (iii) reversals of accruals with respect to share based awards forfeited by executive officers and (iv) certain


other non-cash and/or nonrecurring income or expense items.  We review Core FFO per share to evaluate our ongoing operating performance, and we believe it is used by investors and REIT analysts in a similar manner.  However, Core FFO per share is not a substitute for net income per share.  Because other REITs may not compute Core FFO per share in the same manner as we do, may not use the same terminology or may not present such a measure, Core FFO per share may not be comparable among REITs.

The following table reconciles FFO per share to Core FFO per share:

﻿

Analysis of Net Income by Reportable Segment

The following discussion and analysis is presented and organized in accordance with

Note 11 to

our December 31, 2017 financial statements, “Segment Information.”  Accordingly, refer to the tables presented in Note 11 in order to reconcile such amounts to our total net income and for further information on our reportable segments.

Self-Storage Operations

Our self-storage operations are analyzed in two

groups: (i) the 2,042 facilities

that we have owned and operated on a stabilized basis since January 1, 2015 (the “Same Store Facilities”), and (ii) all other facilities, which are newly acquired, newly developed, or recently redeveloped (the “Non Same Store Facilities”).  See

Note 11 to

our December 31, 2017 financial statements “Segment Information,” for a reconciliation of the amounts in the tables below to our total net income.


﻿

﻿

(a)

Net operating income or “NOI” is a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes the impact of depreciation and amortization expense, which is based upon historical real estate costs and assumes that building values diminish ratably over time, while we believe that real estate values fluctuate due to market conditions.  We utilize NOI in determining current property values, evaluating property performance, and in evaluating property operating trends.  We believe that investors and analysts utilize NOI in a similar manner.  NOI is not a substitute for net

income, net operating cash flow, or other related GAAP financial measures, in evaluating our operating results.  See Note 11 to our December 31, 2017 financial statements for a reconciliation of NOI to our total net income for all periods presented

.

Net operating income from our self-storage operations has increased

3.7

% in 2017 as compared to 2016 and 8.4

% in 2016 as compared to

2015.  These increases are due to higher revenues in our Same Store Facilities, as well as the acquisition

and development of new facilities and the fill-up of unstabilized facilities.


Same Store Facilities

The Same Store Facilities represent those facilities that have been owned and operated at a stabilized level of occupancy, revenues and cost of operations since January 1, 2015.  We review the operations of our Same Store Facilities, which excludes facilities whose operating trends are significantly affected by factors such as casualty events, as well as recently developed or acquired facilities, to more effectively evaluate the ongoing performance of our self-storage portfolio in 2015, 2016, and 2017.  We believe the Same Store information is used by investors and analysts in a similar

manner.  The following table summarizes the historical operating results of these 2,042 facilities (

130.3

million net rentable square feet) that

represent approximately 82

% of the aggregate net rentable square feet of our U.S. consolidated

self-storage portfolio at December 31, 2017.


(a)

Revenues and cost of operations do not include tenant reinsurance and merchandise sale revenues and expenses generated at the facilities.

(b)

Realized annual rent per occupied square foot is computed by dividing rental income, before late charges and administrative fees, by the weighted average occupied square feet for the period.  Realized annual rent per available square foot (“REVPAF”) is computed by dividing rental income, before late charges and administrative fees, by the total available net rentable square feet for the period.  These measures exclude late charges and administrative fees in order to provide a better measure of our ongoing level of revenue.  Late charges are dependent upon the level of delinquency, and administrative fees are dependent upon the level of move-ins.  In addition, the rates charged for late charges and administrative fees can vary independently from rental rates.  These measures take into consideration promotional discounts, which reduce rental income.

(c)

Annual contract rent represents the agreed upon monthly rate that is paid by our tenants in place at the time of measurement.   Contract rates are initially set in the lease agreement upon move-in, and we adjust them from time to time with notice.  Contract rent excludes other fees that are charged on a per-item basis, such as late charges and administrative fees, does not reflect the impact of promotional discounts, and does not reflect the impact of rents that are written off as uncollectible.

Analysis of Same Store Revenue

Revenues generated by our Same Store Facilities increased by

3.0

%

in 2017

as compared to

2016 and by

5.8%

in 2016

as compared to 2015

, due primarily to increases of 3.

9% and 5.8% in 2017 and 2016, respectively

, as compared to the year prior

for the respective periods in realized annual rental income per occupied square foot.

Year-over-year growth in our Same Store revenues has declined from 5.


% in


as compared to 2015, to

3.0

% in 2017 as compared to 2016.

Growth trends were

decelerating

throughout 2017, with year over year revenue growth at 4.0% for the three months ended March 31, 2017, 3.4% for the three

months ended June 30, 2017, 2.4

% for the three months ended September 30, 2017, and 2.1% for the three months ended December 31, 2017.

We are experiencing softness in demand in substantially all of our major markets, which has led to lower move-in volumes combined with a lack of pricing power with respect to new tenants.  We attribute some of this softness to local economic conditions and, in some markets most notably Atlanta, Austin, Charlotte, Chicago, Dallas, Denver, Houston, and New York, increased supply of newly constructed self-storage facilities.

Same Store weighted average square foot occupancy

remained strong at

93.8%, 94.5

% and 94.


%

during 2017, 2016 and 2015

, respectively

, as move-out volumes declined in 2017, partially offsetting lower move-in volume.

We believe that high occupancies help maximize our rental income.  We seek to maintain a weighted average square foot occupancy level of at least 90%, by regularly adjusting the rental rates and promotions offered to attract new tenants as well as adjusting our marketing efforts on both television and the Internet in order to generate sufficient move-in volume to replace tenants that vacate.

Increasing rental rates to existing tenants, generally on an annual basis, is a key component of our revenue growth.  We determine the level of rental increases based upon our expectations regarding the impact of existing tenant rate increases on incremental move-outs.  Rental rate increases to existing tenants in


have

been similar to

2016, and we expect rate increases to existing tenants in 201


to be similar to 201


.

Annual contract rent per occupied foot increased

3.0

% from

Dec

ember 3


, 2016 to

Dec

ember 3


, 2017, as compared to a 4.9% increase from December 31, 2015 to December 31, 2016.  These year-over-year increases were primarily driven by annual rate increases given to existing tenants, partially offset by the net impact of replacing vacating tenants with new tenants with lower contract rates, or “rent roll down.”  The reduction in the year over year growth in average contract rent per occupied foot to

3.0

% from 4.9% is due primarily to a greater degree of rent roll down.

During 2017

and 2016

, the

annual

contract rent

for tenants who moved in

was flat at $14.67

per foot, and the

annual

contract rent for tenants who moved out increased

2.8

% to $16.


per foot as compared to $1

5.66

per foot for


.

During 2016, the

annual

contract rent for tenants who moved in

in

creased

1.4

% to $

14.67

per foot as compared to $

14.47

in 2015, and the

annual

contract rent for tenants who moved out increased

4.1

% to $

15.66

per foot as compared to $

15.05

per

foot for 2015

.


In order to stimulate move-in volume, we often give promotional discounts, generally in the form of a “$1.00 rent for the first month” offer.  Promotional

discounts, based upon the move-in contractual rates for the related promotional period, totaled

$

83.6

million,

$

87.1

million and $

86.6

million

for

2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and are recorded as a reduction to revenue.

Demand is higher in the summer months than in the winter months and, as a result, rental rates charged to new tenants are typically higher in the summer months than in the winter months.  Demand fluctuates due to various local and regional factors, including the overall economy.  Demand into our system is also impacted by new supply of self-storage space as well as alternatives to self-storage.

We believe rental growth in


will

come primarily from continued annual rent increases to existing tenants.  Our future rental growth will also be dependent upon many factors for each market that we operate in, including demand for self-storage space, the level of new supply of self-storage space and the average length of stay of our tenants.

We believe that the current trends in move-in, move-out, in place contractual rents and occupancy levels are consistent with

continued moderate revenue growth in 2018

.

However, there can be no assurance of continued revenue growth, because current trends, when viewed in the short-run, are volatile and not necessarily predictive of our revenues going forward because they are subject to many short-term factors.

Such factors include initial move-in rates, seasonal factors, the unit size and geographical mix of the specific tenants moving in or moving out, the length of stay of the tenants moving in or moving out, changes in our pricing strategies,

the level of consumer demand, competition from newly developed facilities,

and the degree and timing of rate increases previously passed to existing tenants.

We are taking a number of actions to improve demand into our system, including (i) increasing marketing spend on the Internet, and (ii) reducing rental rates and continuing to offer promotional discounts to new tenants.  Even if these actions are successful in improving demand into our system, in at least the near term, we believe these actions may have a negative impact on our revenue trends due to less growth in initial rental rates and increased promotional discounts.

Analysis of Same Store Cost of Operations

Cost of operations (excluding depreciation and amortization) increased 3.4% in 2017 as compared to 2016, due primarily to increased property tax expense,

advertising and selling expense, and

repairs and maintenance expense

(excluding snow removal cost), partially offset by reduced snow removal cost.

Cost of operations increased by 2.5% in 2016 as compared to 2015, due primarily to

increased property tax expense, on

-site property manager payroll

,

and

repairs and maintenance expense (excluding snow removal cost), partially offset by reduced snow removal cost.

Property tax expense increased 4.


% in 201


as compared to 201


and by 4.


% in 201


as compared to 201


, due primarily to higher assessed values.  We expect property tax expense growth of approximately 4.5% in


due primarily to higher assessed values and changes in tax rates.

On-site property manager payroll expense increased

1.0

% in 201


as compared to 201


due primarily to higher wage rates

and by

3.4

% in 201


as compared to 201


, due primarily to reductions in prior estimates of workers compensation costs recorded in 2015, higher employee health care expenses experienced in 2016 and higher wage rates.  We expect on-site property manager payroll expense to increase on an inflationary basis in 201


.

Supervisory payroll expense, which represents compensation paid to the management personnel who directly and indirectly supervise the on-site property managers, increased

2.9

% in 201


as compared to 201


and

in 2016

as compared to 201


, due primarily to higher wage rates

and increased headcount

.  We expect inflationary increases in wage rates and

stable

headcount in 201


.


Repairs and maintenance expense

inc

reased

4.8

% in 201


as compared to 201


and

decreased 5.5

% in 201


as compared to 201


.  Repair and maintenance costs include snow removal expense totaling $


.1 million, $

4.2

million and $

9.8

million in 201


, 201


and 201


, respectively.  Excluding snow removal costs, repairs and maintenance increased

8.2

% in 201


as compared to 201


and

8.0

% in 201


as compared to 201


.

Repairs and maintenance expense levels are dependent upon many factors such as weather conditions, which can impact repair and maintenance needs including snow removal, inflation in material and labor costs, and random events.  We expect inflationary increases in repairs and maintenance expense in 201


, excluding snow removal expense, which is primarily weather dependent and not predictable.

Our utility expenses are comprised primarily of electricity costs, which are dependent upon energy prices and usage levels.  Changes in usage levels are driven primarily by weather and temperature.  Utility expense decreased

0.7

% in 201


as compared to 201


and

3.5

% in 201


as compared to 201


.  The decrease in 2016 over 2015 is due primarily to lower usage as a result of milder weather.  It is difficult to estimate future utility costs, because weather, temperature, and energy prices are volatile and not predictable.

Advertising and selling expense is comprised principally of Internet advertising, television advertising and the operating costs of our telephone reservation center.  Advertising and selling expense varies based upon demand, occupancy levels, and other factors.  Television and Internet advertising, in particular, can increase or decrease significantly in the short term.  Advertising an

d selling expenses increased 10.1

% in 201


as compared to 201


due primarily to increased Internet marketing expenditures.  Advertising and selling expenses increased 0.4

% in 201


as compared to 201


.

We expect

moderate

increases in advertising and selling expense in 2018

.

Other direct property costs include administrative expenses incurred at the self-storage facilities, such as property insurance, business license costs, bank charges related to processing the facilities’ cash receipts, credit card fees, and the cost of operatin

g each property’s rental office.

These costs increased 3.7% in 201


as compared to 201


and

3.6

% in 201


as compared to 201


.  The increases were due primarily to higher credit card fees,

due to a higher proportion of collections being received from credit cards and higher revenues.

We expect

inflationary

increases in other direct property costs in 201


.

Allocated overhead represents administrative expenses for shared general corporate functions, which are allocated to self-storage property operations to the extent their efforts are devoted to self-storage operations.  Such functions include

information technology

, human resources, operational accounting and finance, marketing, and costs of senior executives (other than the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, which are included in general and administrative expense).

Allocated overhead increased 5.1% in 2017 as compared to 2016, due to increased headcount

and information technology expenses,

offset partially by the timing of our annual sales conference.

Allocated overhead increased 4.

5% in 2016 as compared to 2015

due primarily to additional costs of our annual field staff sales meetings and

increased compensation costs.

We expect greater than inflationary increases in allocated overhead in 2018 due primarily to increased information technology expenses

.

Analysis of Same Store Depreciation and Amortization

Depreciation and amortization for Sam

e Store Facilities decreased 1.5

%

in 2017 as compared to 2016

and

4.8

% in


as compared to


.  We expect depreciation to be flat in


as compared to 201


.

The following table summarizes selected quarterly financial data with respect to the Same Store Facilities:


﻿


Analysis of

Market

Trends

The following table sets forth

selected market

trends in our Same Store Facilities:

﻿

﻿


﻿

﻿


﻿

﻿

We believe that our geographic diversification and scale provide some insulation from localized economic effects and add to the stability of our cash flows.  It is difficult to predict localized trends in short-term self-storage demand and operating results.  Over the long run, we believe that markets that experience population growth, high employment, and otherwise exhibit economic strength and consistency will outperform markets that do not exhibit these characteristics.

Non Same Store Facilities

The Non Same Store Facilities at

December 31

, 2017 represent 3


facilities that were not stabilized with respect to occupancies or rental rates since January 1, 2015, or that we did not own as of January 1, 2015.  As a result of the stabilization process and timing of when facilities were newly acquired or development activities were completed, year-over-year changes can be significant.

The following table summarizes operating data with respect to the Non Same Store Facilities:

﻿


﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿


﻿

The facilities included above under “2017 acquisitions” include 22 facilities acquired from third parties in 2017 at an aggregate cost of $149.8 million, and 12 stabilized facilities previously owned by a legacy institutional partnership.  We began consolidating the 12 facilities effective December 31, 2017 when we acquired the remaining 74.25% interest that we did not own in the partnership for $135.5 million.

For periods prior to December 31, 2017, o

ur existing 25.75% interest in the partnership was reflected as Equity in Earnings of Real Estate Entities, and fees f

or managing these properties were

included in Interest and Other Income on our income statements.

The facilities under “2016 acquisitions” and “2015 acquisitions” were acquired from third parties at a cost of $429.1 million and $168.8 million, respectively.

For the

year

ended

Dece

mber 3


, 2017, the weighted average annualized yield on cost, based upon net operating income, for the facilities acquired in each of 2016 and

2015 was

5.3

% and

6.9

%, respectively.  The yields for the facilities acquired in the

year

ended

Dec

ember 3


, 2017 were not meaningful due to our limited ownership period.

We believe that our management and operating infrastructure allows us to generate higher net operating income from newly acquired facilities than was achieved by the previous owners.  However, it can take 24 or more months for us to fully achieve the higher net operating income, and the ultimate levels of net operating income to be achieved can be affected by changes in general economic conditions.  As a result, there can be no assurance that we will achieve our expectations with respect to these newly acquired facilities.

Since the beginning of 2013, we have opened newly developed facilities with a total cost of $

678.6

million and redeveloped existing facilities, expanding their square footage, for a total cost of $


.8 million.  The newly developed facilities are included in “Developed facilities” and the redeveloped facilities are included in “Other facilities” in the table above.  We believe that our real estate development activities are beneficial to our business over the long run.  However, in the short run, development activities dilute our earnings due

to the three to four year period to reach a stabilized level of cash flows and the cost of capital to fund development, combined with general and administrative expenses associated with development.  We believe this dilution will increase in




because of an increased level of net rentable square feet being added to our portfolio.

We expect the Non Same Store Facilities to continue to provide increased net operating income in 201


as these facilities approach stabilized occupancy levels and the earnings of the 2017 acquisitions are reflected in our operations for a longer period in 201


as compared to 201


.


We also expect to increase the number and net rentable square feet of Non Same Store Facilities through development of new self-storage facilities, redevelopment of existing facilities and acquisitions of facilities.

As of

December 31

, 2017, we had development and redevelopment projects which will add approximately

4.6

million net rentable square feet of storage space at a total cost of approximately $

613.8

million.  Some of these projects are subject to significant contingencies such as entitlement approval.  We expect to continue to seek additional development projects; however, the level of future development may be limited due to various constraints such as difficulty in finding projects that meet our risk-adjusted yield expectations and challenges in obtaining building permits for self-storage activities in certain municipalities.

Subsequent to

December 31

, 2017, we acquired or were under contract to acquire

(subject to customary closing conditions)

two

self-storage facilities for $

18.3

million.  We will continue to seek to acquire properties; however, there is significant competition to acquire existing facilities and therefore the dollar value of acquisitions is unpredictable.

Depreciation and amortization with respect to the Non Same Store Facilities totaled

$102.5 million, $76.1 million

and $

50.6

million

in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively

.  These amounts include i) depreciation of the buildings acquired or developed, which is recorded generally on a straight line basis, and ii) amortization of cost allocated to the tenants in place upon acquisition of a facility, which is recorded based upon the benefit of such existing tenants to each period and thus is highest when the facility is first acquired and declines as such tenants vacate.  With respect to Non Same Store Facilities owned at

Dece

mber 3


, 2017, depreciation of buildings and amortization of tenant intangibles is expected to

total $

100.8

million and $

12.0

million, respectively

, in


.  The level of future depreciation and amortization will also depend upon the level of acquisitions of facilities and the level of newly developed storage space.

Ancillary Operations

Ancillary revenues and expenses include amounts associated with the reinsurance of policies against losses to goods stored by tenants in our self-storage facilities in the U.S. and the sale of merchandise at our self-storage facilities.  The following table sets forth our ancillary operations:

﻿

﻿

Tenant reinsurance operations:

Our

tenants have the option of purchasing insurance from a non-affiliated insurance company to cover certain losses to their goods stored at our facilities.  A wholly-owned, consolidated subsidiary of Public Storage fully reinsures such policies, and thereby assumes all risk of losses under these policies


from the insurance company.  The subsidiary receives reinsurance premiums, substantially equal to the premiums collected from our tenants, from the non-affiliated insurance company.  Such reinsurance premiums are shown as “Tenant reinsurance premiums” in the above table.

The subsidiary pays a fee to Public Storage to assist with the administration of the program and to allow the insurance to be marketed to our tenants.  This fee represents a substantial amount of the reinsurance premiums received by our subsidiary.  The fee is eliminated in consolidation and is therefore not shown in the above table.

Tenant reinsurance revenue

increased from $109.8 million in 2015 to $118.9 million in 2016, and to $122.9 million in 2017, due primarily to an increase in our tenant base due to newly acquired and developed facilities

and, with respect to the increase from 2015 to 2016, increased average premiums per insured tenant resulting from higher average policy limits

.

We expect

future

growth will come primarily from tenants of newly acquired and developed facilities, as well as additional tenants at our existing unstabilized self-storage facilities.

Cost of operations primarily includes claims paid that are not covered by our outside third-party insurers, as well as claims adjustment expenses.  Claims expenses vary based upon the level of insured tenants, and the level events affecting claims at particular properties (such as burglary) as well as catastrophic weather events affecting multiple properties such as hurricanes and floods.  Cost of operations increased from $26.0 million in 2015, to $29.1 million in 2016, and to $30.6 million in 2017.  Amounts for 2016 includes flooding in Houston and South Carolina, while claims cost for 2017 i

ncludes the impact of Hurricane

s

Harvey and

Irma

.

Merchandise sales:

We sell locks, boxes, and packing supplies at our self-storage facilities, and the level of sales of these items is primarily impacted by the level of move-ins and other customer traffic at our self-storage facilities.  We do not expect any significant changes in revenues or profitability from our merchandise sales in


.

Equity in earnings of unconsolidated real estate entities

At December 31, 2017, we have equity investments in PSB and Shurgard Europe, which we account for on the equity method and record our pro-rata share of the net income of these entities for each period.

The following table, and the discussion below, sets forth the significant components of our equity in earnings of unconsolidated real estate entities:

﻿

(a)

This represents our equity earnings in a legacy institutional partnership.  On December 31, 2017, we acquired the 74.25% interest that we did not own in this partnership for $135.5 million.  As a result, no further equity earnings will be recorded.

Investment in PSB:

At

December 31, 2017 and

2016, we had approximately a 42% common equity interest in PS Business Parks, Inc. (“PSB”), comprised of our ownership of 7,158,354 shares of PSB’s common stock

and 7,305,355 limited partnership units in an operating partnership controlled by PSB.  The limited partnership units are convertible at our option, subject to certain conditions, on a one-for-one basis into PSB common stock.


At

Dec

ember 3


, 2017, PSB wholly-owned approximately 28 million rentable square feet of commercial space

and had an interest in 395 apartments

.  PSB also manages commercial space that we own pursuant to property management agreements.

Equity in

earnings from PSB increased $14.8

million in 2017, as compared to 2016

,

due primarily to improved real estate facility operating results, reduced depreciation expense, a g

ain on sale of real estate in

2017, and lower interest expense due to the repayment of debt.

Equity in earnings from PSB decreased $2.4 million in 2016 as compared to 2015, due primarily to our $11.3 million equity share of gains on dispositions recorded by PSB in 2015, offset partially by our equity share of improved property operations.

See Note 4 to our

December 31

, 2017 financial statements for selected financial information on PSB, as well as PSB’s filings and selected financial information that can be accessed through the SEC, and on PSB’s website,

www.psbusinessparks.com

.

Investment in Shurgard Europe:

We have a 49% equity share in Shurgard Europe’s net income.  At

December 31

, 2017, Shurgard Europe’s operations are comprised of 2


wholly-owned facilities with 12 million net rentable square feet.  See Note 4 to our

December 31

, 2017 financial statements for selected financial data on Shurgard Europe for the

years ended

Dece

mber 3


, 2017

, 2016

and 201


.  As described in more detail in Note 4, we receive

trademark license fees from Shurgard Europe.

Our equity in earnings from Shurgard Europe increased $3.6 million in 2017 as compared to 2016, and $8.1 million in 2016 as compared to 2015, due primarily to improved same-store operating results and increased earnings from newly acquired properties.

In 2017, Shurgard Europe opened two newly developed facilities in the United Kingdom with a

n aggregate

total cost of $

28.8

million.

In 2016, Shurgard Europe opened a newly developed facility in the United Kingdom with a total cost of $12.9 million and in 2015, Shurgard Europe opened three newly developed facilities in the United Kingdom with a total cost of $39.4 million

.

In

June

2015, Shurgard Europe acquired 21 facilities in the Netherlands (0.9 million net rentable square feet), for approximately $146 million (€132 million)

.

In each of July 2014 and June 2015, Shurgard Europe issued €300 million of unsecured senior notes in various tranches due between July 2021 and June 2030, with an average interest rate of

approximately 2.9%.

Unlike our operations in the

U.S.

, Shurgard Europe operates through taxable corporations in each of the countries in which it does business and incurs tax expense.  Our equity share of such income tax expense was approximately $8.6 million, $5.2 million and $5.3 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.

For purposes of recording our equity in earnings from Shurgard Europe, the Euro was translated at exchange rates of approximately 1.


U.S. Dollars per Euro at December 31, 2017 (1.


at December 31, 2016), and average exchange rates of 1.129 for 2017, 1.107 for 2016

and 1.110 for 2015.

Our future earnings from Shurgard Europe will be affected primarily by the operating results of its existing facilities, the exchange rate between the U.S. Dollar and currencies in the countries in which Shurgard Europe conducts its business (principally the Euro), the impact of income taxes, and the degree to which Shurgard Europe reinvests the cash it generates from operations into real estate investments or distributes the amounts to its shareholders.


Analysis of items not allocated to segments

General and administrative expense:

The following table sets forth our general and administrative expense:

﻿

Share-based compensation expense includes the amortization of restricted share units and stock options granted to employees and trustees, as well as related employer taxes.  Share-based compensation expense varies based upon the level of grants and

their related vesting and amortization periods,

forfeitures

,

as well as the Company’s common share price on the date of grant.  Share-based compensation costs in


include a $5.4 million reversal of previously amortized costs, due to the forfeiture of share-based compensation resulting from the retirement of certain senior executives in the quarter ended June 30, 2017.

We expect a $2

3.6

million increase in share-based compensation expense in 2018 with respect to share-based grants to our Chief Executive Officer ("CEO") and Chief Financial Officer ("CFO") as of December 31, 2017, who are expected to retire at the end of 2018 and then serve as Trustees of the Company for the foreseeable future.  While the actual vesting of such share-based compensation will not accelerate, and will continue to vest under the original schedule only if they continue to serve as trustees, GAAP indicates that the respective service periods for their previous grants while CEO and CFO effectively end on the date of their retirement as CEO and CFO.  As a result

,

the remaining unamortized expense on outstanding grants at December 31, 2017 will be recognized through December 31, 2018

, increasing 2018 expense $23.6 million above what it would have been without the acceleration of amortization

.  Any additional grants to our CEO and CFO in 2018 will also be amortized through December 31, 2018 and further increase our share-based compensation expense for 2018.

See Note

10 to our December 31

, 2017 financial statements for further information on our share-based compensation.

Costs of senior executives represent the cash compensation paid to our chief executive officer and chief financial officer.

Development and acquisition costs primarily represent internal and external expenses related to our development activities and the acquisition of real estate facilities and varies primarily based upon the level of development activities undertaken.  The amounts in the above table are net of

$9

.4 million,

$

8.5

million and $

8.1

million for



7, 2016 and 2015, respectively

, in development costs that were capitalized to newly developed and redeveloped self-storage facilities.  Development and acquisition costs are expected to increase modestly in


.

Tax compliance costs and taxes paid include taxes paid to various state and local authorities, the internal and external costs of filing tax returns, costs associated with complying with federal and state tax laws, and maintaining our compliance with Internal Revenue Service REIT rules.  Such costs vary primarily based upon the tax rates of the various states in which we do business.

Legal costs include internal personnel as well as fees paid to legal firms and other third parties with respect to general corporate legal matters and risk management, and varies based upon the level of legal activity.

The decrease of $11.1 million in 2016 as compared to 2015, is due primarily to legal fees and expenses associated with certain


litigated matters in 2015, including $3.5 million accrued in 2015 in connection with the settlement of a legal matter.

The future level of legal costs is not determinable.

Public company costs represent the incremental costs of operating as a publicly-traded company, such as internal and external investor relations expenses, stock listing and transfer agent fees, board of trustees’ (our “Board”) costs, and costs associated with maintaining compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

Other costs represent professional and consulting fees, payroll and overhead that are not directly attributable to our property operations.  Such costs vary depending upon the level of corporate activities and initiatives and, as such, are not predictable.

Our future general and administrative expenses are difficult to estimate, due to their dependence upon many factors, including those noted above.

Interest and other income

:

Interest and other income is comprised primarily of the net income from our commercial operations and property management operations and to a lesser extent interest earned on cash balances, trademark license fees received from Shurgard Europe, as well as sundry other income items that are received from time to time in varying amounts.  Amounts attributable to our commercial operations and property management operati

ons totaled $10.


million, $10.6

million and $12.


million in 201


, 201


and 201


, respectively.

We do not expect any significant changes in interest and other income in


.

Interest expense:

For 2017, 2016 and 2015, we incurred $17.1 million, $9.4 million, and $3.3 million

, respectively,

of interest on our outstanding debt.

In determining interest expense, these amounts were offset by capitalize

d interest of $4.4 million, $5.1

million and $2.7 million during 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively,

associated with our development activities.

On September 18, 2017, we completed a public offering of

$1.0 billion notes (the “U.S. Dollar Notes”) bearing an average annual interest rate of 2.732%.

At

December 31

, 2017, we had $1.4 billion of debt outstanding, with an average interest rate of 2.6

%.  See Note 6 to our

December 31

, 2017 financial statements for further information on our debt balances.  Future interest expense will be dependent upon the level of outstanding debt and the amount of in-process development costs.

Foreign Exchange Gain (Loss):

For 2017, we recorded

a

fore

ign currency translation loss

of $

50.0

million representing the change in the U.S. Dollar equivalent of our Euro-denominated unsecured notes due to

fluctuations in exchange rates (gains of $17.6 million and $306,000 for 2016 and 2015, respectively).

The Euro was translated at exchange rates of approximately 1.


U.S. Dollars per Euro at

Dece

mber 3


, 2017, 1.052 at December 31, 2016

and 1.091 at December 31, 2015

.  Future gains and losses on foreign currency

translation will be dependent upon changes in the relative value of the Euro to the U.S. Dollar, and the level of Euro-denominated debt outstanding.

Casualty Loss:

During 2017, we incurred a

$7.8 million casualty loss

with respect to damage to several of our facilities caused by

Hurricanes Harvey and Irma.

Gain on Real Estate

Investment

Sales:

In 2017

, 2016

and 2015, we

recorded gains tot

aling $1.4 million, $689,000

and $18.5 million, respectively, primarily in connection with the partial sale of real estate facilities pursuant to eminent domain proceedings

.

Net Income Allocable to Preferred Shareholders:

Net income allocable to preferred shareholders based upon distributions decreased in

2017 as compared to


and in 2016

as compared to 2015

,

due primarily to lower average rates

offset partially by higher weighted average preferred shares outstanding

.  We also allocated $

29.3 million,

$

26.9 million

and $8.9 million

of income from our common shareholders to the holders of our

p

referred

s

hares in

2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively,

in connection with the redemption of our

p

referr

ed shares.

Based upon our preferred shares outstanding at December 31, 201


, our quarterly distribution to our preferred shareholders is

expected to be approximately $54

.1 million.


Liquidity and Capital Resources

﻿

Financing Strategy:

As a REIT, we generally distribute 100% of our taxable income to our shareholders, which relative to a taxable C corporation, limits the amount of cash flow from operations that we can retain for investments.  As a result, in order to grow our asset base, access to capital is important.  Historically we have primarily financed our cash investment activities with retained operating cash flow combined with the proceeds from the issuance of preferred securities.  Over the past

two years

, we

have diversified

our capital sources by issuing medium term debt.

Our financial profile is characterized by strong credit metrics, including low leverage relative to our total capitalization and operating cash flows.  We are one of the highest rated REITs, as rated by major rating agencies Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s.  Our unsecured debt has an “A” credit rating by Standard & Poor’s and “A2” by Moody’s.  Our credit ratings on each of our series of preferred shares are “A3” by Moody’s and “BBB+” by Standard & Poor’s.  Our credit profile and ratings enables us to effectively access both the public and private capital markets to raise capital.

We have a $500.0 million revolving line of credit which we occasionally use as temporary “bridge” financing until we are able to raise longer term capital.  As of December 31, 2017 and

February 28,

2018, there were no borrowings outstanding on the revolving line of credit, however,

we do have approximately $1


.


million of outstanding letters of credit which limits our borrowing capacity to $

483.9

million

.

Over the long-term, we expect to fund our capital requirements with retained operating cash flow, the issuance of additional medium or long term debt, and proceeds from the issuance of common and preferred securities.  We will select among these sources of capital based upon availability, relative cost, the desire for leverage,

refinancing risk,

and considering potential constraints caused by certain features of capital sources, such as debt covenants.

Liquidity and Capital Resource Analysis:

We believe that our net cash provided by our operating activities will continue to be sufficient to enable us to meet our ongoing requirements for principal payments on debt, maintenance capital expenditures, and distributions to our shareholders for the foreseeable future.

As of December 31, 2017, our capital resources over the next year are expected to be approximately

$1.2 billion

which exceeds our current planned capital needs over the next year of

approximately $378.9

million

.  Our capital resources

include: (i) $433.4 million of cash as of December 31, 2017, (ii) $483.9

million of available borrowing capacity on our revolving line of credit, and (iii)

approximately

$200 million to

$30


million of expected retained operating cash flow for the next twelve months.  Retained operating cash flow represents our expected cash flow provided by operating activities, less shareholder distributions and capital expenditures to maintain our real estate facilities.

Our planned capital needs over the next year

consist

of (i) $349.4

million of remaining spend on our current development pipeline, (ii) $18.3 million in property acquisitions currently under contract, and (iii) $11.2 million

in principal repayments on existing debt.  Our capital needs may increase over the next year as we expect to increase our development pipeline and acquire additional properties.  In addition to other investment activities, we may also redeem outstanding preferred securities or repurchase shares of our common stock in the future.

To the extent our retained operating cash flow

, cash on hand,

and line of credit are insufficient to fund our activities, we believe we have a variety of possibilities to raise additional capital including issuing common or preferred securities, issuing debt, or entering into joint venture arrangements to acquire or develop facilities.

Required

Debt Repayments:

As of December 31, 2017, our outstanding debt totaled approximately $1.4 billion, consisting of $

29.2

million of secured debt, $

409.7

million of Euro-denominated unsecured debt and $

1.0

billion of U.S. Dollar denominated

unsecured debt.  Approximate principal maturities are as follows (amounts in thousands):


﻿

﻿

Capital Expenditure Requirements:

Capital expenditures include general maintenance, major repairs or replacements to elements of our facilities to keep our facilities in good operating condition and maintain their visual appeal.  Capital expenditures do not include costs relating to the development of new facilities or redevelopment of existing facilities to increase their available rentable square footage.

Capital expenditures

totaled $

124.8

million

in 2017 and are expected to be

approximately

$100

million in 2018.

However, we are evaluating the potential upgrade of climate control, offices, lighting, and elevator units in certain facilities, which could result in additional capital expenditure amounts in 2018.

For the last four years, capital expenditures have ranged between approximately $0.45 and $0.


per

net rentable square foot per year.

Requirement to Pay Distributions:

For all periods presented herein, we have elected to be treated as a REIT, as defined in the Code.  As a REIT, we do not incur federal income tax on our REIT taxable income (generally, net rents and gains from real property, dividends, and interest) that is fully distributed each year (for this purpose, certain distributions paid in a subsequent year may be considered), and if we meet certain organizational and operational rules.  We believe we have met these requirements in all periods presented herein, and we expect to continue to elect and

qualify as a REIT.

Distributions paid during 2017 totaled $

1.6

billion, consisting of $

236.5

million to preferred shareholders and $

1.4

billion to common shareholders and restricted share unitholders.  All of these distributions were REIT qualifying distributions.

We estimate the annual distribution requirements with respect to our Preferred Shares outstanding at December 31,



, to be approximately $

216.3

million per year.

On February 2


, 201


, our Board declared a regular common quarterly

dividend of $2.00 per

common share.  Our consistent, long-term dividend policy has been to distribute only our taxable income.  Future quarterly distributions with respect to the common shares will continue to be determined based upon our REIT distribution requirements after taking into consideration distributions to the preferred shareholders and will be funded with cash provided by operating activities.

We estimate we will pay

approximately $8.0 million

per year in distributions to noncontrolling interests outstanding at December 31, 2017.

Real Estate Investment Activities:

Subsequent to December 31, 2017, we acquired or were under contract to acquire (subject to customary

closing conditions)

two

self-storage facilities for $

18.3

million.  We will continue to seek to acquire properties; however, there is significant competition to acquire existing facilities and there can be no assurance as to the level of facilities we may acquire.

As of December 31, 2017 we had development and redevelopment projects at a total cost of approximately $

613.8

million.  A total of $

264.4

million of these costs were incurred through December 31, 2017, with the remaining cost to complete of $

349.4

million expected to be incurred primarily in the next 18 months.  Some of these projects are subject to significant contingencies such as entitlement approval.  We expect to continue to seek additional projects; however, the level of future development and redevelopment may be limited due to various constraints such


as difficulty in finding projects that

meet our risk-adjusted yield expectations and challenges in obtaining building permits for self-storage activities in certain municipalities.

Redemption of Preferred Securities

: Historically, we have taken advantage of refinancing higher coupon preferred securities with lower coupon preferred securities.  In the future, we may also elect to finance the redemption of preferred securities with proceeds from the issuance of debt.  As of

February 28,

2018, we have

four

series of preferred securities that are eligible for redemption, at our option and with 30 days’ notice; our 5

.625% Series U Preferred Shares

with $287.5 million outstanding, our 5.375% Series V Preferred Shares with $495.0 million outstanding

,

our 5.200% Series W Preferred Shares with $500.0 million outstanding

and our 5.200% Series X Preferred Shares with $225.0 million outstanding

.  Redemption of such preferred shares will depend upon many factors.  None of our preferred securities are redeemable at the option of the holders.

Repurchases of Common Shares

: Our Board has authorized management to repurchase up to 35,000,000 of our common shares on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions.  During 2017, we did not repurchase any of our common shares.  From the inception of the repurchase program through

February 28,

2018, we have repurchased a total of 23,721,916 common shares at an aggregate cost of approximately $679.1 million.  Future levels of common share repurchases will be dependent upon our available capital, investment alternatives and the trading price of our common shares.

Contractual Obligations

Our significant contractual

obligations at December 31, 2017

and their impact on our cash flows and liquidity are summarized below for the years ending December 31 (amounts in thousands):

﻿

﻿

(1)

Represents contractual principal and interest payments.  Amounts with respect to certain Euro-denominated debt are based upon exchange rates at December 31, 2017.  See

Note 6 to

our December 31, 2017 financial statements for further information.

(2)

Represents future contractual payments on land, equipment and office space under various operating leases.

(3)

Represents future expected

payments for construction

under contract at December 31, 2017.

We estimate the annual distribution requirements with respect to our Preferred Shares outstanding at December 31, 2017 to be

approximately $216.3 million

per year.  Dividends are paid when and if declared by our Board and accumulate if not paid.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

: At December 31, 2017, we had no material off-balance sheet arrangements as defined under Regulation S-K 303(a)(4) and the instructions thereto.


ITEM 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

To limit our exposure to market risk, we are capitalized primarily with preferred and common equity.  Our preferred shares are redeemable at our option generally five years after issuance, but the holder has no redemption

option.  Our debt is our only market-risk sensitive portion of our capital structure, which totals approximately $1.4 billion and represents 16.0%

of the book value of our equity at December 31, 2017.

We have foreign currency exposure at December

31, 2017 related to i) our investment in Shurgard Europe, with a book value of $

324.0

million and ii) €342.0 million ($

409.7

million) of

Euro-denominated unsecured notes payable.

The fair value of our fixed rate debt at December 31, 2017 is

approximately $1.4 billion

.  The table below summarizes the annual maturities of our fixed rate debt, which had a weighted

average effective rate of 2.6% at December 31, 2017.  See Note 6 to our December 31, 2017 financial statements for further information regarding

our fixed rate debt (amounts in thousands).

﻿

﻿

﻿


ITEM 9A.

Controls and Procedures

Conclusion Regarding the Effectiveness of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

We maintain disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports we file and submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in accordance with SEC guidelines and that such information is communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure based on the definition of "disclosure controls and procedures" in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act.  In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognized that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives and management necessarily was required to apply its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures in reaching that level of reasonable assurance.  We also have investments in certain unconsolidated real estate entities and because we do not control these entities, our disclosure controls and procedures with respect to such entities are substantially more limited than those we maintain with respect to our consolidated subsidiaries.

As of December 31, 2017, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act).  Based on that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2017, at a reasonable assurance level.

Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) of the Exchange Act.  Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in

Internal Control-Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee on Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 Framework).  Based on our evaluation under the framework in

Internal Control-Integrated Framework

, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2017.

The effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm. Ernst & Young LLP’s report on our internal control over financial reporting appears below.

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

There have not been any changes in our internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) during the fourth quarter of 2017 to which this report relates that have materially affected, or are reasonable likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.


Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

﻿

﻿

To the Shareholders and Board of Trustees of Public Storage

﻿

Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

﻿

We have audited

Public Storage’s

internal control over financial reporting as of

December 31, 2017

, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission

(2013 framework)

(the COSO criteria). In our opinion, Public Storage (the Company) maintained, in all material aspects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, based on the COSO criteria.

﻿

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the

consolidated balance sheets of Public Storage as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, equity and cash flows, for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2017 and the related notes

and financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a) of

the Company

and our report dated

February 28,


expressed

an unqualified opinion thereon

.

﻿

Basis for Opinion

﻿

The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Security and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

﻿

Definition and Limitations of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

﻿

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.


﻿

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

﻿

﻿

﻿

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

﻿

﻿

Los Angeles, California

February 28,


﻿

﻿


ITEM 9B.

Other Information

None.


PART III

ITEM 10.

Trustees, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

The following is a biographical summary of the current executive officers of the Company:

Ronald L. Havner, Jr

.

, age 60,

has been

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Public Storage since

August 2011 and

November 2002

, respectively.

Mr.

Havner joined Public Storage in 1986 and has held a variety of senior management positions.

Mr. Havner has been Chairman of the Board of Public Storage’s affiliate, PS Business Parks, Inc.

(“

PSB

”)

since

March 1998.

As previously disclosed, effec

tive January 1, 2019,

Mr.

Havner

will step down from his position as CEO.  He will remain Chairman of the Board.

John Reyes

, age 57, has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Public Storage since 1996, having joined the Company in 1990.

Effective January 1, 2019, Mr. Reyes will step down as CFO and will join the Board as a trustee.

Joseph D. Russell, Jr.

, age 58, has been President of Public Storage since July 2016.  Prior to joining Public Storage, Mr. Russell was Chief Executive Officer of PS Business Parks, Inc. from August 2003 to July 2016. Mr. Russell was President of PS Business Parks, Inc. from September 2003 until August 2015.  Mr. Russell has also served as a director of PS Business Parks, Inc. since August 2003.

Effective January 1, 2019, Mr. Russell will be appointed CEO and will join the Board as a trustee, in addition to his role as President.

Lily Y. Hughes

, age 5


, became Senior Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary in January 2015.  Prior to joining Public Storage, Ms. Hughes was Vice President and Associate General Counsel-Corporate, M&A and Finance at Ingram Micro Inc., a Fortune 100 NYSE company with operations in 39 countries, which she joined in 1997.

Other information required by this item is hereby incorporated by reference to the material appearing in the Notice and Proxy Statement for the 2016 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act.

ITEM 11.

Executive Compensation

The information required by this item is hereby incorporated by reference to the material appearing in the Notice and Proxy Statement for the 2018 Annual Meeting of Shareholders,

to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act.


ITEM 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters

The following table sets forth information as of December 31, 201


on the Company’s equity compensation plans:

a)

The Company’s stock option and stock incentive plans are

described more fully in

Note


to the December 31, 2017 financial statements.  All plans were approved by the Company’s shareholders.

b)

Includes

799,129

restricted share units that, if and when vested, will be settled in common shares

of the Company on a one for one basis.

c)

The

re are no

securities

available for future issuance or currently outstanding

under plans not approved by the Company’s shareholders

as of December 31, 2017.

d)

Represents the average exercise price of

2,408,917

stock options outstanding at December 31, 2017.  We also have

799,129

restricted

share units outstanding at December 31, 2017 that vest for no consideration.

Other information required by this item is hereby incorporated by reference to the material appearing in the Notice and Proxy Statement for the 2018 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act.

ITEM 13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Trustee Independence

The information required by this item is hereby incorporated by reference to the material appearing in the Notice and Proxy Statement for the 2018 Annual Meeting of Shareholders,

to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act.

ITEM 14.

Principal Accountant Fees and Services

The information required by this item is hereby incorporated by reference to the material appearing in the Notice and Proxy Statement for the 2018 Annual Meeting of Shareholders,

to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act of 1934.

﻿


PART IV

ITEM 15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

﻿


﻿




_

(1)

SEC File No. 001-33519 unless otherwise indicated.

*

Denotes management compensatory plan agreement or arrangement.

﻿

﻿


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿


PUBLIC STORAGE

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AND SCHEDULES

(Item 15 (a))

All other schedules have been omitted since the required information is not present or not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the schedule, or because the information required is included in the financial statements or notes thereto.

﻿


﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

To the Shareholders and Board of Trustees of Public Storage

﻿

Opinion on the Financial Statements

﻿

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Public Stora

ge (the Company) as of December

31, 2017 and 2016, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income

,

equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2017, and the related notes and financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a) (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Company at December 31, 2017 and 2016, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2017, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

﻿

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission

(2013 framework),

and our

report dated

February 28,

2018 expressed

an unqualified opinion thereon

.

﻿

Basis for Opinion

﻿

These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Security and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures include examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

We have served as the Company’s auditor since 1980.

Lo

s Angeles, California

February 28,


﻿

F-1

PUBLIC STORAGE

BALANCE SHEETS

(Amounts in thousands, except share data)

﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿

See accompanying notes.

F-2

PUBLIC STORAGE

STATEMENTS OF INCOME

(Amounts in thousands, except per share amounts)

﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿

See accompanying notes.

F-


PUBLIC STORAGE

STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

(Amounts in thousands)

﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿

See accompanying notes.

F-


PUBLIC STORAGE

STATEMENTS OF EQUITY

(Amounts in thousands, except share and per share amounts)

﻿

﻿

See accompanying notes.

F-


PUBLIC STORAGE

STATEMENTS OF EQUITY

(Amounts in thousands, except share and per share amounts)

﻿

﻿

﻿

See accompanying notes.

F-


PUBLIC STORAGE

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(Amounts in thousands)

﻿

﻿

﻿

See accompanying notes.

F-


PUBLIC STORAGE

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(Amounts in thousands)

﻿

﻿

﻿

See accompanying notes.

F-


PUBLIC STORAGE

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December 31, 2017

1.

Description of the Business

Public Storage (referred to herein as “the Company,” “we,” “us,” or “our”), a Maryland real estate investment trust (“REIT”), was organized in 1980.  Our principal business activities include the ownership and operation of self-storage facilities which offer storage spaces for lease, generally on a month-to-month basis, for personal and business use, ancillary activities such as merchandise sales and tenant reinsurance to the tenants at our self-storage facilities, as well as the acquisition and development of additional self-storage space.

At

December 31

, 2017, we have direct and indirect equity interests in

2,3


self-storage facilities (with approximately



million net rentable square feet) located in


states in the United States (“U.S.”) operating under the “Public Storage” name.  We also own

one

self-storage facility in London, England and we have a

49%

interest in Shurgard Europe, which owns



self-storage facilities (with approximately


million net rentable square feet) located in

seven

Western European

countries, all operating under the “Shurgard” name.  We also have direct and indirect equity interests in

approximately


million

net rentable square feet of commercial space located in

seven

states in the U.S. primarily owned and operated by PS Business Parks, Inc. (“PSB”) under the “PS Business Parks” name.  At

December 31

, 2017, we have an approximate

42%

common equity interest in PSB.

Disclosures of the number and square footage of facilities, as well as the number and coverage of tenant reinsurance policies (

Note 1


) are

unaudited and outside the scope of our independent registered public accounting firm’s review of our financial statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (U.S.).

2.

Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Basis of Presentation

The financial statements are presented on an accrual basis in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) as defined in the Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification (the “Codification”).

Consolidation and Equity Method of Accounting

We consider entities to be Variable Interest Entities (“VIEs”) when they have insufficient equity to finance their activities without additional subordinated financial support provided by other parties, or the equity holders as a group do not have a controlling financial interest.  We consolidate VIEs when we have (i) the power to direct the activities most significantly impacting economic performance, and (ii) either the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits from the VIE.  We have no involvement with any material VIEs.  We consolidate all other entities when we control them through voting shares or contractual rights.  The entities we consolidate, for the period in which the reference applies, are referred to collectively as the “Subsidiaries,” and we eliminate intercompany transactions and balances.

We account for our investments in entities that we do not consolidate but have significant influence over using the equity method of accounting.  These entities, for the periods in which the reference applies, are referred to collectively as the “Unconsolidated Real Estate Entities”, eliminating intra-entity profits and losses and amortizing any differences between the cost of our investment and the underlying equity in net assets against equity in earnings as if the Unconsolidated Real Estate Entity were a consolidated subsidiary.  Equity in earnings of unconsolidated real estate entities represents our pro-rata share of the earnings of the Unconsolidated Real Estate Entities.

F-


PUBLIC STORAGE

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December 31, 2017

When we begin consolidating an entity,

we include the book value of our preexisting equity interest as part of the acquisition cost.

All changes in consolidation status are reflected prospectively.

Collectively, at

December 31

, 2017, the Company and the

Subsidiaries own

2,3


self-storage

facilities

in the U.S.,

one

self-storage facility in London, England and

three

commercial facilities in the U.S

.  At

December


, 2017, the Unconsolidated Real Esta

te Entities are comprised of PS and

Shurgard Europe

.

Use of Estimates

The financial statements and accompanying notes reflect our estimates and assumptions.  Actual results could differ from those estimates and assumptions.

Income Taxes

We have elected to be treated as a REIT, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”).  As a REIT, we do not incur

U.S.

federal income tax if we distribute

100%

of our REIT taxable income each year, and if we meet certain organizational and operational rules.  We believe we have met these REIT requirements for all periods presented herein.  Accordingly, we have recorded

no

U.S.

federal income tax expense related to our REIT taxable income.

Our merchandise and tenant reinsurance operations are subject to corporate income tax and such taxes are included in ancillary cost of operations.  We also incur income and other taxes in certain states, which are included in general and administrative expense.

We recognize tax benefits of uncertain income tax positions that are subject to audit only if we believe it is more likely than not that the position would ultimately be sustained assuming the relevant taxing authorities had full knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances of our positions.  As of

December 31

, 2017, we had

no

tax benefits that were not recognized.

Real Estate Facilities

Real estate facilities are recorded at cost.  We capitalize all costs incurred to acquire, develop, construct, renovate and improve facilities, including interest and property taxes incurred during the construction period and, effective October 1, 2016, the external transaction costs associated with acquisitions of real estate.  Prior to October 1, 2016, transaction costs for acquisitions were included in general and administrative expense on our income statements.  This change was made due to a change in GAAP, which results in real estate facility acquisitions generally being considered acquisitions of assets rather than business combinations.  We allocate the net acquisition cost of acquired real estate facilities to the underlying land, buildings, and identified intangible assets based upon their respective individual estimated fair values.

Costs associated with dispositions of real estate, as well as repairs and maintenance costs, are expensed as incurred.  We depreciate buildings and improvements on a straight-line basis over estimated useful lives ranging generally between


to


years.

Other Assets

Other assets primarily consist of rents receivable from our tenants, prepaid expenses and restricted cash.

F-


PUBLIC STORAGE

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December 31, 2017

Accrued and Other Liabilities

Accrued and other

liabilities consist primarily of rents prepaid by our tenants, trade payables,

accrued interest,

property tax accruals, accrued payroll, accrued tenant reinsurance losses, and accruals

for

probable and estimable

contingent losses

.  We believe the fair value of our accrued and other liabilities approximates book value, due to the short period until repayment.  We disclose the nature of significant unaccrued losses that are reasonably possible of occurring and, if estimable, a range of exposure.

Cash Equivalents,

Restricted Cash,

Marketable Securities and Other Financial Instruments

Cash equivalents represent highly liquid financial instruments such as money market funds with daily liquidity or short-term commercial paper or treasury securities maturing within three months of acquisition.  Cash and equivalents which are restricted from general corporate use are included in other assets.  We believe that the book value of all such financial instruments for all periods presented approximates fair value, due to the short period to maturity.

Cash

,

equivalents

, and restricted cash

presented on our statemen

ts of cash flows totaling $456.1

million, $212.6 million, $115.6 million, and $215.0 million at December 31, 2017, 2016, 2015, and 20

14, respectively, include $433.4

million, $183.7 million,

$104.3

million, and

$187.7

million in cash and equivalents, and

$22.7

million,

$28.9

million,

$11.3

million, and

$27.3

million in restricted cash included in other assets.

Fair Value

As used herein, the term “fair value” is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants.  Our estimates of fair value involve considerable judgment and are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that could be realized in current market exchanges.

We estimate the fair value of our cash and equivalents, marketable securities, other assets, debt, and other liabilities by applying a discount rate to the future cash flows of the financial instrument.  The discount rate is based upon quoted interest rates for securities that have similar characteristics such as credit quality and time to maturity; such quoted interest rates are referred to generally as “Level 2” inputs.

Currency and Credit Risk

Financial instruments that are exposed to credit risk consist primarily of cash and equivalents, certain portions of other assets including rents receivable from our tenants and restricted cash.  Cash equivalents we invest in are either money market funds with a rating of at least AAA by Standard & Poor’s, commercial paper that is rated A1 by Standard & Poor’s or deposits with highly rated commercial banks.

At

December 31

, 2017, due primarily to our investment in Shurgard Europe (Note 4) and

o

u

r notes payable denominated in Euros (

Note 6), our operating results and financial position are affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates between the Euro, and to a lesser extent, other European currencies, against the U.S. Dollar.

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

Intangible assets are comprised of goodwill, the “Shurgard” trade name, acquired customers in place, and leasehold interests in land.

F-


PUBLIC STORAGE

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December 31, 2017

Goodwill totaled

$174.6

million at

December 31

, 2017 and 2016.  The “Shurgard” trade name, which is used by Shurgard Europe pursuant to a fee-based licensing agreement, has a book value of

$18.8

million at

December 31

, 2017 and 2016.  Goodwill and the “Shurgard” trade name have indefinite lives and are not amortized.

Acquired customers in place and leasehold interests in land are finite-lived assets and are amortized relative to the benefit of

the customers in place or the benefit to land lease expense to each period.  At

December


, 2017, these intangibles had a net book value of

$


.5

million (

$

19.3

million at December 31, 2016).  Accumulated amortization

totaled $

31.


million at

December 31

, 2017 (

$54.


million at December 31, 2016), and amortization expense of

$1

5.0

million,

$

21.7

million and

$

26.1

million was recorded in

2017, 2016

and 201


, respectively.  The estimated future amortization expense for our finite-lived intangible assets at

December 31

, 2017 is approximately

$


2.


million in


,

$


.


million in 201


and

$


.


million thereafter.  During 2017,

2016 and 2015,

intangibles increased

$


.2

million,

$

23.0

million and

$

8.9

million, respectively,

in connection with the acquisition of self-storage facilities (Note 3)

.

Evaluation of Asset Impairment

We evaluate our real estate and finite-lived intangible assets for impairment each quarter.  If there are indicators of impairment and we determine that the asset is not recoverable from future undiscounted cash flows to be received through the asset’s remaining life (or, if earlier, the expected disposal date), we record an impairment charge to the extent the carrying amount exceeds the asset’s estimated fair value or net proceeds from expected disposal.

We evaluate our investments in unconsolidated real estate entities for impairment on a quarterly basis.  We record an impairment charge to the extent the carrying amount exceeds estimated fair value, when we believe any such shortfall is other than temporary.

We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually and whenever relevant events, circumstances and other related factors indicate that fair value of the related reporting unit may be less than the carrying amount.  If we determine that the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the aggregate carrying amount, no impairment charge is recorded.  Otherwise, we record an impairment charge to the extent the carrying amount of the goodwill exceeds the amount that would be allocated to goodwill if the reporting unit were acquired for estimated fair value.

We evaluate other indefinite-lived intangible assets, such as the “Shurgard” trade name for impairment at least annually and whenever relevant events, circumstances and other related factors indicate that the fair value is less than the carrying amount.  When we conclude that it is likely that the asset is not impaired, we do not record an impairment charge and no further analysis is performed.  Otherwise, we record an impairment charge to the extent the carrying amount exceeds the asset’s estimated fair value.

No

impairments were recorded in any of our evaluations for any period presented herein.

Casualty Loss

We record casualty losses for

i

) the book value of assets destroyed and

ii

) incremental repair, clean-up, and other costs associated with the casualty.  Insurance proceeds are recorded as a reduction in casualty loss when all uncertainties of collection are satisfied.

During 2017, we incurred casualty losses totaling $7.8 million, comprised of

$3.3

million in book value of assets damaged and

$4.5

million in repairs and maintenance incurred in connection with Hurricanes Harvey and Irma.

F-


PUBLIC STORAGE

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December 31, 2017

Revenue and Expense Recognition

Revenues from self-storage facilities, which are primarily composed of rental income earned pursuant to month-to-month leases, as well as associated late charges and administrative fees, are recognized as earned.  Promotional discounts reduce rental income over the promotional period, which is generally one month.  Ancillary revenues and interest and other income are recognized when earned.

We accrue for property tax expense based upon actual amounts billed and, in some circumstances, estimates when bills or assessments have not been received from the taxing authorities.  If these estimates are incorrect, the timing and amount of expense recognition could be incorrect.  Cost of operations (including advertising expenditures), general and administrative expense, and interest expense are expensed as incurred.

Foreign Currency Exchange Translation

The local currency (primarily the Euro) is the functional currency for our interests in foreign operations.  The related balance sheet amounts are translated into U.S. Dollars at the exchange rates at the respective financial statement date, while amounts on our statements of income are translated at the average exchange rates during the respective period.  When financial instruments denominated in a currency other than the U.S. Dollar are expected to be settled in cash in the foreseeable future, the

impact of changes in the U.S. Dollar equivalent are reflected in current earnings.  The Euro was translated at exchange rates of approximately

1.


U.S. Dollars per Euro at December 31, 201


(

1.


at December 31, 201


), and average exchange rates of

1.1


,

1.



and

1.


for the years ended December 31, 201


, 201


and 201


, respectively

.  Cumulative translation adjustments, to the extent not included in cumulative net income, are included in equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).

Comprehensive Income

Total comprehensive income represents net income, adjusted for changes in other comprehensive income (loss) for the applicable period.  The aggregate foreign currency exchange gains and losses reflected on our statements of comprehensive income are comprised primarily of foreign currency exchange gains and losses on our investment in Shurgard Europe and our

notes payable

denominated in Euros.

Net Income per Common Share

Net income is allocated to (i) noncontrolling interests based upon their share of the net income of the Subsidiaries, (ii) preferred shareholders, to the extent redemption cost exceeds the related original net issuance proceeds (an “EITF D-42 allocation”), and (iii) the remaining net income is allocated to each of our equity securities based upon the dividends declared or accumulated during the period, combined with participation rights in undistributed earnings.

Basic and diluted net income per common share are each calculated based upon net income allocable to common shareholders presented on the face of our income statement, divided by (i) in the case of basic net income per common share, weighted average common shares, and (ii) in the case of diluted income per share, weighted average common shares adjusted for the impact, if dilutive, of stock options outstanding (

Note 10).

The following table reconciles from basic to diluted common shares outstanding:

F-


PUBLIC STORAGE

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December 31, 2017

﻿

﻿

3.

Real Estate Facilities

Activity in real estate facilities during 201


, 201


and 201


is as follows

:

﻿

﻿

During 2017

, we acquired


self-storage facilities

from third parties

(

1,365

,000

net

rentable square feet), for a total

cost of

$

149.8

million, in cash.  Approximately

$


.


million of the total cost was allocated to

F-


PUBLIC STORAGE

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December 31, 2017

intangible assets.

On December 31, 2017, we acquired the remaining


.25

%

of the interests which we did not own in

one of the unconsolidated entities

that

owned


self-storage facilities (


,000

net rentable square feet) for

a total cost of

$135.5

million

in cash.

Approximately

$

9.0

million

of the

$141.8

mil

lion acquisition cost (which includes

the

$6.3

million book value of our existing investment)

was allocated to intangible assets

and

$0.3

million was allocated to other assets

.

We completed development and redevelopment activities during


, adding

2.


million net rentable square feet of self-storage space, at an aggregate cost of

$


.


million.  Construction in process at

December 31

, 2017 consists of projects to develop new self-storage facilities and redevelop existing self-storage facilities, which will add a

total of

4.


million

net rentable square feet of storage space at an aggregate estimated cost of approximately

$


.


million

(unaudited)

.  During 2017, we sold

real estate

for a total of approximately

$

6.


million in cash proceeds, of which

$0.3

million was collected in 2016, and recorded a related gain on real estate investment sales of approximately

$1.


million in 2017.

During 2016, we acquired


self-storage facilities (

4,121,000

net rentable square feet), for a total cost of

$429.1

million, consisting of

$

416.2

million in cash and the assumption of

$12.9

million in mortgage notes

.  Approximately

$

23.0

million of the total cost was allocated to intangible assets.  We completed development and redevelopment activities during 2016, adding

2,275,000

net rentable square feet of self-storage space, at an aggregate cost of

$

268.9

million.

During 2016, we also transferred

$8.1

million of accumulated construction costs to other assets, with respect to a development project that was suspended.

During 2015, we acquired


self-storage facilities (

1,285,000

net rentable square feet) and the leasehold interest in the land of one of our existing self-storage facilities, for a total cost of

$185.4

million, consisting of

$177.1

million in cash and the assumption

of

$8.3

million

in mortgage notes.  Approximately

$8.9

million of the total cost was allocated to intangible assets.  We completed expansion and development activities during 2015, adding

1,312,000

net rentable square feet of self-storage space, at an aggregate cost of

$123.5

million.  During 2015, we s

old

one

commercial facility and

two

self-storage facilities in connection with eminent domain proceedings

for a total of

$29.7

million in cash proceeds, of which

$14.7

million was collected in 2014

, and recorded related gains on real estate sales totaling $18.5 million

.

At

December 31, 201


, the adjusted basis of real estate facilities for

U.S.

federal tax purposes was approximately $9.


billion (unaudited

).

﻿

4.

Investments in Unconsolidated Real Estate Entities

The following table sets forth our investments in

, and equity in earnings of,

the Unconsolidated Real Estate Entities (amounts in thousands):

﻿

During 201


, 201


and 201


, we received cash distributions from our investments in the Unconsolidated Real Estate Entities

totaling

$

53.7

million

,

$

151.8

million and

$

35.7

million, respectively.  For 2016, $

67.4

million of the distributions received exceeded the retained earnings of the Unconsolidated Real Estate

F-


PUBLIC STORAGE

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December 31, 2017

Entities and are presented as an investing activity on our statement of cash flows.  At December 31, 2017, the cost of our

investment

in the

Unconsolidated Real Estate Entities exceeds our pro rata share of the underlying equity by approximately

$67.


million (

$69

.


million at December 31, 2016).  This differential is being amortized as a reduction in equity in earnings of the Unconsolidated

Real Estate Entities based upon allocations to the underlying net assets.  Such amortization was approximately

$1.


million

,

$

1.8

million and

$

2.4

million during 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.

Investment in PSB

PSB is a REIT traded on the New York Stock Exchange.  We have an approximate

42%

common equity interest in PSB as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, comprised of our ownership of

7,158,354

shares of PSB’s common stock and

7,305,355

limited partnership units (“LP Units”) in an operating partnership controlled by PSB.  The LP Units are convertible at our option, subject

to certain conditions, on a one-for-one basis into PSB common stock.  Based upon the closing price at December 31, 2017 (

$1

25.09

per share of PSB common stock), the shares and units we owned had a market value of approximately

$1.


billion

.  At December 31, 2017, the adjusted tax basis of our investment in PSB

approximates

book

value

(unaudited)

.

The following table sets forth selected financial information of PSB

.  T

he amounts represent all of PSB’s balances and not our pro-rata share.

﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿

Investment in Shurgard Europe

For all periods presented, we had a

49%

equity investment in Shurgard Europe and our joint venture partner owns the remaining

51%

interest.  Our equity in earnings of Shurgard Europe is comprised of our 49% share of Shurgard Europe’s net income and 49% of the trademark license fees that Shurgard Europe pays to us

F-


PUBLIC STORAGE

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December 31, 2017

for the use of the “Shurgard” trademark.  The remaining 51% of the license fees are classified as interest and other income on our income statement.

Changes in foreign currency exchange rates increased our investment in Shurgard Europe by

approximately

$19.


million

in 2017 and decreased it by

$24.


million and

$19.


million in 2016 and 2015, respectively.  Included in our equity in earnings of Shurgard Europe for 2016 is a

$

941,000

increase

for the recognition of accumulated comprehensive

income, representing a decrease to equity rather than an increase to investments in Unconsolidated Real Estate Entities.

The following table sets forth selected consolidated financial information of Shurgard Europe based upon all of Shurgard Europe’s balances for all periods, rather than our pro rata share.  Such amounts are based upon our historical acquired book basis.

﻿

﻿

Other Investment

s

﻿

On December 31, 2017, we acquired the remaining

74.25%

equity interest

we did not own in

the Other Investment

s

for

$135.5

million, in cash

, and began to consolidate the


self-storage facilities

owned by the Other Investment

s

.

In 2016, we sold

one

of the Other Investment

s

resulting in a

$689,000

gain on real estate investment

sales on our income statement.

﻿

﻿

F-


PUBLIC STORAGE

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December 31, 2017


.

Credit Facility

We have a revolving credit agreement (the “Credit Facility”) with a

$500

million borrowing limit, which expires on

March 31, 2020

.  Amounts drawn on the Credit Facility bear annual interest at rates ranging from LIBOR plus

0.850%

to LIBOR plus

1.450%

depending upon the ratio of our Total Indebtedness to Gross Asset Value (as defined in the Credit Facility) (LIBOR plus

0.850%

at December 31, 201


).  We are also required to pay a quarterly facility fee ranging from

0.080%

per annum to

0.250%

per annum depending upon the ratio of our Total Indebtedness to our Gross Asset Value (

0.080%

per annum at December 31, 201


).  At December 31, 20


and

February 28,



, we had

no

outstanding

borrowings

under this Credit Facility.  We had undrawn standby letters of credit, which reduce our borrowing capacity,

totaling

$1

6.1

million

at December 31, 201


(

$1

5.2

million at December 31, 201


).  The Credit Facility has various customary restrictive covenants, all of which we were in compliance with at December 31, 201


.


.

Notes Payable

Our notes payable at December 31, 2017 and 2016 are set forth in the table below:

﻿

F-


PUBLIC STORAGE

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December 31, 2017

U.S. Dollar Denominated Unsecured Debt

On

September 18, 2017

, we issued, in a public offering,

two

tranches each totaling

$500.0

million of U.S. Dollar denominated unsecured notes (the “U.S. Dollar Notes”).  In connection with the offering, we incurred a total of

$7.9

million in costs, which is reflected as a reduction in the principal amount and amortized, using the effective interest method, over the term of each respective note.  Interest on the U.S. Dollar Notes is payable semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 of each year, commencing March 15, 2018.

The U.S. Dollar Notes have various financial covenants, all of which we were in

compliance with at December 31, 2017.  Included in these covenants are a) a maximum Debt to Total Assets

of

65%

(

4.4%

at December 31, 2017) and b) a minimum ratio of Adjusted EBITDA to Interest Expense of

1.5x

(

157.9x

for the year ended December 31, 2017) as well as covenants limiting

the amount we can

encumber our properties

with mortgage debt.  These terms and all of the covenants are defined more fully in the related prospectus.

Euro Denominated Unsecured Debt

Our euro denominated uns

ec

ured notes (the “Euro Notes”) are

payable to institutional investors.  The Euro Notes consist of two tranches, (i)

€242.0

million were issued on

November 3, 2015

for

$264.3

million in net proceeds upon converting the Euros to U.S. Dollars and

€100.0

million were issu

ed on

April 12, 2016

for

$113.6

million in net proceeds upon converting the Euros to U.S. Dollars.  Interest is payable semi-annually.  The Euro Notes have various customary financial covenants, all of which we were in compliance with at

December

31, 2017.

We reflect changes in the U.S. Dollar equivalent of the amount payable, as a result of changes in foreign exchange rates as “foreign

currency exchange (loss) gain” on our income statement (

loss of

$50.


million

for 2017 and gains of

$

17.6

million and

$306,000

for 2016 and 2015, respectively).

Mortgage

Debt

Our non-recourse mortgage debt was assumed in connection with property acquisitions, and recorded at fair value with any premium or discount to the stated note balance amortized using the effective interest method.

During 2016 and 2015

, we assumed mortgage notes with ag

gregate contractual values of

$12.9

million and

$8.3

million, respectively, and interest rates of

4.2

% and

6.2%

,

respectively, which approximated market rates, in connection with the acquisition of real estate facilities.

At December 31, 2017, the notes contractual interest rates

are fixed, ranging

between

2.9%

and

7.1%

, and mature between

November 2018

and

September 2028

.

At

December 31

, 201


, approximate principal maturities of our

Notes Payable

are

as follows

(amounts in thousands):

F-


PUBLIC STORAGE

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December 31, 2017

Cash paid for interest

totaled

$16

.


million, $

9.4

million and $

3.3

million for 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  Interest capitalized as real estate

totaled

$4.4

million,

$

5.1

million and

$

2.7

million

for 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.


.

Noncontrolling Interests

At

December 31

, 2017, the noncontrolling interests represent (i) third-party equity interests in subsidiaries owning



operating self-storage facilities and

eight

self-storage facilities that are under construction and (ii)

231,978

partnership units held by third-parties in a subsidiary that are convertible on a one-for-one basis (subject to certain limitations) into common shares of the Company

at the option of the unitholder (collectively, the “Noncontrolling Interests”).

The

Noncontrolling Interests cannot require us to redeem their interests, other than pursuant to a liquidation of the subsidiary.  During

2017, 2016 and 2015,

we allocated a total of

$6.2

million,

$6

.


million

and

$


.


million, respectively, of income to these interests; and we paid

$7.4 million,

$

7.6

million and $


.


million, respectively, in distributions to these interests.

During 2017, we acquired Noncontrolling Interests for $

14.4

million

in cash, of which

$7.7

million was allocated to Paid-in capital and

$6.7

million as a reduction to Noncontrolling Interests.

During


, we acquired Noncontrolling Interests for

$

5.5

million in cash,

substantially

all of which was allocated to P

aid-in-capital

.   During 2017, 2016 and 2015

, Noncontro

lling Interests contributed $2.5 million, $3.5

million and $

1.6

million, respectively.


.

Shareholders’ Equity

Preferred Shares

At

December 31, 201


and 201


,

we had the following series of Cumulative Preferred Shares (“Preferred Shares”) outstanding:

F-


PUBLIC STORAGE

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December 31, 2017

﻿

﻿

The holders of our Preferred Shares have general preference rights with respect to liquidation, quarterly distributions and any accumulated unpaid distributions.  Except under certain conditions and as noted below, holders of the Preferred Shares will not be entitled to vote on most matters.  In the event of a cumulative arrearage equal to six quarterly dividends, holders of all outstanding series of preferred shares (voting as a single class without regard to series) will have the right to elect

two

additional members to serve on our board of trustees (our “Board”) until the arrearage has been cured.  At December 31, 2017, there were

no

dividends in arrears.

Except under certain conditions relating to the Company’s qualification as a REIT, the Preferred Shares are not redeemable prior to the dates indicated on the table above.  On or after the respective dates, each of the series of Preferred Shares is redeemable at our option, in whole or in part, at

$25.00

per depositary share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends.  Holders of the Preferred Shares cannot require us to redeem such shares.

Upon issuance of our Preferred Shares, we classify the liquidation value as preferred equity on our balance sheet with any issuance costs recorded as a reduction to Paid-in capital.

In 2017, we redeemed our Series S and Series T Preferred Shares, at par, for a total of

$922.5

million in cash, before payment of accrued dividends.

In 2017, we issued  an aggregate

23.2

million depositary shares, each representing

1/1

,000 of a share of our Series F and Series G Preferred Shares, at an issuance price of

$25.00

per depositary share, for a total of

$580.0

million in gross proceeds, and we

incurred

$18.


million

in issuance costs.

F-


PUBLIC STORAGE

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December 31, 2017

In 2016, we redeemed our Series Q and Series R Preferred Shares at par, for a total

of

$862.5

million in cash, before payment of accrued dividends.

In


6, we issued an aggregate

47.0

million depositary shares, each representing

1/1

,000 of a share of our Series B,

Series C, Series D and Series E Preferred Shares, at an issuance price of

$25.00

per depositary share

, for a total of

$1,175.


m

illion

in gross

proceeds, and we incurred

$

38.8

million

in issuance costs.

In 2015, we redeemed our Series O and Series P Preferred Shares at par, for a total of

$270.0

million in cash, before payment of accrued dividends.

In 2017, 2016 and 2015, we recorded

$29.3

million,

$26.9

mi

llion

$8.9

million, respectively, in EITF D-42 allocations of income from our common shareholders to the holders of our Preferred Shares in connection with redemptions of Preferred Shares.

Common Shares

During 2017, 2016 and 2015, activity with respect to the issuance of our common shares was as follows (dollar amounts in thousands):

Our Board previously authorized the repurchase from time to time of up to

35.0

million of our common shares on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions.  Through December 31, 2017, we repurchased approximately

23.7

million shares pursuant to this authorization;

none

of which were repurchased during the three years ended December 31, 2017.

At December

31,



and 201


, we

had

3,208

,046

and

2,

692,081

, respectively, of common shares reserved in connection with our share-based incentive plans (see Note


), and

231,978

shares reserved for the conversion of partnership units owned by Noncontrolling

Interests.

The unaudited

characterization of dividends for

U.S. f

ederal income tax purposes is made based upon earnings and profits of the Company, as defined by the Code.  Common share dividends including amounts

paid to our common shareholders and our restricted share unitholders totaled

$1.394

billion (

$8.00

per share),

$1.


billion (

$7.30

per share) and

$

1.126

billion (

$6.50

per share) for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  Preferred share dividends totaled $236.


million, $2

38.2

million and $2

45.1

million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.

F-


PUBLIC STORAGE

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December 31, 2017

For the tax year ended December 31, 201


, distributions for the common shares and all the various series of preferred shares were

classified as follows:

﻿

The ordinary income dividends distributed for the tax year ended December 31, 2017 do not constitute qualified dividend income.


.

Related Party Transactions

B. Wayne Hughes, our former Chairman and his family, including his daughter Tamara Hughes Gustavson and his son B. Wayne Hughes, Jr., who are both members of our Board, collectively own approximately

14.3%

of our common shares outstanding at

December 31

, 2017.

At

December 31

, 2017, B. Wayne Hughes and Tamara Hughes Gustavson together owned and controlled



self-storage facilities in Canada.  These facilities operate under the “Public Storage” tradename, which we license to the owners of these facilities for use in Canada on a royalty-free, non-exclusive basis.  We have

no

ownership

interest in these facilities and we do not own or operate any facilities in Canada.  If we chose to acquire or develop our own facilities in Canada, we would have to share the use of the “Public Storage” name in Canada with the facilities’ owners.  We have a right of first refusal, subject to limitations, to acquire the stock or assets of the corporation engaged in the operation of these facilities if their owners agree to sell them.  Our subsidiaries reinsure risks relating to loss of goods stored by customers in these facilities, and have received approximately

$1.1

million

,

$848

,000

and

$562

,000

for the

years

ended

December 31

, 2017

, 2016

and 201


, respectively.  Our right to continue receiving these premiums may be qualified.


.

Share-Based Compensation

Under various share-based compensation plans and under terms established by our Board or a committee thereof, we grant non-qualified options to purchase the Company’s common shares, as well as restricted share units (“RSUs”), to trustees, officers, and key employees.

Stock options and RSUs are considered “granted” and “outstanding” as the terms are used herein, when (i) the Company and the recipient reach a mutual understanding of the key terms of the award, (ii) the award has been authorized, (iii) the recipient is affected by changes in the market price of our stock, and (iv) it is probable that any performance conditions will be met.

We amortize the grant-date fair value of awards as compensation expense over the service period, which begins on the grant date and ends

generally

on the vesting date.  For awards that are earned solely upon the passage of time and continued service, the entire cost of the award is amortized on a straight-line basis over the service period.  For awards with performance conditions, the individual cost of each vesting is amortized separately over each individual service period (the “accelerated attribution” method).

In amortizing share-based compensation expense, we do not estimate future forfeitures in advance.  Instead, we reverse previously amortized share-based compensation expense with respect to grants that are

F-


PUBLIC STORAGE

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December 31, 2017

forfeited in the period the employee terminates employment.

We recorded a cumulative-effect adjustment of

$789,000

to increase accumulated deficit and increase paid-in capital as of January 1, 2016, representing the impact of estimated forfeitures

at

December 31, 2015.

Our Chief Executive Officer ("CEO") and Chief Financial Officer ("CFO") are expected to retire at the end of 2018 and then serve as Trustees of the Company for the foreseeable future.  While the actual vesting of such share-based compensation will not accelerate, and will continue to vest under the original schedule only if they continue to serve as Trustees, their respective service periods for their previous grants while CEO and CFO effectively end on the date of their retirement as CEO and CFO.  As a result

,

the remaining unamortized expense on outstanding grants at December 31, 2017 will be recognized through their expected retirement da

tes, increasing 2018 expense

$23.6

million above what it would have been without the acceleration of amortization.

Any additional grants to our CEO and CFO in 2018 will also be amortized through December 31, 2018 and further increase our share-based compensation expense for 2018.

See also “net income per common share” in Note 2 for further discussion regarding the impact of RSUs and stock options on our net income per common share and income allocated to common shareholders.

Stock Options

Stock options vest over a

three

to

five

-year period, expire ten years after the grant date, and the exercise price is equal to the closing trading price of our common shares on the grant date.  Employees cannot require the Company to settle their award in cash.  We use the Black-Scholes option valuation model to estimate the fair value of our stock options.

Outstanding stock option grants are included on a one-for-one basis in our diluted weighted average shares, to the extent dilutive, after applying the treasury stock method (based upon the average common share price during the period) to assumed exercise proceeds and measured but unrecognized compensation.

The stock options outstanding at December 31, 201


have an aggregate intrinsic value (the excess, if any, of each option’s

market value over the exercise price) of approximately

$

65.1

million and remaining average contractual lives of approximately

s

even

years.  The aggregate intrinsic value of exercisable stock options at

December 31, 201


amounted to approximately

$


.


million.  Approximately

1,361

,000

of the stock options outstanding at December 31, 201


, have an exercise price of more than

$200

.  We have

195,750

stock options exercisable at December 31, 201

7, which

expire through

June 30, 201


, with an average exercise price per share of

$

54.87

.

Additional

information with respect to stock options during 201


, 201


and 201


is as follows:

F-


PUBLIC STORAGE

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December 31, 2017

﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿

Restricted Share Units

RSUs generally vest ratably over a

five

to

eight

-year period from the grant date.  The grantee receives dividends for each outstanding RSU equal to the per-share dividends received by our common shareholders.  We expense any dividends previously paid upon forfeiture of the related RSU.  Upon vesting, the grantee receives common shares equal to the number of vested RSUs, less common shares withheld in exchange for tax deposits made by the Company to satisfy the grantee’s statutory tax liabilities arising from the vesting.

The fair value of our RSUs is determined based upon the applicable closing trading price of our common shares.

T

he fair value of our RSUs outstanding at December

31, 201


was approximately

$



.


million.  Remaining compensation expense related to RSUs outstanding at December 31, 201


totals approximately

$


.


million and is expected to be recognized as compensation expense over the next

2.


years on average.  The following tables set forth relevant information with respect to restricted shares (dollar amounts in

thousands):

F-


PUBLIC STORAGE

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December 31, 2017

﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿

(a)

Amounts for 201


, 201


and 201


include approximately

$

0.


million,

$1.


million and

$1.


million, respectively, in employer taxes incurred upon vesting

.


.

Segment Information

Our reportable segments reflect the significant components of our operations where discrete financial information is evaluated separately by our chief operating decision maker (“CODM”).  We organize our segments based primarily upon the nature of the underlying products and services, as well as the drivers of profitability growth.  The net income for each reportable segment included in the tables below are in conformity with GAAP and our significant accounting policies as denoted in Note 2.  The amounts not attributable to reportable segments are aggregated under “other items not allocated to segments.”

Following is a description of and basis for presentation for each of our reportable segments.

Self-Storage Operations

The Self-Storage Operations segment reflects the rental operations from all self-storage facilities

we own

.  Our CODM reviews the net operating income (“NOI”) of this segment, which represents the related revenues less cost of operations (prior to depreciation expense), in assessing performance and making resource allocation decisions.  The presentation in the tables below sets forth the NOI of this segment, as well as the depreciation expense for this segment, which while reviewed by our CODM and included in net income, is not considered by the CODM in assessing performance and decision making.  For all periods presented, substantially all of our real estate facilities, goodwill and other intangible assets, other assets, and accrued and other liabilities are associated with the Self-Storage Operations segment.

Ancillary Operations

The Ancillary Operations segment reflects the sale of merchandise and reinsurance of policies against losses to goods stored by our self-storage tenants, activities which are incidental to our primary self-storage rental

F-


PUBLIC STORAGE

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December 31, 2017

activities.  Our CODM reviews the NOI of these operations in assessing performance and making resource allocation decisions.

Investment in PSB

This segment represents our 42% equity interest in PSB, a publicly-traded REIT that owns, operates, acquires and develops commercial properties, primarily multi-tenant flex, office, and industrial space.  PSB has a separate management team that makes its financing, capital allocation, and other significant decisions.  In making resource allocation decisions with respect to our investment in PSB, the CODM reviews PSB’s net income, which is detailed in PSB’s periodic filings with the SEC, and is included in Note 4.  The segment presentation in the tables below includes our equity earnings from PSB.

Investment in Shurgard Europe

This segment represents our

49%

equity interest in Shurgard Europe, which owns and operates self-storage facilities located in seven countries in Western Europe.  Shurgard Europe has a separate management team reporting to our CODM and our joint venture partner.  In making resource allocation decisions with respect to our investment in Shurgard Europe, the CODM reviews Shurgard Europe’s net income, which is detailed in Note 4.  The segment presentation below includes our equity earnings from Shurgard Europe.

Presentation of Segment Information

The following tables reconcile NOI (as applicable) and net income of each segment to our consolidated net income (amounts in thousands):

F-


PUBLIC STORAGE

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December 31, 2017

﻿

﻿

﻿

F-


PUBLIC STORAGE

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December 31, 2017

﻿

﻿

﻿

F-


PUBLIC STORAGE

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December 31, 2017

﻿

﻿

﻿

12.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements and Guidance

In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-09,

Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606),

which requires revenue to be based upon the consideration expected from customers for promised goods or services.  The FASB also added guidance with respect to the sale of our real estate facilities.  The new standards, effective on January 1, 2018, permit either the retrospective or cumulative effects transition method and allowed for early adoption on January 1, 2017.

We did not early adopt these new standards.  We plan to adopt the new standards in the first quarter of 2018 utilizing the modified retrospective transition method

applied to open contracts

.  We do not believe the new standards will have a material impact on

our results of operations or financial condition, primarily because most of our revenue is from rental revenue, which the new standards do not cover, and because we do not provide any material products and services to our customers or sell material amounts of our real estate facilities.

F-


PUBLIC STORAGE

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December 31, 2017

In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02,

Leases,

which amends the existing accounting standards for lease accounting, including requiring lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets and making targeted changes to lessor accounting.  The new standard, effective on January 1, 2019, requires a modified retrospective transition approach for all leases existing at, or entered into after, the date of initial application, with an option to use certain transition relief and allows for early adoption on January 1, 2016.   The Company is currently assessing the impact of the guidance on our financial statements.  However, we do not believe this standard will have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition, because substantially all of our lease revenues are derived from month-to-month self-storage leases, and we do not have material amounts of lease expense.

In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15,

Statement of Cash Flows – Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments

.  The new standard provides guidance on certain specific cash flow issues, including the treatment of distributions received from equity method investees.  The standard is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted and shall be applied retrospectively where practicable.  We adopted the new guidance effective January 1, 2017 and elected to use the cumulative earnings approach, whereby distributions up to the amount of cumulative equity in earnings recognized are treated as returns on investment and amounts in excess are reflected as returns of investment.  The adoption of the cumulative earnings approach had no impact on our consolidated financial statements for the periods presented.

In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-18,

Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230) - Restricted Cash

, which primarily requires the statement of cash flows to explain not only the change in cash and equivalents, but also the change in restricted cash.  The standard is effective on January 1, 2018, with early adoption permitted and requires the use

of the retrospective transition method.

The Company early adopted the new guidance during the fourth quarter of 2017 and, accordingly, net cash used in investing activities was adjusted from

$716.7

million and

$440

.1

million in the

years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, in the previous presentation, to $699.1 million and $456.1 million, respectively, in the current presentation.

﻿

﻿



.

Commitments and Contingencies

Contingent Losses

We are a party to various legal proceedings and subject to various claims and complaints; however, we believe that the likelihood of these contingencies resulting in a material loss to the Company, either individually or in the aggregate, is remote.

Insurance and Loss Exposure

We have historically carried property, earthquake, general liability, employee medical insurance and workers compensation coverage through internationally recognized insurance carriers, subject to deductibles.  Our deductible for general liability is

$2.0

million per occurrence.  Our annual deductibles for property losses are

$25.0

million for first occurrence with an aggregate of

$35.0

million for

multiple

occurrences and

$5.0

million per occurrence thereafter.

Insurance carriers’ aggregate limits on these policies of

$75.0

million for property losses and

$102.0

million for general liability losses are higher than estimates of maximum probable losses that could occur from individual catastrophic events determined in recent engineering and actuarial studies; however, in case of multiple catastrophic events, these limits could be exceeded.

We reinsure a program that provides insurance to our customers from an independent third-party insurer.  This program covers tenant claims for losses to goods stored at our facilities as a result of specific named perils (earthquakes are not covered by this program), up to a maximum limit of

$5,000

per storage unit.  We reinsure all risks in this program, but purchase insurance to cover this exposure for a limit of

$15.0

million for losses in

F-


PUBLIC STORAGE

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December 31, 2017

excess of

$5.0

million per occurrence.  We are subject to licensing requirements and

regulations in several states.  Customers participate in the program at their option.  At

December 31

, 2017, there were approximately


,000

certificates held by our self-storage customers, representing aggregate coverage of approximately

$2.


billion.

Construction Commitments

We have construction commitments

representing

future expected

payments for construction under contract

totaling

$159.8

million

at December 31, 2017.

We expect to

pay

approximately

$127.8

million in 2018 and

$32.0

million in 2019 for

these construction commitments.



.

Supplementary Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited)

﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿



.

Subsequent Events

Subsequent to

December 31,



, we

acquired or were under contract to acquire

two

self-storage facilities (

one

each

in

Tennessee and Nebraska)

with


,000

net rentable square feet, for

$

18.3

million.

F-


﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿

F-


F-


﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿

﻿

F-

35