
10-K
psi10k_1207.txt
PUBLIC STORAGE 10-K


                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K
[X] Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
                                    of 1934

                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007.

                                       or

[ ] Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
    Act of 1934

    For the transition period from ---------- to -------------.

                        Commission File Number: 001-33519

                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

          Maryland                                         95-3551121
     -------------------                              ---------------------
(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or        (I.R.S. Employer
  or organization)                                    Identification Number)

               701 Western Avenue, Glendale, California 91201-2349
               ---------------------------------------------------
               (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)


                                 (818) 244-8080


              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)







Securities  registered  pursuant  to Section  12(g) of the Act:  None  (Title of
class)

Indicate by check mark if the  registrant is a well-known  seasoned  issuer,  as
defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
                                 Yes [X] No [ ]

Indicate  by  check  mark if the  registrant  is not  required  to file  reports
pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act
                                 Yes [ ] No [X]

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.
                                 Yes [X] No [ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

Indicate by check mark whether the  registrant is a shell company (as defined in
Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).

                                 Yes [ ] No [X]

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large  accelerated  filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated  filer or a smaller reporting company.  See
the definitions of "large accelerated  filer",  "accelerated filer" and "smaller
reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

  Large Accelerated Filer [X] Accelerated Filer [ ] Non-accelerated Filer [ ]
                          Smaller Reporting Company [ ]

The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common shares held by
non-affiliates of the Registrant as of June 30, 2007:

Common Shares, $0.10 Par Value - $9,489,916,000 (computed on the basis of $76.82
per share which was the  reported  closing  sale price of the  Company's  Common
Shares on the New York Stock Exchange on June 30, 2007.

Depositary Shares Each Representing  1/1,000 of an Equity Share,  Series A, $.01
Par Value -  $193,447,000  (computed  on the basis of $26.01 per share which was
the  reported  closing  sale price of the  Depositary  Shares each  Representing
1/1,000 of an Equity Share,  Series A on the New York Stock Exchange on June 30,
2007.

As of February 27,  2008,  the number of  outstanding  Common  Shares,  $.10 par
value, was 170,599,924  shares and the number of outstanding  Depositary  Shares
Each  Representing  1/1,000 of an Equity  Share,  Series A, $.01 par value,  was
8,744,193 (representing 8,744.193 Equity Shares, Series A)

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the definitive  proxy  statement to be filed in connection  with the
Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held in 2008 are  incorporated by reference
into Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.





                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS
        --------

FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
- --------------------------

     This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking  statements within
the meaning of the federal  securities  laws.  All  statements in this document,
other than statements of historical fact, are  forward-looking  statements which
may be identified by the use of the words "expects," "believes,"  "anticipates,"
"plans," "would,"  "should," "may," "estimates" and similar  expressions.  These
forward-looking  statements  involve known and unknown risks and  uncertainties,
which may cause Public Storage's actual results and performance to be materially
different from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking  statements. As
a result, you should not rely on any forward-looking  statements in this report,
or  which  management  may make  orally  or in  writing  from  time to time,  as
predictions  of future events nor guarantees of future  performance.  We caution
you not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements,  which speak only
as the date of this report or as of the dates indicated in the  statements.  All
of our forward-looking statements, including those in this report, are qualified
in their  entirely by this  statement.  We expressly  disclaim any obligation to
update publicly or otherwise revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a
result  of  new  information,   new  estimates,  or  other  factors,  events  or
circumstances  after the date of this document,  except where expressly required
by law.  Accordingly,  you should use caution in relying on past forward-looking
statements to anticipate future results.

     Factors  and risks  that may  impact our  future  results  and  performance
include,  but are not limited to, those described in Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and
in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. ("SEC"). These
risks include, among others, the following:

     o    general  risks  associated  with the  ownership  and operation of real
          estate   including   changes  in  demand,   potential   liability  for
          environmental  contamination,  adverse changes in tax, real estate and
          zoning laws and regulations, and the impact of natural disasters;

     o    risks associated with downturns in the national and local economies in
          the markets in which we operate;

     o    the risk that Public  Storage may for any reason be unable to finalize
          negotiations  and  completion  of  a  possible  transaction  involving
          Shurgard  Europe;

     o    the  impact of  competition  from new and  existing  self-storage  and
          commercial facilities and other storage alternatives;

     o    difficulties  in  our  ability  to  successfully  evaluate,   finance,
          integrate  into  our  existing  operations  and  manage  acquired  and
          developed properties;

     o    risks related to our participation in joint ventures;

     o    risks  associated with  international  operations  including,  but not
          limited to, unfavorable  foreign currency rate fluctuations that could
          adversely affect our earnings and cash flows;

     o    the impact of the regulatory  environment as well as national,  state,
          and local laws and regulations  including,  without limitation,  those
          governing real estate investment trusts ("REITs");

     o    risks  associated  with a possible  failure by us to qualify as a REIT
          under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended;

     o    disruptions or shutdowns of our automated processes and systems;




     o    difficulties in raising capital at a reasonable cost;

     o    delays in the development process; and

     o    economic uncertainty due to the impact of war or terrorism.

     The  risks  included  here are not  exhaustive  as it is not  possible  for
management  to predict all  possible  risk factors that may exist or emerge from
time to time.  Investors should refer to our quarterly  reports on Form 10-Q for
future periods and current reports on Form 8-K and other  information filed from
time to time with the SEC Commission for additional information.

GENERAL
- -------

     Public  Storage was organized in 1980.  Effective  June 1, 2007,  following
approval by our shareholders,  we reorganized  Public Storage,  Inc. into Public
Storage,  a Maryland real estate  investment  trust  (referred to herein as "the
Company",  "the  Trust",  "we",  "us",  or  "our").  We are a fully  integrated,
self-administered  and  self-managed  REIT whose principal  business  activities
include the  acquisition,  development,  ownership and operation of self-storage
facilities  which offer storage spaces for lease,  generally on a month-to-month
basis,  for personal and business  use. We are the largest owner and operator of
self-storage  facilities in the United States ("U.S."),  and we have an interest
in what we believe is the largest owner and operator of self-storage  facilities
in Europe.  We significantly  increased the scope and scale of our operations on
August 22, 2006, when we merged with Shurgard Storage Centers,  Inc. ("Shurgard"
and the  merger  referred  to as the  "Shurgard  Merger"),  a REIT  which had an
interest in 487 self-storage  facilities  located in the U.S. and an interest in
the self-storage business in seven Western European countries.

     At December 31, 2007, we had direct and indirect equity  interests in 2,012
self-storage facilities located in 38 states within the U.S. operating under the
"Public Storage" name containing  approximately  126 million net rentable square
feet of space, and 174 self-storage facilities located in seven Western European
countries  which operate under the "Shurgard  Storage  Centers" name  containing
approximately  nine  million net  rentable  square  feet of space.  We also have
direct and indirect equity  interests in  approximately  21 million net rentable
square feet of commercial space located in 11 states in the U.S.  operated under
the "PS Business Parks" and Public Storage brands.

     We  currently  operate  within  three  reportable  segments:  (i)  Domestic
self-storage  operations,   (ii)  European  self-storage  operations  and  (iii)
domestic ancillary operations. These segments are organized generally based upon
their operating characteristics. The Domestic self-storage segment comprises the
direct  ownership,   development,  and  operation  of  traditional  self-storage
facilities in the U.S.,  and the ownership of equity  interests in entities that
own  self-storage  properties  in the U.S.  The  European  self-storage  segment
comprises  the direct or  indirect  ownership,  development,  and  operation  of
self-storage  facilities in Europe that we acquired in the Shurgard Merger.  The
domestic  ancillary   operations  segment  includes  the  following  sources  of
operating  income:   (i)  containerized   storage,   (ii)  commercial   property
operations,  which  reflects  our  interest  in the  ownership,  operation,  and
management of commercial  properties,  (iii) the reinsurance of policies against
losses to goods stored by tenants in our self-storage  facilities,  (iv) sale of
merchandise  at  our   self-storage   facilities,   (v)  truck  rentals  at  our
self-storage  facilities and (vi) management of facilities  owned by third-party
owners and  facilities  owned by entities in which we have an interest,  but are
not consolidated.  The vast majority of the commercial  property  operations are
conducted through PS Business Parks,  Inc. ("PSB"),  and to a much lesser extent
the Company and certain of its unconsolidated  subsidiaries which own commercial
space. We have a 45% ownership  interest in PSB, which, as of December 31, 2007,
owned and operated commercial properties  containing  approximately 19.6 million
net rentable  square feet of  commercial  space.  PSB is a publicly  traded REIT
whose common stock trades on the American Stock Exchange under the symbol "PSB."

     For all  taxable  years  subsequent  to 1980,  we  qualified  and intend to
continue to qualify as a REIT, as defined in Section 856 of the Internal Revenue
Code.  As a REIT,  we do not incur  federal or  significant  state taxes on that
portion of our taxable income which is distributed to our shareholders, provided
that we meet certain tests. To the extent that we continue to qualify as a REIT,
we will not be subject to tax, with certain limited  exceptions,  on the taxable
income that is distributed to our shareholders.




     We have reported annually to the SEC on Form 10-K, which includes financial
statements  certified by independent public  accountants.  We have also reported
quarterly to the SEC on Form 10-Q, which includes unaudited financial statements
with such filings. We expect to continue such reporting.

     Our website is www.publicstorage.com,  and we make available free of charge
on our website our Annual Report on Forms 10-K,  quarterly reports on Form 10-Q,
and current  reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as
reasonably practicable after the reports and amendments are electronically filed
with or furnished to the SEC.

MANAGEMENT
- ----------

     Ronald L. Havner, Jr. (50) has been Vice Chairman,  Chief Executive Officer
and a trustee of the Company since November 7, 2002 and President  since July 1,
2005.  Mr.  Havner  joined  Public  Storage  in 1986 and has held a  variety  of
positions,  including  Chairman  of the  Board of  Directors  for the  Company's
affiliate, PSB.

     B. Wayne  Hughes (74) is Chairman of the Board of  Trustees,  a position he
has held since 1991. Mr. Hughes founded the Public Storage organization in 1972.

     Our  executive  management  team and  their  years of  experience  with the
Company are as follows: John Reyes (47), Senior Vice President - Chief Financial
Officer,  17 years;  John S. Baumann (47),  Senior Vice  President - Chief Legal
Officer,  four years;  John E. Graul (56),  Senior Vice President and President,
Self-Storage Operations, four years; Candace N. Krol (46), Senior Vice President
of Human Resources,  two years and David F. Doll (49), Senior Vice President and
President, Real Estate Group, three years.

     Our senior management has a significant  ownership  position in the Company
with  executive  officers,  trustees and their  families,  including  the Hughes
Family,  owning  approximately 43.5 million shares or 25.5% of the common shares
as of February 28, 2008.

INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE
- --------------------

     Our primary  objective  is to increase the  intrinsic  value of the Company
through  internal  growth (by increasing net income,  funds from  operations and
cash available for  distribution)  and  acquisitions  of additional  real estate
investments  and  development  of real estate  facilities.  We believe  that our
access  to  capital,   geographic  diversification  and  operating  efficiencies
resulting from our size will enhance our ability to achieve this objective.

COMPETITION
- -----------

     Competition  in the market  areas in which we operate  is  significant  and
affects the occupancy levels, rental rates, rental income and operating expenses
of our facilities.  Development of new  self-storage  facilities has intensified
the  competition  among  storage  operators  in many  market  areas  in which we
operate.

     In seeking investments,  we compete with a wide variety of institutions and
other  investors.  The increase in the amount of funds available for real estate
investments has increased  competition for ownership interests in facilities and
may reduce yields on acquisitions.

     We believe that the significant  operating and financial  experience of our
management team,  combined with the Company's  conservative  capital  structure,
national  investment  scope,  geographic  diversity,  economies of scale and the
"Public Storage" brand name, should enable us to compete  effectively with other
entities.

     The self-storage industry remains fragmented in the U.S. We believe that we
own approximately 8% of the aggregate  self-storage  square footage in the U.S.,
and that the five largest self-storage operators in the U.S. own only 17% of the
aggregate  self-storage  space in the  U.S.,  with the  remaining  83%  owned by
numerous  private  regional  and local  operators.  We believe  that this market
fragmentation  enhances the advantage of our economies of scale  relative to our
other operators, and could result in potential growth in our platform through




acquisitions  over the long term.  We think that we are well  positioned to
capitalize  on this  potential  due to our  demonstrated  access to capital  and
national presence.

     The  self-storage  industry in Europe is relatively  new as compared to the
U.S,  with  customer  awareness of the product lower than in the U.S. We believe
there are approximately  1,090  self-storage  facilities  throughout  Europe, as
compared to approximately 40,000 self-storage facilities throughout the U.S. See
also "Capitalize on the Potential for Growth in Europe" below. While competition
is  increasing,  we believe  that we are the  largest  self-storage  operator in
Western Europe at December 31, 2007.

BUSINESS ATTRIBUTES
- -------------------

     We believe that we possess several primary business  attributes that permit
us to compete effectively:

     CENTRALIZED INFORMATION NETWORKS: Our facilities in the U.S. and Europe are
part of  comprehensive  centralized  reporting and  information  networks  which
enable our U.S.  and  European  management  teams to  identify  changing  market
conditions  and operating  trends as well as analyze  customer data, and quickly
change our properties' pricing and promotional mix on an automated basis.

     NATIONAL  TELEPHONE   RESERVATION   CENTER:  In  the  U.S.,  we  operate  a
centralized  telephone reservation system, which provides added customer service
and helps to maximize  utilization of available  self-storage  space.  Customers
calling either the toll-free  telephone  referral system,  (800) 44-STORE,  or a
storage  facility,   are  directed  to  the  national   reservation   system.  A
representative  discusses  with  the  customer  space  requirements,  price  and
location  preferences  and also  informs  the  customer  of other  products  and
services  provided  by the  Company and its  subsidiaries.  We believe  that the
centralized  telephone reservation system enhances our ability to market storage
space in the United  States  relative  to  handling  these  calls at  individual
properties,  because  it allows us to more  effectively  offer all spaces at all
facilities  in the  vicinity  of a customer  and we can  provide  higher-quality
selling  efforts  through  dedicated  sales  specialists  trained  in a  central
location. We also provide customers the opportunity to review space availability
and make reservations online through our website, www.publicstorage.com.

     ECONOMIES OF SCALE: We are the largest  provider of  self-storage  space in
the U.S.  and Europe.  As of  December  31,  2007,  we  operated  2,186  storage
facilities  in which we had an interest and managed 31  self-storage  facilities
for third parties.  These facilities are in markets within 38 states in the U.S.
and  seven  Western  European  countries.  At  December  31,  2007,  we had over
1,095,000  self-storage spaces rented. The size and scope of our operations have
enabled us to achieve high operating  margins and a low level of  administrative
costs relative to revenues,  through the  centralization  of many functions with
specialists,  such as facility  maintenance,  employee compensation and benefits
programs,  pricing of our product,  as well as the development and documentation
of  standardized  operating  procedures.  We also  believe that our major market
concentration  provides  managerial  efficiencies  stemming  from having a large
number of facilities in close proximity to each other.

     BRAND NAME RECOGNITION:  Our operations in the U.S. are conducted under the
"Public  Storage"  brand  name,  which we  believe  is the most  recognized  and
established name in the self-storage industry in the U.S. Our storage operations
within the U.S. are conducted in 38 states,  giving us national  recognition and
prominence.  Our facilities  tend to be in highly visible and heavily  populated
areas,  improving  the local  awareness  of our  brand.  Customer  awareness  of
self-storage  in  Europe  is  emerging.  All of our  facilities  in  Europe  are
operating under the "Shurgard Storage Centers" brand name. We believe we are the
single largest self-storage operator in Western Europe as of December 31, 2007.

     MAJOR MARKET  CONCENTRATION  IN THE U.S.:  We focus our  operations  in the
major markets in the U.S., which we believe  enhances our marketing  efficiency.
We can economically purchase large, prominent,  well-placed yellow page ads that
allow us to reach the consumer more effectively than smaller  operators.  We are
also able to purchase and bid aggressively for  multiple-keyword  advertising on
national Internet search engines. In addition, we are able to market efficiently
using television as a media source.  We believe that our competitors  cannot use
television  advertising,  because their limited concentration of facilities does
not  provide a  sufficient  potential  customer  base to offset the high cost of
television advertising.




     In addition,  we believe that in recent years,  zoning requirements in some
of the  major  metropolitan  markets  in  which  we  operate  in the  U.S.  have
increased, resulting in more barriers to new competition. While this has limited
our  new  development  opportunities,  it has  minimized  supply  increases  and
competition with certain of our properties.

     RETAIL OPERATIONS:  Through a taxable REIT subsidiary, we sell retail items
associated  with the  storage  business  and  rent  trucks  at our  self-storage
facilities  in order to  supplement  and  strengthen  the existing  self-storage
business by further meeting the needs of storage customers.

     Each of our self-storage  locations' rental offices sell locks,  boxes, and
packing materials,  while certain of the facilities in the U.S. also rent trucks
primarily  to storage  customers or operate as an agent of  long-distance  truck
rental companies.  These rental offices which conduct these activities  include,
in some cases, larger retail-oriented locations.

     TENANT INSURANCE PROGRAM:  Through taxable REIT  subsidiaries,  we reinsure
policies  issued to our tenants  against lost or damaged goods stored by tenants
in our storage facilities.  These subsidiaries receive the premiums and bear the
risks  associated with the  re-insurance.  We believe that our tenant  insurance
operations further supplement and strengthen the existing  self-storage business
and provide an additional source of earnings for the Company.

GROWTH AND INVESTMENT STRATEGIES
- --------------------------------

     Our growth strategies  consist of: (i) improving the operating  performance
of our existing  self-storage  properties,  (ii) acquiring  properties  that are
owned or  operated  by others  in the  U.S.,  (iii)  expanding  and  repackaging
existing  U.S.  real  estate  facilities,  (iv)  participating  in the growth of
commercial  facilities  owned  primarily  by PSB  and  (v)  capitalizing  on the
potential  growth in the European  market.  These  strategies  are  described as
follows:

     IMPROVE  THE  OPERATING  PERFORMANCE  OF  EXISTING  PROPERTIES:  We seek to
increase the net cash flow generated by our existing self-storage  properties by
a)  regularly   evaluating   our  call   volume,   reservation   activity,   and
move-in/move-out  rates for each of our  properties  relative  to our  marketing
activities, b) evaluating market supply and demand factors and, based upon these
analyses,  adjusting our marketing activities and rental rates, c) attempting to
maximize revenues through evaluating the appropriate  balance between occupancy,
rental rates, and promotional  discounting and d) controlling expense levels. We
believe that our property  management  personnel and systems,  combined with the
national  telephone  reservation  system  and media  advertising  programs  will
continue to enhance our ability to meet these goals.

     ACQUIRE  PROPERTIES OWNED OR OPERATED BY OTHERS IN THE U.S.: We believe our
presence in and knowledge of substantially  all of the major markets in the U.S.
enhances  our  ability to  identify  attractive  acquisition  opportunities  and
capitalize on the overall  fragmentation in the self-storage  industry.  Data on
the rental  rates and  occupancy  levels of our existing  facilities,  which are
often located in proximity to potential  acquisition  candidates,  provide us an
advantage in evaluating the potential of acquisition opportunities.

     EXPAND AND REPACKAGE EXISTING REAL ESTATE FACILITIES: We have a substantial
number of facilities in the U.S. that were developed and  constructed 20 or more
years ago based upon local  competitive and  demographic  conditions in place at
that time. Population densities and other such conditions may have changed since
then,  providing  opportunities  to expand and further  invest into our existing
self-storage locations, either by improving the quality of the existing units by
adding amenities such as climate control,  or by expanding these facilities at a
per square foot cost that is typically less than the cost incurred in developing
a new  location.  At December 31, 2007,  we have  identified 27 such projects to
expand or repackage our existing  facilities in the U.S.,  for an aggregate cost
of  approximately  $106.9 million,  which will add an aggregate of approximately
1,105,000 net rentable  square feet.  Completion of these projects is subject to
contingencies, including obtaining governmental agency approvals. We continue to
evaluate our existing real estate portfolio to identify additional expansion and
repackaging opportunities.

     In recent years, our rate of development of new self-storage  facilities in
the U.S. has declined due to increases in construction cost, increases in




competition with retail,  condominium,  and apartment operators for quality
self-storage sites in urban locations,  and more difficult zoning and permitting
requirements.  We  will  continue  to  seek  favorable  sites  and  markets  for
development,  based upon current market conditions.  In the short-term we do not
expect any significant investment in new development locations in the U.S.

     PARTICIPATE IN THE GROWTH OF COMMERCIAL  FACILITIES  PRIMARILY  THROUGH OUR
OWNERSHIP IN PS BUSINESS PARKS,  INC.: At December 31, 2007, we had a 45% common
equity  interest  in PSB and  its  operating  partnership  which,  consisted  of
5,418,273 shares of common stock and 7,305,355 limited  partnership units in the
Operating  Partnership.  The limited  partnership  units are  convertible at our
option,  subject to certain  conditions,  on a one-for-one basis into PSB common
stock. At December 31, 2007, PSB owned and operated  approximately  19.6 million
net rentable  square feet of  commercial  space  located in the U.S.  located in
eight states.

     CAPITALIZE ON THE POTENTIAL FOR GROWTH IN EUROPE:  Our European  operations
are conducted  through Shurgard  Self-Storage SCA, a Belgian company referred to
hereinafter as "Shurgard Europe".

     The self-storage market in Europe is relatively new, making it difficult to
obtain reliable statistics regarding competition throughout Europe. We track and
maintain information regarding customers and competitors in the markets in which
we operate, and in markets where we are considering expansion.

     According to the most recent data  provided by the  Federation  of European
Self-Storage  Associations  ("FEDESSA"),   the  self-storage  market  in  Europe
(defined as Belgium, Czech Republic,  Denmark,  Finland, France, Germany, Italy,
The  Netherlands,  Norway,  Spain,  Sweden,  Switzerland and the United Kingdom)
consisted of approximately  1,090 stores as of March 2007,  approximately 600 of
which are located in the United Kingdom.  We believe,  however,  that because of
the number of new entrants  into the market,  FEDESSA may  understate  the total
number of stores in many markets even as of the date reported.  Less  fragmented
than the U.S. market, the European self-storage market is dominated by a handful
of larger players and a few midsized operators, with the remainder of the market
consisting of smaller operators.  The top five operators of stores in Europe, of
which we believe we are the largest,  collectively have approximately 45% of the
aggregate  market share for  self-storage  space,  based on net rentable  square
footage, as of March 2007. Because of the number of new entrants into the market
and difficulties in collecting data, the information presented by FEDESSA at any
time may  understate  the total number of stores in many  markets.  However,  we
believe the  information  presented by FEDESSA is the best available  measure of
market size and competition.

     Although  many  European  consumers  are not yet aware of the  self-storage
concept,  they tend to live in more densely  populated  areas in smaller  living
spaces (as compared to the U.S.) that, we believe,  should make  self-storage an
attractive  option as product  knowledge and availability  grows. Most Europeans
are familiar with the concept of storage only as an ancillary  service  provided
by moving companies.  The service provided by moving companies is typically full
service, prevents direct access by customers and may involve security issues for
the users  because  they have less  control  over  their  goods in  storage.  In
addition,  most of these moving  companies  require  advance  notice to retrieve
goods and charge  handling  fees and minimum  monthly  fees,  making the cost of
smaller storage requirements costly.

     As a result of this low  density  of  self-storage  in Europe  relative  to
population as compared to the U.S., we believe that there is significant  growth
potential  in Europe,  even if the  density of  self-storage  in Europe does not
ultimately approach the levels in the U.S. Capitalizing on this opportunity will
require a significant  amount of capital to develop new self-storage  facilities
in what  could be a process  extending  through  a few  decades  in time  frame,
similar to the trajectory of the U.S.  self-storage industry since its inception
in the mid 1960's.

     Notwithstanding  the potential of this  opportunity,  we believe that it is
not appropriate to invest significant amounts of our existing U.S. based capital
into Europe,  because of a) the lack of tax  efficiency  of operating in various
tax jurisdictions,  many of which subject these operations to income tax as well
as certain  taxes upon  repatriation  of funds to the U.S.,  b)  constraints  on
ownership or operations required in order to satisfy the statutory  requirements
of being a U.S.  REIT, as well as c) the differing  risk/return  profile of such
investments in European self-storage  operations relative to the expectations of
our existing  investor base.  Accordingly,  we believe that separate  sources of
capital obtained through a separate public European-based entity, best positions
our European  operations for long-term  growth. We attempted a share offering in
Europe in mid-2007 in order to  establish  such a public  entity;  however,  the
offering  was  abandoned  because  market  conditions  were and  continue  to be
unfavorable.




     In January 2008, we announced that we reached an agreement in principle for
a prospective investor to acquire a 51% ownership interest in Shurgard Europe in
a  private  transaction  at a price  generally  consistent  with the  previously
disclosed proceeds we expected to receive for our equity interest in last year's
terminated  European share offering.  No binding  agreement has been signed with
the prospective investor and there is no assurance that a binding agreement will
be signed or that a transaction will be completed. We estimate the completion of
the  transaction  at the end of the first  quarter  of 2008  assuming  a binding
agreement is signed and the conditions related to the transaction are satisfied.

     Concurrent with the completion of the proposed transaction, we will seek to
obtain a waiver from the lenders of the Second  Shurgard credit facility for the
change in control acceleration clause contained in the credit facility. See Note
19 to our  December  31,  2007  financial  statements  for  further  information
regarding the proposed transaction involving Shurgard Europe.

     While we intend to reduce our  exposure  to Europe  for the  aforementioned
reasons,  we intend to  continue  to hold a  significant  minority  position  in
Shurgard Europe in order to participate in this entity's growth.

     POLICIES WITH RESPECT TO INVESTING  ACTIVITIES:  Following are our policies
with respect to certain other investing strategies, each of which may be entered
into without a vote of shareholders:

     o    MAKING LOANS TO OTHER ENTITIES:  We have made loans in connection with
          the sale of properties, have made short-term loans to PSB and Shurgard
          Europe in the last three years and may make loans to third  parties as
          part of our  investment  objectives.  However,  we do not expect  such
          items to be a significant part of our long-term investing activities.

     o    INVESTING  IN THE  SECURITIES  OF OTHER  ISSUERS  FOR THE  PURPOSE  OF
          EXERCISING CONTROL:  While we have not engaged in this activity in the
          last three years, we may engage in these activities in the future as a
          component  of our  real  estate  acquisition  strategy.  We  also  own
          partnership  interests  in  various  consolidated  and  unconsolidated
          partnerships.   See  "Investments  in  Real  Estate  and  Real  Estate
          Entities."

     o    UNDERWRITING  SECURITIES OF OTHER ISSUERS: We have not engaged in this
          activity in the last three years, and do not intend to in the future.

     o    SHORT-TERM  INVESTING:  We have not  engaged  in  investments  in real
          estate or real estate entities on a short-term basis in the last three
          years. Instead,  historically, we have acquired real estate assets and
          held them for an extended  period of time.  We do not  anticipate  any
          such short-term investments.

     o    REPURCHASING OR REACQUIRING OUR COMMON SHARES OR OTHER SECURITIES: Our
          Board of Trustees has authorized  the repurchase  from time to time of
          up to  25,000,000  of our  common  shares  on the  open  market  or in
          privately negotiated  transactions.  Cumulatively through February 28,
          2008, we  repurchased a total of 23,721,916 of our common shares under
          this  authorization.  Cumulatively  through February 28, 2008, we have
          called  for  redemption  or  repurchased  $2.3  billion  of our senior
          preferred shares and $165 million of our preferred  partnership  units
          for  cash,   representing  a  refinancing  of  these  securities  into
          lower-coupon  preferred  securities.  Any  future  repurchases  of our
          common  shares  will  depend  primarily  upon  the  attractiveness  of
          repurchases  compared  to our other  investment  alternatives.  Future
          redemptions  or repurchases  of our preferred  securities,  which will
          become available for redemption or repurchase on their respective call
          dates,  will be  largely  dependent  upon the  spread  between  market
          dividend  rates  for the newly  issued  preferred  securities  and the
          dividend rates of our existing preferred securities.





FINANCING OF THE COMPANY'S GROWTH STRATEGIES
- --------------------------------------------

     OVERVIEW OF  FINANCING  STRATEGY:  Over the past three years we have funded
substantially all the cash portion of our acquisition and development activities
with permanent  capital  (predominantly  retained cash flow and the net proceeds
from the issuance of  preferred  securities).  We have elected to use  preferred
securities as a form of leverage despite the fact that the dividend rates of our
preferred securities exceed the prevailing market interest rates on conventional
debt,  because of certain  benefits  described in  "Management's  Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity  and Capital
Resources." Our present  intention is to continue to finance  substantially  all
our growth with permanent capital.

     BORROWINGS:  We have in the past used our $300  million  revolving  line of
credit described below under "Borrowings" as temporary "bridge"  financing,  and
repaid those amounts with  permanent  capital.  Our debt  outstanding  currently
represents debt that was assumed either in connection with property acquisitions
or in connection with the Shurgard Merger. When we have assumed such debt in the
past, we have generally prepaid such amounts except in cases where the nature of
the loan terms did not allow such prepayment, or where a prepayment penalty made
it  not  economically  advantageous  to  prepay.  While  it is not  our  present
intention to issue additional debt as a long-term  financing  strategy,  we have
broad powers to borrow in furtherance  of our  objectives  without a vote of our
shareholders.  These powers are subject to a limitation on unsecured  borrowings
in our Bylaws described in "Limitations on Borrowings" below.

     At December  31,  2007,  we had undrawn  standby  letters of credit,  which
reduce our  borrowing  capacity with respect to our line of credit by the amount
of the standby letters of credit, totaling $20.4 million.

     ISSUANCE OF SENIOR SECURITIES:  We have in the last three years issued, and
expect to  continue to issue,  additional  series of  preferred  shares that are
senior to our Common  Shares and Equity  Shares.  At December 31,  2007,  we had
approximately  $3.5  billion   (liquidation   preference)  of  preferred  shares
outstanding.  The preferred  shares,  which were issued in series,  have general
preference  rights with respect to liquidation and quarterly  distributions.  We
intend to continue to issue  preferred  securities  without a vote of our common
shareholders.

     ISSUANCE OF SECURITIES  IN EXCHANGE FOR  PROPERTY:  We have issued both our
common  and  preferred   securities  in  exchange  for  real  estate  and  other
investments  in the last three years,  most  notably the issuance of  38,913,187
common shares in connection with the Shurgard Merger in 2006.  Future  issuances
will be dependent upon our financing needs and capital market  conditions at the
time, including the market prices of our equity securities.

     JOINT  VENTURE  FINANCING:   We  have  historically  formed  and  may  form
additional  joint ventures to facilitate the funding of future  developments  or
acquisitions.  Through the Shurgard  Merger in 2006,  we acquired an interest in
two joint venture  entities:  First Shurgard SPRL ("First  Shurgard")  formed in
January 2003 and Second Shurgard SPRL ("Second Shurgard") formed in May 2004.

     In  January  2004,  we entered  into a joint  venture  partnership  with an
institutional  investor  for the purpose of  acquiring  up to $125.0  million of
existing   self-storage   properties   in  the  U.S.  from  third  parties  (the
"Acquisition  Joint  Venture").  The  venture  is funded  entirely  with  equity
consisting of 30% from the Company and 70% from the institutional  investor. For
a six-month  period  beginning 54 months after  formation,  we have the right to
acquire our joint venture partner's  interest based upon the market value of the
properties.  If we do not exercise  our option,  our joint  venture  partner can
elect to purchase  our  interest  in the  properties  during a six-month  period
commencing upon expiration of our six-month option period.  If our joint venture
partner fails to exercise its option, the partnership will be liquidated and the
proceeds  will be  distributed  to the partners  according to the joint  venture
agreement.  As of  December  31,  2007,  the  Acquisition  Joint  Venture  owned
interests  in a  total  of  12  self-storage  facilities.  See  Note  8  to  our
consolidated financial statements at December 31, 2007 for further discussion of
the  accounting  for  the  Acquisition  Joint  Venture.  We do  not  expect  the
Acquisition Joint Venture to acquire any additional facilities.

     In addition, as previously disclosed,  we reached an agreement in principle
for a  prospective  investor to acquire a 51%  interest in Shurgard  Europe in a
private  transaction  at  a  price  generally  consistent  with  the  previously



disclosed proceeds Public Storage expected to receive for its equity interest in
last year's  terminated  European share offering.  No binding agreement has been
signed with the  prospective  investor and there is no assurance  that a binding
agreement will be signed or that the transaction will be completed.  We estimate
completion of the transaction at the end of the first quarter of 2008 assuming a
binding  agreement is signed and the conditions  related to the  transaction are
satisfied.

     Concurrent with the completion of the proposed transaction, we will seek to
obtain a waiver from the lenders of the Second  Shurgard credit facility for the
change in control acceleration clause contained in the credit facility. See Note
19 to our  December  31,  2007  financial  statements  for  further  information
regarding the proposed transaction involving Shurgard Europe.

     DISPOSITION OF PROPERTIES:  We  historically  have disposed of self-storage
facilities only because of condemnation proceedings, which compel us to sell. We
do  not  presently  intend  to  sell  any  significant  number  of  self-storage
facilities in the future, though there can be no assurance that we will not.

INVESTMENTS IN REAL ESTATE AND REAL ESTATE ENTITIES
- ---------------------------------------------------

     INVESTMENT   POLICIES  AND  PRACTICES  WITH  RESPECT  TO  OUR  INVESTMENTS:
Following  are our  investment  practices and policies  which,  though we do not
anticipate any significant  alteration,  can be changed by our board of trustees
without a shareholder vote:

     o    Our investments  primarily consist of direct ownership of self-storage
          properties (the nature of our self-storage  properties is described in
          Item 2,  "Properties"),  as well as partial interests in entities that
          own self-storage properties, which are primarily located in the U.S.

     o    Our investments are acquired both for income and for capital gain.

     o    Our partial ownership  interests primarily reflect general and limited
          partnership  interests in entities  that own  self-storage  facilities
          that are managed by us under the "Public  Storage" brand name and to a
          lesser  extent,   storage  facilities  managed  in  Europe  under  the
          "Shurgard Storage Centers" brand name.

     o    Additional   acquired   interests  in  real  estate  (other  than  the
          acquisition  properties from third parties) will include common equity
          interests in entities in which we already have an interest.

     o    To  a  lesser  extent,  we  have  interests  in  existing   commercial
          properties (described in Item 2, "Properties"),  containing commercial
          and industrial rental space, primarily through our investment in PSB.

     The  following  table  outlines  our  ownership  interest  in  self-storage
facilities in the U.S. at December 31, 2007:








     The  following  table  outlines  our  ownership  interest  in  self-storage
facilities in Europe at December 31, 2007:




     In addition to our interest in  self-storage  facilities  noted  above,  we
consolidate  1,455,000 net rentable  square feet of commercial  space we have an
interest in which is primarily  located  adjacent to certain of our self-storage
facilities.  We also have a 45% common  interest in PSB,  which at December  31,
2007 owned and operated  approximately  19.6 million net rentable square feet of
commercial space.

FACILITIES OWNED BY CONSOLIDATED ENTITIES
- -----------------------------------------

     In addition to our direct ownership of 1,504 self-storage facilities in the
U.S.  and 104  self-storage  facilities  in  Europe at  December  31,  2007,  we
consolidate 45 entities that in aggregate own 480 self-storage facilities in the
U.S.  and 70  self-storage  facilities  in Europe.  Because  of our  controlling
interest in each of these entities, we consolidate the assets, liabilities,  and
results of operations of these entities in our financial statements.

     Through  the  Shurgard  Merger  in 2006,  we  acquired  two  joint  venture
entities: First Shurgard and Second Shurgard. These joint ventures were expected
to develop or acquire up to approximately 75 self-storage  facilities in Europe.
Shurgard Europe has a 20% interest in each of these ventures. We have determined
that First Shurgard and Second Shurgard are each Variable Interest Entities, and
that we are the primary  beneficiary.  Accordingly,  First  Shurgard  and Second
Shurgard have been consolidated in our consolidated  financial  statements since
the acquisition of Shurgard.  See Notes 2 and 10 to our  consolidated  financial
statements included elsewhere in this report for further discussion of the joint
ventures acquired in the merger with Shurgard.

     On September 5, 2006, we informed our joint  venture  partner in both First
Shurgard and Second  Shurgard of our  intention to purchase its interest in both
First  Shurgard and Second  Shurgard,  pursuant to an "exit  procedure"  that we
believe is provided for in the respective agreements.  Our joint venture partner
currently contests whether we have the right to purchase its interest under this
procedure  and,  accordingly,  it is uncertain as to whether we will acquire its
interest  pursuant  to  these  provisions.  On  January  17,  2007,  we filed an
arbitration  request  to  compel  arbitration  of the  matter.  The  arbitration
proceedings are currently scheduled to begin on June 30, 2008.

FACILITIES OWNED BY UNCONSOLIDATED ENTITIES
- -------------------------------------------

     At December 31, 2007, we had ownership interests in PSB and certain limited
partnerships (collectively the "Unconsolidated Entities") owning an aggregate of
28  self-storage  facilities.  We do not have a  controlling  interest  in these
entities,  and as a result we do not  consolidate the accounts of these entities
for financial  reporting  purposes and we account for such investments using the
equity method. PSB, which files financial  statements with the SEC, has debt and
other   obligations  that  are  not  included  in  our  consolidated   financial
statements.  The limited partnerships owning the 28 self-storage facilities have
no  significant  amounts  of  debt  or  other  obligations.  See  Note  5 to our
consolidated  financial  statements  for the year ended  December  31,  2007 for
further  disclosure  regarding the assets,  liabilities and operating results of
the Unconsolidated Entities.



     The following  chart sets forth,  as of December 31, 2007,  the entities in
which  we have a  controlling  interest  and the  entities  in  which  we have a
minority interest:




     (1)  B. Wayne  Hughes owns  approximately  2.8% of the limited  partnership
          interest of this entity.
     (2)  B. Wayne  Hughes owns  approximately  4.4% of the limited  partnership
          interest of this entity.
     (3)  The Hughes Family owns 20% of the general partner  interests and 15.5%
          of the limited partnership interests of this entity.
     (4)  The Hughes Family owns 20% of the general partner  interests and 11.4%
          of the limited partnership interests of this entity.
     (5)  B. Wayne Hughes owns approximately 20% of the general partner interest
          of these entities.




     (6)  The Hughes Family owns approximately  24.3% of the limited partnership
          interest of this entity.
     (7)  The Hughes Family owns approximately  11.9% of the limited partnership
          interest of this entity.
     (8)  The Hughes Family owns 20% of the general partner  interests and 30.5%
          of the limited partnership interests of this entity.
     (9)  B. Wayne Hughes owns  approximately  17.4% of the limited  partnership
          interest of this entity.
     (10) B. Wayne  Hughes is a general  partner in this entity and owns a 0.02%
          equity interest.
     (11) B.  Wayne  Hughes  is a general  partner  of this  entity,  and has no
          economic interest.
     (12) B. Wayne  Hughes owns  approximately  0.5% of the common  shares of PS
          Business Parks, Inc.
     (13) B. Wayne Hughes owns  approximately  17.9% of the general  partnership
          interest of this entity.

PROHIBITED INVESTMENTS AND ACTIVITIES
- -------------------------------------

     Our Bylaws  prohibit us from  purchasing  properties in which the Company's
officers  or trustees  have an  interest,  or from  selling  properties  to such
persons,  unless the  transactions are approved by a majority of the independent
trustees and are fair to the Company  based on an  independent  appraisal.  This
Bylaw provision may be changed with  shareholder  approval.  See "Limitations on
Debt" below for other restrictions in the Bylaws.

BORROWINGS
- ----------

     We have a revolving  credit  agreement  (the  "Credit  Agreement")  with an
aggregate  limit  with  respect  to  borrowings  and  letters  of credit of $300
million,  with a maturity  date of March 27, 2012.  Amounts  drawn on the Credit
Agreement bear an annual interest rate ranging from the London Interbank Offered
Rate  ("LIBOR")  plus 0.35% to LIBOR plus 1.00%  depending on our credit ratings
(LIBOR plus 0.35% at December 31, 2007).  In addition,  we are required to pay a
quarterly facility fee ranging from 0.10% per annum to 0.25% per annum depending
on our  credit  ratings  (0.10%  per  annum at  December  31,  2007).  We had no
outstanding  borrowings  on our Credit  Agreement  at  December  31,  2007 or at
February 28, 2008.

     The Credit Agreement  includes various  covenants,  the more significant of
which require us to (i) maintain a leverage  ratio (as defined  therein) of less
than 0.55 to 1.00,  (ii)  maintain  certain  fixed charge and interest  coverage
ratios  (as  defined  therein)  of not  less  than  1.5 to 1.0 and  1.75 to 1.0,
respectively,  and (iii)  maintain  a minimum  total  shareholders'  equity  (as
defined  therein).  We were in  compliance  with  all  covenants  of the  Credit
Agreement at December 31, 2007.

     At December 31, 2007, we had (i) $410.9 million of domestic unsecured notes
payable, (ii) $236.9 million of domestic mortgage notes secured by facilities in
the U.S., (iii) $376.7 million of notes payable secured by facilities located in
Europe and (iv) capital lease liabilities totaling $7.3 million.

     The $376.7 million in notes payable secured by facilities located in Europe
cannot be prepaid at this time because they are held by two joint  ventures that
require our joint venture partner's (same partner in each joint venture) consent
to  prepay.  We are  currently  unwilling  to  prepay  the other  notes  payable
outstanding because of significant  prepayment  penalties that would be required
at this time.

     Approximately  $189.1 million in debt owed by First Shurgard was originally
scheduled to mature in May 2008.  However,  in February 2008, under the terms of
the related credit agreement we have requested a one-year  extension of the loan
until May 2009.  Assuming  we have met our loan  covenants,  which we believe we
have met,  the lender is  required  to grant our  request.  Notwithstanding  our
expectation of receiving the requested one-year  extension,  if the extension is
not granted,  we and our joint venture  partner are required to  contribute  our
pro-rata  share of funds  necessary to repay the debt. We believe that our joint
venture partner has the intention and ability to contribute  their potential 80%
share towards repayment of this debt if it is necessary.

     Concurrent   with  the  completion  of  the  proposed   transaction  for  a
prospective  investor to acquire a 51% interest in Shurgard Europe, we will seek
to obtain a waiver from the lenders of the Second  Shurgard  credit facility for
the change in control acceleration clause contained in the credit facility.  See
Note 19 to our December 31, 2007 financial  statements  for further  information
regarding the proposed transaction involving Shurgard Europe.

     Subject to a limitation on unsecured  borrowings  in our Bylaws  (described
below),  we have broad  powers to borrow in support of our  objectives.  We have
incurred in the past, and may incur in the future, both short-term and long-term
indebtedness  to increase our funds  available  for  investment  in real estate,
capital expenditures and distributions.





LIMITATIONS ON DEBT
- -------------------

     The Bylaws provide that the Board of Trustees shall not authorize or permit
the  incurrence of any  obligation by the Company,  which would cause our "Asset
Coverage" of our unsecured indebtedness to become less than 300%. Asset Coverage
is defined in the Bylaws as the ratio  (expressed as a percentage)  by which the
value of the total  assets (as defined in the  Bylaws) of the  Company  less the
Company's liabilities (except liabilities for unsecured borrowings) bears to the
aggregate  amount  of all  unsecured  borrowings  of  the  Company.  This  Bylaw
provision may be changed only upon a shareholder vote.

     Our Bylaws  prohibit us from issuing debt  securities in a public  offering
unless our "cash flow"  (which for this purpose  means net income,  exclusive of
extraordinary  items, plus depreciation) for the most recent 12 months for which
financial  statements are available,  adjusted to give effect to the anticipated
use of the  proceeds  from  the  proposed  sale of  debt  securities,  would  be
sufficient to pay the interest on such  securities.  This Bylaw provision may be
changed only upon a shareholder vote.

     Without the consent of holders of the  various  series of Senior  Preferred
Shares,  we may not take any action  that  would  result in a ratio of "Debt" to
"Assets" (the "Debt Ratio") in excess of 50%. As of December 31, 2007,  the Debt
Ratio was approximately  8.4%. "Debt" means the liabilities (other than "accrued
and other liabilities" and "minority  interest") that should, in accordance with
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles,  be reflected on our consolidated
balance  sheet at the time of  determination.  "Assets"  means our total  assets
before a reduction for accumulated depreciation and amortization that should, in
accordance with generally accepted  accounting  principles,  be reflected on the
consolidated balance sheet at the time of determination.

     Our bank and senior  unsecured debt agreements  contain  various  financial
covenants,  including  limitations on the level of indebtedness at less than 55%
of gross  asset  value  (as  defined)  and the  prohibition  of the  payment  of
dividends upon the occurrence of an event of default (as defined).

EMPLOYEES
- ---------

     We have  approximately  5,700  employees in the U.S. and Europe at December
31,  2007 who render  services  on behalf of the  Company,  primarily  personnel
engaged in property operations. None of our employees in the U.S. are covered by
a  collective  bargaining  agreement.  Two  countries  in Europe have  employees
represented through an internal  collective  bargaining council. We believe that
our relations with our employees are generally amicable.

FEDERAL INCOME TAX
- ------------------

     We believe  that we have  operated,  and intend to continue to operate,  in
such a manner as to qualify as a REIT under the  Internal  Revenue Code of 1986,
but no  assurance  can be given  that we will at all  times so  qualify.  To the
extent that we continue to qualify as a REIT, we will not be taxed, with certain
limited exceptions, on the REIT taxable income (including gains from the sale of
securities and properties) that we distribute to our shareholders.

     For federal tax purposes, our distributions to our shareholders are treated
by the  shareholders as ordinary income,  capital gains,  return of capital or a
combination  thereof.  Ordinary income  dividends to our  shareholders  will not
generally be eligible for the lower tax rates that apply to "qualified  dividend
income."

     Our  taxable  REIT  subsidiaries  will be taxed on  their  taxable  income.
Additionally,  our  subsidiaries  in Europe  are  subject  to income  tax in the
various jurisdictions in which they operate. In general,  current taxable income
in Europe has been offset by net operating loss carryforwards.





INSURANCE
- ---------

     We believe our  properties  are adequately  insured.  Our  facilities  have
historically carried comprehensive  insurance,  including property,  earthquake,
general  liability  and  workers  compensation,  through  nationally  recognized
insurance carriers and through our captive insurance programs (described below).
Our captive insurance programs also insure affiliates of the Company.

     For  losses  incurred  prior  to  April  1,  2004,  our  captive  insurance
activities  were  conducted  through  STOR-Re  Mutual  Insurance  Company,  Inc.
("STOR-Re"),  an association captive insurance company owned by the Company, the
Consolidated  Entities,  and the  Unconsolidated  Entities.  For losses incurred
after March 31, 2004,  these  activities are conducted by an entity wholly owned
by the Company, PS Insurance Company Hawaii, Ltd. ("PSIC-H").

     The Company,  STOR-Re,  PSIC-H and its affiliates' maximum aggregate annual
exposure for losses that are below the  deductibles set forth in the third-party
insurance   contracts,   assuming   multiple   significant   events  occur,   is
approximately  $37  million.  In  addition,  if losses  exhaust the  third-party
insurers'  limit of  coverage of $75 million  for  property  coverage  including
earthquake  coverage  ((euro)25 million for Europe) and $102 million for general
liability, our exposure could be greater. These limits are higher than estimates
of maximum probable losses that could occur from individual  catastrophic events
(i.e. earthquake and wind damage) determined in recent engineering and actuarial
studies.

     Our tenant insurance program  reinsures  policies against claims for losses
to goods stored by tenants at our self-storage  facilities.  We have third-party
insurance  coverage  for claims paid  exceeding  $1,500,000  resulting  from any
individual  event,  to a limit of  $9,000,000.  At  December  31,  2007,  we had
approximately  490,000  reinsured  policies  throughout  our 2,000  self-storage
locations in the U.S.  representing  aggregate  coverage of  approximately  $1.2
billion. Our exposure to tenant insurance losses are minimal with respect to our
European operations due to third-party insurance coverage.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS
         ------------

     In addition to the other information in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, you
should  consider  the risks  described  below that we believe may be material to
investors in  evaluating  the Company.  This  section  contains  forward-looking
statements,  and in  considering  these  statements,  you  should  refer  to the
qualifications  and  limitations  on our  forward-looking  statements  that  are
described in Forward Looking Statements at the beginning of Item 1.

SINCE OUR BUSINESS CONSISTS PRIMARILY OF ACQUIRING AND OPERATING REAL ESTATE, WE
ARE SUBJECT TO THE RISKS RELATED TO THE OWNERSHIP AND OPERATION OF REAL ESTATE.

     The value of our investments may be reduced by general risks of real estate
ownership.  Since we derive  substantially  all of our income  from real  estate
operations,  we are subject to the general  risks of owning real  estate-related
assets, including:

     o    lack of demand for rental spaces or units in a locale;

     o    changes in general economic or local conditions;

     o    natural disasters, such as earthquakes and floods;

     o    potential terrorist attacks;

     o    changes in supply of or demand for similar or competing  facilities in
          an area;

     o    the impact of environmental protection laws;





     o    changes in interest rates and availability of permanent mortgage funds
          which may  render the sale of a  nonstrategic  property  difficult  or
          unattractive including the impact of the current turmoil in the credit
          markets;

     o    increases in insurance  premiums,  property tax  assessments and other
          operating and maintenance expenses;

     o    adverse  changes in tax, real estate and zoning laws and  regulations;
          and

     o    tenant and employment-related claims.

     In addition,  we self-insure certain of our property loss,  liability,  and
workers  compensation  risks for  which  other  real  estate  companies  may use
third-party  insurers.  This  results  in a higher  risk of losses  that are not
covered  by  third-party  insurance  contracts,  as  described  in Note 16 under
"Insurance  and Loss  Exposure"  to our  consolidated  financial  statements  at
December 31, 2007.

     THERE IS SIGNIFICANT  COMPETITION  AMONG  SELF-STORAGE  FACILITIES AND FROM
OTHER STORAGE ALTERNATIVES.  Most of our properties are self-storage facilities,
which generated most of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007.  Local
market  conditions will play a significant  part in how competition  will affect
us.  Competition in the market areas in which many of our properties are located
from other self-storage facilities and other storage alternatives is significant
and has affected the occupancy  levels,  rental rates and operating  expenses of
some of our properties.  Any increase in availability of funds for investment in
real estate may accelerate  competition.  Further  development  of  self-storage
facilities may intensify competition among operators of self-storage  facilities
in the market areas in which we operate.

     WE MAY INCUR SIGNIFICANT  ENVIRONMENTAL COSTS AND LIABILITIES.  As an owner
and  operator  of real  properties,  under  various  federal,  state  and  local
environmental  laws,  we are  required  to clean up spills or other  releases of
hazardous or toxic substances on or from our properties.  Certain  environmental
laws impose liability  whether or not the owner knew of, or was responsible for,
the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances.  In some cases, liability may
not be limited to the value of the property.  The presence of these  substances,
or the failure to properly remediate any resulting  contamination,  whether from
environmental  or microbial  issues,  also may  adversely  affect the owner's or
operator's ability to sell, lease or operate its property or to borrow using its
property as collateral.

     We have  conducted  preliminary  environmental  assessments  of most of our
properties (and intend to conduct these  assessments in connection with property
acquisitions)  to  evaluate  the  environmental   condition  of,  and  potential
environmental  liabilities  associated with, our properties.  These  assessments
generally  consist  of an  investigation  of  environmental  conditions  at  the
property (not including soil or groundwater sampling or analysis),  as well as a
review of available  information  regarding the site and publicly available data
regarding  conditions at other sites in the vicinity.  In connection  with these
property assessments,  our operations and recent property acquisitions,  we have
become aware that prior  operations  or  activities  at some  facilities or from
nearby  locations  have or may have  resulted  in  contamination  to the soil or
groundwater at these facilities.  In this regard,  some of our facilities are or
may be the subject of federal or state environmental  investigations or remedial
actions. We have obtained,  with respect to recent  acquisitions,  and intend to
obtain  with  respect to pending or future  acquisitions,  appropriate  purchase
price  adjustments or  indemnifications  that we believe are sufficient to cover
any related potential liability. Although we cannot provide any assurance, based
on the preliminary environmental assessments, we believe we have funds available
to  cover  any  liability   from   environmental   contamination   or  potential
contamination  and we are not aware of any  environmental  contamination  of our
facilities  material to our overall business,  financial condition or results of
operations.

     There has been an increasing number of claims and litigation against owners
and managers of rental properties relating to moisture  infiltration,  which can
result in mold or other property damage. When we receive a complaint  concerning
moisture infiltration, condensation or mold problems and/or become aware that an
air quality concern exists, we implement  corrective measures in accordance with
guidelines  and  protocols  we have  developed  with the  assistance  of outside
experts.  We seek to work  proactively  with our  tenants  to  resolve  moisture
infiltration and mold-related issues, subject to our contractual  limitations on




liability for such claims. However, we can give no assurance that material legal
claims  relating to moisture  infiltration  and the presence of, or exposure to,
mold will not arise in the future.

     DELAYS IN  DEVELOPMENT  AND  FILL-UP  OF OUR  PROPERTIES  WOULD  REDUCE OUR
PROFITABILITY.  From January 1, 2003,  through December 31, 2007, we have opened
34 newly  developed  self-storage  facilities in the U.S. and,  since August 22,
2006, 15 newly  developed  facilities in Europe.  In addition,  our  development
"pipeline"  in the United  States and Europe at December  31, 2007 consist of 43
projects  with  total  estimated  costs  of  $251  million.  We  anticipate  the
development  of these  43  projects  to be  completed  in the  next  two  years.
Construction  delays  due to  weather,  unforeseen  site  conditions,  personnel
problems,  and other factors,  as well as cost overruns,  would adversely affect
our  profitability.  Delays in the rent-up of newly developed storage space as a
result  of  competition  or  other  factors  would  also  adversely  impact  our
profitability.

     PROPERTY  TAXES CAN INCREASE AND CAUSE A DECLINE IN YIELDS ON  INVESTMENTS.
Each of our  properties is subject to real property  taxes.  These real property
taxes may  increase  in the  future as  property  tax  rates  change  and as our
properties are assessed or reassessed by tax  authorities.  Such increases could
adversely impact our profitability.

     WE MUST COMPLY WITH THE AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT AND FIRE AND SAFETY
REGULATIONS, WHICH CAN REQUIRE SIGNIFICANT EXPENDITURES. All our properties must
comply with the Americans  with  Disabilities  Act and with related  regulations
(the  "ADA").  The  ADA  has  separate   compliance   requirements  for  "public
accommodations"  and  "commercial   facilities,"  but  generally  requires  that
buildings be made  accessible to persons with  disabilities.  Various state laws
impose similar  requirements.  A failure to comply with the ADA or similar state
laws could result in  government  imposed fines on us and could award damages to
individuals affected by the failure. In addition, we must operate our properties
in compliance with numerous local fire and safety  regulations,  building codes,
and other land use regulations.  Compliance with these  requirements can require
us to spend  substantial  amounts of money,  which would  reduce cash  otherwise
available  for  distribution  to  shareholders.  Failure  to comply  with  these
requirements could also affect the marketability of our real estate facilities.

     WE INCUR LIABILITY FROM TENANT AND EMPLOYMENT-RELATED  CLAIMS. From time to
time we must resolve  tenant claims and  employment-related  claims by corporate
level and field personnel.

WE GROW OUR BUSINESS PRIMARILY THROUGH  ACQUISITIONS OF EXISTING  PROPERTIES AND
ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS RELATED TO ACQUISITIONS.

     We grow our  business  in large part  through the  acquisition  of existing
properties,   including  acquisitions  of  businesses  owned  by  other  storage
operators.  In addition to the general  risks  related to real estate  described
above which may also adversely impact operations at acquired properties,  we are
also subject to the following risks in connection with property acquisitions and
the integration of acquired properties into our operations.

     ANY FAILURE BY US TO MANAGE ACQUISITIONS AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT TRANSACTIONS
SUCCESSFULLY  COULD NEGATIVELY  IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL  RESULTS.  As an increasing
part of our business, we acquire other self-storage facilities. We also evaluate
from time to time other  significant  transactions.  If these facilities are not
properly integrated into our system, our financial results may suffer.

     ANY FAILURE TO SUCCESSFULLY INTEGRATE ACQUIRED OPERATIONS WITH OUR EXISTING
BUSINESS COULD  NEGATIVELY  IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL  RESULTS.  To fully realize any
anticipated  benefits from an  acquisition,  we must  successfully  complete the
combination  of the  businesses of Public  Storage and acquired  properties in a
manner  that  permits  cost  savings to be  realized.  It is  possible  that the
integration  process could result in a decline in occupancy and/or rental rates,
the  disruption  of each  company's  ongoing  businesses or  inconsistencies  in
standards,   controls,   procedures,   practices,   policies  and   compensation
arrangements  that adversely affect our ability to maintain  relationships  with
tenants and  employees or to achieve  anticipated  benefits,  particularly  with
large acquisitions.

     AS A RESULT OF OUR ACQUISITION OF THE INTERNATIONAL  OPERATIONS OF SHURGARD
IN  EUROPE,  WE  ARE  EXPOSED  TO  ADDITIONAL  RISKS  RELATED  TO  INTERNATIONAL
BUSINESSES.  We have  limited  experience  in  European  operations,  which  may
adversely impact our ability to operate profitably in Europe. In addition, these
operations  have specific  inherent  risks,  including  without  limitation  the
following:

     o    currency risks,  including currency  fluctuations and risks related to
          foreign currency hedging activities;




     o    unexpected changes in legislative and regulatory requirements;

     o    potentially adverse tax burdens;

     o    burdens   of   complying   with   different   permitting    standards,
          environmental and labor laws and a wide variety of foreign laws;

     o    obstacles to the repatriation of earnings and cash;

     o    regional, national and local political uncertainty;

     o    economic slowdown and/or downturn in foreign markets;

     o    difficulties in staffing and managing international operations;

     o    reduced protection for intellectual property in some countries; and

     o    inability to effectively  control less than wholly-owned  partnerships
          and joint ventures.

     SOME ACQUIRED PROPERTIES ARE SUBJECT TO PROPERTY TAX REAPPRAISALS WHICH MAY
INCREASE OUR PROPERTY TAX  EXPENSE.  Some of the  facilities  we acquired in the
Shurgard  Merger have been,  and will  continue to be,  subject to property  tax
reappraisal  that could increase  property tax expense and adversely  affect our
profitability.  Up to 17% of the domestic  properties  we acquired in the merger
are located in jurisdictions  that may provide for property tax reappraisal upon
a change of ownership and so may face further reassessment.

WE MAY BE UNABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY COMPLETE THE CONTEMPLATED INVESTMENT BY A THIRD
PARTY TO ACQUIRE A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF SHURGARD EUROPE.

     We have announced that we have entered into an agreement in principle for a
prospective  investor to acquire a 51% interest in Shurgard Europe.  However, no
binding agreement has been signed with the prospective  investor and there is no
assurance that a binding  agreement will be signed or that the transaction  will
be  completed.  We may be unable for any  reason to  finalize  negotiations  and
completion of a possible transaction involving Shurgard Europe, and there can be
no guarantee  that any  transaction  involving the  acquisition by a prospective
purchaser of an interest in Shurgard Europe will occur.

WE ARE  SUBJECT TO RISKS  RELATED TO OUR  OWNERSHIP  OF ASSETS IN JOINT  VENTURE
STRUCTURES.

     In connection with our 2006 acquisition of Shurgard,  we acquired interests
in several joint ventures that owned properties.  Joint ventures have additional
risks, including without limitation, the following:

     o    Risks related to the financial  strength,  common  business  goals and
          strategies and cooperation of the venture partner.

     o    The  inability to take some actions with respect to the joint  venture
          activities  that we may believe are  favorable,  if our joint  venture
          partner does not agree.

     o    The risk that we could lose our REIT status  based upon actions of the
          joint ventures if we are unable to effectively  control these indirect
          investments.

     o    The risk that we may not  control  the legal  entity that has title to
          the real estate.

     o    The risk that our investments in these entities may not be easily sold
          or readily accepted as collateral by our lenders,  or that lenders may
          view joint ventured assets as less favorable as collateral.

     o    The risk that the joint  ventures could take actions that we could not
          prevent,  which could result in negative  rating agency impacts to our
          preferred stock and debt.

     o    The risk that we may be constrained from certain activities of our own
          that we would otherwise deem favorable,  due to noncompete  clauses in
          our joint venture arrangements.




     o    The risk  that we will be unable to  resolve  disputes  with our joint
          venture  partners.  We are  currently  engaged  in  legal  proceedings
          including  arbitration  and  litigation  with  certain  joint  venture
          partners in the United States and Europe.

THE  HUGHES  FAMILY  COULD  CONTROL  US  AND  TAKE  ACTIONS   ADVERSE  TO  OTHER
SHAREHOLDERS.

     At December 31, 2007,  B. Wayne  Hughes,  Chairman of the Board of Trustees
and his family (the "Hughes Family") owned  approximately 25.3% of our aggregate
outstanding common shares. Our declaration of trust permits the Hughes Family to
own up to 47.66% of our  outstanding  common  shares.  Consequently,  the Hughes
family may or could  control  matters  submitted to a vote of our  shareholders,
including electing trustees,  amending our organizational documents,  dissolving
and approving other extraordinary transactions, such as a takeover attempt, even
though such actions may not be favorable to other shareholders.

CERTAIN  PROVISIONS OF MARYLAND LAW AND IN OUR  DECLARATION  OF TRUST AND BYLAWS
MAY  PREVENT  CHANGES IN  CONTROL  OR  OTHERWISE  DISCOURAGE  TAKEOVER  ATTEMPTS
BENEFICIAL TO STOCKHOLDERS.

     Maryland law limits certain business combinations and changes of control of
the  Company  unless  the Board  affirmatively  elects  not to be covered by the
statutory  provisions.  Currently,  the Board  has  opted  out of the  statutory
limitations of both statutes.  However,  the Board may in the future elect to be
covered  under  the  business  combination  provisions  and  the  control  share
acquisitions  provisions of Maryland law. The business combination provisions of
Maryland  law (in the event our Board opts to make them  applicable  to us), the
control  share  acquisition  provisions  of  Maryland  law  (if  the  applicable
provision in our bylaws is rescinded), limitations on removal of trustees in our
declaration  of  trust,  restrictions  on  the  acquisition  of  our  shares  of
beneficial  interest,  the power to issue  additional  common shares,  preferred
shares or equity  shares and the advance  notice  provisions of our bylaws could
have the effect of delaying,  deterring or preventing a transaction  or a change
in control that might  involve a premium  price for holders of the common shares
or might otherwise be in their best interest. Certain provisions of Maryland law
permit our board of trustees,  without  shareholder  approval and  regardless of
what is provided in our  declaration of trust or bylaws,  to implement  takeover
defenses that we may not yet have and to take,  or refrain from taking,  certain
other actions without those  decisions being subject to any heightened  standard
of conduct or  standard  of review as such  decisions  may be subject in certain
other jurisdictions.

     To preserve our status as a REIT under the Code,  our  declaration of trust
contains  limitations  on the number and value of shares of beneficial  interest
that any person may own. These ownership limitations generally limit the ability
of a person,  other than the Hughes  Family (as  defined in our  declaration  of
trust)  and other  than  "designated  investment  entities"  (as  defined in our
declaration of trust),  to own more than 3% of our outstanding  common shares or
9.9% of the  outstanding  shares of any class or series of  preferred  or equity
shares,  in  each  case,  in  value  or  number  of  shares,  whichever  is more
restrictive,  unless an  exemption  is granted by our board of  trustees.  These
limitations could discourage,  delay or prevent a transaction involving a change
in control of our company not approved by our board of trustees.

IF WE FAILED TO QUALIFY  AS A REIT,  WE WOULD BE TAXED AS A  CORPORATION,  WHICH
WOULD SUBSTANTIALLY REDUCE FUNDS AVAILABLE FOR PAYMENT OF DIVIDENDS.

     Investors are subject to the risk that we may not qualify as a REIT.  REITs
are subject to a range of complex  organizational and operational  requirements.
As a REIT, we must distribute with respect to each year at least 90% of our REIT
taxable  income  to our  shareholders  (which  may  take  into  account  certain
dividends paid in the subsequent year).  Other  restrictions apply to our income
and assets. Our REIT status is also dependent upon the ongoing  qualification of
our affiliate, PSB, as a REIT, as a result of our substantial ownership interest
in that company.

     For any  taxable  year that we fail to  qualify as a REIT and are unable to
avail ourselves of certain savings provisions set forth in the Code, we would be
subject  to  federal  income tax at the  regular  corporate  rates on all of our
taxable income,  whether or not we make any  distributions to our  shareholders.
Those taxes would reduce the amount of cash  available for  distribution  to our




shareholders or for reinvestment  and would adversely affect our earnings.  As a
result,  our failure to qualify as a REIT  during any taxable  year could have a
material  adverse  effect  upon us and  our  shareholders.  Furthermore,  unless
certain relief  provisions  apply, we would not be eligible to elect REIT status
again until the fifth taxable year that begins after the first year for which we
fail to qualify.

     We have also assumed, based on public filings, that Shurgard qualified as a
REIT.  However, if Shurgard failed to qualify as a REIT, we generally would have
succeeded to or incurred significant tax liabilities  (including the significant
tax  liability  that  would  have  resulted  from the  deemed  sale of assets by
Shurgard pursuant to the merger).

WE MAY PAY SOME TAXES, REDUCING CASH AVAILABLE FOR SHAREHOLDERS.

     Even if we  qualify  as a REIT for  federal  income  tax  purposes,  we are
required to pay some federal,  foreign,  state and local taxes on our income and
property.  Since January 1, 2001, certain corporate  subsidiaries of the Company
(including certain subsidiaries acquired in connection with the Shurgard merger)
have  elected to be treated as "taxable  REIT  subsidiaries"  of the Company for
federal income tax purposes.  A taxable REIT  subsidiary is taxable as a regular
corporation and is limited in its ability to deduct interest payments made to us
in excess of a certain  amount.  In  addition,  if we receive or accrue  certain
amounts  and  the  underlying  economic  arrangements  among  our  taxable  REIT
subsidiaries and us are not comparable to similar  arrangements  among unrelated
parties, we will be subject to a 100% penalty tax on those payments in excess of
amounts deemed  reasonable  between  unrelated  parties.  To the extent that the
Company or any taxable  REIT  subsidiary  is required to pay  federal,  foreign,
state or local  taxes,  we will have less cash  available  for  distribution  to
shareholders.

WE HAVE BECOME INCREASINGLY  DEPENDENT UPON AUTOMATED PROCESSES AND THE INTERNET
AND ARE FACED WITH SECURITY SYSTEM RISKS.

     We have  become  increasingly  centralized  and  dependent  upon  automated
information technology processes.  As a result, we could be severely impacted by
a catastrophic occurrence,  such as a natural disaster or a terrorist attack. In
addition,  a portion of our business operations are conducted over the Internet,
increasing the risk of viruses that could cause system  failures and disruptions
of operations.  Experienced  computer  programmers  may be able to penetrate our
network security and misappropriate our confidential information,  create system
disruptions or cause shutdowns.

WE HAVE NO  INTEREST  IN CANADIAN  SELF-STORAGE  FACILITIES  OWNED BY THE HUGHES
FAMILY.

     The Hughes Family has ownership interests in, and operates, 48 self-storage
facilities  in Canada under the name  "Public  Storage." We currently do not own
any interests in these  facilities  nor do we own any  facilities in Canada.  We
have a right of first refusal to acquire the stock or assets of the  corporation
engaged in the operation of the self-storage  facilities in Canada if the Hughes
family or the  corporation  agrees to sell them.  However,  we have no ownership
interest in the operations of this  corporation,  have no right to acquire their
stock or assets unless the Hughes family decides to sell, and receive no benefit
from the profits and increases in value of the Canadian self-storage facilities.

     Prior  to  December  31,  2003,  Company  personnel  were  engaged  in  the
supervision  and  the  operation  of  these   properties  and  provided  certain
administrative  services for the Canadian  owners,  and certain other  services,
primarily tax services,  with respect to certain other Hughes Family  interests.
The  Hughes  Family  and the  Canadian  owners  reimbursed  us at cost for these
services in the amount of $542,499 with respect to the Canadian  operations  and
$151,063 for other services during 2003 (in U.S. dollars).  There were conflicts
of interest in allocating time of our personnel between Company properties,  the
Canadian properties,  and certain other Hughes Family interests.  The sharing of
Company  personnel with the Canadian  entities was  substantially  eliminated by
December 31, 2003.

     Through our subsidiaries, we continue to reinsure risks relating to loss of
goods stored by tenants in the  self-storage  facilities in Canada.  We acquired
the tenant insurance business on December 31, 2001 through our acquisition of PS
Insurance  Company,  or PSICH.  For the years ended  December 31, 2007 and 2006,
PSICH received  $906,000 and $989,000,  respectively,  in  reinsurance  premiums
attributable to the Canadian  Facilities.  Since PSICH's right to provide tenant
reinsurance to the Canadian  Facilities may be qualified,  there is no assurance
that these premiums will continue.




INCREASES IN INTEREST RATES MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK.

     One of the factors that influence the market price of our common shares and
our other  securities  is the annual  rate of  distributions  that we pay on the
securities,  as compared with interest  rates. An increase in interest rates may
lead purchasers of REIT shares to demand higher annual distribution rates, which
could  adversely  affect  the  market  price  of our  common  shares  and  other
securities.

TERRORIST  ATTACKS  AND THE  POSSIBILITY  OF WIDER  ARMED  CONFLICT  MAY HAVE AN
ADVERSE  IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS  AND  OPERATING  RESULTS AND COULD  DECREASE THE
VALUE OF OUR ASSETS.

     Terrorist  attacks and other acts of  violence  or war,  such as those that
took place on September 11, 2001,  could have a material  adverse  impact on our
business and operating results. There can be no assurance that there will not be
further  terrorist  attacks against the U.S., the European  Community,  or their
businesses or interests.  Attacks or armed conflicts that directly impact one or
more of our properties could  significantly  affect our ability to operate those
properties and thereby impair our operating  results.  Further,  we may not have
insurance  coverage for losses caused by a terrorist attack.  Such insurance may
not be available,  or if it is available and we decide to obtain such  terrorist
coverage,  the cost for the insurance may be significant in  relationship to the
risk  overall.  In  addition,  the adverse  effects  that such  violent acts and
threats of future attacks could have on the U.S.  economy could similarly have a
material  adverse  effect on our  business and results of  operations.  Finally,
further  terrorist  acts  could  cause  the  U.S.  to enter  into a wider  armed
conflict, which could further impact our business and operating results.

DEVELOPMENTS IN CALIFORNIA MAY HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS.

     We are headquartered  in, and approximately  one-fifth of our properties in
the U.S. are located in  California.  California is facing  budgetary  problems.
Action that may be taken in response to these  problems,  such as an increase in
property taxes on commercial properties, could adversely impact our business and
results of operations. In addition, we could be adversely impacted by efforts to
reenact  legislation  mandating  medical  insurance  for employees of California
businesses and members of their families.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
- -------- -------------------------

     Not applicable.





ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
- ------- ----------

     At December 31, 2007,  we had direct and  indirect  ownership  interests in
2,012 and 174 storage  facilities located in 38 states within the U.S. and seven
Western European nations, respectively:

                                              At December 31, 2007
                                ------------------------------------------------
                                  Number of Storage     Net Rentable Square
                                    Facilities (a)      Feet (in thousands)
                                -------------------     ------------------------
United States:
California:
     Southern...............                 202                 13,897
     Northern...............                 170                  9,867
Texas.......................                 235                 15,375
Florida.....................                 191                 12,470
Illinois....................                 123                  7,800
Washington..................                  91                  5,998
Georgia.....................                  92                  5,964
North Carolina..............                  69                  4,775
Virginia....................                  78                  4,407
New York....................                  62                  3,967
Colorado....................                  60                  3,810
New Jersey..................                  56                  3,524
Maryland....................                  55                  3,185
Minnesota...................                  44                  2,990
Michigan....................                  43                  2,755
Arizona.....................                  37                  2,259
South Carolina..............                  40                  2,155
Missouri....................                  38                  2,144
Oregon......................                  39                  2,006
Tennessee...................                  33                  1,883
Indiana.....................                  31                  1,880
Pennsylvania................                  28                  1,867
Ohio........................                  30                  1,860
Nevada......................                  22                  1,404
Kansas......................                  22                  1,310
Massachusetts...............                  19                  1,179
Wisconsin...................                  16                  1,030
Other states (12 states)....                  86                  4,713
                                -------------------     ------------------------
     Total - U.S............               2,012                126,474
                                -------------------     ------------------------

Europe:
France......................                  53                  2,776
Netherlands.................                  33                  1,749
Sweden......................                  26                  1,372
Belgium.....................                  21                  1,219
United Kingdom..............                  20                    947
Germany.....................                  11                    550
Denmark.....................                  10                    502
                                -------------------     ------------------------
     Total - Europe.........                 174                  9,115
                                -------------------     ------------------------
     Grand Total............               2,186                135,589
                                ===================     ========================

(a)  See Schedule III: Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation in the Company's
     2007  financials,  for a complete  list of properties  consolidated  by the
     Company.





     Our  facilities  are  generally  operated to maximize cash flow through the
regular  review and  adjustment  of rents  charged to our tenants.  For the year
ended December 31, 2007, the weighted  average  occupancy  level and the average
realized  rent per occupied  square foot for our  self-storage  facilities  were
approximately  88% and  $12.87,  respectively  in the U.S.  and 84% and  $25.77,
respectively  in Europe.  Included in the 2,186 storage  facilities are 34 newly
developed facilities opened since January 1, 2003.

     At December 31, 2007, 156 of our facilities were encumbered by an aggregate
of $614 million in mortgage notes payable.

     We have no  specific  policy as to the maximum  size of any one  particular
self-storage facility.  However, none of our facilities involves, or is expected
to involve, 1% or more of our total assets, gross revenues or net income.

     DESCRIPTION OF  SELF-STORAGE  FACILITIES:  Self-storage  facilities,  which
comprise  the  majority of our  investments,  are  designed to offer  accessible
storage  space for personal  and  business use at a relatively  low cost. A user
rents a fully enclosed space, which is for the user's exclusive use and to which
only the user has access on an unrestricted basis during business hours. On-site
operation  is the  responsibility  of property  managers who are  supervised  by
district managers.  Some self-storage facilities also include rentable uncovered
parking  areas for  vehicle  storage.  Storage  facility  spaces are rented on a
month-to-month  basis.  Rental  rates  vary  according  to the  location  of the
property,  the  size  of the  storage  space  and  length  of  stay.  All of our
self-storage  facilities  in the U.S.  are operated  under the "Public  Storage"
brand name,  while our  facilities  in Europe are operated  under the  "Shurgard
Storage Centers" brand name.

     Users  of  space  in  self-storage   facilities  include  individuals  from
virtually all demographic  groups,  as well as businesses.  Individuals  usually
obtain  this space for  storage of  furniture,  household  appliances,  personal
belongings,  motor  vehicles,  boats,  campers,  motorcycles and other household
goods.  Businesses  normally employ this space for storage of excess  inventory,
business records, seasonal goods, equipment and fixtures.

     Our self-storage  facilities  generally consist of three to seven buildings
containing an aggregate of between 350 to 750 storage spaces, most of which have
between 25 and 400 square feet and an interior height of approximately  eight to
12 feet.

     We  experience  minor  seasonal  fluctuations  in the  occupancy  levels of
self-storage  facilities with occupancies  generally higher in the summer months
than in the winter  months.  We believe that these  fluctuations  result in part
from increased moving activity during the summer months.

     Our self-storage facilities are geographically  diversified and are located
primarily  in or near major  metropolitan  markets in 38 states in the U.S.  and
seven Western  European  nations.  Generally  our  self-storage  facilities  are
located in heavily  populated  areas and close to  concentrations  of  apartment
complexes, single family residences and commercial developments.  However, there
may be  circumstances in which it may be appropriate to own a property in a less
populated  area,  for  example,  in an area that is highly  visible from a major
thoroughfare and close to, although not in, a heavily populated area.  Moreover,
in certain population  centers,  land costs and zoning restrictions may create a
demand for space in nearby less populated areas.

     Competition  from other  self-storage  facilities as well as other forms of
storage  in the  market  areas in which many of our  properties  are  located is
significant and has affected the occupancy  levels,  rental rates, and operating
expenses of many of our properties.

     Since our investments are primarily self-storage facilities, our ability to
preserve our  investments  and achieve our objectives is dependent in large part
upon success in this field.  Historically,  upon stabilization  after an initial
fill-up period, our self-storage  facility interests have generally shown a high
degree of  consistency  in  generating  cash flows,  despite  changing  economic
conditions.  We believe that our self-storage  facilities,  upon  stabilization,
have  attractive  characteristics  consisting  of high profit  margins,  a broad
tenant base and low levels of capital  expenditures  to maintain their condition
and appearance.




     COMMERCIAL  PROPERTIES:  In addition to our interests in 2,186 self-storage
facilities, we have an interest in PSB, which, as of December 31, 2007, owns and
operates approximately 19.6 million net rentable square feet in eight states. At
December 31, 2007,  our  investment in PSB  represents  2.6% of our total assets
based upon book value of $273.7  million.  The market value of our investment in
PSB at December 31, 2007 of approximately  $668.6 million represents 6.3% of the
book value of our total  assets at  December  31,  2007 of  approximately  $10.6
billion.  We also directly own 1,455,000 net rentable  square feet of commercial
space,  primarily located at our existing self-storage  locations,  comprised of
small retail locations.

     The commercial  properties owned by PSB consist of flex space, office space
and  industrial  space.  Flex space is defined as buildings  that are configured
with a  combination  of part  warehouse  space and part office  space and can be
designed to fit a wide  variety of uses.  The  warehouse  component  of the flex
space has a variety of uses including light manufacturing and assembly,  storage
and warehousing, showroom, laboratory, distribution and research and development
activities. The office component of flex space is complementary to the warehouse
component by enabling businesses to accommodate  management and production staff
in the same facility.  PSB also owns low-rise  suburban office space,  generally
either in  business  parks that  combine  office and flex space or in  desirable
submarkets  where the  economics of the market demand an office  build-out.  PSB
also owns  industrial  space that has  characteristics  similar to the warehouse
component of the flex space.

     ENVIRONMENTAL  MATTERS: Our policy is to accrue  environmental  assessments
and  estimated  remediation  cost when it is probable  that such efforts will be
required and the related costs can be reasonably estimated. Our current practice
is  to  conduct   environmental   investigations  in  connection  with  property
acquisitions.  Although  there  can be no  assurance,  we are not  aware  of any
environmental  contamination of any of our facilities,  which individually or in
the aggregate would be material to our overall business, financial condition, or
results of operations.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
- ------- -----------------

     Serrao v. Public Storage, Inc. (filed April 2003) (Superior Court of
     --------------------------------------------------------------------
     California - Orange County)
     ---------------------------

     The  plaintiff in this case filed a suit against the Company on behalf of a
putative  class of renters  who  rented  self-storage  units  from the  Company.
Plaintiff alleges that the Company misrepresented the size of its storage units,
has  brought  claims  under  California  statutory  and common law  relating  to
consumer protection, fraud, unfair competition, and negligent misrepresentation,
and is seeking  monetary  damages,  restitution,  and declaratory and injunctive
relief.  On November 26, 2007, the Court entered an order  dismissing the matter
in its entirety without any liability to the Company.

     Drake v. Shurgard Storage Centers, Inc. (filed September 2002)
     --------------------------------------------------------------
     (Superior Court of California - Orange County)
     ----------------------------------------------

     This  is a  companion  case  to the  Serrao  matter  discussed  above.  The
plaintiff  alleges the same set of operative  facts and seeks the same relief as
in Serrao against Shurgard, whose liability Public Storage assumed following the
merger of Public  Storage and  Shurgard on August 22,  2006.  In June 2007,  the
Court  certified a class of all Shurgard  renters who rented a storage unit at a
Shurgard facility in California that was smaller than  represented.  On November
26,  2007,  the Court  entered an order  dismissing  the matter in its  entirety
without any liability to the Company.

     Potter,  et al v.  Hughes,  et al  (filed  December  2004)  (United  States
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
     District Court - Central District of California)
     ------------------------------------------------

     In November  2002, a shareholder  of the Company made a demand on our Board
challenging the fairness of the Company's  acquisition of PS Insurance  Company,
Ltd.  ("PSIC")  and related  matters.  PSIC was  previously  owned by the Hughes
Family.  In June 2003,  following the filing by the Hughes Family of a complaint
for declaratory relief asking the court to find that the acquisition of PSIC and
related matters were fair to the Company, it was ruled that the PSIC transaction
was just and reasonable as to the Company and holding that the Hughes Family was
not required to make any payment to the Company.




     At the end of December 2004, the same  shareholder  referred to above and a
second  shareholder  filed this  shareholder's  derivative  complaint  naming as
defendants  the  Company's  directors  (and two former  directors)  and  certain
officers of the Company.  The matters alleged in this complaint  relate to PSIC,
the Hughes  Family's  Canadian  self-storage  operations  and the Company's 1995
reorganization.  In July  2006,  the Court  granted  the  defendants'  motion to
dismiss the amended Complaint without leave to amend. In August 2006, Plaintiffs
filed a notice  of appeal  of the  Court's  decision.  The  appeal is  currently
pending.  We believe the litigation will not have any financially adverse effect
on the  Company  (other  than the  costs  and  other  expenses  relating  to the
lawsuit).

     Brinkley v. Public  Storage,  Inc.  (filed April 2005)  (Superior  Court of
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
     California - Los Angeles County)
     --------------------------------

     The plaintiff sued the Company on behalf of a purported class of California
non-exempt  employees based on various California wage and hour laws and seeking
monetary  damages  and  injunctive  relief.  In May  2006,  a motion  for  class
certification  was filed seeking to certify five  subclasses.  Plaintiff  sought
certification  for alleged  meal  period  violations,  rest  period  violations,
failure to pay for travel time,  failure to pay for mileage  reimbursement,  and
for wage  statement  violations.  In October 2006, the Court declined to certify
three out of the five subclasses.  The Court did,  however,  certify  subclasses
based on alleged meal period and wage statement  violations.  Subsequently,  the
Company filed a motion for summary judgment seeking to dismiss the matter in its
entirety.  On June 22, 2007,  the Court granted the Company's  summary  judgment
motion as to the  causes of action  relating  to the  subclasses  certified  and
dismissed  those claims.  The only  surviving  claims are those  relating to the
named  plaintiff only. The plaintiff has filed an appeal to the Court's June 22,
2007  summary  judgment  ruling.  An appeal to the  Court's  June 22, 2007 order
granting the Company's summary judgment motion is currently pending.

     Simas v. Public  Storage,  Inc.  (filed  January 2006)  (Superior  Court of
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
     California - Orange County)
     ---------------------------

     The  plaintiff  brought  this  action  against  the  Company on behalf of a
purported  class who  bought  insurance  coverage  at the  Company's  facilities
alleging that the Company does not have a license to offer, sell and/or transact
storage insurance.  The action was originally brought under California  Business
and Professions  Code Section 17200 and seeks  retention,  monetary  damages and
injunctive  relief.  The Company  filed a demurrer to the  complaint.  While the
demurrer was pending,  the plaintiff  amended the complaint to allege a national
class and claims for unfair business practices, unjust enrichment, money had and
received, and negligent and intentional misrepresentation. Ultimately all claims
except for unjust enrichment were dismissed. A subsequent demurrer was filed and
sustained  without  leave  to  amend.  The  case was  therefore  dismissed.  The
plaintiff  has  appealed the trial  court's  ruling and this appeal is currently
pending.

     European Joint Venture Arbitration Proceeding
     ---------------------------------------------

     The Company holds  indirectly a 20% interest in each of two joint  ventures
in  Europe,  First  Shurgard  and  Second  Shurgard,  that  collectively  own 70
self-storage properties in Europe. On August 24, 2006, the Company,  through its
affiliate,  Shurgard Europe, served an exit notice on the European joint venture
partners  informing them of its intention to purchase  their  interests in First
Shurgard  and  Second  Shurgard  pursuant  to an early exit  procedure  that the
Company believes is provided for in the respective joint venture agreements. The
exit  notice  offered  to pay the joint  venture  partners  an amount  for their
interests in accordance with the provisions of the joint venture agreements. The
joint ventures partners have contested both the valuation of their interests and
whether the Company has the right to  purchase  its  interests  under this early
exit  procedure.  Accordingly,  it is  uncertain  as to whether the Company will
acquire such interests  pursuant to the early exit notice served. On January 17,
2007,  Shurgard  Europe  filed an  arbitration  request  with the  International
Chamber  of  Commerce  to compel  arbitration  of the  matter.  The  arbitration
proceedings are currently scheduled to begin on June 30, 2008.

     Other Items
     -----------

     We are a party to various claims,  complaints, and other legal actions that
have  arisen in the  normal  course of  business  from time to time that are not
described  above. We believe that it is unlikely that the outcome of these other
pending  legal  proceedings  including  employment  and  tenant  claims,  in the
aggregate,  will have a material adverse impact upon our operations or financial
position.




ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
      - ---------------------------------------------------

     We did not submit any  matter to a vote of  security  holders in the fourth
quarter of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007.






                                     PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S  COMMON EQUITY,  RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS AND
- ------- -----------------------  --------------  -------------------------------
        ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
        ---------------- -------------------

a.   Market Price of the Registrant's Common Equity:

          Our Common Shares (NYSE: PSA), including those of Public Storage, Inc.
     prior to our  reorganization in June 2007, have been listed on the New York
     Stock  Exchange  since  October  19,  1984.  Our  Depositary   Shares  each
     representing  1/1,000 of an Equity Share, Series A (NYSE:PSAA) (see section
     c.  below),   including  those  of  Public  Storage,   Inc.  prior  to  our
     reorganization in June 2007 have been listed on the New York Stock Exchange
     since February 14, 2000.

          The  following  table sets forth the high and low sales  prices of our
     Common  Shares  on the New York  Stock  Exchange  composite  tapes  for the
     applicable periods.

                                                              Range
                                              ----------------------------------
         Year               Quarter               High                  Low
        -------            --------           ----------            ------------
         2006                 1st              $  84.62             $  67.72
                              2nd                 81.40                70.26
                              3rd                 89.25                75.44
                              4th                 98.05                85.17

         2007                 1st                117.16                92.43
                              2nd                 99.36                74.28
                              3rd                 82.11                68.09
                              4th                 85.58                70.29

          The  following  table sets forth the high and low sales  prices of our
     Depositary Shares Each Representing 1/1,000 of an Equity Share, Series A on
     the New York Stock Exchange composite tapes for the applicable periods.

                                                              Range
                                              ----------------------------------
         Year               Quarter               High                  Low
        -------            --------           ----------            ------------
         2006                  1st             $  27.76             $  26.20
                               2nd                27.25                25.60
                               3rd                28.08                26.35
                               4th                27.70                26.18

         2007                  1st                27.27                26.25
                               2nd                26.88                25.65
                               3rd                26.15                25.00
                               4th                26.29                24.32

          As of February 15, 2008,  there were  approximately  20,282 holders of
     record of Common  Shares and  approximately  9,744  holders  of  Depositary
     Shares Each Representing 1/1,000 of an Equity Share, Series A.

b.   Dividends

          We have paid quarterly  distributions to our shareholders  since 1981,
     our first full year of operations.  Overall  distributions on Common Shares
     for 2007 amounted to $340.0 million or $2.00 per share.

          Holders of Common  Shares are entitled to receive  distributions  when
     and if declared by our Board of Trustees out of any funds legally available
     for that purpose.  In order to maintain our REIT status for federal  income




     tax purposes,  we are generally required to pay dividends at least equal to
     90% of our real estate investment trust taxable income for the taxable year
     (for this purpose,  certain  dividends paid in the  subsequent  year may be
     taken into account). We intend to pay distributions sufficient to permit us
     to maintain our REIT status.

          For Federal income tax purposes,  distributions  to  shareholders  are
     treated  as  ordinary  income,  capital  gains,  return  of  capital  or  a
     combination  thereof.  For 2007, the dividends paid on common shares ($2.00
     per share),  on all the various  classes of  preferred  shares,  and on our
     Equity Shares, Series A were classified as follows:



          A percentage of the ordinary income is "qualified dividend income" for
     each quarter of 2007 as follows:




          For 2006,  the dividends  paid on common shares ($2.00 per share),  on
     all the various  classes of  preferred  shares,  and on our Equity  Shares,
     Series A were classified as follows:




c.   Equity Stock

          The Company is  authorized to issue  100,000,000  Equity  Shares.  Our
     declaration  of trust  provides  that the Equity  Shares may be issued from
     time to time in one or more  series and gives the board of  trustees  broad
     authority to fix the  dividend  and  distribution  rights,  conversion  and
     voting rights,  redemption provisions and liquidation rights of each series
     of Equity Shares.

          At December 31, 2007, we had 8,744,193  depositary shares outstanding,
     each representing  1/1,000 of an Equity Share, Series A. The Equity Shares,
     Series A rank on a parity  with our common  shares and junior to the Senior
     Preferred  Shares with respect to  distributions  and liquidation and has a
     liquidation amount which cannot exceed $24.50 per share. Distributions with
     respect to each depositary  share shall be the lesser of: a) five times the
     per share  dividend on the Common  Shares or b) $2.45 per annum.  Except in
     order to preserve the Company's Federal income tax status as a REIT, we may
     not redeem the  depositary  shares before March 31, 2010. On or after March
     31, 2010, we may, at our option, redeem the depositary shares at $24.50 per
     depositary  share.  If the Company fails to preserve its Federal income tax
     status as a REIT, each depositary  share will be convertible  into 0.956 of
     our common shares. The depositary shares are otherwise not convertible into
     common shares. Holders of depositary shares vote as a single class with our
     holders of common shares on shareholder  matters, but the depositary shares
     have the equivalent of one-tenth of a vote per depositary share. We have no
     obligation  to  pay   distributions   on  the   depositary   shares  if  no
     distributions are paid to common shareholders.

          In November 1999, we sold  $100,000,000  (4,289,544  shares) of Equity
     Shares,  Series AAA ("Equity  Shares AAA") to a newly formed joint venture.
     The Equity  Shares AAA ranks on a parity with  common  shares and junior to
     the Senior Preferred Shares with respect to general  preference rights, and
     has a liquidation  amount equal to 120% of the amount  distributed  to each
     common share. Annual distributions per share are equal to the lesser of (i)
     five times the amount  paid per common  share or (ii)  $2.1564.  We have no
     obligation  to pay  distributions  if no  distributions  are paid to common
     shareholders.





ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
        -----------------------


     (1)  The  significant  increase  in  our  revenues,   cost  of  operations,
          depreciation and amortization,  and interest expense in 2006 and 2007,
          and  the  significant   increase  in  total  assets,  total  debt  and
          shareholder'  equity in 2006,  is due to our  acquisition  of Shurgard
          Storage  Centers  in  August  2006.  See  Note 3 to  our  consolidated
          financial  statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 for further
          information.





ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S  DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
       -------------------------------------------------------------------------
        OF OPERATIONS
        -------------

     The following  discussion and analysis  should be read in conjunction  with
our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.

     FORWARD  LOOKING  STATEMENTS:  This  Annual  Report on Form  10-K  contains
forward-looking  statements  within the meaning of the federal  securities laws.
All statements in this document,  other than statements of historical  fact, are
forward-looking  statements  which  may be  identified  by the use of the  words
"expects,"  "believes,"   "anticipates,"   "plans,"  "would,"  "should,"  "may,"
"estimates" and similar expressions.  These  forward-looking  statements involve
known and unknown  risks and  uncertainties,  which may cause  Public  Storage's
actual results and  performance to be materially  different from those expressed
or implied in the forward-looking  statements.  As a result, you should not rely
on any  forward-looking  statements in this report, or which management may make
orally or in writing  from time to time,  as  predictions  of future  events nor
guarantees of future performance.  We caution you not to place undue reliance on
forward-looking statements, which speak only as the date of this report or as of
the dates indicated in the statements.  All of our  forward-looking  statements,
including  those  in this  report,  are  qualified  in  their  entirely  by this
statement.  We expressly disclaim any obligation to update publicly or otherwise
revise any forward-looking  statements,  whether as a result of new information,
new estimates,  or other factors, events or circumstances after the date of this
document,  except where expressly required by law.  Accordingly,  you should use
caution in relying  on past  forward-looking  statements  to  anticipate  future
results.

     Factors  and risks  that may  impact our  future  results  and  performance
include,  but are not limited to, those described in Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and
in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").  These
risks include, among others, the following:

     o    general  risks  associated  with the  ownership  and operation of real
          estate  including  changes  in  demand  for  our  storage  facilities,
          potential liability for environmental  contamination,  adverse changes
          in tax, real estate and zoning laws and regulations, and the impact of
          natural disasters;

     o    risks associated with downturns in the national and local economies in
          the markets in which we operate;

     o    the risk that Public  Storage may for any reason be unable to finalize
          negotiations  and  completion  of  a  possible  transaction  involving
          Shurgard Europe;

     o    the impact of competition from new and existing storage and commercial
          facilities and other storage alternatives;

     o    difficulties  in  our  ability  to  successfully  evaluate,   finance,
          integrate  into our  operations  and  manage  acquired  and  developed
          properties;

     o    risks related to our participation in joint ventures;

     o    risks  associated with  international  operations  including,  but not
          limited to, unfavorable  foreign currency rate fluctuations that could
          adversely affect our earnings and cash flows;

     o    the impact of the regulatory  environment as well as national,  state,
          and local laws and regulations  including,  without limitation,  those
          governing REITs;

     o    risks  associated  with a possible  failure by us to qualify as a REIT
          under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended;

     o    disruptions or shutdowns of our automated processes and systems;

     o    difficulties in raising capital at a reasonable cost;




     o    delays in the development process; and

     o    economic uncertainty due to the impact of war or terrorism.

     The  risks  included  here are not  exhaustive  as it is not  possible  for
management  to predict all  possible  risk factors that may exist or emerge from
time to time.  Investors should refer to our quarterly  reports on Form 10-Q for
future periods and current reports on Form 8-K and other  information filed from
time to time with the SEC for additional information.

     OVERVIEW

     Public  Storage was organized in 1980.  Effective  June 1, 2007,  following
approval by our shareholders,  we reorganized  Public Storage,  Inc. into Public
Storage,  a Maryland real estate  investment  trust  (referred to herein as "the
Company",  "the  Trust",  "we",  "us",  or  "our").  We are a fully  integrated,
self-administered  and self-managed  real estate investment trust ("REIT") whose
principal business  activities include the acquisition,  development,  ownership
and operation of self-storage  facilities  which offer storage spaces for lease,
generally on a  month-to-month  basis, for personal and business use. We are the
largest  owner and  operator of  self-storage  facilities  in the United  States
("U.S."),  and we have an interest  in what we believe is the largest  owner and
operator of self-storage  facilities in Europe.  We significantly  increased the
scope and  scale of our  operations  on August  22,  2006,  when we merged  with
Shurgard  Storage Centers,  Inc.,  ("Shurgard" and the merger referred to as the
"Shurgard Merger"), a REIT which had an interest in 487 self-storage  facilities
located in the U.S. and an interest in a platform of self-storage  facilities in
seven Western European countries.

     At December 31, 2007, we had direct and indirect equity  interests in 2,012
self-storage facilities located in 38 states within the U.S. operating under the
"Public Storage" name containing  approximately  126 million net rentable square
feet of space, and 174 self-storage facilities located in seven Western European
countries  which operate under the "Shurgard  Storage  Centers" name  containing
approximately  nine  million net  rentable  square  feet of space.  We also have
direct and indirect equity  interests in  approximately  21 million net rentable
square feet of commercial space located in 11 states in the U.S.  operated under
the "PS Business Parks" and Public Storage brands.

     Competition  in the market  areas in which we operate  is  significant  and
affects the occupancy levels, rental rates, rental income and operating expenses
of our facilities.  Development of new  self-storage  facilities has intensified
the  competition  among  storage  operators  in many  market  areas  in which we
operate.

BUSINESS ATTRIBUTES
- -------------------

     We believe that we possess several primary business  attributes that permit
us to compete effectively:

     CENTRALIZED INFORMATION NETWORKS: Our facilities in the U.S. and Europe are
part of  comprehensive  centralized  reporting and  information  networks  which
enable our U.S.  and  European  management  teams to  identify  changing  market
conditions  and operating  trends as well as analyze  customer data, and quickly
change our properties' pricing and promotional mix on an automated basis.

     NATIONAL  TELEPHONE   RESERVATION   CENTER:  In  the  U.S.,  we  operate  a
centralized  telephone reservation system, which provides added customer service
and helps to maximize  utilization of available  self-storage  space.  Customers
calling either the toll-free  telephone  referral system,  (800) 44-STORE,  or a
storage  facility,   are  directed  to  the  national   reservation   system.  A
representative  discusses  with  the  customer  space  requirements,  price  and
location  preferences  and also  informs  the  customer  of other  products  and
services  provided  by the  Company and its  subsidiaries.  We believe  that the
centralized  telephone reservation system enhances our ability to market storage
space in the United  States  relative  to  handling  these  calls at  individual
properties,  because  it allows us to more  effectively  offer all spaces at all
facilities  in the  vicinity  of a customer  and we can  provide  higher-quality
selling  efforts  through  dedicated  sales  specialists  trained  in a  central
location. We also provide customers the opportunity to review space availability
and make reservations online through our website, www.publicstorage.com.




     ECONOMIES OF SCALE: We are the largest  provider of  self-storage  space in
the U.S.  and Europe.  As of  December  31,  2007,  we  operated  2,186  storage
facilities  in which we had an interest and managed 31  self-storage  facilities
for third parties.  These facilities are in markets within 38 states in the U.S.
and  seven  Western  European  countries.  At  December  31,  2007,  we had over
1,095,000  self-storage spaces rented. The size and scope of our operations have
enabled us to achieve high operating  margins and a low level of  administrative
costs relative to revenues,  through the  centralization  of many functions with
specialists,  such as facility  maintenance,  employee compensation and benefits
programs,  pricing of our product,  as well as the development and documentation
of  standardized  operating  procedures.  We also  believe that our major market
concentration  provides  managerial  efficiencies  stemming  from having a large
number of facilities in close proximity to each other.

     BRAND NAME RECOGNITION:  Our operations in the U.S. are conducted under the
"Public  Storage"  brand  name,  which we  believe  is the most  recognized  and
established name in the self-storage industry in the U.S. Our storage operations
within the U.S. are conducted in 38 states,  giving us national  recognition and
prominence.  Our facilities  tend to be in highly visible and heavily  populated
areas,  improving  the local  awareness  of our  brand.  Customer  awareness  of
self-storage  in  Europe  is  emerging.  All of our  facilities  in  Europe  are
operating under the "Shurgard Storage Centers" brand name. We believe we are the
single largest self-storage operator in Western Europe as of December 31, 2007.

     MAJOR MARKET  CONCENTRATION  IN THE U.S.:  We focus our  operations  in the
major markets in the U.S., which we believe  enhances our marketing  efficiency.
We can economically purchase large, prominent,  well-placed yellow page ads that
allow us to reach the consumer more effectively than smaller  operators.  We are
also able to purchase and bid aggressively for  multiple-keyword  advertising on
national Internet search engines. In addition, we are able to market efficiently
using television as a media source.  We believe that our competitors  cannot use
television  advertising,  because their limited concentration of facilities does
not  provide a  sufficient  potential  customer  base to offset the high cost of
television advertising.

     In addition,  we believe that in recent years,  zoning requirements in some
of the  major  metropolitan  markets  in  which  we  operate  in the  U.S.  have
increased, resulting in more barriers to new competition. While this has limited
our  new  development  opportunities,  it has  minimized  supply  increases  and
competition with certain of our properties.

     RETAIL OPERATIONS:  Through a taxable REIT subsidiary, we sell retail items
associated  with the  storage  business  and  rent  trucks  at our  self-storage
facilities  in order to  supplement  and  strengthen  the existing  self-storage
business by further meeting the needs of storage customers.

     Each of our self-storage  locations' rental offices sell locks,  boxes, and
packing materials,  while certain of the facilities in the U.S. also rent trucks
primarily  to storage  customers or operate as an agent of  long-distance  truck
rental companies.  These rental offices which conduct these activities  include,
in some cases, larger retail-oriented locations.

     TENANT INSURANCE PROGRAM:  Through taxable REIT  subsidiaries,  we reinsure
policies  issued to our tenants  against lost or damaged goods stored by tenants
in our storage facilities.  These subsidiaries receive the premiums and bear the
risks  associated with the  re-insurance.  We believe that our tenant  insurance
operations further supplement and strengthen the existing  self-storage business
and provide an additional source of earnings for the Company.

GROWTH AND INVESTMENT STRATEGIES
- --------------------------------

     Our growth strategies  consist of: (i) improving the operating  performance
of our existing  self-storage  properties,  (ii) acquiring  properties  that are
owned or  operated  by others  in the  U.S.,  (iii)  expanding  and  repackaging
existing  U.S.  real  estate  facilities,  (iv)  participating  in the growth of
commercial  facilities  owned  primarily  by PSB  and  (v)  capitalizing  on the
potential  growth in the European  market.  These  strategies  are  described as
follows:

     IMPROVE  THE  OPERATING  PERFORMANCE  OF  EXISTING  PROPERTIES:  We seek to
increase the net cash flow generated by our existing self-storage  properties by




a)  regularly   evaluating   our  call   volume,   reservation   activity,   and
move-in/move-out  rates for each of our  properties  relative  to our  marketing
activities, b) evaluating market supply and demand factors and, based upon these
analyses,  adjusting our marketing activities and rental rates, c) attempting to
maximize revenues through evaluating the appropriate  balance between occupancy,
rental rates, and promotional  discounting and d) controlling expense levels. We
believe that our property  management  personnel and systems,  combined with the
national  telephone  reservation  system  and media  advertising  programs  will
continue to enhance our ability to meet these goals.

     ACQUIRE  PROPERTIES OWNED OR OPERATED BY OTHERS IN THE U.S.: We believe our
presence in and knowledge of substantially  all of the major markets in the U.S.
enhances  our  ability to  identify  attractive  acquisition  opportunities  and
capitalize on the overall  fragmentation in the self-storage  industry.  Data on
the rental  rates and  occupancy  levels of our existing  facilities,  which are
often located in proximity to potential  acquisition  candidates,  provide us an
advantage in evaluating the potential of acquisition opportunities.

     EXPAND AND REPACKAGE EXISTING REAL ESTATE FACILITIES: We have a substantial
number of facilities in the U.S. that were developed and  constructed 20 or more
years ago based upon local  competitive and  demographic  conditions in place at
that time. Population densities and other such conditions may have changed since
then,  providing  opportunities  to expand and further  invest into our existing
self-storage locations, either by improving the quality of the existing units by
adding amenities such as climate control,  or by expanding these facilities at a
per square foot cost that is typically less than the cost incurred in developing
a new  location.  At December 31, 2007,  we have  identified 27 such projects to
expand or repackage our existing  facilities in the U.S.,  for an aggregate cost
of  approximately  $106.9 million,  which will add an aggregate of approximately
1,105,000 net rentable  square feet.  Completion of these projects is subject to
contingencies, including obtaining governmental agency approvals. We continue to
evaluate our existing real estate portfolio to identify additional expansion and
repackaging opportunities.

     In recent years, our rate of development of new self-storage  facilities in
the U.S.  has  declined due to  increases  in  construction  cost,  increases in
competition  with  retail,  condominium,  and  apartment  operators  for quality
self-storage sites in urban locations,  and more difficult zoning and permitting
requirements.  We  will  continue  to  seek  favorable  sites  and  markets  for
development,  based upon current market conditions.  In the short-term we do not
expect any significant investment in new development locations in the U.S.

         PARTICIPATE IN THE GROWTH OF COMMERCIAL FACILITIES PRIMARILY THROUGH
OUR OWNERSHIP IN PS BUSINESS PARKS, INC.: At December 31, 2007, we had a 45%
common equity interest in PSB and its operating partnership which, consisted of
5,418,273 shares of common stock and 7,305,355 limited partnership units in the
Operating Partnership. The limited partnership units are convertible at our
option, subject to certain conditions, on a one-for-one basis into PSB common
stock. At December 31, 2007, PSB owned and operated approximately 19.6 million
net rentable square feet of commercial space located in the U.S. located in
eight states.

     CAPITALIZE ON THE POTENTIAL FOR GROWTH IN EUROPE:  Our European  operations
are conducted  through Shurgard  Self-Storage SCA, a Belgian company referred to
hereinafter as "Shurgard Europe".

     The self-storage market in Europe is relatively new, making it difficult to
obtain reliable statistics regarding competition throughout Europe. We track and
maintain information regarding customers and competitors in the markets in which
we operate, and in markets where we are considering expansion.

     According to the most recent data  provided by the  Federation  of European
Self-Storage  Associations  ("FEDESSA"),   the  self-storage  market  in  Europe
(defined as Belgium, Czech Republic,  Denmark,  Finland, France, Germany, Italy,
The  Netherlands,  Norway,  Spain,  Sweden,  Switzerland and the United Kingdom)
consisted of approximately  1,090 stores as of March 2007,  approximately 600 of
which are located in the United Kingdom.  We believe,  however,  that because of
the number of new entrants  into the market,  FEDESSA may  understate  the total
number of stores in many markets even as of the date reported.  Less  fragmented
than the U.S. market, the European self-storage market is dominated by a handful
of larger players and a few midsized operators, with the remainder of the market
consisting of smaller operators.  The top five operators of stores in Europe, of
which we believe we are the largest,  collectively have approximately 45% of the
aggregate  market share for  self-storage  space,  based on net rentable  square
footage, as of March 2007. Because of the number of new entrants into the market
and difficulties in collecting data, the information presented by FEDESSA at any




time may  understate  the total number of stores in many  markets.  However,  we
believe the  information  presented by FEDESSA is the best available  measure of
market size and competition.

     Although  many  European  consumers  are not yet aware of the  self-storage
concept,  they tend to live in more densely  populated  areas in smaller  living
spaces (as compared to the U.S.) that, we believe,  should make  self-storage an
attractive  option as product  knowledge and availability  grows. Most Europeans
are familiar with the concept of storage only as an ancillary  service  provided
by moving companies.  The service provided by moving companies is typically full
service, prevents direct access by customers and may involve security issues for
the users  because  they have less  control  over  their  goods in  storage.  In
addition,  most of these moving  companies  require  advance  notice to retrieve
goods and charge  handling  fees and minimum  monthly  fees,  making the cost of
smaller storage requirements costly.

     As a result of this low  density  of  self-storage  in Europe  relative  to
population as compared to the U.S., we believe that there is significant  growth
potential  in Europe,  even if the  density of  self-storage  in Europe does not
ultimately approach the levels in the U.S. Capitalizing on this opportunity will
require a significant  amount of capital to develop new self-storage  facilities
in what  could be a process  extending  through  a few  decades  in time  frame,
similar to the trajectory of the U.S.  self-storage industry since its inception
in the mid 1960's.

     Notwithstanding  the potential of this  opportunity,  we believe that it is
not appropriate to invest significant amounts of our existing U.S. based capital
into Europe,  because of a) the lack of tax  efficiency  of operating in various
tax jurisdictions,  many of which subject these operations to income tax as well
as certain  taxes upon  repatriation  of funds to the U.S.,  b)  constraints  on
ownership or operations required in order to satisfy the statutory  requirements
of being a U.S.  REIT, as well as c) the differing  risk/return  profile of such
investments in European self-storage  operations relative to the expectations of
our existing  investor base.  Accordingly,  we believe that separate  sources of
capital obtained through a separate public European-based entity, best positions
our European  operations for long-term  growth. We attempted a share offering in
Europe in mid-2007 in order to  establish  such a public  entity;  however,  the
offering  was  abandoned  because  market  conditions  were and  continue  to be
unfavorable.

     In January 2008, we announced that we reached an agreement in principle for
a prospective investor to acquire a 51% ownership interest in Shurgard Europe in
a  private  transaction  at a price  generally  consistent  with the  previously
disclosed proceeds we expected to receive for our equity interest in last year's
terminated  European share offering.  No binding  agreement has been signed with
the prospective investor and there is no assurance that a binding agreement will
be signed or that a transaction will be completed. We estimate the completion of
the  transaction  at the end of the first  quarter  of 2008  assuming  a binding
agreement is signed and the conditions related to the transaction are satisfied.

     While we intend to reduce our  exposure  to Europe  for the  aforementioned
reasons,  we intend to  continue  to hold a  significant  minority  position  in
Shurgard Europe in order to participate in this entity's growth.

     CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations  discuss  our  consolidated  financial  statements,  which  have been
prepared  in  accordance  with U.S.  generally  accepted  accounting  principles
("GAAP"). The preparation of our financial statements and related disclosures in
conformity with GAAP and our discussion and analysis of our financial  condition
and results of operations requires management to make judgments, assumptions and
estimates  that  affect  the  amounts  reported  in our  consolidated  financial
statements  and  accompanying  notes.  Note  2  to  our  consolidated  financial
statements  summarizes the significant  accounting  policies and methods used in
the   preparation  of  our   consolidated   financial   statements  and  related
disclosures.

     Management  believes the following are critical  accounting  policies whose
application has a material impact on the Company's financial presentation.  That
is, they are both  important to the  portrayal of our  financial  condition  and
results,  and they require  management to make  judgments  and  estimates  about
matters that are inherently uncertain.





     QUALIFICATION AS A REIT - INCOME TAX EXPENSE:  We believe that we have been
organized  and operated,  and we intend to continue to operate,  as a qualifying
REIT under the Code and  applicable  state laws.  We also believe that  Shurgard
qualified as a REIT. A REIT generally does not pay corporate  level income taxes
on its  REIT  taxable  income  that  is  distributed  to its  shareholders,  and
accordingly,  we do not pay income tax on the share of our REIT  taxable  income
that is distributed to our shareholders.

     We therefore  do not estimate or accrue any federal  income tax expense for
income earned and distributed related to REIT operations. This estimate could be
incorrect,  because  due  to  the  complex  nature  of  the  REIT  qualification
requirements,   the  ongoing  importance  of  factual   determinations  and  the
possibility of future changes in our circumstances, we cannot be assured that we
actually have satisfied or will satisfy the  requirements for taxation as a REIT
for any  particular  taxable  year.  For any  taxable  year that we fail or have
failed to qualify as a REIT and for which applicable  relief  provisions did not
apply,  we would be taxed at the regular  corporate  rates on all of our taxable
income,  whether or not we made or make any  distributions to our  shareholders.
Any resulting  requirement to pay corporate income tax, including any applicable
penalties or interest,  could have a material  adverse  impact on our  financial
condition or results of  operations.  Unless  entitled to relief under  specific
statutory provisions,  we also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for
the four taxable  years  following  the year for which  qualification  was lost.
There can be no assurance that we would be entitled to any statutory  relief. In
addition,  if  Shurgard  failed to qualify as a REIT,  we  generally  would have
succeeded to or incurred significant tax liabilities.

     IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS: Substantially all of our assets consist of
long-lived  assets,  including  real  estate and other  intangible  assets.  The
evaluation of our long-lived assets for impairment includes  determining whether
indicators  of  impairment  exist,  which  is a  subjective  process.  When  any
indicators of impairment  are found,  the evaluation of such  long-lived  assets
then entails  projections of future  operating  cash flows,  which also involves
significant  judgment.  Future events, or facts and circumstances that currently
exist, that we have not yet identified, could cause us to conclude in the future
that our long-lived  assets are impaired.  Any resulting  impairment  loss could
have a  material  adverse  impact on our  financial  condition  and  results  of
operations.

     ESTIMATED  USEFUL  LIVES OF  LONG-LIVED  ASSETS:  Substantially  all of our
assets consist of depreciable, long-lived assets. We record depreciation expense
with respect to these assets based upon their estimated useful lives. Any change
in the estimated useful lives of those assets,  caused by functional or economic
obsolescence  or other  factors,  could  have a material  adverse  impact on our
financial condition or results of operations.

     ESTIMATED  LEVEL OF RETAINED RISK AND UNPAID TENANT CLAIM  LIABILITIES:  As
described in Notes 2 and 16 to our consolidated financial statements,  we retain
certain risks with respect to property perils,  legal liability,  and other such
risks. In addition, a wholly-owned  subsidiary of the Company reinsures policies
against  claims  for  losses to goods  stored  by  tenants  in our  self-storage
facilities.  In  connection  with these risks,  we accrue  losses based upon the
estimated level of losses incurred using certain actuarial  assumptions followed
in the  insurance  industry  and based on  recommendations  from an  independent
actuary that is a member of the American Academy of Actuaries.  While we believe
that the amounts of the accrued losses are adequate,  the ultimate liability may
be in excess of or less than the amounts recorded.  At December 31, 2007, we had
approximately  490,000 reinsured policies in the U.S.  outstanding  representing
aggregate coverage of approximately $1.2 billion.

     ACCRUALS FOR CONTINGENCIES:  We are exposed to business and legal liability
risks with respect to events that have occurred, but in accordance with GAAP, we
have not accrued for such potential  liabilities  because the loss is either not
probable  or not  estimable  or because  we are not aware of the  event.  Future
events and the  result of  pending  litigation  could  result in such  potential
losses  becoming  probable and  estimable,  which could have a material  adverse
impact on our  financial  condition  or  results  of  operations.  Some of these
potential  losses,  of  which  we are  aware,  are  described  in Note 16 to our
consolidated financial statements.

     ACCRUALS  FOR  OPERATING  EXPENSES:  We accrue for property tax expense and
certain other operating  expenses based upon estimates and historical trends and
current and anticipated  local and state government  rules and  regulations.  If
these estimates and assumptions are incorrect,  our expenses could be misstated.
Cost of operations,  interest expense,  general and administrative  expense,  as
well as television, yellow page, and other advertising expenditures are expensed
as incurred.





     VALUATION  OF  DERIVATIVES:  As  described  in our  Significant  Accounting
Policies in Note 2 to our  consolidated  financial  statements,  our  derivative
instruments are not considered  effective  hedges.  Accordingly,  any changes in
value of these  derivatives  are  reflected  as an  increase  or decrease in net
income.  The determination of the value of derivatives is based upon significant
judgment and assumptions  including interest rates, currency rates, and expected
rates of return.  The actual value of derivative  instruments  is dependent upon
many factors that our judgments  and  assumptions  may not consider,  or may not
consider effectively.

     EUROPEAN NET OPERATING LOSSES - INCOME TAX TREATMENT: The Shurgard European
real estate operations generated  significant operating losses from inception to
the date of the Shurgard  Merger.  We recorded a deferred tax asset arising from
the net operating loss carry-forward as of the date of acquisition, and recorded
a valuation  allowance  against any net  deferred  tax asset based on the filing
groups in the various  countries.  To the extent that we determine the valuation
allowance is no longer  required for the deferred tax asset  associated with the
filing group,  the change in the valuation  allowance will first be treated as a
reduction of goodwill and other intangible assets related to the Shurgard Merger
before being treated as a reduction to the provision for income taxes.

     VALUATION OF ASSETS AND  LIABILITIES  ACQUIRED IN THE SHURGARD  MERGER:  We
have estimated the fair value of real estate,  intangible assets,  debt, and the
other assets and other liabilities acquired in the Shurgard Merger. In addition,
we have  estimated  the fair  market  value of the 38.9  million  shares that we
issued  to the  Shurgard  shareholders.  These  estimates  are  based  upon many
assumptions,  including  interest rates,  market values of land and buildings in
the U.S.  and Europe,  estimated  future cash flows from the then tenant base in
place, and the recoverability of certain assets. We believe that the assumptions
used were reasonable,  however,  these assumptions were subject to a significant
degree of judgment, and others could come to materially different conclusions as
to the estimated values, if different  assumptions were used. If the values were
determined  using different  assumptions  than those used, our  depreciation and
amortization expense, interest expense, real estate, debt, and intangible assets
could have been materially different.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     OPERATING  RESULTS FOR 2007 AS  COMPARED  TO 2006:  Net income for the year
ended  December 31, 2007 was $457.5  million  compared to $314.0 million for the
same period in 2006,  representing an increase of $143.5 million.  This increase
is primarily due to improved operations from our real estate facilities combined
with an increased  foreign currency exchange gain and a reduction in general and
administrative  expense.  These  items were  partially  offset by  increases  in
depreciation and amortization expense and interest expense.

     Comparisons  of  our  revenues,   expenses,  and  weighted  average  shares
outstanding are significantly  impacted by the Shurgard Merger,  which closed on
August 22, 2006. The results with respect to the assets and liabilities acquired
in the  Shurgard  Merger are included in our  operating  results from August 23,
2006  through  December 31, 2006 during the year ended  December  31,  2006,  as
compared to the entire year ended December 31, 2007.

     Net operating income, before depreciation,  for our self-storage operations
totaled  $1,082.2  million for the year ended  December  31, 2007 as compared to
$810.8 million for the same period in 2006,  representing  an increase of $271.4
million. The increase is primarily due to the addition of 647 facilities that we
acquired in the Shurgard  Merger.  Net operating  income of the former  Shurgard
properties  was  approximately  $347.8  million for the year ended  December 31,
2007, as compared to $110.1 million for the same period in 2006,  which reflects
the  operations of these  facilities  from August 23, 2006 through  December 31,
2006.

     During the year ended  December 31, 2007, we recognized a foreign  currency
exchange gain aggregating  $57.6 million relating to intercompany  loans between
our U.S. and  European  subsidiaries.  The gain was the result of the  continued
weakening of the US Dollar  relative to the Euro during the year ended  December
31, 2007. See "FOREIGN EXCHANGE GAIN" below for further information.

     General and administrative expense declined $24.9 million in the year ended
December  31,  2007 as compared  to the same  period in 2006.  This  decline was
primarily  due to the  reduction in  integration  expenses  associated  with the




Shurgard Merger,  contract  termination  costs, and development  costs that were
expensed with respect to terminated projects; offset partially by costs incurred
in 2007 with respect to our  reorganization  as a Maryland  REIT,  and the costs
associated with a proposed  offering of shares in our European  business.  These
expenses  aggregated  $56.4  million  for the year ended  December  31,  2006 as
compared to $19.0 million for the same period in 2007.

     Depreciation and amortization  expense for the year ended December 31, 2007
increased  by $184.8  million,  as  compared  to the same  period in 2006.  This
increase is primarily due to increased  depreciation  and  amortization  expense
with respect to the buildings  and  intangible  assets  acquired in the Shurgard
Merger.

     Net income  allocable  to our common  shareholders  (after  allocating  net
income to our preferred and equity shareholders) was $199.4 million or $1.17 per
common share on a diluted basis for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to
$46.9  million or $0.33 per common share on a diluted  basis for the same period
in 2006, representing an increase of $152.5 million or $0.84 per common share on
a diluted basis. The increase in net income allocable to common shareholders and
earnings per common share on a diluted  basis are due primarily to the impact of
the factors described above with respect to net income, as well as a decrease in
income allocated to preferred shareholders, as described below.

     For the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, we allocated $236.8 million
and  $214.2  million  of  our  net  income,   respectively,   to  our  preferred
shareholders based on distributions paid. The year-over-year  increase is due to
the  issuance  of  additional  preferred  securities,  partially  offset  by the
redemption of preferred securities that had higher dividend rates than the newly
preferred  securities issued. In 2006, we also recorded allocations of income to
our preferred  shareholders  with respect to the  application of EITF Topic D-42
totaling  $31.5  million  (or $0.22  per  common  share on a  diluted  basis) in
connection with the redemption of preferred securities.

     Weighted average diluted shares increased to 170,147,000 for the year ended
December 31, 2007 from  143,715,000  for the year ended  December 31, 2006.  The
increase in weighted  average  diluted  shares is due primarily to the impact of
the issuance of 38.9 million shares in connection with the Shurgard Merger.

     OPERATING  RESULTS FOR 2006 AS  COMPARED  TO 2005:  Net income for the year
ended  December 31, 2006 was $314.0  million  compared to $456.4 million for the
same period in 2005,  representing  a decrease of $142.4  million,  or 31%. This
decrease is primarily  due to the  temporary  impact of certain items related to
the  Shurgard  Merger.  During the year ended  December  31,  2006,  we incurred
amortization  expense totaling $175.9 million due to the amortization of certain
intangible  assets  acquired in the merger and  approximately  $44.0  million in
merger integration expenses.

     Comparisons  of  our  revenues,   expenses,  and  weighted  average  shares
outstanding are significantly  impacted by the Shurgard Merger,  which closed on
August 22, 2006. The results with respect to the assets and liabilities acquired
in the  Shurgard  Merger are included in our  operating  results from August 23,
2006 through December 31, 2006 during the year ended December 31, 2006, and none
for the year ended December 31, 2005.

     These  items  were  partially  offset  by  improved   operations  from  our
self-storage facilities, reduced minority interest in income and higher interest
income.

     Net operating income for our self-storage  operations,  before depreciation
expense,  increased  from  $630.8  million  in 2005 to $810.8  million  in 2006,
representing an increase of $180.0 million. This increase was largely due to the
acquisition  of  additional  facilities  in the  Shurgard  Merger.  We earned an
aggregate  of  $110.1  million  in net  operating  income  with  respect  to the
facilities  acquired from  Shurgard,  reflecting  the  operating  results of the
facilities  acquired  from the  date of the  merger  August  22,  2006,  through
December 31, 2006.

     Net income  allocable  to our common  shareholders  (after  allocating  net
income to our preferred and equity  shareholders) was $46.9 million or $0.33 per
common share on a diluted basis for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to
$254.4  million or $1.97 per common share on a diluted basis for the same period
in 2005,  representing  a decrease of $207.5  million or $1.64 per common share.
The decreases in net income  allocable to common  shareholders  and earnings per




common  diluted share are due  primarily to the impact of the factors  described
above with respect to net income,  in addition to increased  income allocated to
preferred shareholders, described below.

     For the year ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, we allocated  $214.2 million
and  $173.0  million  of  our  net  income,   respectively,   to  our  preferred
shareholders based on distributions paid. The year-over-year  increase is due to
the  issuance  of  additional  preferred  securities,  partially  offset  by the
redemption of preferred securities that had higher dividend rates than the newly
issued  preferred  securities.  In connection  with the  redemption of preferred
securities, we also recorded allocations of income to our preferred shareholders
with respect to the  application  of EITF Topic D-42 totaling  $31.5 million (or
$0.22 per diluted  common  share) and $7.5 million (or $0.06 per diluted  common
share) for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

     Weighted  average  diluted shares  increased to 143,715,000  for year ended
December 31, 2006 from  128,819,000  for the year ended  December 31, 2005.  The
increase in weighted  average diluted shares is due primarily to the issuance of
approximately 38.9 million shares in the Shurgard Merger,  which are included in
our weighted average shares from August 22, 2006 through December 31, 2006.

REAL ESTATE OPERATIONS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     DOMESTIC SELF-STORAGE OPERATIONS:  Our domestic self-storage operations are
by  far  the  largest  component  of  our  operating  activities,   representing
approximately  81% of our total  revenues  generated for the year ended December
31, 2007.  Rental  income with respect to our domestic  self-storage  operations
grew by 24.4% in 2007 as  compared  to 2006 and by 24.1% in 2006 as  compared to
2005.  The  year-over-year  growth in  rental  income  is  primarily  due to the
acquisition  of additional  facilities in  connection  with the Shurgard  Merger
combined with the addition of new  facilities to our  portfolio,  either through
our acquisition or development activities.

     To enhance year-over-year comparisons,  the following table summarizes, and
the ensuing  discussion  describes  the  operating  results of three groups that
management  analyzes  with  respect  to the  Company's  performance.  The Public
Storage Same Store group,  representing our most mature  facilities that we have
owned prior to January 1, 2004,  the Shurgard Same Store group,  representing  a
mature  group  of  facilities  that we  have  owned  since  August  22,  2006 in
connection  with the  Shurgard  Merger;  and Other  facilities  which  primarily
include Shurgard facilities we acquired other than the Same Store Facilities, as
well as the facilities developed or acquired over the past three years.








(a)    Total net operating income before  depreciation and amortization or "NOI"
       is  a  non-GAAP  (generally  accepted  accounting  principles)  financial
       measure  that  excludes  the  impact  of  depreciation  and  amortization
       expense.  See Note 14 to our  December  31, 2007  consolidated  financial
       statements, "Segment Information," which includes a reconciliation of net
       operating income before depreciation and amortization for this segment to
       our consolidated net income.  Although  depreciation and amortization are
       operating  expenses,  we  believe  that NOI is a  meaningful  measure  of
       operating  performance,  because we utilize NOI in making  decisions with
       respect to capital  allocations,  in determining current property values,
       segment performance,  and comparing period-to-period and market-to-market
       property  operating  results.  NOI is not a substitute  for net operating
       income after  depreciation  and  amortization in evaluating our operating
       results.


     In the  discussion  that  follows,  we  present  realized  annual  rent per
occupied square foot,  which is computed by dividing rental income,  before late
charges and administrative fees, by the weighted average occupied square footage
for the period.  We also present  annualized  rental income per available square
foot ("REVPAF"),  which represents annualized rental income, before late charges
and  administrative  fees,  divided by total available net rentable square feet.
Late charges and  administrative  fees are excluded to more effectively  measure
our ongoing level of revenue associated with the leasing of the units.


     In the above  table,  the  significant  increases  in revenues  and cost of
operations,  in 2007  and 2006 as  compared  to 2005  are  primarily  due to the




acquisition of  self-storage  facilities in connection  with the Shurgard Merger
which was completed on August 22, 2006 (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial
statements).  As a result of the Shurgard Merger,  we acquired  interests in 487
self-storage  facilities  (32.3 million net rentable square feet) located in the
U.S.

     Immediately preceding the close of the Shurgard Merger, all of the acquired
facilities in the U.S. were  integrated  into our property  management  systems,
centralized  pricing  systems,  national  call center,  and  website.  Temporary
signage,  re-branding the facilities from  "Shurgard" to "Public  Storage",  was
also put into place immediately after the close of the Shurgard Merger.

     Our property  management  personnel worked  diligently to absorb this large
acquisition  of facilities.  Training and hiring new property  managers were key
elements for the  successful  integration  process.  New employees  needed to be
trained on how to use our property  management  systems and follow our operating
policies and  procedures.  As expected in a merger of this  nature,  immediately
following  the close of the merger,  turnover at the property  manager level was
higher than we normally experience.  In anticipation of such turnover,  we began
to hire additional  "bench"  property  managers in the second quarter of 2006 to
fill openings when  turnover  occurred.  Although this strategy was effective at
keeping  properties opened for business,  it did result in incurring  additional
payroll  costs in the  second,  third  and  fourth  quarters  of 2006 due to the
additional head count.

     As a result of the Shurgard  Merger,  the amount of vacant space  increased
significantly in our system.  The acquired Shurgard  portfolio of 487 facilities
in the U.S. had aggregate  average  square foot occupancy of 84.4% at August 31,
2006, which was 530 basis points below the 89.7% for the existing Public Storage
portfolio.  Average  rental  rates were  approximately  the same for each of the
portfolios.  Our goal has been to increase  our overall  portfolio  occupancy in
order to be in a position to drive rental  rates.  The primary  focus in meeting
our goal has been to work to improve the Shurgard  portfolio's overall occupancy
level to the occupancy level experienced by our existing portfolio.

     In order to increase  move-in  volumes and  ultimately  increase  occupancy
levels as quickly as  possible,  we were much more  aggressive  at reducing  our
rental  rates,  increasing  promotional  discounts  and  expanding our marketing
programs  during the fourth  quarter of 2006 and continued  throughout  2007. We
have substantially increased our media advertising expenditures to $25.3 million
in 2007, as compared to $17.7 million in 2006 and $13.7 million in 2005.

     We have made  significant  progress in improving the occupancy level of the
Shurgard portfolio.  However,  this improvement has come somewhat at the expense
of a reduction in the Public  Storage  Same Store  Facilities'  occupancies  and
reduced growth in rental rates. We believe that the more aggressive  pricing and
discounting at the Shurgard properties, combined with the fact that the Shurgard
properties had  relatively  more vacant spaces to rent, has resulted in shifting
of new tenant  flow not only from our  competitors,  but also from our  existing
portfolio to the Shurgard properties during the past year, putting some pressure
on the  occupancies  and rental  rate growth for the Public  Storage  Same Store
Facilities.

     Short-term  occupancy  increases,  like  those we have  experienced  in the
Shurgard portfolio,  tend to result in a higher proportion of short-term tenants
and a resulting  increase in  move-out  ratios,  which  subsides  over time.  We
believe this is related to the nature of the  occupancy  stabilization  process,
which we have  observed  to have two  principal  stages -- first,  the  physical
fill-up of the  facilities,  then the  achievement  of a stable tenant base with
historical  levels of move-outs,  as  successive  groups of tenants move in, the
tenants in such groups with short-term  needs (such as moving) move out, and the
tenants with long-term storage needs remain.

     In addition to our strategy to increase Shurgard occupancies, our operating
results have been,  and will  continue to be,  impacted by the general  economic
trends that affect the self-storage business.  While it is difficult to quantify
the impact of these economic trends, and even more difficult to predict what the
impact will be in the future, we do believe that several such factors, including
the slowdown in the national  housing  market,  pressure on consumer  disposable
income, as well as reduced  year-over-year  demand in markets which had enhanced
self-storage demand in 2005 and 2006 due to the hurricanes (such as in Florida),
have  negatively  impacted  self-storage  demand  and  may  continue  to  do  so
throughout 2008.

     Assuming a  continuance  of recent demand trends that we have observed over
the past six months, we expect to continue with aggressive pricing,  promotional
discounts  and  marketing  in 2008 to maintain or improve our overall  occupancy
levels.   While  we  increased  the  number  of  markets  receiving   television
advertising  from 25 markets in the fourth  quarter of 2006 to 27 markets in the




fourth quarter of 2007, aggregate television spending declined from $7.6 million
in the quarter  ended  December  31, 2006 to $3.3  million in the quarter  ended
December 31, 2007. Future media advertising expenditures are not determinable at
this time, and will be driven in part by demand for our self-storage spaces, our
current occupancy levels, as well as our evaluation of the most effective mix of
yellow page, media, and Internet advertising.

     We  believe  that  the  acquisition  of  the  Shurgard  portfolio  provided
operational efficiencies,  specifically in the areas of marketing, national call
center,  and  indirect  overhead  costs  that  support  the  operations  of  the
facilities.  We  believe  that  these  efficiencies  are  largely  realized  and
reflected in our operating results for the year ended December 31, 2007.

     DOMESTIC - PUBLIC STORAGE SAME STORE FACILITIES

     The facilities included in the Public Storage Same Store Facilities are all
stabilized  and have been  owned  since  January 1, 2005 and  therefore  provide
meaningful  comparative  data for 2005,  2006 and 2007.  The Public Storage Same
Store Facilities  contain  approximately  77.8 million net rentable square feet,
representing  approximately 62% of the aggregate net rentable square feet of our
consolidated  domestic self-storage  portfolio.  Revenues and operating expenses
with respect to this group of properties are set forth in the above Self-Storage
Operations  table under the caption,  "Same Store  Facilities - Public Storage."
The following table sets forth  additional  operating data with respect to these
facilities:



(a)  Square foot occupancies  represent  weighted average  occupancy levels over
     the entire period.




(b)  Realized  annual  rent per  occupied  square  foot is  computed by dividing
     rental  income,  prior to late  charges  and  administrative  fees,  by the
     weighted  average  occupied square footage for the period.  Realized annual
     rent  per  occupied  square  foot  takes  into  consideration   promotional
     discounts,  credit card fees and other costs that reduce rental income from
     the  contractual  amounts due.

(c)  Annualized  rental income per available  square foot ("REVPAF")  represents
     annualized rental income,  prior to late charges and  administrative  fees,
     divided by total available net rentable square feet.

(d)  In place  annual  rent  per  occupied  square  foot  represents  annualized
     contractual   rents  per  occupied  square  foot  without   reductions  for
     promotional discounts, and excludes late charges and administrative fees.

(e)  Total net operating income before depreciation and amortization  expense or
     "NOI" is a non-GAAP (generally accepted  accounting  principles)  financial
     measure that excludes the impact of depreciation and amortization  expense,
     for  our  Same  Store   facilities   represents  a  portion  of  our  total
     self-storage   segment's  net  operating  income  before  depreciation  and
     amortization  expense,  and is reconciled to the segment total in the table
     "domestic  self-storage  operations summary" above. A reconciliation of our
     total self-storage  segment's net operating income before  depreciation and
     amortization  expense to consolidated  net income is included in Note 14 to
     our  December  31,  2007  consolidated   financial   statements,   "Segment
     Information."   Although   depreciation   and  amortization  are  operating
     expenses,  we  believe  that  NOI  is a  meaningful  measure  of  operating
     performance,  because we utilize NOI in making  decisions  with  respect to
     capital  allocations,  in  determining  current  property  values,  segment
     performance,  and comparing  period-to-period and market-to-market property
     operating  results.  NOI is not a substitute for net operating income after
     depreciation and amortization expense in evaluating our operating results.

     Rental income increased approximately 2.1% in 2007 as compared to 2006, and
5.3% in 2006 as compared to 2005. These increases were primarily attributable to
higher average realized annual rental rates per occupied square foot, which were
2.9% higher in 2007 as compared to 2006,  and 5.5% higher in 2006 as compared to
2005. Higher average realized annual rental rates were offset partially by lower
occupancy levels.

     In the first three  quarters  of 2006,  year-over-year  revenue  growth was
brisk relative to historically  experienced  growth levels,  at 5.9%.  Following
this period,  growth began to slow, with  year-over-year  revenue growth of 3.5%
for the quarter ended  December 31, 2006.  In the first three  quarters of 2007,
revenue  growth  continued to slow to 2.9% in the quarter  ended March 31, 2007,
and 1.7% in each of the  quarters  ended June 30, 2006 and  September  30, 2007.
Revenue growth improved somewhat in the fourth quarter of 2007 to 2.1%.

     It is difficult  for us to pinpoint the exact reasons for this slow down in
revenue  growth and the  degree to which each  factor  negatively  affected  the
growth in rental income.  We believe,  however,  that the reduction was due to a
number of factors including;  (i) the increased number of vacant spaces added to
our overall  system as a result of the  Shurgard  Merger and our  aforementioned
focus on improving the  occupancies  of the Shurgard  portfolio,  (ii) hurricane
activity that created unusual demand for storage space in our Florida markets in
2005 and  2004,  making  year-over-year  trends in 2007  less  favorable,  (iii)
general  economic  conditions,  specifically  the slow down in housing sales and
moving  activity,  and (iv)  increased  competition.  Many of these  factors are
beyond our control.

     As indicated  above,  it has been our  objective to close the occupancy gap
between the acquired  Shurgard  properties  versus the Public  Storage  existing
portfolio  and achieve a stabilized  tenant base.  We believe that this strategy
has put  pressure on  occupancies  and rental rate growth on our  existing  Same
Store facilities since the merger, as demand appears to have shifted somewhat to
the acquired Shurgard  facilities as we have adjusted the level of discounts and
monthly  rents at the  acquired  Shurgard  facilities  to  accelerate  occupancy
growth.  Because it was important for us to maintain our occupancy levels in the
Public Storage Same Store  portfolio,  we adjusted rental rates and the level of
promotional  discounts  offered  to new  tenants  as a means to  expand  move-in
volumes  throughout the entire  portfolio.  It has been  challenging to maintain
occupancy levels at the Public Storage Same Store group of facilities,  while at
the same time trying to continue to improve the occupancy levels of the acquired
Shurgard facilities and achieve a stabilized tenant base.

     However, since we believe that we have now closed the occupancy gap between
the acquired Shurgard  properties  versus the Public Storage existing  portfolio
and have  achieved a  stabilized  tenant  base,  we expect that the  pressure on
Public  Storage Same Store  portfolio  should  subside.  Despite  this  positive
development,  the other aforementioned factors noted above may still continue to
have a negative impact on our revenue  growth,  and as a result it is unclear as
to when we may achieve  higher  levels of revenue  growth in the Public  Storage
Same Store pool than we achieved in 2007.




     Cost of operations (excluding  depreciation and amortization)  increased by
0.6% in 2007 as compared to 2006,  and 4.5% in 2006 as compared to 2005.  Growth
increased in 2006 due to higher payroll,  property tax,  utilities,  and repairs
and  maintenance  expenses.  Growth  increased  minimally  in 2007,  because the
factors  increasing  payroll expense in 2006 were somewhat reversed in 2007, and
our property tax, utility, and repairs and maintenance expense growth slowed. To
a lesser extent, 2007's expenses also benefited from scale efficiencies from the
Shurgard Merger.

     In 2006, we  experienced a 7.1% increase in payroll  expense as compared to
2005.  This growth was driven by higher wage rates due to a tighter labor market
in several market areas,  higher overtime hours due to understaffing  issues, as
well as the effects of the Shurgard  Merger,  with headcount levels increased in
order to manage an  increased  level of turnover  stemming  from the merger.  In
2007,  property payroll expense declined 1.1% as many of the inefficiencies such
as overtime and increased  staffing  levels that we  experienced  in 2006,  were
eliminated.  This was offset  partially by higher benefits costs, as we improved
the health  benefits  offered to our property level employees  significantly  in
2007. For the last few years,  we have also  benefited  from decreased  workers'
compensation  costs.  For 2008, we expect to incur payroll growth that is higher
than  inflation,  as we do not  expect any  further  declines  in payroll  hours
incurred by our  property  managers  and workers'  compensation  expense  should
increase  as the  declines in expense we  experienced  in the last few years are
expected to subside.

     Property  tax expense  growth  slowed in 2007 as several  states  (Florida,
Texas,  and Arizona) passed laws reducing the property tax rates in 2007.  While
there are states (Indiana,  Pennsylvania,  Georgia and Arizona)  considering new
legislation  in 2008,  nothing has been passed and it is too early to  determine
any impact on 2008  property  tax  expense.  Therefore,  we expect  property tax
expense growth of approximately 4% in 2008.

     Repairs and maintenance  expense  declined 1.6% in 2007 as compared to 2006
but had  increased  5.6% in 2006 as  compared to 2005.  Repairs and  maintenance
expense include snow removal costs, which totaled  $2,297,000,  $1,461,000,  and
$2,209,000, in 2005, 2006, and 2007, respectively. Excluding snow removal costs,
repairs and maintenance decreased 4.4% in 2007 as compared to 2006 and increased
9.4% in 2006 as  compared  to 2005.  We expect  moderated  growth in repairs and
maintenance in 2008.

     Advertising and promotion is comprised principally of media (television and
radio), yellow page, and Internet  advertising.  The Public Storage Same Stores'
pro rata share of  advertising  and promotion  costs  increased  0.9% in 2007 as
compared  to 2006 and 4.5% in 2006 as  compared  to  2005.  Despite  significant
increases in our aggregate level of media advertising of 42.9% in 2007 and 29.2%
in  2006,  the  Public  Storage   Same-Store   properties   benefited  from  the
efficiencies of the 487 Shurgard properties added to our portfolio in August 22,
2006, as our aggregate costs were allocated over a larger pool of properties.

     Utility  expenses  increased  8.5% in 2006 as compared to 2005, and 3.4% in
2007 as compared to 2006, due  principally to  fluctuations  in electricity  and
natural gas costs. Future levels of utility expenses will be dependent primarily
upon current  energy  prices and, to a lesser  extent,  due to changes in demand
driven  by  weather  and  temperature,  both  of  which  are  volatile  and  not
predictable.

     Insurance  expense increased 8.7% in 2006 as compared to 2005, and declined
6.0% in 2007 as compared to 2006.  The  increase in 2006 was due to increases in
rates  occasioned by the  hurricanes  that occurred in 2005. The decline in 2007
was  likewise  market-driven,  as softer  insurance  markets in early 2007 as we
renewed  our  premiums  effective  April 1, 2007,  enabled  us to receive  lower
insurance rates.

     Telephone  reservation  center costs  decreased 0.6% in 2006 as compared to
2005,  and  increased  2.8% in 2007 as compared to 2006. We continue to evaluate
our telephone  reservation center as we evaluate the appropriate staffing levels
and location of personnel relative to our expanded  portfolio,  and as a result,
expect  telephone  reservation  center costs to remain somewhat  volatile during
early 2008 until we determine our appropriate ongoing level of expenses.




     The following  table  summarizes  selected  quarterly  financial  data with
respect to the Same Store Facilities:








ANALYSIS OF REGIONAL TRENDS
- ---------------------------

The following table sets forth regional trends in our Same Store Facilities:







     The Southern  California  Market  consists  principally  of the greater Los
Angeles area and San Diego, and has historically  been a source of strong growth
due to its  diverse  economy  and  continued  population  growth.  In  addition,
barriers  to entry  in the form of  difficult  permitting  requirements  tend to
reduce the potential for increased  competition in the infill locations where we
focus our operations.

     The Northern  California  market consists  principally of San Francisco and
related  peripheral areas.  While this area has a vibrant economy and relatively
strong population  growth,  it has been subject to general economic  conditions,
principally issues associated with the technology sector. In addition, there has
been increased competition in the areas that we do business,  principally in the
peripheral  areas near San Francisco,  due to new supply.  As a result,  revenue
growth in this area has been average relative to our other
markets.

     The Texas market principally includes Dallas, Houston and San Antonio. This
market has  historically  been subject to volatility  due to minimal  regulatory
restraint upon building, which results in cycles of overbuilding and absorption.
For the  last few  years,  we have  been in a period  of  increased  supply  and
competition  in the areas we operate,  and as a result  revenue  growth has been
average relative to other markets.

     The Florida market  principally  includes Miami,  Orlando,  Tampa, and West
Palm Beach.  Florida has been impacted by the comparative  impact of high demand
driven by the  hurricanes  of 2004 and 2005,  which  resulted  in brisk  revenue
growth  in  2006  of  7.6% as  compared  to  2005.  In  2007,  since  demand  is
comparatively lower,  Florida's revenue has declined 1.8% in 2007 as compared to
2006.  Over the longer term, we believe that this market benefits from continued
strong population growth and barriers to entry.

     DOMESTIC - SHURGARD SAME STORE FACILITIES
     -----------------------------------------

     In  connection  with the  Shurgard  Merger,  we acquired  487  self-storage
facilities in the U.S. located in 23 states. A total of 343 facilities have been
operating  at a mature  stabilized  occupancy  level  for  several  years  under
Shurgard  management  prior to the  merger  and then  under the  Public  Storage
management following the merger. These stabilized  facilities are referred to as
"Shurgard Same Store Facilities."




     As  reflected  in a  preceding  table  entitled  "Domestic  self -  storage
operations  summary" above, the historical  operating  results for this group of
facilities  increased  significantly  for 2007 as  compared  to 2006 and 2006 as
compared to 2005.  These  increases  were  primarily the result of having only a
partial  period's  operating  results in 2006, from August 23, 2006 (date of the
Shurgard Merger) through December 31, 2006, as compared to the entire year ended
December 31, 2007.

     To provide  additional  comparative  operating  data,  the table below sets
forth the  operations  of the  Shurgard  Same  Store  Facilities  for the entire
periods  presented  without  regard to the  timing of the  Shurgard  Merger.  We
believe that this  presentation  more effectively  portrays how these facilities
are  performing,  notwithstanding  that the data presented for the 2006 and 2005
periods do not represent  that actual  results  included in our  operations  for
those periods.




(a)  We acquired the  Shurgard  Same Store  facilities  in  connection  with the
     Shurgard  Merger which was  completed  on August 22, 2006.  Included in our
     consolidated financial statements are only the historical operating results
     for these  facilities from the date of the Shurgard Merger through December
     31, 2007, the time that these  facilities were owned by us. For comparative
     purposes,  however,  the table  above  includes  the  historical  operating
     results for these facilities for each of the three years ended December 31,
     2007,  which  includes  operations  prior to the  Shurgard  Merger  and not
     included in our consolidated financial statements.

(b)  Revenues  and cost of  operations  do not include  ancillary  revenues  and
     expenses  generated at the facilities  with respect to tenant  reinsurance,
     and retail sales and truck rentals. "Other costs of management" included in
     cost of operations  principally  represents all the indirect costs incurred
     in the operations of the  facilities.  Indirect costs  principally  include
     supervisory  costs and  corporate  overhead  cost  incurred  to support the
     operating activities of the facilities. These amounts




     presented  herein  will  not  necessarily  compare  to  amounts  previously
     presented  by  Shurgard  in its  public  reporting  due to  differences  in
     classification  of revenues and  expenses,  including  tenant  reinsurance,
     retail sales and truck rental  activities  which are included on our income
     statement under  "ancillary  operations"  but were previously  presented by
     Shurgard as self-storage revenue and operating expenses.

(c)  Net  operating  income  (excluding  depreciation)  or "NOI"  is a  non-GAAP
     (generally accepted accounting  principles) financial measure that excludes
     the impact of depreciation  expense.  Although depreciation is an operating
     expense,  we  believe  that  NOI  is  a  meaningful  measure  of  operating
     performance,  because we utilize NOI in making  decisions  with  respect to
     capital  allocations,  in  determining  current  property  values,  segment
     performance,  and comparing  period-to-period and market-to-market property
     operating  results.  NOI is not a substitute for net operating income after
     depreciation  expense in  evaluating  our  operating  results.  We have not
     presented   depreciation   expense   for  these   facilities   because  the
     depreciation  expense is based upon historical cost, which is substantially
     different before the merger and after.

(d)  Square foot occupancies  represent  weighted average  occupancy levels over
     the entire period.

(e)  Realized  annual rent per occupied  square foot is computed by  annualizing
     the result of  dividing  rental  income by the  weighted  average  occupied
     square  footage for the period.  Realized  annual rent per occupied  square
     foot takes into  consideration  promotional  discounts and other costs that
     reduce rental income from the contractual amounts due.

(f)  Annualized  rental income per available  square foot ("REVPAF")  represents
     annualized  rental income  divided by total  available net rentable  square
     feet.

(g)  Late charges and  administrative  fees are excluded from the computation of
     realized annual rent per occupied square foot and REVPAF because  exclusion
     of these amounts provides a better measure of our ongoing level of revenue,
     by  excluding  the   volatility  of  late  charges,   which  are  dependent
     principally upon the level of tenant delinquency,  and administrative fees,
     which are dependent  principally  upon the absolute level of move-ins for a
     period.

(h)  In place  annual  rent  per  occupied  square  foot  represents  annualized
     contractual   rents  per  occupied  square  foot  without   reductions  for
     promotional  discounts,  and excludes late charges and administrative fees.
     Reliable  data for in place  annual  rent per  occupied  square  foot as of
     December 31, 2005 is not available.

     On the date of the Shurgard Merger, we successfully installed our real-time
property  operation system at all U.S. Shurgard  locations.  As a result,  these
facilities were immediately  integrated into our national call center,  website,
and management structure and began to benefit from our operating platform.

     On August 30, 2006, the occupancy of the Shurgard Same-Store facilities was
approximately  84.1%,  as  compared to 91.3% for the Public  Storage  Same-Store
facilities.  It has been our  objective to close this  occupancy gap in order to
increase  REVPAF at the Shurgard  facilities.  In attempting to accomplish  this
objective,  we significantly  expanded our domestic  pricing,  promotional,  and
media programs beginning in the fourth quarter of 2006.

     Revenues for the Shurgard Same-Store  properties  increased 4.7% in 2007 as
compared to 2006 and 4.5% in 2006 as compared to 2005.  The  increase in 2007 is
primarily  driven by higher  occupancy  levels as  compared  to 2006,  while the
increase in 2006 as compared to 2005 is primarily driven by higher realized rent
per occupied square foot.

     We have improved the occupancy of the Shurgard Same-Store Facilities,  with
average  occupancy  at December  31, 2007 of 87.6% for the  Shurgard  Same-Store
facilities as compared to 88.1% for the Public  Storage  same-store  pool. As we
have  raised  the  occupancy  of the  Shurgard  Same-Store  facilities,  we have
recently  been able to be less  aggressive on pricing and as a result our trends
in realized rent per occupied  square foot trends have improved from a reduction
of 0.6% in the first nine months of 2007 as compared to the same period in 2006,
to a 1.7% increase in the fourth  quarter of 2007 as compared to the same period
in 2006.

     Property tax expense  increased 11.3% in 2006 as compared to 2005, and 3.6%
in 2007 as compared to 2006,  due to higher  assessments  following the Shurgard
Merger, particularly with respect to properties in California.

     Payroll expense decreased from $29,716,000 in 2005, to $28,181,000 in 2006,
and to  $17,322,000  in 2007.  Prior to the Shurgard  Merger,  Shurgard paid its
property managers higher  compensation  than what we pay our property  managers.
From the date of the merger  until  December 31,  2006,  the  existing  Shurgard




employees'  compensation levels were "frozen" at their existing levels. Starting
January  1,  2007,  the  former  Shurgard   employees  who  remained  had  their
compensation  adjusted  to the  existing  Public  Storage  compensation  levels.
Because  of this  pay  disparity  and our plan to  adjust  the  former  Shurgard
employees'  compensation levels, we expected a significant amount of turnover in
the former  Shurgard  employee  ranks  following the merger,  and as a result we
increased the level of "bench"  property  managers  before the merger so that we
would have  sufficient  staffing for the  properties.  As a result,  average pay
rates for the property managers staffing the Shurgard properties began declining
in Q4 2006, as many of the higher-compensated former Shurgard employees left and
were replaced with new employees at the Public Storage compensation levels. This
decline,  however,  was offset  partially by the impact of increased  numbers of
bench  personnel.  Pay rates dropped further on January 1, 2007 as all employees
were  adjusted to  approximate  the Public  Storage  compensation  levels.  As a
result,   the   compensation   levels  paid  in  2007  approximate  the  ongoing
compensation levels.

     Overall  advertising  and promotion  increased  from  $5,148,000 in 2005 to
$5,639,000 in 2006 and to $6,840,000 in 2007. As noted previously,  we increased
advertising and promotional activities immediately following the Shurgard Merger
in order to improve  the  occupancy  levels of the  facilities  acquired  in the
merger. Shurgard did not employ media advertising and, as a result, there was no
media  advertising  in 2005, as compared to $1,477,000 in 2006 and $3,554,000 in
2007.

     Yellow page expenditures declined from $3,488,000 in 2005, to $3,027,000 in
2006,  to  $1,910,000  in  2007.  These  declines  reflect  the  termination  of
Shurgard's  yellow page ads in 2006, and the allocation of the pro-rata  portion
of Public Storage's  aggregate yellow page  expenditures  following the Shurgard
Merger,  which did not increase as a result of the Shurgard Merger.  Yellow page
expenditure  incurred for 2007 approximates the ongoing expected level of yellow
page costs.

     Utility  expense  increased  8.5% in 2006 as compared to 2005,  and 0.7% in
2007 as compared to 2006.  Future  levels of utility  expenses will be dependent
primarily upon current energy prices and changes in demand driven by weather and
temperature, both of which are volatile and not predictable.

     Other  cost of  management,  which  principally  includes  supervisory  and
indirect  overhead costs,  decreased 9.9% in 2006 as compared to 2005, and 17.1%
in  2007 as  compared  to  2006.  These  reductions  principally  represent  the
synergies  created  by the  merger and the  elimination  of certain  duplicative
operating functions.





     OTHER FACILITIES
     ----------------

     In  addition  to the Public  Storage  and  Shurgard  Same  Store  groups of
facilities, at December 31, 2007, we had 325 facilities that were not classified
into  either  of  these  pools.   These  properties  include  recently  acquired
facilities,  recently  developed  facilities and  facilities  that were recently
expanded by adding  additional  storage units. In general,  these facilities are
not stabilized  with respect to occupancies or rental rates.  As a result of the
fill-up  process  and  timing  of when  the  facilities  were  put  into  place,
year-over-year changes can be significant.

     The  following  table  summarizes  operating  data  with  respect  to these
facilities.







(a)  Represents the operations of 11 facilities  acquired in the Shurgard Merger
     which we discontinued  consolidation in our financial  statements effective
     May 24, 2007.  On November 15, 2007,  we acquired a  controlling  ownership
     position  in  five  of  these  previously  deconsolidated  facilities,  and
     recommenced  consolidation of these properties effective November 15, 2007.
     The operations for these 11 facilities from August 23, 2006 through May 24,
     2007,  combined  with  the  operations  of  the  five  facilities  that  we
     recommenced  consolidation  after  November 15, 2007,  are included in this
     table.  The revenues and expenses,  respectively,  of these five facilities
     that we  consolidate  at December  31, 2007 was  $2,063,000  and  $965,000,
     respectively  for the year ended  December 31, 2007,  notwithstanding  that
     only a partial period of operations was included in the table above.

(b)  Total net operating income before depreciation and amortization or "NOI" is
     a non-GAAP  (generally accepted  accounting  principles)  financial measure
     that excludes the impact of depreciation and amortization  expense, for our
     self-storage  facilities  represents  a portion  of our total  self-storage
     segment's  net  operating  income  before   depreciation  and  amortization
     expense,  and is denoted  in the table  "self-storage  operations  summary"
     above. A reconciliation of our total  self-storage  segment's net operating
     income before  depreciation  and  amortization  expense to consolidated net
     income  is  included  in  Note 14 to our  December  31,  2007  consolidated
     financial  statements,  "Segment  Information."  Although  depreciation and
     amortization  expense  are  operating  expenses,  we believe  that NOI is a
     meaningful  measure of  operating  performance,  because we utilize  NOI in
     making  decisions  with  respect to  capital  allocations,  in  determining
     current   property    values,    segment    performance,    and   comparing
     period-to-period  and  market-to-market  property operating results. NOI is
     not  a  substitute  for  net  operating   income  after   depreciation  and
     amortization in evaluating our operating results.

(c)  Includes  133  facilities  acquired in the  Shurgard  Merger  which are not
     stabilized,  as well as 33 other  facilities  that were  acquired  or newly
     developed in 2006.




     The  properties  denoted  under  "Facilities  put in  place  in  2007"  and
"Facilities  put in place in 2006"  were put into  operation  within  the Public
Storage system at various dates throughout each period  presented.  Accordingly,
rental income, cost of operations,  depreciation and amortization, net operating
income,  weighted  average square foot occupancies and realized rents per square
foot  represent the operating  results for the partial  period that we owned the
facilities  during the year acquired.  In addition,  in place rents per occupied
square  foot at  December  31,  2007 and 2006,  reflect  the  amounts  for those
facilities we owned at each of those respective dates.

     In 2007, we acquired seven facilities, in single property transactions, for
an  aggregate  cost  of  $72,787,000.  These  facilities  contain  in  aggregate
approximately  511,000 net rentable  square feet,  with one facility  located in
Hawaii and the remainder in California. In addition, we completed development of
three facilities with aggregate square footage of approximately 168,000 and cost
of $16,051,000.

     In 2006, in addition to the facilities we acquired in the Shurgard  Merger,
we  acquired  a total of 12  self-storage  facilities,  each in single  property
transactions. These 12 facilities contain in aggregate approximately 877,000 net
rentable  square feet and were acquired for an aggregate  cost of  $103,544,000.
These  facilities  are  located  in  California,  Florida,  Illinois,  New York,
Virginia,  New Jersey,  Delaware,  Georgia,  and Colorado.  Effective January 1,
2006, we commenced consolidating the accounts of three limited partnerships that
we had previously  accounted for on the equity method, which owned 16 facilities
with  879,000  net  rentable  square  feet.  We also  opened  5 newly  developed
facilities in 2006.

     In 2005, we acquired a total of 32 self-storage facilities,  principally in
single-property  transactions,  for an  aggregate  cost of  $254,549,000.  These
facilities contain in the aggregate  approximately 2,390,000 net rentable square
feet and are located  principally in the Atlanta,  Chicago,  Miami, and New York
metropolitan markets.

     Effective  May  24,  2007,  due  to  a  loss  in  control  of  the  related
partnerships that owned these facilities, we began deconsolidating 11 facilities
with an aggregate of 624,000 net rentable  square feet  (referred to hereinafter
as "The Deconsolidated  Shurgard Properties") that we had originally acquired in
the  Shurgard  Merger.  On  November  15,  2007,  as a  result  of  acquiring  a
controlling  ownership interest,  we recommenced  consolidating five of these 11
facilities in our  operations.  The operating  results for these  facilities are
included  in the  table  above  for the  period  each  respective  facility  was
consolidated.  Our pro-rata share of the operating results of the Deconsolidated
Shurgard  Properties for the periods they were not consolidated are presented in
Equity in Earnings of Real Estate Entities.

     We believe our presence in and knowledge of substantially  all of the major
markets in the U.S.  enhances  our  ability to identify  attractive  acquisition
opportunities  and capitalize on the overall  fragmentation  in the self-storage
industry.  Our acquisitions consist of facilities that have been operating for a
number of years as well as newly constructed facilities that were in the process
of filling up to stabilized  occupancy levels. In either case, we have been able
to leverage off of our operating  strategies and improve the occupancy levels of
the facilities,  or with respect to the newly developed  facilities we have been
able to accelerate the fill-up pace.

     We expect  that our  non-stabilized  facilities  will  continue  to provide
earnings  growth  during  2007 and into  2008 as these  facilities  continue  to
improve their occupancy levels as well as realized rental rates.

     The Expansion  facilities represent facilities that have been or are in the
process of being  expanded in terms of their  square  footage.  We have spent an
aggregate of $50,625,000 and $45,300,000 in expanding our facilities in 2007 and
2006, respectively.

     Our level of new development starts has declined  significantly in the last
few years due to increases in construction  cost,  increases in competition with
retail,  condominium,  and apartment operators for quality construction sites in
urban locations,  and more difficult zoning and permitting  requirements,  which
has reduced the number of attractive sites available for development and reduced
our development of facilities.  It is unclear when, or if, these conditions will
improve.




     EUROPEAN SELF-STORAGE OPERATIONS
     --------------------------------

     In the Shurgard Merger, we acquired 160 facilities located in seven Western
European  countries  with an aggregate of  8,385,000  net rentable  square feet.
Since the Shurgard Merger,  we opened 15 additional  self-storage  facilities in
Europe with an  aggregate  of 785,000 net  rentable  square  feet.  In addition,
during  2007,  we  discontinued  a facility  (55,000 net  rentable  square feet)
located in France.  At December 31, 2007, our European  operations  comprise 174
facilities with an aggregate of 9,115,000 net rentable square feet, of which, 96
of these facilities are referred to as the Europe Same Store Facilities (defined
below). The portfolio consists of 104 facilities are wholly owned facilities and
70 facilities  owned by the two joint venture  partnerships,  in which we have a
20% equity interest.

     The following table summarizes  certain  financial data with respect to our
self-storage  operations  from the date of the Shurgard Merger (August 23, 2006)
through December 31, 2006:







(a)  The European Same Store  facilities,  described  below, are comprised of 96
     facilities that are wholly-owned.

(b)  The other  wholly-owned  facilities include eight facilities that we wholly
     own, which are not considered European Same Store facilities.

(c)  Nine facilities were acquired or developed  during 2007 for an aggregate of
     approximately $90,075,000. Our joint ventures own eight of these facilities
     with aggregate development costs of $81,185,000.

(d)  The  joint  ventures,  in  which  we  have a 20%  equity  interest,  own 70
     facilities which were acquired or developed from 2003 to 2007.

(e)  Total net operating income before depreciation and amortization  expense or
     "NOI" is a non-GAAP (generally accepted  accounting  principles)  financial
     measure that excludes the impact of depreciation and amortization  expense,
     for  our  commercial  property  segment  is  presented  in  Note  14 to our
     consolidated financial statements,  "Segment Information," which includes a
     reconciliation of net operating income before depreciation and amortization
     expense  for  this  segment  to  our  consolidated  net  income.   Although
     depreciation and amortization are operating  expenses,  we believe that NOI
     is a meaningful measure of operating performance, because we utilize NOI in
     making  decisions  with  respect to  capital  allocations,  in  determining
     current   property    values,    segment    performance,    and   comparing
     period-to-period  and  market-to-market  property operating results. NOI is
     not  a  substitute  for  net  operating   income  after   depreciation  and
     amortization expense in evaluating our operating results.

     Amounts  presented  in the table above  reflect  significant  increases  in
revenues  and cost of  operations,  in 2007 as  compared  to  2006,  and 2006 as
compared to 2005,  due to the Shurgard  Merger which was completed on August 23,
2006  (see  Note 3 to the  consolidated  financial  statements).  The  operating
results of all of the  facilities  acquired  in the merger and located in Europe
are  included  in our  financial  statements  and in the table above for periods
after the merger.

     The  Joint  Venture  opened  eight  facilities  in 2007  with an  aggregate
development  cost of $81,185,000.  Revenues and expenses  presented in the table
above  with  respect  to  these  properties  totaled  $869,000  and  $2,347,000,
respectively.

     The operating data presented in the table below reflect the historical data
through August 22, 2006, the period for which the 96 facilities were operated by
Shurgard,  combined  with the  historical  data from  August  23,  2006  through




December 31, 2007, the period  operated under Public Storage.  In addition,  the
table utilizes the average  exchange rates for the year ended December 31, 2007,
rather than the respective  exchange rates in effect for each period. We present
this data on such a "constant  exchange rate" basis because we believe it allows
comparability of the various periods,  and isolates the impact of exchange rates
with respect to the trends in revenues and cost of operations.  As a result, the
data  presented  below does not  reflect  the  actual  results  included  in our
operations for 2005, 2006, and 2007.




(a)  We acquired the Shurgard  Europe Same Store  facilities in connection  with
     the Shurgard Merger which was completed on August 22, 2006. Included in our
     consolidated financial statements are only the historical operating results
     for these  facilities from the date of the Shurgard Merger through December
     31, 2007, the time that these  facilities were owned by us. For comparative
     purposes,  however,  the table  above  includes  the  historical  operating
     results for these facilities for each of the three years ended December 31,
     2007,  which  includes  operations  prior to the  Shurgard  Merger  and not
     included in our consolidated financial statements.

(b)  The majority of our  European  operations  are  denominated  in Euros.  For
     comparative  purposes,  amounts for 2005,  2006, and 2007 are translated at
     constant  exchange rates  representing  the average  exchange rates for the
     year ended  December 31, 2007.  The average  exchange rate for the Euro was
     approximately  1.3698  during  2007.  The amounts  that are included in our
     consolidated  financial  statements are based upon the actual exchange rate
     for each  period.

(c)  Revenues  and cost of  operations  do not include  ancillary  revenues  and
     expenses generated at the facilities with respect to tenant reinsurance and
     retail sales.  "Other costs of  management"  included in cost of operations
     principally represents all the indirect costs incurred in the operations of
     the facilities.  Indirect costs principally  include  supervisory costs and
     corporate overhead cost incurred to support the operating activities of the
     facilities.




(d)  Net operating income (excluding  depreciation and amortization  expense) or
     "NOI" is a non-GAAP (generally accepted  accounting  principles)  financial
     measure that excludes the impact of depreciation and amortization  expense.
     Although  depreciation and amortization are operating expenses,  we believe
     that NOI is a  meaningful  measure  of  operating  performance,  because we
     utilize NOI in making  decisions  with respect to capital  allocations,  in
     determining  current property values,  segment  performance,  and comparing
     period-to-period  and  market-to-market  property operating results. NOI is
     not  a  substitute  for  net  operating   income  after   depreciation  and
     amortization  expense in  evaluating  our  operating  results.  We have not
     presented  depreciation  and  amortization  expense  for  these  facilities
     because the depreciation and amortization  expense is based upon historical
     cost, which is substantially different before the merger and after.

(e)  Square foot occupancies  represent  weighted average  occupancy levels over
     the entire period.

(f)  Realized  annual rent per occupied  square foot is computed by  annualizing
     the result of  dividing  rental  income by the  weighted  average  occupied
     square  footage for the period.  Realized  annual rent per occupied  square
     foot takes into  consideration  promotional  discounts and other costs that
     reduce rental income from the contractual amounts due.

(g)  Annualized  rental income per available  square foot ("REVPAF")  represents
     annualized  rental income  divided by total  available net rentable  square
     feet.

(h)  Late charges and  administrative  fees are excluded from the computation of
     realized annual rent per occupied square foot and REVPAF because  exclusion
     of these amounts provides a better measure of our ongoing level of revenue,
     by  excluding  the   volatility  of  late  charges,   which  are  dependent
     principally upon the level of tenant delinquency,  and administrative fees,
     which are dependent  principally  upon the absolute level of move-ins for a
     period.

(i)  In place  annual  rent  per  occupied  square  foot  represents  annualized
     contractual   rents  per  occupied  square  foot  without   reductions  for
     promotional discounts, and excludes late charges and administrative fees.

     The Europe Same Store properties  continue to reflect above average growth.
With  occupancy  stabilized  at above 90%, we believe we have pricing  power and
expect  to  generate  additional  growth  through  rental  rate  increases.  The
properties  are also  benefiting  from  expense  control,  resulting in negative
expense  growth.  The European team is selectively  adapting  various  operating
strategies we use in the U.S. and incorporating them into their operating model.

     The following  table sets forth certain  regional trends in the Europe Same
Store facilities:






(continued)







     ANCILLARY  OPERATIONS:  Ancillary operations include (i) the reinsurance of
policies  against  losses  to  goods  stored  by  tenants  in  our  self-storage
facilities,  (ii) sale of  merchandise  at our  self-storage  facilities,  (iii)
containerized  storage  operations,  (iv)  truck  rentals  at  our  self-storage
facilities  and (v)  commercial  property  operations,  and (vi)  management  of
facilities  owned by third-party  owners and facilities owned by affiliates that
are not included in our consolidated financial statements.


     The following table sets forth our ancillary operations:



     TENANT  REINSURANCE  OPERATIONS:  We reinsure  policies  offered  through a
non-affiliated insurance broker against losses to goods stored by tenants in our
self-storage  facilities.  Revenues  are  comprised  of fees  charged to tenants
electing such policies.  Cost of operations  primarily includes claims paid that
are not covered by our outside third-party insurers, as well as claims adjusting
expenses.

     The significant increase in tenant reinsurance  operations is due primarily
to the increase in properties  associated with the Shurgard Merger.  In 2007 and
2006, respectively, tenant insurance revenues included $9,560,000 and $3,243,000
with  respect  to  the  Shurgard  facilities  in the  U.S.  and  $9,605,000  and
$2,731,000,   respectively,   in  tenant  insurance  revenues  with  respect  to
facilities in Europe.




     Further  contributing to our increase in tenant  reinsurance  revenues were
higher  rates,  and an  increase  in the  percentage  of  our  existing  tenants
retaining such policies, with respect to our ongoing tenant insurance activities
in the U.S.  Approximately  45.5%,  35.1%,  and  32.4% of our  tenants  had such
policies during 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively.

     The future level of tenant  reinsurance  revenues is largely dependent upon
the number of new tenants electing to purchase  policies,  the level of premiums
charged  for  such   insurance,   and  the  number  of  tenants  that   continue
participating in the insurance program.

     The future cost of operations will be dependent primarily upon the level of
losses incurred, including the level of catastrophic events, such as hurricanes,
that occur and affect our properties.

     MERCHANDISE  AND TRUCK  RENTAL  OPERATIONS:  Our  subsidiaries  sell locks,
boxes,  and  packing  supplies  to our  tenants as well as the  general  public.
Revenues and cost of operations  for these  activities are included in the table
above as "Merchandise  Sales." In addition,  at selected  locations in the U.S.,
our subsidiaries maintain trucks on site for rent to our self-storage  customers
and the general public on a short-term basis for local use. In addition, we also
act as an agent for a national  truck  rental  company to provide  their  rental
trucks to customers for  long-distance  use. The revenues and cost of operations
for these activities are included in the table above as "Truck rentals."

     These  activities  generally  serve  as  an  adjunct  to  our  self-storage
operations  providing  our  tenants  with goods and  services  that they need in
connection with moving and storing their goods.

     The primary factor impacting the level of operations of these activities is
the level of customer  traffic at our  self-storage  facilities,  including  the
level of  move-ins.  The  significant  increase in  merchandise  revenues is due
primarily to the increase in properties  associated with the Shurgard Merger. In
2007 and  2006,  respectively,  merchandise  revenues  included  $8,477,000  and
$2,674,000  with respect to the Shurgard  facilities in the United  States;  and
$7,963,000 and $2,390,000, respectively, in merchandise revenues with respect to
Shurgard  Europe.  In 2007  and  2006,  respectively,  truck  revenues  included
$1,694,000 and $795,000 with respect to the Shurgard facilities in the U.S.

     CONTAINERIZED STORAGE OPERATIONS:  We have containerized storage facilities
located in eight densely populated markets with above-average rent and income.

     Rental and other income  includes  monthly  rental charges to customers for
storage of the  containers,  service  fees  charged  for pickup and  delivery of
containers to customers'  homes and  businesses  and certain  non-core  services
which were eliminated,  such as handling and packing  customers' goods from city
to city.  Direct operating costs principally  includes payroll,  equipment lease
expense, utilities and vehicle expenses (fuel and insurance).

     We closed certain  containerized  storage  locations;  the results of these
facilities  for all periods  presented have been  reclassified  to the line item
"discontinued operations."

     There  can be no  assurance  as to the level of the  containerized  storage
business's   expansion,   level  of  gross   rentals,   level  of  move-outs  or
profitability. We continue to evaluate the business's operations, based on which
we have closed certain of these facilities in recent years, and we may decide to
close additional facilities in the future.

     COMMERCIAL PROPERTY OPERATIONS:  Commercial property operations included in
our  consolidated  financial  statements  include  commercial space owned by the
Company and entities consolidated by the Company. We have a much larger interest
in commercial  properties  through our ownership interest in PSB. Our investment
in PSB is accounted for using the equity method of accounting,  and  accordingly
our share of PSB's  earnings is  reflected as "Equity in earnings of real estate
entities," below.




     Our commercial  operations  are comprised of 1,455,000 net rentable  square
feet of  commercial  space,  which is  principally  operated  at  certain of the
self-storage  facilities.   The  significant  increase  in  commercial  property
revenues is due principally to commercial space in the facilities we acquired in
the Shurgard Merger in the U.S.

     Our commercial property operations consist primarily of facilities that are
at a stabilized level of operations, and generally reflect the conditions in the
markets in which they operate.  We do not expect any  significant  growth in net
operating income from this segment of our business for 2008.

     EQUITY IN EARNINGS OF REAL ESTATE ENTITIES: In addition to our ownership of
equity  interests  in PSB, we had general and limited  partnership  interests in
five limited partnerships at December 31, 2007 (PSB and the limited partnerships
are  collectively  referred  to as the  "Unconsolidated  Entities").  Due to our
limited  ownership  interest and limited  control of these  entities,  we do not
consolidate the accounts of these entities for financial reporting purposes, and
account for such investments using the equity method.

     Equity in earnings of real estate  entities for the year ended December 31,
2007 consists of our pro-rata  share of the  Unconsolidated  Entities based upon
our  ownership  interest  for the  period.  The  following  table sets forth the
significant components of equity in earnings of real estate entities:


(1)  Amounts  primarily reflect equity in earnings recorded for investments that
     have been held consistently throughout each of the years ended December 31,
     2007,  2006 and 2005,  including our  investment in the  Acquisition  Joint
     Venture that is accounted for on the equity method of accounting  (see Note
     8 to our consolidated financial statements).

(2)  On  January 1, 2006,  we  commenced  consolidating  the  accounts  of three
     limited  partnerships that we had previously accounted for under the equity
     method of accounting.  Accordingly,  equity in income with respect to these
     partnerships ceased effective January 1, 2006. In addition, as described in
     Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements,  we deconsolidated certain
     investments in limited  partnerships owning 11 properties effective May 24,
     2007, and equity in earnings with respect to these  partnerships  commenced
     effective May 24, 2007. We  subsequently  acquired  interests in certain of
     these  deconsolidated  partnerships  owning five properties and recommenced
     consolidating these interests effective November 17, 2007.

(3)  "Other" reflects our share of general and administrative expense,  interest
     expense, interest income, and other non-property;  non-depreciation related
     operating results of these entities.




(4)  "Other"  with respect to PSB also  includes our pro-rata  share of gains on
     sale of real estate assets, impairment charges relating to pending sales of
     real estate and the impact of PSB's application of the SEC's  clarification
     of EITF Topic D-42 on redemptions of preferred securities.

     Our  investment in PSB has remained  consistent  throughout the years ended
December 31, 2007,  2006 and 2005).  Throughout  2005,  2006 and 2007,  we owned
5,418,273 common shares and 7,305,355  operating  partnership units (units which
are convertible  into common shares on a one-for-one  basis) in PSB. At December
31,  2007,  PSB owned and  operated  19.6  million net  rentable  square feet of
commercial  space located in eight  states.  PSB also manages  commercial  space
owned by the Company and  affiliated  entities at December 31, 2007  pursuant to
property management agreements.

     Our future  equity  income from PSB will be dependent  entirely  upon PSB's
operating results.  Our investment in PSB provides us with some  diversification
into another asset type. We have no plans of disposing of our investment in PSB.
PSB's filings and selected  financial  information  can be accessed  through the
Securities and Exchange Commission, and on its website, www.psbusinessparks.com.

     The  "Consistent  Investments"  are  comprised  primarily  of our equity in
earnings  from four limited  partnerships,  as well as our equity in earnings of
two properties owned by the Acquisition Joint Venture as described more fully in
Note  8 to  our  consolidated  financial  statements.  We  held  an  approximate
consistent level of equity interest throughout 2005, 2006, and 2007. The Company
formed the four  limited  partnerships  during  the  1980's  and is the  general
partner of these partnerships, and we entered into the Acquisition Joint Venture
in  2004.  We  manage  each of these  facilities  for a  management  fee that is
included  in  "Ancillary   operations."   The  limited   partners  of  the  four
partnerships  consist of numerous individual  investors,  including the Company,
which throughout the 1990's acquired units of limited  partnership  interests in
these limited partnerships in various transactions.

     Our future  earnings with respect to the "Consistent  Investments"  will be
dependent  upon the operating  results of the 22  self-storage  facilities  that
these  entities  own. The  operating  characteristics  of these  facilities  are
similar to those of the Company's  self-storage  facilities,  and are subject to
the same operational issues as the Same Store Facilities as discussed above. See
Note 5 to our  consolidated  financial  statements for the operating  results of
these entities for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005.

OTHER INCOME AND EXPENSE ITEMS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     INTEREST AND OTHER  INCOME:  Interest and other income was  $11,417,000  in
2007,  $31,799,000 in 2006, and  $16,447,000 in 2005.  Interest and other income
has decreased in 2007 as compared to 2006  principally as a result of lower cash
balances  invested  in interest  bearing  accounts,  offset by  slightly  higher
interest rates.  Interest and other income increased in 2006 as compared to 2005
principally  as a result of higher  average cash  balances  invested in interest
bearing  accounts at higher interest rates. The changes in average cash balances
are  primarily  due to the timing of  investing  retained  cash into real estate
assets; in the case of 2006, we had significant cash balances from proceeds from
preferred equity issuances completed in anticipation of the Shurgard Merger.

     DEPRECIATION AND  AMORTIZATION:  Depreciation and amortization  expense was
$622,410,000,  $437,568,000  and  $196,153,000  for the years ended December 31,
2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

     The increases in depreciation and amortization expense in 2007 and 2006 are
due  primarily to the  amortization  of  intangibles  acquired  primarily in the
Shurgard Merger totaling  $247,844,000 in 2007 and  $175,944,000 in 2006.  These
intangible  assets  represent  the value of the storage  tenants in place at the
time of the merger,  and are being  amortized  relative to the  expected  future
benefit of the tenants in place to each  period.  These  increases  also reflect
depreciation  of  the  buildings  acquired  in  the  Shurgard  Merger,  totaling
approximately  $142,800,000  in 2007 and  $61,703,000  in 2006. In addition,  we
acquired and opened for operations additional  self-storage  facilities in 2005,
2006, and 2007, resulting in increased  depreciation expense of the buildings of
these  facilities.  Depreciation  expense  in 2007 with  respect  to  facilities
acquired or opened for  operations  in 2007  totaled  $2,206,000.  We expect the
depreciation expense with respect to these facilities to approximate  $4,361,000
in 2008.




     GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSE:  General and administrative expense was
$59,749,000, $84,661,000, and $21,115,000 for the years ended December 31, 2007,
2006 and 2005  respectively.  General  and  administrative  expense  principally
consists of state income taxes,  investor relations expenses,  and corporate and
executive salaries.  In addition,  general and administrative  expenses includes
expenses that vary depending on the Company's  activity levels in certain areas,
such as overhead  associated with the acquisition and development of real estate
facilities,   certain  expenses  related  to  capital  raising  and  merger  and
acquisition activities, employee severance, and stock-based compensation.

     General and  administrative  expense includes the following items that vary
depending upon our  activities:  a) costs and expenses  totaling  $5,300,000 and
$44,010,000, respectively, during 2007 and 2006, incurred in connection with the
integration  of Shurgard and Public  Storage b) costs for cancelled  development
projects in the U.S. and Europe totaling  $2,120,000 and $10,211,000 in 2007 and
2006, respectively;  c) $9,600,000 related to our proposed offering of shares in
our European business in 2007; d) $2,019,000  associated with our reorganization
as a Maryland REIT in 2007; e) $1,900,000 in additional  incentive  compensation
in 2007;  and f) contract  termination  fees of $2,213,000 in 2006. In addition,
with the Shurgard Merger, we began to incur general and  administrative  expense
relating to the management and administration of the European operations,  which
are operated under a separate management team.

     Restricted  stock  and  stock  option  expense  amounted  to  approximately
$8,511,000,  $6,309,000,  and  $4,758,000 for the years ended December 31, 2007,
2006 and 2005, respectively.

     INTEREST  EXPENSE:  Interest  expense  was  $63,671,000,  $33,062,000,  and
$8,216,000 for the years ended December 31, 2007,  2006 and 2005,  respectively.
The  increases  in  interest  expense  in 2006  and 2007  are  primarily  due to
$24,855,000  and  $58,656,000  in  interest  incurred  on  the  debt  and  other
obligations  we assumed in the  Shurgard  Merger.  See also Notes 7 and 8 to our
consolidated financial statements for a schedule of our debt balances, principal
repayment requirements, and average interest rates.

     Capitalized interest expense totaled $4,746,000, $2,716,000, and $2,820,000
for the  years  ended  December  31,  2007,  2006  and  2005,  respectively,  in
connection with our development activities. Included in the interest capitalized
for 2007 and 2006 is $2,710,000 and $935,000,  respectively,  in connection with
our development activities in Europe.

     GAIN ON DISPOSITION OF REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS: During 2007, 2006, and 2005
we have recorded gains on sale of assets,  principally partial condemnations and
other disposals of real estate facilities, totaling $1,354,000,  $2,177,000, and
$3,099,000, respectively, in 2007, 2006, and 2005.

     In addition, on May 14, 2007, one of our European subsidiaries sold limited
liability partner  interests ("LLP Interests") it held in Shurgard  Self-Storage
SCA  ("Shurgard  Europe"),  also an indirect  subsidiary of Public  Storage,  to
various  officers of the Company  other than our chief  executive  officer.  The
aggregate  proceeds  of the sale  were  $4,909,000.  The sale  price for the LLP
Interests  was the net asset value per LLP  Interest  using,  among other items,
information  provided by an  independent  third party  appraisal firm of the net
asset value of Shurgard Europe as of March 31, 2007. In connection with the sale
of  these  LLP  Interests,  we  recorded  a  gain  of  $1,193,000  during  2007,
representing  the  excess of the sales  proceeds  less the book value of the LLP
Interests  sold.  The gain is  reflected in gain on  disposition  of real estate
investments in our accompanying consolidated statements of income.

     FOREIGN EXCHANGE GAIN: At December 31, 2007, our European subsidiaries owed
approximately  (euro)377.7  million  ($555.9 million as of December 31, 2007) to
our  domestic  subsidiaries.  The  loans are  eliminated  in  consolidation  for
financial  reporting  purposes.  We expect our European  subsidiaries  to obtain
external financing in the next 12 to 24 months, which will fund the repayment of




the loans. The loans,  which are denominated in Euros, have not been hedged. The
amount of US dollars  that will be  received on  repayment  will depend upon the
exchange rates at the time.  Based upon the change in estimated US dollars to be
received caused by fluctuation in currency rates during 2007,  foreign  currency
translation  gains of $57.6  million  were  recorded  in 2007.  The U.S.  Dollar
exchange rate relative to the Euro was approximately 1.319 and 1.472 at December
31, 2006 and 2007, respectively.

     Future foreign  exchange  gains or losses will be dependent  primarily upon
the  movement  of the  Euro  relative  to the  U.S.  Dollar,  the  level  of our
intercompany  debt  and our  continued  expectation  with  respect  to  repaying
intercompany debt.

     HURRICANE CASUALTY GAIN OR LOSS: Our policy is to record casualty losses or
gains in the period the casualty  occurs equal to the  differential  between (a)
the book value of assets destroyed and (b) insurance  proceeds,  if any, that we
expect  to  receive  in  accordance  with  our  insurance  contracts.  Potential
insurance proceeds that are subject to uncertainties,  such as interpretation of
deductible  provisions of the governing agreements or the estimation of costs of
restoration,  are treated as a contingent  proceeds in accordance with Statement
of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 5 ("SFAS 5"), and not recorded until the
uncertainties  are satisfied.  During 2007, we recorded a casualty gain totaling
$2,665,000, representing the realization of such contingent proceeds relating to
hurricanes  which occurred in 2005.  During 2005, we recorded a casualty loss of
$1,917,000 related to damage to our properties from hurricanes.

     INCOME  FROM  DERIVATIVES,  NET:  This  represents  the net gain or loss as
recognized  for the  changes  in the fair  market  values  of  those  derivative
financial  instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting  treatment under
SFAS No.  133,  combined  with net  payments  from  derivative  instruments.  We
recognized  net income of $851,000 and  $3,926,000  for the years ended December
31, 2007 and 2006,  respectively.  The  decrease in income in 2006 is due to the
extinguishment  of certain  derivatives on January 2, 2007 and, as a result,  no
further gains or losses or net payments  resulted for these  derivatives.  We do
not expect any significant activity in these derivatives in 2008.

     MINORITY  INTEREST IN INCOME:  Minority  interest in income  represents the
income that is allocable to equity interests in the Consolidated Entities, which
are not owned by the Company.  The following table summarizes  minority interest
in income for each of the three years ended December 31, 2007:



(a)  The increase in  preferred  partnership  interests is primarily  due to the
     issuance of additional preferred partnership units offset by the redemption
     of $40,000,000  of our 9.5% Series N Preferred  Units on March 17, 2005 and
     $45,000,000 of our 9.125% Series O Preferred units on March 29, 2005.

(b)  These  amounts  reflect  income  allocated to minority  interests for three
     entities that we commenced consolidating the accounts for effective January
     1, 2006 (see Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements).  Included in
     minority  interest in income for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006
     was $108,000 and $132,000 in depreciation expense.

(c)  These amounts reflect income allocated to minority  interests from entities
     we  acquired  in the  Shurgard  Merger.  These  interests  include  the 80%
     partner's  interests in the European  joint  ventures,  First  Shurgard and
     Second Shurgard,  as well as those in domestic joint ventures.  Included in
     minority  interest in income is  $11,513,000  and  $3,013,000 for the years
     ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 in depreciation expense.

(d)  The other minority  interest  include  depreciation  expense of $2,437,000,
     $1,339,000, and $3,152,000, respectively, for 2007, 2006, and 2005.

     The level of income allocated to these interests in the future is dependent
upon the operating results of the storage facilities that these entities own, as
well as any minority interests that the Company acquires in the future.




Liquidity and Capital Resources
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     We believe that our  internally  generated  net cash  provided by operating
activities  will  continue to be  sufficient  to enable us to meet our operating
expenses,  capital  improvements,  debt service  requirements and  distributions
requirements to shareholders for the foreseeable future.

     Operating as a REIT,  our ability to retain cash flow for  reinvestment  is
restricted.  In order for us to maintain our REIT status, a substantial  portion
of  our  operating  cash  flow  must  be  used  to  make  distributions  to  our
shareholders (see "Requirement to Pay Distributions"  below).  However,  despite
the  significant  distribution  requirements,  we have  been  able to  retain  a
significant  amount of our operating cash flow. The following  table  summarizes
our  ability  to  fund   distributions  to  the  minority   interests,   capital
improvements to maintain our facilities,  and  distributions to our shareholders
through the use of cash provided by operating  activities.  The  remaining  cash
flow  generated  is  available to make both  scheduled  and  optional  principal
payments on debt and for reinvestment.


(a)  Represents net cash provided from operating  activities for each respective
     year as presented in our December 31, 2007 Consolidated  Statements of Cash
     Flows.

(b)  Cash  available for principal  payments on debt and  reinvestment  is not a
     substitute  for cash flows from  operations  in our  liquidity,  ability to
     repay our debt, or to meet our distribution requirements.

     Cash available for principal  payments on debt and  reinvestment  increased
from  $143.2  million  in 2006 to $324.3  million in 2007  principally  due to a
significant  increase in our self-storage  operations,  primarily as a result of
the Shurgard Merger,  as well as additional tax depreciation with respect to the
assets acquired in the Shurgard Merger which serves to reduce our taxable income
and required distributions requirements.

     Our  financial  profile is  characterized  by a low level of  debt-to-total
capitalization  and a  conservative  dividend  payout  ratio with respect to the
common shares. We expect to fund our growth strategies and debt obligations with
(i) cash on hand at December 31, 2007, (ii) internally  generated  retained cash
flows and (iii) proceeds from issuing equity securities. In general, our current
strategy is to continue to finance  our growth with  permanent  capital,  either
common or preferred equity.

     Over  the  past  three  years,  we  have  funded  substantially  all of our
acquisitions with permanent capital (both common and preferred  securities).  We
have elected to use preferred  securities as a form of leverage despite the fact
that the dividend rates of our preferred securities exceed the prevailing market
interest rates on conventional debt. We have chosen this method of financing for
the following  reasons:  (i) under the REIT structure,  a significant  amount of
operating  cash flow  needs to be  distributed  to our  shareholders,  making it
difficult  to repay debt with  operating  cash flow  alone,  (ii) our  perpetual
preferred  shares have no sinking fund  requirement  or maturity date and do not
require  redemption,  all of which eliminate any future refinancing risks, (iii)
after the end of a non-call  period,  we have the option to redeem the preferred




shares at any time,  which enable us to refinance higher coupon preferred shares
with new preferred  shares at lower rates if appropriate,  (iv) preferred shares
do not contain  covenants,  thus allowing us to maintain  significant  financial
flexibility, and (v) dividends on the preferred shares can be applied to satisfy
our REIT distribution requirements.

     Our credit ratings on each of our series of preferred  shares are "Baa1" by
Moody's and "BBB+" by Standard & Poor's.

     On March 27, 2007, we entered into a five-year  revolving  credit agreement
(the "Credit  Agreement")  with an aggregate  limit with respect to  borrowings,
letters of credit and foreign currency  borrowings in Euros or British pounds of
$300 million.  Amounts drawn under the Credit  Agreement bear an annual interest
rate ranging from the London  Interbank  Offered  Rate  ("LIBOR")  plus 0.35% to
LIBOR plus 1.00%  depending on our credit  ratings (LIBOR plus 0.35% at December
31, 2007). In addition,  we are required to pay a quarterly facility fee ranging
from 0.10% per annum to 0.25% per annum  depending on our credit  ratings (0.10%
per annum at December 31, 2007). We had no outstanding  borrowings on our Credit
Agreement at December 31, 2007 or February 28, 2008.

     At December  31,  2007,  we had undrawn  standby  letters of credit,  which
reduce our  borrowing  capacity with respect to our line of credit by the amount
of the standby letters of credit, totaling $20.4 million.

     The Credit Agreement  includes various  covenants,  the more significant of
which require us to (i) maintain a leverage  ratio (as defined  therein) of less
than 0.55 to 1.00,  (ii)  maintain  certain  fixed charge and interest  coverage
ratios  (as  defined  therein)  of not  less  than  1.5 to 1.0 and  1.75 to 1.0,
respectively,  and (iii)  maintain  a minimum  total  shareholders'  equity  (as
defined  therein).  We were in  compliance  with  all  covenants  of the  Credit
Agreement at December 31, 2007.

     RECENT ISSUANCE OF PREFERRED  SHARES AND PROJECTED  REDEMPTION OF PREFERRED
SECURITIES: One of our financing objectives over the past several years has been
to reduce our average cost of capital with respect to our preferred  securities.
Accordingly,  we have redeemed higher rate preferred securities  outstanding and
have  financed the  redemption  with cash on-hand or from the proceeds  from the
issuance of lower rate preferred securities.

     We believe  that our size and  financial  flexibility  enables us to access
capital when appropriate. Since the beginning of 2005 through December 31, 2007,
we have raised  approximately  $2.6  billion of preferred  securities,  and used
approximately   $1.2   billion  of  these  net   proceeds  in  order  to  redeem
higher-coupon  preferred  securities.  Over the past several  months,  accessing
capital through the credit markets has become very difficult, in part due to the
lack of liquidity.

     At December  31, 2007,  our 7.500%  Series V  Cumulative  Preferred  Shares
($172.5  million)  were  redeemable at our option;  however,  we have not called
these shares for  redemption.  In addition,  in October 2008 our 6.500% Series W
Cumulative  Preferred Shares ($132.5  million),  and in November 2008 our 6.450%
Series X Cumulative  Preferred  Shares  ($120.0  million)  become  available for
redemption at our option.  It is not advantageous to redeem these shares at this
time because,  based upon current market conditions,  we cannot issue additional
preferred  securities at a lower coupon rate than the  securities  that would be
called. The timing of redemption of any of these series of preferred shares will
depend upon many factors including when, or if, market  conditions  improve such
that we can  issue new  preferred  shares at a lower  cost of  capital  than the
shares that would be redeemed.

     In the past we have typically raised  additional  capital in advance of the
redemption  dates  to  ensure  that we have  available  funds  to  redeem  these
securities.  Provided  market  conditions  improve in the  future,  we may raise
capital in advance to fund redemptions.

     REQUIREMENT TO PAY DISTRIBUTIONS:  We have operated, and intend to continue
to  operate,  in such a manner as to qualify  as a REIT  under the Code,  but no
assurance can be given that we will at all times so qualify.  To the extent that
the Company  continues to qualify as a REIT, we will not be taxed,  with certain
limited   exceptions,   on  the  taxable  income  that  is  distributed  to  our
shareholders, provided that at least 90% of our taxable income is so distributed
to our  shareholders.  We  believe  we  have  satisfied  the  REIT  distribution
requirement since 1981.

     Aggregate  dividends paid during 2007 totaled $236.7 million to the holders
of our Cumulative Preferred Shares,  $340.0 million to the holders of our common
shares and $21.4 million to the holders of our Equity Shares, Series A. Although
we have not finalized the  calculation  of our 2007 taxable  income,  we believe
that the  aggregate  dividends  paid in 2007 to our  shareholders  enable  us to
continue to meet our REIT distribution requirements.





     During 2007, we paid  distributions  totaling $21.6 million with respect to
our Preferred Partnership Units. We estimate the 2008 distribution  requirements
with respect to the  preferred  partnership  units  outstanding  at December 31,
2007,  to be  approximately  $21.6  million.  In addition,  we estimate the 2008
distribution  requirements  with respect to our preferred shares  outstanding at
December 31, 2007, to be  approximately  $241.3 million,  assuming no additional
preferred share issuances or redemptions during 2008.

     For 2008,  distributions  with  respect  to the  common  shares  and Equity
Shares,   Series  A  will  be  determined  based  upon  our  REIT   distribution
requirements  after taking into  consideration  distributions  to the  preferred
shareholders.  We anticipate  that, at a minimum,  quarterly  distributions  per
common share for 2008 will be $0.55 per common  share.  For the first quarter of
2008, a quarterly  distribution  of $0.55 per common share has been  declared by
our Board,  representing a 10% increase from our previous  dividend of $0.50 per
common share.

     With  respect to the  depositary  shares  representing  the Equity  Shares,
Series A, we have no obligation to pay  distributions  if no  distributions  are
paid  to  the  common  shareholders.  To  the  extent  that  we  do  pay  common
distributions  in any year, the holders of the depositary  shares receive annual
distributions  equal to the lesser of (i) five times the per share  dividend  on
the common shares or (ii) $2.45. The depositary shares are  non-cumulative,  and
have  no  preference  over  our  Common  Shares  either  as to  dividends  or in
liquidation.

     CAPITAL   IMPROVEMENT   REQUIREMENTS:   During  2008,   we  have   budgeted
approximately $92 million for capital  improvements for our facilities.  Capital
improvements include major repairs or replacements to the facilities, which keep
the  facilities in good  operating  condition and maintain  their visual appeal.
Capital  improvements  do not  include  costs  relating  to the  development  or
expansion of  facilities.  During the year ended  December 31, 2007, we incurred
capital improvements of approximately $69.1 million.

     EUROPEAN ACTIVITIES:  As we previously disclosed, we attempted to liquidate
a portion of our  investment  in our  European  subsidiaries  through an initial
public offering,  and although market  conditions are not favorable at this time
for such a  transaction,  we  continue to evaluate  our  alternatives  and still
believe that a public entity is the best structure for our European  operations'
long-term  growth.  At  December  31,  2007,  our  European   subsidiaries  owed
approximately  (euro)377.7  million  ($555.9 million as of December 31, 2007) to
our  domestic  subsidiaries.  We  expect  our  European  subsidiaries  to obtain
external financing in the next 12 to 24 months, which will fund the repayment of
the loan,  resulting in the receipt of  additional  cash.  The loans,  which are
denominated in Euros,  have not been hedged to limit our exposure to fluctuation
in exchange rates between the Euro and the U.S. Dollar; as a result,  the amount
of U.S.  Dollars  that will be received on repayment  will depend upon  exchange
rates at the time.

     As disclosed in January  2008,  we reached an agreement in principle  for a
prospective  investor to acquire a 51% interest in Shurgard  Europe in a private
transaction  at a price  generally  consistent  with  the  previously  disclosed
proceeds  Public  Storage  expected to receive  for its equity  interest in last
year's terminated European share offering.  No binding agreement has been signed
with the prospective investor and there is no assurance that a binding agreement
will be signed or that the transaction will be completed. We estimate completion
of the  transaction  at the end of the first  quarter of 2008 assuming a binding
agreement is signed and the conditions related to the transaction are satisfied.

     DEBT SERVICE REQUIREMENTS:  At December 31, 2007, we have total outstanding
debt of  approximately  $1.1 billion.  We do not believe we have any significant
refinancing risks with respect to our debt.

     In  connection  with the Shurgard  Merger,  we assumed  approximately  $2.0
billion of debt from  Shurgard  and its  affiliates.  As of December  31,  2007,
approximately $945.2 million of such debt remains outstanding.

     In late December 2006, we entered into a short-term  unsecured  bridge loan
with a  commercial  bank  for  borrowings  up to $300  million  and  immediately
borrowed the entire amount, increasing our cash balances to $555.6 million as of
December 31, 2006. A substantial portion of this cash was utilized on January 2,
2007,  to retire  approximately  $429 million of debt assumed from Shurgard that
was secured by substantially all of our wholly-owned  facilities in Europe.  The
bridge loan was subsequently  repaid and terminated on January 10, 2007 with the
proceeds from the issuance of preferred securities.




     Our portfolio of real estate facilities remains substantially unencumbered.
At December 31, 2007,  we have  domestic  mortgage  debt  outstanding  of $236.9
million,  which encumbers 88 self-storage  facilities with an aggregate net book
value of approximately  $601.2 million.  In Europe, our joint ventures (in which
we have a 20%  ownership  interest)  had  mortgage  debt at  December  31,  2007
totaling  $376.7  million,  which  encumbers 68 facilities with an aggregate net
book value of approximately $538.9 million at December 31, 2007.

     We  anticipate  that our retained  operating  cash flow will continue to be
sufficient to enable us to make scheduled principal payments.  See Notes 7 and 8
to our consolidated financial statements for approximate principal maturities of
such borrowings.  It is our current  intention to fully amortize our outstanding
debt  as  opposed  to  refinance   debt   maturities   with   additional   debt.
Alternatively,  we may prepay debt and finance such  prepayments  with  retained
operating cash flow or proceeds from the issuance of preferred securities.

     Approximately  $189.1 million in debt owed by First Shurgard was originally
scheduled to mature in May 2008.  However,  in February 2008, under the terms of
the related credit agreement we have requested a one-year  extension of the loan
until May 2009.  Assuming  we have met our loan  covenants,  which we believe we
have met,  the lender is  required  to grant our  request.  Notwithstanding  our
expectation of receiving the requested one-year  extension,  if the extension is
not granted,  we and our joint venture  partner are required to  contribute  our
pro-rata  share of funds  necessary to repay the debt. We believe that our joint
venture partner has the intention and ability to contribute  their potential 80%
share towards repayment of this debt if it is necessary.

     Concurrent   with  the  completion  of  the  proposed   transaction  for  a
prospective  investor to acquire a 51% ownership interest in Shurgard Europe, we
will seek to obtain a waiver  from the  lenders  of the Second  Shurgard  credit
facility for the change in control  acceleration  clause contained in the credit
facility.  See Note 19 to our December 31, 2007 financial statements for further
information regarding the proposed transaction involving Shurgard Europe.

     ACQUISITION AND DEVELOPMENT OF FACILITIES: During 2008, we will continue to
seek to acquire additional self-storage facilities from third parties;  however,
it is  difficult  to  estimate  the amount of third party  acquisitions  we will
undertake.

     At December 31, 2007,  we have a  development  "pipeline" of 29 projects in
the U.S. and 14 projects in Europe,  consisting of newly developed  self-storage
facilities,  conversion  of space at  facilities  that was  previously  used for
containerized  storage and expansions to existing  self-storage  facilities.  At
December 31, 2007,  we have  acquired the land for all of the U.S.  projects and
seven of the projects in Europe.

     The  development  and  fill-up of these  storage  facilities  is subject to
significant  contingencies such as obtaining appropriate governmental approvals.
We estimate that the amount remaining to be spent to complete  development to be
approximately  $190.7 million and will be incurred over the next 24 months.  The
following table sets forth certain  information  with respect to our development
pipeline.




     The  development  and  fill-up of these  storage  facilities  is subject to
significant  contingencies such as obtaining appropriate governmental approvals.
We estimate that the amount  remaining to be spent to complete  development will
be incurred over the next 24 months.  Substantially  all of the future costs for
the  seven  European  projects  that are in  construction  will be funded by the
Shurgard  European Joint  Ventures,  in which we have a 20% interest,  and which
have a substantial  degree of funding by debt.  The future costs with respect to
all other development projects will be funded by us.





CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

     Our  significant  contractual  obligations  at December  31, 2007 and their
impact on our cash flows and liquidity are summarized below for the years ending
December 31 (amounts in thousands):



(1)  Amounts  include  interest  payments  on our notes  payable  based on their
     contractual terms. See Note 8 to our consolidated  financial statements for
     additional  information on our notes payable. Debt to Joint Venture Partner
     is not  reflected  since we have not  exercised  our option to acquire  our
     partner's  interest.  Approximately  $189.1  million  in debt owed by First
     Shurgard  was  originally  scheduled  to mature in May  2008.  However,  in
     February  2008,  under the terms of the related  credit  agreement  we have
     requested a one-year extension of the loan until May 2009. Assuming we have
     met our loan  covenants,  which we  believe  we have  met,  the  lender  is
     required to grant our request.


(2)  This  line item  reflects  amounts  due on five  European  properties  with
     commitments extending to April 2052 that we assumed in the Shurgard Merger.


(3)  We lease trucks,  land,  equipment and office space under various operating
     leases. Certain leases are cancelable with substantial penalties.

(4)  Includes   obligations  for  facilities  currently  under  construction  at
     December 31, 2007 as described above under  "Acquisition and Development of
     Facilities."

     In  January  2004,  we entered  into a joint  venture  partnership  with an
institutional  investor  for the  purpose of  acquiring  up to  $125,000,000  of
existing   self-storage   properties   in  the  U.S.  from  third  parties  (the
"Acquisition Joint Venture").  As described more fully in Note 8 to our December
31, 2007 consolidated  financial statements,  our partner's equity contributions
with respect to certain  transactions  are  classified as debt under the caption
"Debt to Joint Venture Partner" in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. At
December 31, 2007,  our Debt to Joint  Venture  Partner was  $38,081,000.  For a
six-month  period  beginning  54 months  after  formation,  we have the right to
acquire our partner's interest based upon the market value of the properties. If
we do not exercise our option, our partner can elect to purchase our interest in
the  properties  during a six-month  period  commencing  upon  expiration of our
six-month  option  period.  If our  partner  fails to exercise  its option,  the
Acquisition   Joint  Venture  will  be  liquidated  and  the  proceeds  will  be
distributed to the partners  according to the joint venture  agreement.  We have
not included our Debt to Joint Venture  Partner as a  contractual  obligation in
the  table  above,  since we only  have the  right,  rather  than a  contractual
obligation, to acquire our partner's interest.

     Approximately  $189.1 million in debt owed by First Shurgard was originally
scheduled to mature in May 2008.  However,  in February 2008, under the terms of
the related credit agreement we have requested a one-year  extension of the loan
until May 2009.  Assuming  we have met our loan  covenants,  which we believe we
have met,  the lender is  required  to grant our  request.  Notwithstanding  our
expectation of receiving the requested one-year  extension,  if the extension is
not granted,  we and our joint venture  partner are required to  contribute  our
pro-rata  share of funds  necessary to repay the debt. We believe that our joint
venture partner has the intention and ability to contribute  their potential 80%
share towards repayment of this debt if it is necessary.

     Concurrent   with  the  completion  of  the  proposed   transaction  for  a
prospective  investor to acquire a 51% ownership interest in Shurgard Europe, we
will seek to obtain a waiver  from the  lenders  of the Second  Shurgard  credit
facility for the change in control  acceleration  clause contained in the credit
facility.  See Note 19 to our December 31, 2007 financial statements for further
information regarding the proposed transaction involving Shurgard Europe.

     OFF-BALANCE  SHEET  ARRANGEMENTS:  At December  31, 2007 we had no material
off-balance sheet arrangements as defined under Regulation S-K 303(a)(4) and the
instructions thereto.





     SHARE REPURCHASE PROGRAM: Our Board has authorized the repurchase from time
to time of up to  25,000,000  of our  common  shares  on the open  market  or in
privately  negotiated  transactions.  During 2004, we repurchased 445,700 shares
for approximately  $20.3 million.  During 2005, we repurchased 84,000 shares for
approximately  $5.0  million.  During 2006 and 2007, we did not  repurchase  any
shares. During 2008 (through February 28, 2008), we repurchased 1,520,196 shares
for approximately  $111.9 million.  From the inception of the repurchase program
through  February 28, 2008, we have  repurchased  a total of  23,721,916  common
shares at an aggregate cost of approximately $679.1 million.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
- -------------------------------------------------------------------

     To limit our exposure to market risk, we principally finance our operations
and growth with permanent equity capital  consisting  either of common shares or
preferred  shares.  At December  31,  2007,  our debt as a  percentage  of total
shareholders' equity (based on book values) was 12.2%.

     Our preferred  shares are not redeemable at the option of the holders.  Our
Series V shares  are  currently  redeemable.  Except  under  certain  conditions
relating to the Company's  qualification as a REIT, the preferred shares are not
redeemable by the Company prior to the  following  dates:  Series W - October 6,
2008, Series X - November 13, 2008, Series Y - January 2, 2009, Series Z - March
5, 2009,  Series A - March 31, 2009,  Series B - September 30, 2009,  Series C -
September  13, 2009,  Series D - February  28, 2010,  Series E - April 27, 2010,
Series F - August 23, 2010, Series G - December 12, 2010, Series H - January 19,
2011,  Series I - May 3, 2011, Series K - August 8, 2011, Series L - October 20,
2011,  Series M - January 9, 2012 and  Series N - July 2, 2012.  On or after the
respective  dates,  each of the series of preferred shares will be redeemable at
the option of the Company,  in whole or in part, at $25 per depositary share (or
share in the case of the Series Y), plus  accrued and unpaid  dividends  through
the redemption date.

     Our market risk sensitive  instruments  include notes payable and borrowing
on bank credit facilities,  which totaled $1,031,847,000 and none, respectively,
at December 31, 2007.

     We are exposed to changes in interest  rates  primarily  from the  floating
rate debt arrangements we acquired in the merger with Shurgard.

     We  have  foreign  currency  exposures  related  to our  investment  in the
construction, acquisition, and operation of storage centers in countries outside
the U.S. to the extent such  activities are financed with financial  instruments
or equity denominated in non-functional  currencies. The aggregate book value of
such real estate and intangibles was approximately  $1.7 billion at December 31,
2007.  Since all foreign debt is  denominated  in the  corresponding  functional
currency,  our currency  exposure is limited to our investment  (both equity and
intercompany debt) in those countries.  Countries in which Shurgard had exposure
to foreign  currency  fluctuations  include  Belgium,  France,  the Netherlands,
Sweden, Denmark, Germany and the United Kingdom.

     The table below  summarizes  annual debt  maturities  and  weighted-average
interest  rates  on our  outstanding  debt  at the end of each  year  (based  on
relevant  LIBOR of 4.60% and a EURIBOR  of 4.29% at  December  31,  2007 and the
applicable  forward  curve for  following  years) and fair  values  required  to
evaluate our expected  cash-flows  under debt  agreements and our sensitivity to
interest rate changes at December 31, 2007 (dollar amounts in thousands).






(1)  Amounts include borrowings under our line of credit, which expires in 2012.

(2)  First   Shurgard  and  Second   Shurgard  have  senior  credit   agreements
     denominated in Euros to borrow,  in aggregate,  up to  (euro)271.6  million
     ($399.8  million as of December 31,  2007).  As of December  31, 2007,  the
     available amount under those credit facilities was in aggregate  (euro)12.5
     million ($18.4 million). Approximately $189.1 million in debt owed by First
     Shurgard  was  originally  scheduled  to mature in May  2008.  However,  in
     February  2008,  under the terms of the related  credit  agreement  we have
     requested a one-year extension of the loan until May 2009. Assuming we have
     met our loan  covenants,  which we  believe  we have  met,  the  lender  is
     required to grant our request.

     At  December  31,  2007,  through  the  Shurgard  Merger,  we were party to
pay-fixed,  receive-variable  interest  rate swaps.  The notional  amounts,  the
weighted-average  pay rates and the terms of these  agreements are summarized as
follows:




     Based on our outstanding variable-rate EURIBOR debt and interest rate swaps
at December 31, 2007, a hypothetical increase in the interest rates of 100 basis
points would cause the value of our derivative financial instruments to increase
by $3.0 million.  Conversely,  a hypothetical  decrease in the interest rates of
100 basis points would cause the value of our derivative  financial  instruments
to decrease by $3.0 million.

     On January 2, 2007, we prepaid the (euro)325 million  collateralized  notes
($429  million  at  December  31,  2006) at our  European  operations  that were
otherwise  payable in 2011. We also terminated the related European currency and
interest rate hedges.  Accordingly,  the remaining debt in Europe relates to the
joint venture properties,  in which we have a 20% equity interest, and which are
consolidated for financial reporting purposes.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
        -------------------------------------------

     The  financial  statements of the Company at December 31, 2007 and December
31, 2006 and for each of the three years in the period  ended  December 31, 2007
and the report of Ernst & Young LLP,  Independent  Registered  Public Accounting
Firm,  thereon  and the  related  financial  statement  schedule,  are  included
elsewhere  herein.  Reference is made to the Index to Financial  Statements  and
Schedules in Item 15.




ITEM  9.  CHANGES  IN AND  DISAGREEMENTS  WITH  ACCOUNTANTS  ON  ACCOUNTING  AND
          ----------------------------------------------------------------------
          FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
          --------------------

     Not applicable.

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
         -----------------------

CONCLUSION REGARDING THE EFFECTIVENESS OF DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

     The Company maintains  disclosure controls and procedures that are designed
to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports the Company files
and submits under the  Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,  ("Exchange
Act") is recorded,  processed,  summarized and reported  within the time periods
specified  in  accordance  with SEC  guidelines  and that  such  information  is
communicated to the Company's management,  including its Chief Executive Officer
and Chief  Financial  Officer,  to allow  timely  decisions  regarding  required
disclosure  based on the definition of "disclosure  controls and  procedures" in
Rules  13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act. In designing and  evaluating
the disclosure controls and procedures,  management recognized that any controls
and  procedures,  no matter how well  designed  and  operated,  can provide only
reasonable  assurance of achieving the desired control objectives and management
necessarily  was required to apply its judgment in evaluating  the  cost-benefit
relationship  of possible  controls  and  procedures  in reaching  that level of
reasonable   assurance.   Also,   the   Company  has   investments   in  certain
unconsolidated  entities.  As the  Company  does not  control  or  manage  these
entities,  its disclosure  controls and procedures with respect to such entities
are  substantially  more  limited  than those it  maintains  with respect to its
consolidated subsidiaries.

     As of December 31, 2007, the Company  carried out an evaluation,  under the
supervision and with the  participation of the Company's  management,  including
the Company's Chief Executive Officer and the Company's Chief Financial Officer,
of the  effectiveness  of the design and operation of the  Company's  disclosure
controls  and  procedures  (as  such  term is  defined  in Rules  13a-15(e)  and
15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act.  Based on that  evaluation,  the Company's  Chief
Executive  Officer and Chief  Financial  Officer  concluded  that the  Company's
disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2007.

MANAGEMENT'S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

     Our management is responsible for  establishing  and  maintaining  adequate
internal  control  over  financial  reporting,  as such term is defined in Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) of the Exchange Act. Under the  supervision and with the
participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial  Officer,  we  conducted an  evaluation  of the  effectiveness  of our
internal  control over  financial  reporting  based on the framework in Internal
Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee on Sponsoring Organizations
of the  Treadway  Commission.  Based on our  evaluation  under the  framework in
Internal  Control-Integrated   Framework,  our  management  concluded  that  our
internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2007.

     The  effectiveness  of internal  control  over  financial  reporting  as of
December 31, 2007, has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, independent registered
public  accounting  firm.  Ernst & Young LLP's report on the Company's  internal
control over financial reporting appears below.

CHANGES IN INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

     There have not been any  changes in our  internal  control  over  financial
reporting (as such term is defined in Rules  13a-15(f)  and 15d-15(f)  under the
Exchange  Act)  during  the  quarter  to which  this  report  relates  that have
materially affected, or are reasonable likely to materially affect, our internal
control over financial reporting.


ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION
         -----------------

     Not Applicable.





             REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Board of Trustees and Shareholders of
Public Storage

We have audited Public Storage's internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2007, based on criteria established in Internal Control--Integrated
Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring  Organizations  of the Treadway
Commission (the COSO criteria).  Public Storage's  management is responsible for
maintaining  effective  internal control over financial  reporting,  and for its
assessment of the  effectiveness  of internal  control over financial  reporting
included in the  accompanying  Annual Report of  Management on Internal  Control
over Financial  Reporting.  Our  responsibility  is to express an opinion on the
company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted  our audit in accordance  with the standards of the Public  Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain  reasonable  assurance  about whether  effective
internal  control  over  financial  reporting  was  maintained  in all  material
respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over
financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing
and evaluating the design and operating  effectiveness of internal control based
on the assessed  risk,  and  performing  such other  procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances.  We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
basis for our opinion.

A company's  internal control over financial  reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable  assurance  regarding the reliability of financial  reporting
and the preparation of financial  statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over
financial  reporting  includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to
the  maintenance  of records that, in reasonable  detail,  accurately and fairly
reflect the  transactions  and  dispositions  of the assets of the company;  (2)
provide  reasonable  assurance  that  transactions  are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting  principles,  and that receipts and  expenditures  of the company are
being made only in accordance with  authorizations of management and trustees of
the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of  unauthorized  acquisition,  use, or  disposition  of the company's
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent  limitations,  internal control over financial reporting
may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate  because of changes in  conditions,  or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, Public Storage maintained,  in all material respects,  effective
internal control over financial  reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on the
COSO criteria.

We also have  audited,  in accordance  with the standards of the Public  Company
Accounting  Oversight Board (United States),  the consolidated balance sheets of
Public  Storage as of December 31, 2007 and 2006,  and the related  consolidated
statements of income,  shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended  December  31, 2007 and our report dated  February 28,
2008 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.


                                              /s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Los Angeles, California
February 28, 2008







                                    PART III

ITEM 10. TRUSTEES, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
         -----------------------------------------------------

     The  information  required by this item with  respect to trustees is hereby
incorporated by reference to the material appearing in the Company's  definitive
proxy  statement  filed in  connection  with the  annual  shareholders'  meeting
scheduled  to be held on May 8, 2008 (the "Proxy  Statement")  under the caption
"Election of Trustees."

     The  information  required  by this item  with  respect  to the  nominating
process,  the audit committee and the audit committee financial expert is hereby
incorporated by reference to the material appearing in the Proxy Statement under
the caption "Corporate Governance."

     The  information  required  by this  item with  respect  to  Section  16(a)
compliance is hereby  incorporated by reference to the material appearing in the
Proxy Statement under the caption "Section 16(a) Beneficial  Ownership Reporting
Compliance."

     The  information  required by this item with respect to a code of ethics is
hereby  incorporated  by  reference  to the  material  appearing  in  the  Proxy
Statement under the caption "Corporate Governance." Any amendments to or waivers
of the  code of  ethics  granted  to the  Company's  executive  officers  or the
controller  will be  published  promptly on our website or by other  appropriate
means in accordance with SEC rules and regulations.

     The following is a biographical  summary of the current executive  officers
of the Company:

     Ronald L. Havner, Jr., age 50, has been the Vice-Chairman,  Chief Executive
Officer and a director of Public Storage since November 2002 and President since
July 1, 2005.  Mr.  Havner has been  Chairman  of the  Company's  affiliate,  PS
Business Parks, Inc. (PSB),  since March 1998 and was Chief Executive Officer of
PSB from March 1998 until August 2003. Mr. Havner joined Public Storage in 1986.
He is also a member of the Board of Governors and the Executive Committee of the
National  Association  of Real Estate  Investment  Trusts,  Inc.  (NAREIT) and a
director of GF Acquisition Corp. and Union BanCal Corporation.

     John Reyes,  age 47, a certified public  accountant,  joined the Company in
1990 and was  Controller  of the Company from 1992 until  December  1996 when he
became Chief  Financial  Officer.  He became a Vice  President of the Company in
November 1995 and a Senior Vice President of the Company in December 1996.  From
1983 to 1990, Mr. Reyes was employed by Ernst & Young.

     John S.  Baumann,  age 47,  became  Senior Vice  President  and Chief Legal
Officer of the Company in June 2003.  From 1998 to 2002,  Mr. Baumann was Senior
Vice  President  and General  Counsel of Syncor  International  Corporation,  an
international  high technology health care services company.  From 1995 to 1998,
he was Associate General Counsel of KPMG LLP, an international  accounting,  tax
and consulting firm.

     John  E.  Graul,  age 56,  became  Senior  Vice  President  and  President,
Self-Storage  Operations,  in February 2004, with overall responsibility for the
Company's national  operations.  From 1982 until joining the Company,  Mr. Graul
was employed by  McDonald's  Corporation  where he served in various  management
positions,  most recently as Vice President and General Manager - Pacific Sierra
Region.

     David F. Doll,  age 49, became Senior Vice  President and  President,  Real
Estate Group,  in February 2005, with  responsibility  for Company's real estate
activities,  including property acquisitions,  developments, and repackagings as
well as facilities maintenance.  Before joining the Company, Mr. Doll was Senior
Executive  Vice  President of  Development  for Westfield  Corporation,  a major
international  owner and operator of shopping malls, where he was employed since
1995.

     Candace N. Krol, age 46, became Senior Vice President of Human Resources in
September  2005.  From 1985 until joining the Company,  Ms. Krol was employed by




Parsons  Corporation,  a global  engineering and  construction  firm,  where she
served in various management positions, most recently as Vice President of Human
Resources for the Infrastructure and Technology global business unit.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
         ----------------------

     The information  required by this item is hereby  incorporated by reference
to the material  appearing in the Proxy Statement under the captions  "Corporate
Governance,"  "Executive  Compensation,"  "Compensation Committee Interlocks and
Insider Participation," and "Report of the Compensation Committee."







ITEM 12.  SECURITY  OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN  BENEFICIAL  OWNERS AND  MANAGEMENT AND
          ----------------------------------------------------------------------
          RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS
          ---------------------------

     The information  required by this item is hereby  incorporated by reference
to the material  appearing  in the Proxy  Statement  under the  captions  "Stock
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management."

     The following  table sets forth  information as of December 31, 2007 on the
Company's equity compensation plans:


(a)  The Company's  stock option and stock  incentive  plans are described  more
     fully in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements.  All plans other
     than the 2000 and 2001  Non-Executive/Non-Director  Plans, were approved by
     the Company's shareholders.

(b)  Includes 608,768  restricted share units that, if and when vested,  will be
     settled in common shares of the Company on a one for one basis.

(c)  The  outstanding  options granted under plans not approved by the Company's
     shareholders   were   granted   under   the   Company's   2000   and   2001
     Non-Executive/Non-Director  Plan, which does not allow participation by the
     Company's  executive  officers and trustees.  The principal  terms of these
     plans are as follows:  (1)  2,500,000  common  shares were  authorized  for
     grant, (2) this plan is administered by the Equity Awards Committee, except
     that grants in excess of 100,000 shares to any one person requires approval
     by the Executive Equity Awards  Committee,  (3) options are granted at fair
     market value on the date of grant, (4) options have a ten year term and (5)
     options vest over three years in equal installments, or as indicated by the
     applicable grant agreement.


ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND TRUSTEE INDEPENDENCE
         -----------------------------------------------------------------------


     The information  required by this item is hereby  incorporated by reference
to the material  appearing in the Proxy Statement under the captions  "Corporate
Governance"  and  "Certain  Relationships  and  Related  Transactions  and Legal
Proceedings."


ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES
         --------------------------------------

     The  information  required by this item with  respect to fees and  services
provided  by the  Company's  independent  auditors  is  hereby  incorporated  by
reference to the material  appearing  in the Proxy  Statement  under the caption
"Ratification of  Auditors--Fees  Billed to the Company by Ernst & Young LLP for
2007 and 2006".






                                     PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
         ------------------------------------------

a.    1.   Financial Statements

                  The financial statements listed in the accompanying Index to
                  Financial Statements and Schedules hereof are filed as part of
                  this report.

      2.   Financial Statement Schedules

                  The financial statements schedules listed in the accompanying
                  Index to Financial Statements and Schedules are filed as part
                  of this report.

      3.   Exhibits

                  See Index to Exhibits contained herein.

b.    Exhibits:

      See Index to Exhibits contained herein.

c.    Financial Statement Schedules

      Not applicable.





                                 PUBLIC STORAGE

                              INDEX TO EXHIBITS (1)

                           (Items 15(a)(3) and 15(c))


3.1      Articles of Amendment and Restatement of Declaration of Trust of Public
         Storage,  a  Maryland  real  estate  Anvestment  trust.  Filed with the
         Registrant's  Current  Report  on  Form  8-K  dated  June 6,  2007  and
         incorporated by reference herein.

3.2      Bylaws of Public  Storage,  a Maryland  real estate  investment  trust.
         Filed with the  Registrant's  Current  Beport on Form 8-K dated June 6,
         2007 and incorporated by reference herein.

3.3      Articles  Supplementary  for Public Storage  Equity  Shares,  Series A.
         Filed with the  Registrant's  Current  Aeport on Form 8-K dated June 6,
         2007 and incorporated by reference herein.

3.4      Articles  Supplementary  for Public Storage Equity Shares,  Series AAA.
         Filed with the  Registrant's  Current  Aeport on Form 8-K dated June 6,
         2007 and incorporated by reference herein.

3.5      Articles  Supplementary for Public Storage 7.500% Cumulative  Preferred
         Shares,  Series V. Filed with the  Aegistrant's  Current Report on Form
         8-K dated June 6, 2007 and incorporated by reference herein.

3.6      Articles  Supplementary for Public Storage 6.500% Cumulative  Preferred
         Shares,  Series W. Filed with the  Aegistrant's  Current Report on Form
         8-K dated June 6, 2007 and incorporated by reference herein.

3.7      Articles  Supplementary for Public Storage 6.450% Cumulative  Preferred
         Shares,  Series X. Filed with the  Aegistrant's  Current Report on Form
         8-K dated June 6, 2007 and incorporated by reference herein.

3.8      Articles  Supplementary for Public Storage 6.850% Cumulative  Preferred
         Shares,  Series Y. Filed with the  Aegistrant's  Current Report on Form
         8-K dated June 6, 2007 and incorporated by reference herein.

3.9      Articles  Supplementary for Public Storage 6.250% Cumulative  Preferred
         Shares,  Series Z. Filed with the  Aegistrant's  Current Report on Form
         8-K dated June 6, 2007 and incorporated by reference herein.

3.10     Articles  Supplementary for Public Storage 6.125% Cumulative  Preferred
         Shares,  Series A. Filed with the  Aegistrant's  Current Report on Form
         8-K dated June 6, 2007 and incorporated by reference herein.

3.11     Articles  Supplementary for Public Storage 7.125% Cumulative  Preferred
         Shares,  Series B. Filed with the  Aegistrant's  Current Report on Form
         8-K dated June 6, 2007 and incorporated by reference herein.

3.12     Articles  Supplementary for Public Storage 6.600% Cumulative  Preferred
         Shares,  Series C. Filed with the  Aegistrant's  Current Report on Form
         8-K dated June 6, 2007 and incorporated by reference herein.

3.13     Articles  Supplementary for Public Storage 6.180% Cumulative  Preferred
         Shares,  Series D. Filed with the  Aegistrant's  Current Report on Form
         8-K dated June 6, 2007 and incorporated by reference herein.

3.14     Articles  Supplementary for Public Storage 6.750% Cumulative  Preferred
         Shares,  Series E. Filed with the  Aegistrant's  Current Report on Form
         8-K dated June 6, 2007 and incorporated by reference herein.

3.15     Articles  Supplementary for Public Storage 6.450% Cumulative  Preferred
         Shares,  Series F. Filed with the  Aegistrant's  Current Report on Form
         8-K dated June 6, 2007 and incorporated by reference herein.

3.16     Articles  Supplementary for Public Storage 7.000% Cumulative  Preferred
         Shares,  Series G. Filed with the  Aegistrant's  Current Report on Form
         8-K dated June 6, 2007 and incorporated by reference herein.





3.17     Articles  Supplementary for Public Storage 6.950% Cumulative  Preferred
         Shares,  Series H. Filed with the  Aegistrant's  Current Report on Form
         8-K dated June 6, 2007 and incorporated by reference herein.

3.18     Articles  Supplementary for Public Storage 7.250% Cumulative  Preferred
         Shares,  Series I. Filed with the  Aegistrant's  Current Report on Form
         8-K dated June 6, 2007 and incorporated by reference herein.

3.19     Articles  Supplementary for Public Storage 7.250% Cumulative  Preferred
         Shares,  Series K. Filed with the  Aegistrant's  Current Report on Form
         8-K dated June 6, 2007 and incorporated by reference herein.

3.20     Articles  Supplementary for Public Storage 6.750% Cumulative  Preferred
         Shares,  Series L. Filed with the  Aegistrant's  Current Report on Form
         8-K dated June 6, 2007 and incorporated by reference herein.

3.21     Articles  Supplementary for Public Storage 6.625% Cumulative  Preferred
         Shares,  Series M. Filed with the  Aegistrant's  Current Report on Form
         8-K dated June 6, 2007 and incorporated by reference herein.

3.22     Articles  Supplementary for Public Storage 7.000% Cumulative  Preferred
         Shares,  Series N. Filed with the  Aegistrant's  Current Report on Form
         8-K dated June 28, 2007 and incorporated by reference herein.

4.1      Master  Deposit  Agreement,  dated as of May 31,  2007.  Filed with the
         Registrant's  Current  Report  on  Form  8-K  dated  June 6,  2007  and
         incorporated by reference herein.

10.1     Amended  Management  Agreement  between  Registrant  and Public Storage
         Commercial  Properties Group, Inc. dated as of February 21, 1995. Filed
         with Public  Storage  Inc.'s ("PSI") Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
         year ended December 31, 1994 (SEC File No.  001-0839) and  incorporated
         herein by reference.

10.2     Second  Amended  and  Restated   Management   Agreement  by  and  among
         Registrant  and the entities  listed  therein  dated as of November 16,
         1995. Filed with PS Partners, Ltd.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
         year ended December 31, 1996 (SEC File No.  001-11186) and incorporated
         herein by reference.

10.3     Limited Partnership Agreement of PSAF Development Partners,  L.P. Filed
         with PSI's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended
         March 31,  1997  (SEC File No.  001-0839)  and  incorporated  herein by
         reference.

10.4     Agreement of Limited  Partnership of PS Business Parks, L.P. Filed with
         PS  Business  Parks,  Inc.'s  Quarterly  Report  on Form  10-Q  for the
         quarterly  period  ended  June 30,  1998 (SEC File No.  001-10709)  and
         incorporated herein by reference.

10.5     Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited  Partnership of Storage Trust
         Properties, L.P. (March 12, 1999). Filed with PSI's Quarterly Report on
         Form 10-Q for the  quarterly  period  ended June 30, 1999 (SEC File No.
         001-0839) and incorporated herein by reference.

10.6     Limited Partnership Agreement of PSAC Development Partners,  L.P. Filed
         with PSI's Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 15, 1999 (SEC File
         No. 001-0839) and incorporated herein by reference.

10.7     Agreement  of  Limited  Liability  Company of PSAC  Storage  Investors,
         L.L.C.  Filed with PSI's Current  Report on Form 8-K dated November 15,
         1999 (SEC File No. 001-0839) and incorporated herein by reference.

10.8     Amended  and  Restated   Agreement  of  Limited   Partnership   of  PSA
         Institutional  Partners,  L.P.  Filed with PSI's Annual  Report on Form
         10-K for the year ended  December 31, 1999 (SEC File No.  001-0839) and
         incorporated herein by reference.




10.9     Amendment to Amended and Restated  Agreement of Limited  Partnership of
         PSA Institutional  Partners,  L.P. Filed with PSI's Quarterly Report on
         Form 10-Q for the  quarterly  period  ended June 30, 2000 (SEC File No.
         001-0839) and incorporated herein by reference.

10.10    Second   Amendment  to  Amended  and  Restated   Agreement  of  Limited
         Partnership  of PSA  Institutional  Partners,  L.P.  Filed  with  PSI's
         Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31,
         2004 (SEC File No. 001-0839) and incorporated herein by reference.

10.11    Third   Amendment  to  Amended  and   Restated   Agreement  of  Limited
         Partnership  of PSA  Institutional  Partners,  L.P.  Filed  with  PSI's
         Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September
         30, 2004 (SEC File No. 001-0839) and incorporated herein by reference.

10.12    Limited Partnership Agreement of PSAF Acquisition Partners,  L.P. Filed
         with PSI's Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31,
         2003 (SEC File No. 001-0839) and incorporated herein by reference.

10.13    Credit Agreement by and among  Registrant,  Wells Fargo Bank,  National
         Association  and  Wachovia  Bank,   National   Association  as  co-lead
         arrangers,  and the other financial  institutions party thereto,  dated
         March 27, 2007. Filed with PSI's Current Report on Form 8-K on April 2,
         2007 (SEC File No. 001-0839) and incorporated herein by reference.

10.14    Senior  Credit  Agreement  dated May 26, 2003,  as amended by Amendment
         Agreements dated July 11, 2003 and December 2, 2003, by and among First
         Shurgard Sprl, First Shurgard Finance Sarl, First Shurgard  Deutschland
         GmbH, Societe Generale and others. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
         10.1 filed with the Current  Report on Form 8-K dated February 21, 2005
         filed by Shurgard  Storage  Centers,  Inc.  ("Shurgard")  (SEC File No.
         001-11455).

10.15    Amendment and Waiver  Agreement  dated  February 21, 2005 to the Senior
         Credit Agreement dated May 26, 2003, as amended as of December 2, 2003,
         by and among First Shurgard Sprl,  First Shurgard  Finance Sarl,  First
         Shurgard Deutschland GmbH, Societe Generale and others. Incorporated by
         reference  to Exhibit  10.2 filed with the  Current  Report on Form 8-K
         dated February 21, 2005 filed by Shurgard (SEC File No. 001-11455).

10.16    Credit Facility  Agreement dated July 12, 2004, between Second Shurgard
         SPRL,  Second  Shurgard  Finance  SARL,  the Royal Bank of  Scotland as
         Mandated  Lead  Arranger,  the Royal Bank of  Scotland  PLC as Facility
         Agent. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.43 filed with the Report
         on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2004 filed by Shurgard (SEC
         File No. 001-11455).

10.17*   Employment Agreement between Registrant and B. Wayne Hughes dated as of
         November 16, 1995.  Filed with PSI's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
         year ended December 31, 1995 (SEC File No.  001-0839) and  incorporated
         herein by reference.

10.18*   Shurgard  Storage Centers,  Inc. 1995 Long Term Incentive  Compensation
         Plan.  Incorporated  by  reference  to Appendix B of  Definitive  Proxy
         Statement   dated  June  8,  1995  filed  by  Shurgard  (SEC  File  No.
         001-11455).

10.19*   Shurgard   Storage  Centers,   Inc.  2000  Long-Term   Incentive  Plan.
         Incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit  10.27 to Annual  Report on Form
         10-K for the year ended  December 31, 2000 filed by Shurgard  (SEC File
         No. 001-11455).

10.20*   Shurgard  Storage Centers,  Inc. 2004 Long Term Incentive  Compensation
         Plan.  Incorporated  by  reference  to Appendix A of  Definitive  Proxy
         Statement   dated  June  7,  2004  filed  by  Shurgard  (SEC  File  No.
         001-11455).

10.21*   Public Storage,  Inc. 1996 Stock Option and Incentive Plan.  Filed with
         PSI's Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31, 2000
         (SEC File No. 001-0839) and incorporated herein by reference.




10.22*   Public Storage, Inc. 2000  Non-Executive/Non-Director  Stock Option and
         Incentive  Plan.  Filed with PSI's  Registration  Statement on Form S-8
         (SEC File No. 333-52400) and incorporated herein by reference.

10.23*   Public Storage, Inc. 2001  Non-Executive/Non-Director  Stock Option and
         Incentive  Plan.  Filed with PSI's  Registration  Statement on Form S-8
         (SEC File No. 333-59218) and incorporated herein by reference.

10.24*   Public  Storage,  Inc.  2001 Stock  Option and  Incentive  Plan  ("2001
         Plan").  Filed with PSI's Registration  Statement on Form S-8 (SEC File
         No. 333-59218) and incorporated herein by reference.

10.25*   Form of 2001 Plan  Non-qualified  Stock  Option  Agreement.  Filed with
         PSI's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the  quarterly  period  ended
         September 30, 2004 (SEC File No. 001-0839) and  incorporated  herein by
         reference.

10.26*   Form of 2001 Plan  Restricted  Share Unit  Agreement.  Filed with PSI's
         Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September
         30, 2004 (SEC File No. 001-0839) and incorporated herein by reference.

10.27*   Form  of  2001  Plan   Non-Qualified   Outside  Director  Stock  Option
         Agreement.  Filed  with  PSI's  Quarterly  Report  on Form 10-Q for the
         quarterly  period ended September 30, 2004 (SEC File No.  001-0839) and
         incorporated herein by reference.

10.28*   Public Storage,  Inc.  Performance Based  Compensation Plan for Covered
         Employees.  Filed with PSI's  Current  Report on Form 8-K dated May 11,
         2005 (SEC File No. 001-0839) and incorporated herein by reference.

10.29*   Public Storage 2007 Equity and Performance-Based Incentive Compensation
         Plan.  Filed as Exhibit 4.1 to Registrant's  Registration  Statement on
         Form  S-8  (SEC  File  No.  333-144907)  and  incorporated   herein  by
         reference.

10.30*   Form  of  2007  Plan  Restricted  Stock  Unit  Agreement.   Filed  with
         Registrant's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June
         30, 2007 and incorporated herein by reference.

10.31*   Form of 2007 Plan Stock Option Agreement. Filed with Registrant's
         Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and
         incorporated herein by reference.

10.32    Form of Stock Purchase  Agreement.  Filed with  Registrant's  Quarterly
         Report  on  Form  10-Q  for  the  quarter   ended  June  30,  2007  and
         incorporated herein by reference.

10.33*   Form of Indemnity Agreement. Filed with Registrant's Amendment No. 1 to
         Registration  Statement  on Form S-4  (SEC  File  No.  333-141448)  and
         incorporated herein by reference.

11       Statement Re:  Computation of Earnings per Share.  Filed herewith.

12       Statement  Re:  Computation  of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed  Charges and
         Preferred Stock Dividends. Filed herewith.

14       Code of Ethics for Senior Financial  Officers.  Filed with Registrant's
         Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the year ended  December  31,  2004 and
         incorporated herein by reference.

21       Subsidiaries of the Registrant. Filed herewith.

23       Consent of Independent Registered Accounting Firm. Filed herewith.

31.1     Certification  pursuant  to Section  302 of the  Sarbanes-Oxley  Act of
         2002. Filed herewith.

31.2     Certification  pursuant  to Section  302 of the  Sarbanes-Oxley  Act of
         2002. Filed herewith.




32       Certification  pursuant  to Section  906 of the  Sarbanes-Oxley  Act of
         2002. Filed herewith.

* Compensatory benefit plan or arrangement or management contract.

(1) SEC File No. 001-33519 unless otherwise indicated.







                                   SIGNATURES
                                   ----------

     Pursuant  to the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,  the Registrant has duly caused this report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                       PUBLIC STORAGE

Date:  February 29, 2008               By:   /s/ Ronald L. Havner, Jr.
                                             -------------------------
                                             Ronald L. Havner, Jr.,
                                             Vice-Chairman of the Board,
                                             Chief Executive Officer and
                                             President

     Pursuant  to the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.






                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  AND SCHEDULES

                                  (Item 15 (a))



All other  schedules  have been omitted  since the required  information  is not
present or not  present  in amounts  sufficient  to  require  submission  of the
schedule,  or because the information  required is included in the  consolidated
financial statements or notes thereto.






             REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
             -------------------------------------------------------





The Board of Trustees and Shareholders
Public Storage


We have audited the accompanying  consolidated  balance sheets of Public Storage
as of December 31, 2007 and 2006,  and the related  consolidated  statements  of
income,  shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2007. Our audits also included the financial statement
schedule  listed in the Index at Item  15(a).  These  financial  statements  and
financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management.
Our  responsibility  is to express an opinion on these financial  statements and
financial statement schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance  with the standards of the Public  Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and  perform  the  audit  to  obtain  reasonable  assurance  about  whether  the
consolidated  financial statements are free of material  misstatement.  An audit
includes  examining,  on a test  basis,  evidence  supporting  the  amounts  and
disclosures in the financial  statements.  An audit also includes  assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well
as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated  financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects,  the consolidated financial position of Public
Storage at December  31, 2007 and 2006,  and the  consolidated  results of their
operations  and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December  31,  2007,  in  conformity  with U.S.  generally  accepted  accounting
principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when
considered  in  relation  to the basic  financial  statements  taken as a whole,
presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.

We also have  audited,  in accordance  with the standards of the Public  Company
Accounting   Oversight  Board  (United  States),  the  effectiveness  of  Public
Storage's  internal  control over  financial  reporting as of December 31, 2007,
based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by
the Committee of Sponsoring  Organizations  of the Treadway  Commission  and our
report dated February 28, 2008 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.





                                                           /s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Los Angeles, California
February 28, 2008


                                      F-1




                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                           December 31, 2007 and 2006
                    (Amounts in thousands, except share data)



                            See accompanying notes.
                                      F-2





                            See accompanying notes.
                                      F-3



                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
        For each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007
           (Amounts in thousands, except share and per share amounts)




                            See accompanying notes.
                                      F-4



                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
        For each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007
                             (Amounts in thousands)


                            See accompanying notes.
                                      F-5


                                   (Continued)



                            See accompanying notes.
                                      F-6




                            See accompanying notes.
                                      F-7




                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2007


1.       Description of the Business
         ---------------------------

              Public  Storage,  Inc.,  formerly a  California  corporation,  was
     organized  in 1980.  Effective  June 1,  2007,  following  approval  by our
     shareholders,  we reorganized  Public Storage,  Inc. into Public Storage, a
     Maryland real estate investment trust (referred to herein as "the Company",
     "the  Trust",   "we",  "us",  or  "our").   We  are  a  fully   integrated,
     self-administered  and self-managed  real estate  investment trust ("REIT")
     whose principal business  activities include the acquisition,  development,
     ownership  and  operation of  self-storage  facilities  which offer storage
     spaces for lease,  generally on a  month-to-month  basis,  for personal and
     business  use. Our  self-storage  facilities  are located  primarily in the
     United States  ("U.S.").  As a result of the merger with  Shurgard  Storage
     Centers,  Inc.  ("Shurgard"  and the merger  referred  to as the  "Shurgard
     Merger") on August 22, 2006, we also have self-storage  facilities  located
     in seven Western European  countries (Note 3). Our European  operations are
     conducted through Shurgard  Self-Storage SCA, a Belgian company  ("Shurgard
     Europe").

              In addition to our self-storage  facilities,  we own (i) interests
     in commercial  properties  containing  commercial and industrial  space for
     rent, (ii) interests in facilities that lease storage containers, and (iii)
     other  ancillary  operations   conducted  at  our  self-storage   locations
     comprised  principally of  reinsurance of policies  against losses to goods
     stored  by our  self-storage  tenants,  retail  sales  of  storage  related
     products and truck rentals.

              At December 31, 2007, we had direct and indirect equity  interests
     in 2,012  self-storage  facilities located in 38 states operating under the
     "Public  Storage" name, and 174 self-storage  facilities  located in Europe
     which  operate  under the  "Shurgard  Storage  Centers"  name. We also have
     direct and  indirect  equity  interests  in  approximately  21 million  net
     rentable square feet of commercial space located in 11 states in the U.S.

              Any reference to the number of properties,  square footage, number
     of tenant  reinsurance  policies  outstanding and the aggregate coverage of
     such  reinsurance  policies  are  unaudited  and  outside  the scope of our
     independent  registered  public  accounting  firm's audit of our  financial
     statements  in  accordance   with  the  standards  of  the  Public  Company
     Accounting Oversight Board.

2.       Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
         ------------------------------------------

              Basis of Presentation
              ---------------------

              The consolidated  financial statements are presented on an accrual
     basis in accordance  with U.S.  generally  accepted  accounting  principles
     ("GAAP")  and  include the  accounts  of the  Company and our  consolidated
     subsidiaries.   All  intercompany   balances  and  transactions  have  been
     eliminated in consolidation.

              Certain  amounts  previously  reported have been  reclassified  to
     conform to the December 31, 2007 presentation.  In previous  presentations,
     certain cash  balances  held by our captive  insurance  entities  which are
     restricted  as to their use were included in cash and cash  equivalents  in
     the Company's  consolidated  balance sheets.  These restricted balances are
     reclassified  as  "restricted  cash" (see also  "Restricted  cash"  below).
     Certain  reclassifications  have also been made from previous presentations
     as a result of discontinued operations (see also "Discontinued  operations"
     below).

              Consolidation Policy
              --------------------

              Entities  in which we have an  interest  are  first  evaluated  to
     determine  whether,  in  accordance  with the  provisions  of the Financial
     Accounting  Standards  Board's  Interpretation  No. 46R,  "Consolidation of
     Variable  Interest  Entities," they represent  Variable  Interest  Entities
     ("VIE's").  VIE's in which we are the primary beneficiary are consolidated.
     Entities that are not VIE's that we control are consolidated.

                                      F-8


                                PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2007

              For  purposes  of  determining  control,  when we are the  general
     partner,  we are considered to control the  partnership  unless the limited
     partners  possess  substantial  "kick-out"  or  "participative"  rights  as
     defined in Emerging Issues Task Force Statement 04-5 - "Determining whether
     a general  partner or the general  partners as a group,  controls a limited
     partnership  or similar  entity  when the  limited  partners  have  certain
     rights" ("EITF 04-5").

              The accounts of the entities we control along with the accounts of
     the  VIE's  that we are the  primary  beneficiary  of are  included  in our
     consolidated  financial  statements  along  with those of the  Company.  We
     account for our investment in entities that we do not control,  or entities
     for  which  we are not the  primary  beneficiary  and  over  which  we have
     significant  influence,  using the equity method of accounting.  Changes in
     consolidation status are reflected effective the date the change of control
     or determination  of primary  beneficiary  status occurred,  and previously
     reported periods are not restated.  The entities that we consolidate during
     the periods, to which the reference applies, are referred to hereinafter as
     the  "Consolidated  Entities." The entities that we have an interest in but
     do not consolidate during the periods, to which the reference applies,  are
     referred to  hereinafter as the  "Unconsolidated  Entities." We account for
     the Unconsolidated Entities under the equity method of accounting.

              Collectively,   at  December  31,   2007,   the  Company  and  the
     Consolidated  Entities  own  a  total  of  2,166  real  estate  facilities,
     consisting of 1,984  self-storage  facilities in the U.S., 174 self-storage
     facilities in Europe, three industrial facilities used by our containerized
     storage operations and five commercial properties.

              At December 31, 2007, the Unconsolidated Entities are comprised of
     various limited and joint venture partnerships and PS Business Parks, Inc.
     ("PSB"). These entities own in aggregate 28 self-storage facilities and, in
     the case of PSB, approximately 19.6 million net rentable square feet of
     commercial space at December 31, 2007.

              Deconsolidation of Certain Entities
              -----------------------------------

              On May 24, 2007, a judgment  was  rendered  which  resulted in the
     loss of our effective  control over several limited  partnerships  and as a
     result, we discontinued  consolidating  these entities and began to account
     for our ownership in these limited  partnerships using the equity method of
     accounting, effective the date of the judgment. Notwithstanding our loss of
     control,  we continue to retain all of our previous financial  interests in
     these partnerships.

              Use of Estimates
              ----------------

              The  preparation  of  the  consolidated  financial  statements  in
     conformity with GAAP requires  management to make estimates and assumptions
     that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated  financial  statements
     and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

              Income Taxes
              ------------

              For  all  taxable  years  subsequent  to  1980,  the  Company  has
     qualified  and  intends to  continue  to  qualify as a REIT,  as defined in
     Section  856 of the  Internal  Revenue  Code.  As a REIT,  we do not  incur
     federal or  significant  state tax on that  portion of our  taxable  income
     which is  distributed  to our  shareholders,  provided that we meet certain
     tests. We believe we have met these tests during 2007,  2006, and 2005 and,
     accordingly,   no  provision   for  income  taxes  has  been  made  in  the
     accompanying  consolidated  financial  statements  on income  produced  and
     distributed on real estate rental operations. Our taxable REIT subsidiaries
     are subject to regular corporate tax on their income.

                                      F-9


                                PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2007

              Financial Instruments
              ---------------------

              We have  estimated  the fair  value of our  financial  instruments
     using available market information and appropriate valuation methodologies.
     Considerable  judgment is required in  interpreting  market data to develop
     estimates  of market  value.  Accordingly,  estimated  fair  values are not
     necessarily  indicative  of the  amounts  that could be realized in current
     market exchanges.

              For purposes of financial statement presentation,  we consider all
     highly liquid financial  instruments such as short-term treasury securities
     or investment grade short-term commercial paper to be cash equivalents.

              Due  to  the  short  period  to  maturity  of our  cash  and  cash
     equivalents,  accounts receivable,  other financial instruments included in
     other assets,  and accrued and other  liabilities,  the carrying  values as
     presented on the  consolidated  balance sheets are reasonable  estimates of
     fair value.

              Financial assets that are exposed to credit risk consist primarily
     of cash  and  cash  equivalents  and  accounts  receivable.  Cash  and cash
     equivalents,  consisting of short-term  investments,  including  commercial
     paper,  are only  invested in entities  with an  investment  grade  rating.
     Accounts  receivable are not a significant  portion of total assets and are
     comprised of a large number of small individual customer balances. See Note
     7 for an estimate of the fair values of our notes payable.

              We have operations in Europe and  accordingly,  our operations and
     financial  position are  affected by  fluctuations  in the  exchange  rates
     between  the  Euro,  and to a lesser  extent,  other  European  currencies,
     against the U.S. dollar.

              Other  assets at December 31, 2007  include  derivative  financial
     instruments totaling $5,015,000 ($11,810,000 at December 31, 2006) reported
     at  estimated  fair value.  See Note 9 for further  discussion  of the fair
     value of our derivative financial instruments.

              Restricted Cash
              ---------------

              Restricted  cash at  December  31,  2007 and  December  31,  2006,
     consists  of cash held by our  captive  insurance  entities  which,  due to
     insurance  and other  regulations  with  respect to required  reserves  and
     minimum capital requirements, can only be utilized to pay captive claims.

              Real Estate Facilities
              ----------------------

              Real estate facilities are recorded at cost. Costs associated with
     the acquisition, development,  construction, renovation, and improvement of
     properties  are  capitalized.  Interest,  property  taxes,  and other costs
     associated with  development  incurred during the  construction  period are
     capitalized as building cost. Costs associated with the sale of real estate
     facilities  or  interests  in  real  estate  investments  are  expensed  as
     incurred.  The purchase cost of existing  self-storage  facilities  that we

                                      F-10

                                PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2007

     acquire are allocated based upon relative fair value of the land,  building
     and tenant intangible components of the real estate facility.  Expenditures
     for repairs and maintenance are expensed when incurred and included in cost
     of operations.  Depreciation  expense is computed  using the  straight-line
     method over the estimated  useful lives of the buildings and  improvements,
     which are generally between 5 and 25 years.

              Evaluation of Asset Impairment
              ------------------------------

              We evaluate  impairment  of goodwill  annually  through a two-step
     process.  In the first  step,  if the fair value of the  reporting  unit to
     which the goodwill  applies is equal to or greater than the carrying amount
     of the assets of the reporting unit,  including the goodwill,  the goodwill
     is considered  unimpaired and the second step is unnecessary.  If, however,
     the fair value of the reporting  unit  including  goodwill is less than the
     carrying amount, the second step is performed. In this test, we compute the
     implied fair value of the goodwill based upon the allocations that would be
     made to the goodwill, other assets and liabilities of the reporting unit if
     a business  combination  transaction  were consummated at the fair value of
     the reporting  unit. An impairment  loss is recorded to the extent that the
     implied  fair value of the  goodwill is less than the  goodwill's  carrying
     amount.  No  impairments  of our  goodwill  were  identified  in our annual
     evaluation at December 31, 2007.

              We evaluate  impairment of long-lived assets on a quarterly basis.
     We first evaluate  these assets for  indicators of impairment  such as a) a
     significant  decrease  in the  market  price of a  long-lived  asset,  b) a
     significant  adverse  change in the extent or manner in which a  long-lived
     asset is being used or in its physical condition,  c) a significant adverse
     change in legal factors or the business climate that could affect the value
     of the long-lived  asset,  d) an  accumulation  of costs  significantly  in
     excess  of  the  amount   originally   projected  for  the  acquisition  or
     construction of the long-lived  asset, or e) a current-period  operating or
     cash flow loss  combined with a history of operating or cash flow losses or
     a projection or forecast that  demonstrates  continuing  losses  associated
     with  the  use of  the  long-lived  asset.  When  any  such  indicators  of
     impairment are noted,  we compare the carrying value of these assets to the
     future estimated  undiscounted cash flows  attributable to these assets. If
     the  asset's  recoverable  amount  is less than the  carrying  value of the
     asset, then an impairment charge is booked for the excess of carrying value
     over the asset's fair value.

              Any long-lived assets which we expect to sell or otherwise dispose
     of prior to their  previously  estimated  useful life are stated at what we
     estimate to be the lower of their estimated net realizable value (less cost
     to sell) or their carrying  value.  No impairment  was identified  from our
     evaluations as of December 31, 2007.

              Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
              ---------------------------------------

              We  utilize  the Fair  Value  Method  (as  defined  in Note 13) of
     accounting for our employee stock options. Restricted share unit expense is
     recorded  over the  relevant  service  period.  See Note 13 for  additional
     information  on our  accounting  for employee  share options and restricted
     share units.

              Other Assets
              ------------

              Other assets primarily  consists of prepaid expenses,  investments
     in held-to-maturity debt securities, accounts receivable, assets associated
     with our  containerized  storage business,  merchandise  inventory held for
     sale and  fleet of rental  trucks.  We  recorded  a gain on  dispostion  of
     containerized  storage  assets of $1,143,000 in the year ended December 31,
     2005.

              Accrued and Other Liabilities
              -----------------------------

              Accrued and other  liabilities  consist primarily of real property
     tax  accruals,  value-added  tax  accruals  with  respect  to our  European
     operations,  tenant  prepayments of rent,  trade payables,  losses and loss
     adjustment  liabilities for our self-insured  risks (described  below), and
     accrued interest.  Tenant prepaid rent totaled  $67,063,000 at December 31,
     2007 ($64,291,000 at December 31, 2006), while property and value-added tax
     accruals  approximated  $82,647,000  at December 31, 2007  ($80,336,000  at
     December 31, 2006).

              We are self-insured for a portion of the risks associated with our
     property and casualty  losses,  workers  compensation,  and employee health
     care.  We also  utilize  third-party  insurance  carriers to limit our self
     insurance  exposure.  We accrue  liabilities for uninsured  losses and loss
     adjustment  expense,   which  at  December  31,  2007  totaled  $26,643,000
     ($31,532,000  at  December  31,  2006).  Liabilities  for  losses  and loss

                                      F-11


                                PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2007

     adjustment  expenses  include an amount we determine  from loss reports and
     individual  cases  and  an  amount,   based  on  recommendations   from  an
     independent  actuary that is a member of the American  Academy of Actuaries
     using  a  frequency  and  severity  method,  for  losses  incurred  but not
     reported.  Determining  the liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment
     expense is based upon estimates.

              Through a wholly-owned  subsidiary,  we reinsure  policies against
     claims  for  losses  to  goods  stored  by  tenants  in  our   self-storage
     facilities. For our U.S. operations, we have third-party insurance coverage
     for losses from any individual event that exceeds a loss of $1,500,000,  to
     a maximum  of  $9,000,000.  Estimated  uninsured  losses  are  accrued  and
     expensed as ancillary costs of operations.

              While we believe that the amount of estimated accrued  liabilities
     with respect to tenant claims,  property,  casualty,  workers compensation,
     and employee healthcare are adequate, the ultimate losses that are actually
     paid may be  different  than what we have  accrued.  The methods for making
     such estimates and for establishing the resulting liabilities are regularly
     reviewed.

              Goodwill
              --------

              Goodwill  represents the excess of acquisition  cost over the fair
     value of net  tangible  and  identifiable  intangible  assets  acquired  in
     business  combinations.  Each business  combination from which our goodwill
     arose was for the  acquisition of single  businesses and  accordingly,  the
     allocation of our goodwill to our business segments  (principally  Domestic
     Self-Storage) is based directly on such  acquisitions.  Our goodwill has an
     indeterminate  life in  accordance  with the  provisions  of  Statement  of
     Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 142 ("SFAS 142"). Our goodwill balance
     of $174,634,000 is reported net of accumulated  amortization of $85,085,000
     as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 in our accompanying  consolidated  balance
     sheets.

              Other Intangible Assets
              -----------------------

              As  a  result  of  the  Shurgard  Merger  (Note  3),  we  acquired
     finite-lived  intangible assets comprised  primarily of tenant  intangibles
     representing  the value of the  tenants  in place at the date of the merger
     valued at $565,341,000  and the "Shurgard" trade name, which we continue to
     use in Europe,  valued at $18,824,000.  During 2007, intangible assets were
     increased  by  approximately  $8,803,000  due to the  impact of  changes in
     foreign currency  exchange rates and the acquisition of tenant  intangibles
     in connection with the acquisition of additional  self-storage  facilities.
     In May 2007,  our intangible  assets  decreased by $1,816,000 in connection
     with the deconsolidation of our investment in certain limited  partnerships
     as noted above.

              The  tenant  intangible  assets  are  amortized  relative  to  the
     expected benefit of the tenants in place to each period and relative to the
     benefit  of  the  below-market  leases.  The  Shurgard  trade  name  has an
     indefinite life and, accordingly, we do not amortize this asset but instead
     analyze it on an annual basis for impairment.

              Amortization expense of $247,844,000 and $175,944,000 was recorded
     for our  finite-lived  intangible  assets for the years ended  December 31,
     2007 and 2006, respectively.  The estimated annual amortization expense for
     our finite-lived intangible assets is as follows:

      2008                                              $    74,387,000
      2009                                                   24,539,000
      2010                                                   15,100,000
      2011                                                   11,780,000
      2012                                                    7,572,000
      2013 and beyond                                        21,543,000


              Our finite-lived intangible assets are reported net of accumulated

                                      F-12


                                PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2007

     amortization of $423,788,000  as of December 31, 2007  ($175,944,000  as of
     December 31, 2006).

              Revenue and Expense Recognition
              -------------------------------

              Rental   income,   which   is   generally   earned   pursuant   to
     month-to-month   leases  for  storage  space,   is  recognized  as  earned.
     Promotional  discounts are  recognized as a reduction to rental income over
     the  promotional  period,  which is  generally  during  the first  month of
     occupancy.  Late charges and  administrative  fees are recognized as income
     when  collected.  Tenant  reinsurance  premiums are  recognized  as premium
     revenue when earned.  Revenues from merchandise sales and truck rentals are
     recognized when earned.  Interest income is recognized as earned. Equity in
     earnings  of real  estate  entities is  recognized  based on our  ownership
     interest in the earnings of each of the Unconsolidated Entities.

              We accrue  for  property  tax  expense  based upon  estimates  and
     historical trends. If these estimates are incorrect,  the timing and amount
     of expense recognition could be affected.  Cost of operations,  general and
     administrative  expense,  interest expense,  as well as television,  yellow
     page, and other advertising expenditures are expensed as incurred.

              During the second  quarter of 2007,  a share  offering of Shurgard
     Europe, our European operations,  was initiated to be listed on Eurolist of
     EuronextTM  Brussels.  Due to adverse market conditions,  this offering was
     withdrawn on June 21, 2007.  There is no estimate as to when or if a future
     offering may occur.  We incurred  $9.6  million in expenses  related to the
     proposed offering of shares which is included in general and administrative
     expense for the year ended December 31, 2007.

              Foreign Exchange Translation
              ----------------------------

              The local  currency is the  functional  currency  for our European
     subsidiaries. Assets and liabilities (other than for intercompany balances,
     which are discussed below) are translated at  end-of-period  exchange rates
     while revenues and expenses are translated at the average exchange rates in
     effect  during the  period.  The Euro was  translated  at an  end-of-period
     exchange rate of  approximately  1.472 in U.S. dollars per Euro at December
     31, 2007 (1.319 at December 31,  2006).  Equity is translated at historical
     rates and the resulting cumulative translation  adjustments,  to the extent
     not  included in net income,  are  included as a component  of  accumulated
     other  comprehensive  income (loss) until the  translation  adjustments are
     realized.   Included  in  other  accumulated  comprehensive  income  was  a
     cumulative foreign currency  translation  adjustment gain of $50,065,000 at
     December 31, 2007 ($19,329,000 at December 31, 2006).

              Intercompany  loans  among  our  European   subsidiaries  and  our
     domestic subsidiaries totaled $555,879,000 and $521,072,000 at December 31,
     2007 and 2006, respectively, and are eliminated in consolidation. When such
     loans,  which are  denominated  in Euros,  are  expected  to be settled and
     remitted to our domestic  subsidiaries  in the form of U.S.  Dollars in the
     near term (generally,  within one to two years),  as is the case with these
     loans,  we recognize  foreign  exchange rate gains or losses as a result of
     changes in exchange  rates between the Euro and the U.S.  Dollar during the
     period.  During 2007 and 2006,  these  loans  increased  due to  recognized
     foreign currency gains totaling $57,593,000 and $336,000, respectively, and
     during 2007 these loans declined $22,786,000 due to repayments.

              Other Comprehensive Income
              --------------------------

              Total comprehensive  income reflects our net income,  adjusted for
     any portion of currency  translation  adjustments  related to our  European
     subsidiaries which are not already reflected into current net income. Other
     comprehensive  income aggregated  $30,736,000 and $19,329,000 for the years
     ended  December 31, 2007 and 2006,  respectively,  which is reflected as an
     addition to shareholders' equity.

                                      F-13


                                PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2007

              Our total comprehensive income is as follows:


              Accounting for Casualty Losses
              ------------------------------

              Our policy is to record casualty losses or gains in the period the
     casualty  occurs  equal to the  differential  between (a) the book value of
     assets  destroyed  and (b)  insurance  proceeds,  if any, that we expect to
     receive in accordance  with our insurance  contracts.  Potential  insurance
     proceeds  that are  subject to  uncertainties,  such as  interpretation  of
     deductible  provisions  of the governing  agreements  or the  estimation of
     costs of restoration, are treated as contingent proceeds in accordance with
     Statement  of  Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 5 ("SFAS 5"),  and not
     recorded until the uncertainties are satisfied.  During 2007, we recorded a
     casualty gain totaling  $2,665,000,  representing  the  realization of such
     contingent proceeds relating to hurricanes which occurred in 2005.

              Derivative Financial Instruments
              --------------------------------

              We have certain derivative  financial  instruments held by our two
     joint  venture  partnerships  in  Europe,  including  interest  rate  caps,
     interest  rate swaps,  cross-currency  swaps and foreign  currency  forward
     contracts.  These  derivatives  were  entered  into  by the  joint  venture
     partnerships  in order to mitigate  currency and exchange rate  fluctuation
     risk in connection with borrowings,  and are not for speculative or trading
     purposes.

              In  accordance  with the  provisions  of  Statement  of  Financial
     Accounting   Standards  No.  133,   Accounting  for  Derivative   Financial
     Instruments  and Hedging  Activities  ("SFAS  133"),  derivative  financial
     instruments  are measured at fair value and recognized on the balance sheet
     as assets or liabilities.

              For all periods presented, none of the derivatives were considered
     effective hedges because at the time of the Shurgard Merger, we believed it
     was not highly likely that the debt and the related derivative  instruments
     would remain outstanding for their entire contractual period.  Accordingly,
     all  changes  in the  fair  values  of the  derivatives  are  reflected  in
     earnings,  along with the related cash flows from these instruments,  under
     "Income from derivatives, net" on our consolidated statements of income.

              Environmental Costs
              -------------------

              Our policy is to accrue  environmental  assessments  and estimated
     remediation  costs when it is probable  that such  efforts will be required
     and the related costs can be reasonably estimated.  Our current practice is
     to  conduct  environmental   investigations  in  connection  with  property
     acquisitions.  Although there can be no assurance,  we are not aware of any
     environmental contamination of our facilities, which individually or in the
     aggregate would be material to our overall business,  financial  condition,
     or results of operations.

                                      F-14


                                PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2007

              Discontinued Operations
              -----------------------

              We segregate all of our disposed  components  that have operations
     that  can be  distinguished  from  the  rest  of the  Company  and  will be
     eliminated  from  the  ongoing  operations  of the  Company  in a  disposal
     transaction. Discontinued operations principally consists of the historical
     operations  related  to  facilities  that were  closed and are no longer in
     operation  and  facilities  that  have  been  disposed  of  either  through
     condemnation  by a local  governmental  agency or sale. The following table
     summarizes the historical operations with respect to these facilities:

                                          For the Year Ended December 31,
                                        --------------------------------------
                                           2007          2006          2005
                                        -----------  -----------   -----------
                                               (Amounts in thousands)

Rental income.....................      $   1,599     $  1,332      $  1,679
Cost of operations................         (4,221)      (2,341)         (787)
Depreciation expense..............           (484)        (650)         (332)
Asset impairment charges..........           (918)        (996)            -
Lease termination costs...........           (304)           -             -
Net gain on dispositions..........          4,336        2,370         6,323
                                        -----------  -----------   -----------
Total discontinued operations.....      $       8    $    (285)      $ 6,883
                                        ===========  ===========   ===========

              Net Income per Common Share
              ---------------------------

              In computing net income allocated to our common  shareholders,  we
     first  allocate  net income to our  preferred  shareholders  ($236,757,000,
     $214,218,000  and  $173,017,000 for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006
     and 2005,  respectively)  to arrive at net income  allocable  to our common
     shareholders.

              In addition,  when we call any of our Cumulative  Preferred Shares
     for  redemption,  we  record  an  additional  allocation  of  income to our
     preferred  shareholders  equal to the  excess  of a) the cash  required  to
     redeem the securities  over b) the net proceeds from the original  issuance
     of the securities.  Such allocations  totaled $31,493,000 and $7,538,000 in
     2006 and 2005, respectively, (none in 2007).

              The  remaining  net income is allocated  among our regular  common
     shares and our Equity  Shares,  Series A using the  two-class  method which
     allocates  income based upon the dividends  declared (or  accumulated)  for
     each  security  in the  period,  combined  with each  security's  rights to
     earnings (or losses) that were not distributed to shareholders.  Under this
     method,  the  Equity  Shares,  Series  A,  were  allocated  net  income  of
     $21,424,000,  $21,424,000  and $21,443,000 for the years ended December 31,
     2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Net income of $199,354,000,  $46,891,000
     and  $254,395,000  for the years ended  December 31,  2007,  2006 and 2005,
     respectively, was allocated to the regular common shareholders.

              Basic net income per share is computed using the weighted  average
     common shares  outstanding  (prior to the dilutive  impact of stock options
     and  restricted  share  units  outstanding).  Diluted net income per common
     share is computed  using the weighted  average  common  shares  outstanding
     (adjusted  for the impact,  if dilutive,  of stock  options and  restricted
     share units  outstanding).  Weighted  average common shares excludes shares
     owned by the Consolidated  Entities as described in Note 10 for all periods
     presented, as these common shares are eliminated in consolidation.

                                      F-15


                                PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2007

3.       Shurgard Merger
         ---------------

              On August 22, 2006, the Company merged with Shurgard, a REIT which
     had  interests  in  487  self-storage   facilities  in  the  U.S.  and  160
     self-storage facilities in Europe.

              Shurgard  shareholders received 0.82 of our common shares for each
     share of Shurgard  common  stock they owned.  Total  consideration  for the
     merger  approximated  $5,323,956,000,  comprised  of (i)  the  issuance  of
     38,913,187  common  shares  of  Public  Storage  (valued  at  approximately
     $3,116,850,000  based upon the average of Public  Storage's  share  closing
     price for five days before,  the day of and five days after the acquisition
     announcement  date of March 7, 2006),  (ii) the  assumption  of  Shurgard's
     domestic and European notes payable and capital leases with a fair value of
     approximately  $1,396,777,000 of which $67,275,000 was repaid following the
     merger,  (iii)  the  assumption  of  Shurgard's  line  of  credit  totaling
     $603,772,000,  which was repaid following the merger,  (iv) the issuance of
     vested common stock options in exchange for Shurgard stock options, with an
     estimated   intrinsic   value  of   approximately   $69,296,000,   and  (v)
     $137,261,000  in cash,  comprised  of  $137,916,000  to  redeem  Shurgard's
     outstanding preferred stock at liquidation value, approximately $47,524,000
     in direct costs of the merger, less $48,179,000 in cash held by Shurgard at
     the date of the merger.

              We have allocated this aggregate purchase price to the tangible
     and intangible net assets, as follows (amounts in thousands):

      Operating real estate facilities                         $   4,887,507
      Construction in process                                         91,000
      Intangible assets (Note 2)                                     584,165
      Other assets                                                    95,899
      Accrued and other liabilities                                 (190,419)
      Minority interest                                             (144,196)
                                                               --------------
        Total allocated Purchase Price to net assets acquired  $   5,323,956
                                                               ==============

              As described  more fully in Note 2,  intangible  assets consist of
     the  estimated  value of the  existing  tenants in place at the date of the
     merger, the estimated value of the land leases acquired,  and the estimated
     value of the "Shurgard Storage Centers" trade name, which we are continuing
     to use in Europe.

              The  results  of  operations  of the  facilities  acquired  in the
     Shurgard Merger have been included in our consolidated financial statements
     since the merger  date of August 22,  2006.  The  unaudited  pro forma data
     presented below assumes that the merger occurred as of the beginning of the
     respective  periods,  and  includes pro forma  adjustments  to (i) increase
     depreciation  expense to reflect our book basis for the buildings acquired,
     (ii)  increase  amortization  expense  to  reflect  the  intangible  assets
     acquired in the merger,  (iii) decrease interest income and increase income
     allocated to preferred  shareholders to reflect the financing of the merger
     with cash on hand and the proceeds from preferred  stock, and (iv) decrease
     the  historical  general and  administrative  expense of  Shurgard  that is
     expected to be  eliminated  as a result of the merger.  The  unaudited  pro
     forma results have been prepared for  comparative  purposes only and do not
     purport  to be  indicative  of the  results of  operations  that would have
     occurred had the merger been  consummated  at the  beginning of the periods
     presented.


                                      F-16


                                PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2007

                                         For the Year ended
                                            December 31,
                                          2006          2005
                                     -------------- --------------
                                     (Amounts in thousands,
                                     except per share data)
                                           (Unaudited)

Revenues..........................    $  1,704,757   $ 1,539,087
Net income........................    $    200,321   $   103,958
Loss per common share:
  Basic...........................    $      (0.40)  $     (0.80)
  Diluted.........................    $      (0.40)  $     (0.80)

4.       Real Estate Facilities
         ----------------------

              Activity in real estate facilities during 2007, 2006 and 2005 is
as follows:


                                      F-17


                                PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2007

              During  2007,  we  completed  three  development  and 14 expansion
     projects in the U.S.  which in aggregate  added  approximately  670,000 net
     rentable square feet of  self-storage  space at a total cost of $66,676,000
     (960,000 net rentable  square feet at a total cost of  $115,046,000 in 2006
     and 1,472,000 net rentable  square feet at a total cost of  $86,888,000  in
     2005). Also in 2007, we completed nine development projects in Europe which
     in  aggregate  added  approximately  479,000  net  rentable  square feet of
     self-storage  space at a total cost of  $90,075,000  (306,000  net rentable
     square  feet at a total  cost of  $46,085,000  in 2006).  During  2007,  we
     acquired seven self-storage  facilities  (511,000 net rentable square feet)
     in the U.S. from third  parties for an aggregate  cost of  $72,787,000,  in
     cash;  $71,258,000  was allocated to real estate  facilities and $1,529,000
     was allocated to intangibles, based upon the estimated relative fair values
     of the land, buildings and intangibles.

              Excluding self-storage  facilities acquired in the Shurgard Merger
     (see Note 3), during 2006, we acquired 12 self-storage  facilities (877,000
     net  rentable  square  feet) from third  parties  at an  aggregate  cost of
     $103,544,000,  consisting of $98,954,000 in cash and assumed  mortgage debt
     totaling   $4,590,000.   In  2005,   we  acquired  from  third  parties  32
     self-storage   facilities  (2,390,000  net  rentable  square  feet)  at  an
     aggregate cost of $254,549,000 in cash.

              Construction   in  process  at  December  31,  2007  includes  the
     development  costs  relating  to 29  projects  in the U.S.  (1,218,000  net
     rentable  square  feet),   consisting  of  newly   developed   self-storage
     facilities,  conversion of space at facilities that was previously used for
     containerized storage and expansions to existing  self-storage  facilities,
     with costs incurred of $28,374,000 at December 31, 2007 and total estimated
     costs to complete  of  $98,763,000  (unaudited).  In  addition,  we have 14
     projects  to  develop  new  self-storage   facilities  in  Europe  (737,000
     aggregate net rentable  square feet),  with costs  incurred at December 31,
     2007 of $31,950,000  and total  estimated  costs to complete of $91,931,000
     (unaudited).

              From time to time,  our  facilities  are  subject to  condemnation
     proceeds,  resulting in disposal of a portion or, in some cases, the entire
     facility.  In  addition,  we dispose  of unused  parcels of land in certain
     cases.  When an entire real estate facility is disposed of (one facility in
     2007,  two  facilities  in 2006 and one  facility in 2005),  the  operating
     results  of  these  disposed  facilities,  including  the  gain on sale are
     classified in  discontinued  operations on our  consolidated  statements of
     income for all periods presented.  During 2007, 2006, and 2005, we received
     net  proceeds  from  such  disposal   transactions   totaling   $8,708,000,
     $14,545,000,  and  $14,755,000,   respectively.  Aggregate  gains  on  sale
     included  on  our  accompanying  consolidated  statements  of  income  were
     $5,690,000,   $4,547,000,   and   $8,279,000  in  2007,   2006,  and  2005,
     respectively, of which $4,336,000, $2,370,000, and $6,323,000 in such gains
     were included in discontinued operations.

              In 2005, we recorded  casualty losses of $1,917,000 as a result of
     damage to our  facilities  from  hurricanes.  These  casualty  losses  were
     comprised of the book value of assets damaged of $5,987,000  less insurance
     proceeds of approximately  $4,070,000.  One of these facilities  damaged by
     the aforementioned  hurricanes was abandoned in 2006, because it was deemed
     economically  impractical  to rebuild.  Because the book value is no longer
     recoverable, we recorded an impairment charge of $996,000 in the year ended
     December 31, 2006,  representing  the remaining book value of the facility.
     This  impairment  charge,  along  with the  historical  operations  of this
     facility, is included in discontinued operations.

              We  capitalize  interest  incurred  on debt  during  the course of
     construction of our self-storage  facilities.  Interest capitalized for the
     years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $4,746,000, $2,716,000 and
     $2,820,000, respectively.

              At December 31, 2007, the adjusted basis of real estate facilities
     for federal tax purposes was approximately $9.4 billion (unaudited).

                                      F-18


                                PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2007

5.       Investments in Real Estate Entities
         -----------------------------------

              Interests  in entities for periods that they are either VIE's that
     we are not the primary beneficiary of, or other non-VIE entities that we do
     not have a controlling  financial  interest in, are accounted for using the
     equity method of accounting.

              During 2007,  2006,  and 2005,  we  recognized  earnings  from our
     investments  in real  estate  entities  of  $12,738,000,  $11,895,000,  and
     $24,883,000,   respectively,   and  received  cash  distributions  totaling
     $23,606,000,  $17,699,000,  and  $23,112,000,  respectively.  In  addition,
     during 2005, we received a distribution from affiliated entities of 635,885
     of our common  shares and 31,909  depositary  shares of our Equity  Shares,
     Series A, with an aggregate book value of $14,520,000.

              In  May  2007,  we  discontinued   consolidating  certain  limited
     partnerships  and began to account for our  investments  in these  entities
     using the equity method (Note 2). As a result,  investments  in real estate
     entities increased by $23,079,000, representing the aggregate book value of
     our investment in these limited partnerships.

              In November  2007, we acquired the remaining  interests we did not
     own in  certain  limited  partnerships  owning  five  of  these  facilities
     (269,000 net rentable  square feet) for $1,200,000 in cash.  These entities
     were  previously  accounted  for using  the  equity  method of  accounting,
     however,  with the acquisition of the remaining  interests in these limited
     partnerships  we began  consolidating  the accounts of these entities which
     resulted in a decrease in investment in real estate entities of $7,373,000,
     and  adjustments  to the  following  balance  sheet  accounts  (amounts  in
     thousands):

                                                                 Total
                                                               ------------
   Real estate facilities, net.........................        $   14,604
   Intangible assets...................................             1,048
   Notes payable.......................................            (6,681)

              The following  table sets forth our investments in the real estate
     entities at December 31, 2007 and 2006,  and our equity in earnings of real
     estate  entities  for each of the  three  years  ended  December  31,  2007
     (amounts in thousands):


              Investment in PS Business Parks, Inc.
              -------------------------------------

              PS Business  Parks,  Inc. is a REIT traded on the  American  Stock
     Exchange, which controls an operating partnership  (collectively,  the REIT
     and the  operating  partnership  are  referred to as "PSB").  We have a 45%
     common equity  interest in PSB as of December 31, 2007.  This common equity
     interest is comprised of our ownership of 5,418,273  shares of PSB's common
     stock and 7,305,355 limited partnership units in the operating  partnership
     throughout  2007,  2006  and  2005.  The  limited   partnership  units  are
     convertible at our option, subject to certain conditions,  on a one-for-one
     basis into PSB common  stock.  Based upon the closing price at December 31,
     2007  ($52.55  per share of PSB common  stock),  the shares and units had a
     market value of approximately $668.6 million as compared to a book value of
     $273.7 million.

                                      F-19


                                PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2007

              At December 31, 2007,  PSB owned and operated  approximately  19.6
     million net rentable  square feet of  commercial  space.  In addition,  PSB
     manages commercial space owned by the Company and the Consolidated Entities
     pursuant to property management agreements.

              The following table sets forth selected  financial  information of
     PSB;  the amounts  represent  100% of PSB's  balances  and not our pro-rata
     share.




              Other Investments
              -----------------

              At December  31,  2007,  other  investments  include an  aggregate
     common equity ownership of  approximately  28% in a) 5 entities that own an
     aggregate of 22 self-storage  facilities that we held on a consistent basis
     for each of the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006,  respectively,  and
     b) entities owning six  self-storage  facilities,  which we  deconsolidated
     effective May 24, 2007, as described in Note 2.

              The  following  table  sets  forth  certain  condensed   financial
     information  (representing  100% of these  entities'  balances  and not our
     pro-rata share) with respect to these other investments:

                                           2007         2006           2005
                                        ------------ ------------  ------------
                                                 (Amounts in thousands)
 For the year ended December 31,
 Total revenue........................  $   21,601    $   18,707    $   16,563
 Cost of operations and other expenses      (8,933)       (7,395)       (6,390)
 Depreciation and amortization........      (3,883)       (3,235)       (2,039)
                                        ------------ ------------  ------------
     Net income.......................  $    8,785    $    8,077    $    8,134
                                        ============ ============  ============

                                               2007           2006
                                           ------------   ------------
                                              (Amounts in thousands)
 At December 31,
 Total assets (primarily storage
     facilities)......................     $    75,903    $   77,809
 Total debt...........................          12,409        12,735
 Other liabilities....................             774         1,395
 Total Partners' equity...............          62,720        63,679


                                      F-20


                                PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2007

6.       Bank Credit Facilities
         ----------------------

              On March 27, 2007,  we entered into a five-year  revolving  credit
     agreement (the "Credit  Agreement") with an aggregate limit with respect to
     borrowings  and  letters of credit of $300  million.  Amounts  drawn on the
     Credit  Agreement  bear an annual  interest  rate  ranging  from the London
     Interbank  Offered Rate ("LIBOR") plus 0.35% to LIBOR plus 1.00%  depending
     on our credit ratings (LIBOR plus 0.35% at December 31, 2007). In addition,
     we are  required to pay a  quarterly  facility  fee ranging  from 0.10% per
     annum to 0.25% per annum  depending on our credit  ratings (0.10% per annum
     at December  31,  2007).  We had no  outstanding  borrowings  on our Credit
     Agreement at December 31, 2007 or at February 28, 2008.

              The  Credit  Agreement  includes  various   covenants,   the  more
     significant  of which  require  us to (i)  maintain  a  leverage  ratio (as
     defined  therein) of less than 0.55 to 1.00,  (ii)  maintain  certain fixed
     charge and interest  coverage ratios (as defined  therein) of not less than
     1.5 to 1.0 and 1.75 to 1.0,  respectively,  and  (iii)  maintain  a minimum
     total shareholders' equity (as defined therein). We were in compliance with
     all covenants of the Credit Agreement at December 31, 2007.

              At December 31, 2007,  we had undrawn  standby  letters of credit,
     which reduce our borrowing capability with respect to our line of credit by
     the amount of the letters of credit,  totaling $20,408,000  ($21,068,000 at
     December 31, 2006).  The  beneficiaries  of these standby letters of credit
     were primarily  certain  insurance  companies  associated  with our captive
     insurance and tenant re-insurance activities.

              On December  27, 2006,  we entered  into a $300 million  unsecured
     short-term credit agreement (the "Bridge Loan") with a commercial bank that
     matured April 1, 2007.  At December 31, 2006,  our  outstanding  borrowings
     under this facility totaled $300 million.  On January 10, 2007,  borrowings
     under this facility were repaid in full and the Bridge Loan terminated.


                                      F-21


                                PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2007

7.       Notes Payable
         -------------

              The carrying  amount of our notes payable at December 31, 2007 and
     2006 consist of the following (dollar amounts in thousands):




                                      F-22



                                PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2007

              The 5.875%  and 5.73%  effective  rate  domestic  unsecured  notes
     payable were recorded at their estimated fair value upon  assumption  based
     upon  estimated  market rates for debt with similar terms and ratings.  The
     initial premium of  $15,692,000,  representing  the difference  between the
     stated note rate and fair value on August 23, 2006, is being amortized over
     the remaining term of the notes using the effective interest method.

              The domestic  unsecured  notes  payable  have various  restrictive
     covenants, the more significant of which require us to (i) maintain a ratio
     of debt to total  assets (as  defined  therein)  of less than 0.60 to 1.00,
     (ii) maintain a ratio of secured debt to total assets (as defined  therein)
     of less than 0.40 to 1.00, (iii) maintain a debt service coverage ratio (as
     defined therein) of greater than 1.50 to 1.00, and (iv) maintain a ratio of
     unencumbered  assets to unsecured debt (as defined therein) of greater than
     150%, all of which have been met at December 31, 2007.

              The 5.59%  average  effective  rate fixed rate  domestic  mortgage
     notes were recorded at their  estimated fair value based upon the estimated
     market  rate upon  assumption  of  approximately  5.59%,  an  aggregate  of
     approximately $184,592,000 as compared to the actual assumed balances of an
     aggregate of $179,827,000. This initial premium of $4,765,000, representing
     the  difference  between  the stated note rate and fair value on August 23,
     2006,  is being  amortized  over the remaining  term of the mortgage  notes
     using the effective interest method.  These mortgage notes require interest
     and  principal  payments to be paid  monthly and have  various  restrictive
     covenants, all of which we believe have been met at December 31, 2007.

              On January 2, 2007, we repaid the (euro)325 million collateralized
     European notes that were otherwise  payable in 2011. We also terminated the
     related European currency and interest rate hedges.

              First Shurgard and Second Shurgard,  joint venture partnerships in
     which we have a 20% interest,  (see Note 10) have senior credit  agreements
     denominated in Euros to borrow,  in aggregate,  up to  (euro)271.6  million
     ($399.8  million as of December 31,  2007).  As of December  31, 2007,  the
     available  amounts under those credit  facilities  were, in the  aggregate,
     (euro)12.5  million ($18.4 million).  These credit facilities were put into
     place to fund development costs of various self-storage projects. Our draws
     under the First  Shurgard  and Second  Shurgard  credit  facilities  can be
     limited if the  completion of projects is not timely and if we have certain
     cost overruns.  The credit facilities also require us to maintain a maximum
     loan to value of the collateral  ratio and a minimum debt service ratio. As
     of December 31, 2007, we were in compliance with these financial covenants.
     In February  2008, we requested a one year  extension on the First Shurgard
     credit  agreement  through  May 26,  2009.  Assuming  we have  met our loan
     covenants,  which we believe we have met,  the lender is  required to grant
     our request. Concurrent with the completion of the proposed transaction for
     a  prospective  investor  to acquire a 51%  ownership  interest in Shurgard
     Europe,  we will seek to obtain a waiver  from the  lenders  of the  Second
     Shurgard  credit  facility  for the change in control  acceleration  clause
     contained  in the  credit  facility.  See Note 19 for  further  information
     regarding the proposed transaction involving Shurgard Europe.

                                      F-23


                                PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2007

              At December  31, 2007,  approximate  principal  maturities  of our
     notes payable are as follows (amounts in thousands):


(a)  Approximately  $189.1 million in debt owed by First Shurgard was originally
     scheduled to mature in May 2008. However, in February 2008, under the terms
     of the related credit  agreement we have requested a one-year  extension of
     the loan until May 2009. Assuming we have met our loan covenants,  which we
     believe we have met,  the lender is  contractually  obligated  to grant our
     request.

              We incurred  interest  expense with respect to our notes  payable,
     capital  leases,   debt  to  joint  venture  partner  and  line  of  credit
     aggregating  $68,417,000,  $35,778,000  and $11,036,000 for the years ended
     December  31,  2007,  2006  and  2005,  respectively.  These  amounts  were
     comprised of $73,278,000, $38,887,000 and $12,062,000 in cash for the years
     December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, less $4,861,000, $3,109,000
     and $1,026,000 in  amortization of premium net of increase in Debt to Joint
     Venture Partner described in Note 8, respectively.

              The net book value of the properties under capital leases was
     $34,153,000 as of December 31, 2007, which is net of accumulated
     depreciation of $1,711,000.

8.       Debt to Joint Venture Partner
         -----------------------------

              On December 31, 2004, we sold seven self-storage  facilities to an
     unconsolidated  affiliated  joint venture for  $22,993,000.  On January 14,
     2005, we sold an 86.7% interest in three additional self-storage facilities
     to the joint venture for an aggregate amount of $27,424,000.  Our partner's
     combined  equity  contribution  with  respect  to  these  transactions  was
     $35,292,000.  Due to our  continuing  interest in these  facilities and the
     likelihood  that we will  exercise  our  option to  acquire  our  partner's
     interest,   we  have  accounted  for  our  partner's  investment  in  these
     facilities as, in substance,  debt  financing.  Accordingly,  our partner's
     investment with respect to these facilities is accounted for as a liability
     on our  accompanying  consolidated  balance sheets.  Our partner's share of
     operations  with  respect to these  facilities  has been  accounted  for as
     interest expense on our accompanying consolidated statements of income.

              The  outstanding  balances of $38,081,000  and $37,258,000 due the
     joint  venture  partner as of  December  31,  2007 and 2006,  respectively,
     approximate the fair value of our partner's interest in these facilities as
     of each respective  date. On a quarterly basis, we review the fair value of
     this liability,  and to the extent fair value exceeds the carrying value of
     the liability we will record  adjustments to increase the liability to fair
     value,  and to increase other assets,  with the other assets amortized over
     the  remaining  period term of the joint  venture.  We  increased  the note
     balance by $640,000  during 2007 and $1,386,000  during 2006 as a result of
     our periodic review of fair value.

              A total of  $3,183,000,  $3,066,000 and $2,939,000 was recorded as
     interest expense on our  consolidated  statements of income with respect to
     our Debt to Joint Venture Partner during the years ended December 31, 2007,

                                      F-24


                                PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2007

     2006 and 2005,  respectively,  representing our partner's pro rata share of
     net earnings  with  respect to the  properties  we sold to the  Acquisition
     Joint Venture (an 8.5% return on their  investment).  This interest expense
     was comprised of a total of $3,000,000,  $2,890,000 and $2,534,000  paid to
     our joint venture  partner (an 8.0% return payable  currently in accordance
     with the partnership  agreement)  during the years ended December 31, 2007,
     2006 and 2005,  respectively,  and  increases in the Debt to Joint  Venture
     Partner of $183,000, $176,000 and $405,000 for the years ended December 31,
     2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

              We expect that this debt will be repaid during 2008, assuming that
     we exercise our option to acquire our partner's interest in the Acquisition
     Joint Venture.

9.       Derivative Financial Instruments
         --------------------------------

              As described in Note 2, under Derivative Financial Instruments, we
     report derivative  financial  instruments at fair value on our consolidated
     balance  sheet and changes in fair values for the years ended  December 31,
     2007 and 2006, have been recognized in earnings. The respective balances of
     these  financial  instruments  are included in other assets and accrued and
     other liabilities as follows:



              For the year ended December 31, 2007, net income from  derivatives
     of $851,000  ($3,926,000 in 2006) was comprised of a change in value of the
     related instruments  resulting in a gain of $874,000  ($5,840,000 in 2006),
     offset by $23,000  ($1,914,000 in 2006) in net payments incurred during the
     period under the underlying instruments.

              On January 2,  2007,  in  connection  with our  prepayment  of the
     (euro)325  million  collateralized  notes at our  European  operations,  we
     terminated the related European currency and interest rate hedges.

10.      Minority Interest
         -----------------
              In  consolidation,  we  classify  ownership  interests  in the net
     assets  of each of the  Consolidated  Entities,  other  than  our  own,  as
     minority  interest  on  the  consolidated  financial  statements.  Minority
     interest  in  income  consists  of the  minority  interests'  share  of the
     operating results of the Consolidated Entities.

                                      F-25


                                PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2007

         PREFERRED PARTNERSHIP INTERESTS

              The following  table  summarizes the preferred  partnership  units
     outstanding at December 31, 2007 and 2006:


              Income  allocated  to the  preferred  minority  interests  totaled
     $21,612,000,  $19,055,000  and $16,147,000 for the years ended December 31,
     2007,  2006 and 2005,  respectively,  comprised of  distributions  paid. In
     2005, income allocated to the preferred minority interests was increased by
     $874,000 due to the  application  of Emerging  Issues Task Force Topic D-42
     ("EITF D42"),  "The Effect on the Calculation of Earnings per Share for the
     Redemption  or the  Induced  Conversion  of  Preferred  Stock."  EITF  D-42
     provides,  among  other  things,  that any  excess of the fair value of the
     consideration  transferred to the holders of preferred  stock redeemed over
     the carrying  amount of the preferred  stock should be subtracted  from net
     earnings to determine net earnings available to common  stockholders in the
     calculation of earnings per share.

              On May 9, 2006, one of the Consolidated  Entities issued 4,000,000
     units of our 7.25% Series J Preferred  Partnership  Units for cash proceeds
     of $100,000,000.

              Subject to certain  conditions,  the Series NN preferred units are
     convertible  into our  6.40%  Series  NN  Cumulative  Preferred  Shares  of
     beneficial interest,  the Series Z preferred units are convertible into our
     6.25% Series Z Cumulative  Preferred Shares of beneficial  interest and the
     Series J preferred units are convertible into our 7.25% Series J Cumulative
     Preferred  Shares of  beneficial  interest.  The  holders  of the  Series Z
     preferred  partnership units have a one-time option  exercisable five years
     from issuance  (October 12, 2009),  to require us to redeem their units for
     $25,000,000 in cash, plus any unpaid distribution.

         OTHER PARTNERSHIP INTERESTS

              Income is allocated to the minority interests based upon their pro
     rata interest in the operating  results of the Consolidated  Entities.  The
     following tables set forth the minority  interests at December 31, 2007 and
     2006 as well as the income  allocated to minority  interests  for the years
     ended  December  31,  2007 and 2006 with  respect to the other  partnership
     interests:


                                      F-26


                                PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2007

              Distributions  paid to  minority  interests  for the  years  ended
     December  31,  2007,  2006  and  2005  were  $20,047,000,  $16,300,000  and
     $18,177,000,  respectively.  Minority  interests  increased  $9,740,000 and
     $3,905,000 as a result of the impact of foreign currency translation in the
     years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

              European Joint Ventures
              -----------------------

              Through the Shurgard Merger,  we acquired an interest in two joint
     venture entities:  First Shurgard SPRL ("First Shurgard") formed in January
     2003 and Second Shurgard SPRL ("Second Shurgard") formed in May 2004. Those
     joint ventures were expected to develop or acquire up to  approximately  75
     storage facilities in Europe. Through a wholly-owned subsidiary,  we have a
     20%  interest  in each of these  ventures.  We have  determined  that First
     Shurgard  and Second  Shurgard  are each VIEs,  and that we are the primary
     beneficiary.  Accordingly,  First  Shurgard and Second  Shurgard  have been
     consolidated  in our  consolidated  financial  statements.  At December 31,
     2007,  First  Shurgard and Second  Shurgard had  aggregate  total assets of
     $581.4 million ($501.0 million at December 31, 2006),  total liabilities of
     $406.4 million ($320.9 million at December 31, 2006), and credit facilities
     collateralized  by  assets  with a net book  value of  $538.9  million.  At
     December 31, 2007, First Shurgard's and Second Shurgard's  creditors had no
     recourse to the general credit of Public  Storage or Shurgard  Europe other
     than certain loan  commitments.  At December 31, 2007, Public Storage could
     subscribe to up to (euro)7.5  million ($11.0 million) in preferred bonds in
     order for First Shurgard to fulfill its obligations under its senior credit
     agreement.  We have an  option  to put 80% of the  bonds  issued  by  First
     Shurgard to  Crescent  Euro Self  Storage  Investments,  Shurgard  Europe's
     partner in the joint venture.

              On September 5, 2006,  we informed the joint  venture  partners of
     First  Shurgard  and Second  Shurgard of our  intention  to purchase  their
     interests  in First  Shurgard  and Second  Shurgard,  pursuant  to an "exit
     procedure"  that we believe is provided for in the  respective  agreements.
     The exit procedure can, in certain  circumstances,  result in a third party
     acquiring the facilities owned by First and Second Shurgard,  including our
     interest in these facilities.  Our joint venture partners currently contest
     whether we have the right to purchase their interests under this procedure.
     On  January  17,  2007,  we  filed an  arbitration  action  related  to our
     intention to terminate  the joint  venture  early.  See Note 16 for further
     discussion of the arbitration proceedings.

              European Investors
              ------------------

              In the second  quarter of 2007,  one of our European  subsidiaries
     sold limited  liability  partner  interests  ("LLP  Interests")  it held in
     Shurgard Self-Storage SCA ("Shurgard Europe"),  also an indirect subsidiary
     of Public Storage, to various officers of the Company, other than our chief
     executive officer. The aggregate proceeds of the sale were $4,909,000.  The
     sale price for the LLP  Interests  was the net asset value per LLP Interest
     using,  among other items,  information  provided by an  independent  third
     party  appraisal firm of the net asset value of Shurgard Europe as of March
     31, 2007. The Company has a right, but not the obligation to repurchase the
     LLP Interests upon (1) upon a purchaser's  termination of employment or (2)
     for any reason,  on or after May 14, 2008. The  repurchase  price is set at
     the  lesser of (1) the then net asset  value per share or (2) the  original
     purchase price with a 10% compounded  annual return. In connection with the
     sale of these LLP Interests,  we recorded a gain of $1,193,000 during 2007,
     representing  the excess of the sales  proceeds  over the book value of the
     LLP Interests  sold.  The gain is reflected in gain on  disposition of real
     estate investments on our accompanying  consolidated  statements of income.
     The investment of these various officers is included in minority interest -
     other partnership interests on our accompanying  consolidated balance sheet
     at December  31, 2007 and their pro rata share of the  earnings of Shurgard
     Europe are  reflected  in minority  interest in income - other  partnership
     interests on our  accompanying  consolidated  statements  of income for the
     year ended December 31, 2007.

                                      F-27


                                PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2007

              Convertible Partnership Units
              -----------------------------

              At December 31, 2007 and, 2006, one of the  Consolidated  Entities
     had  approximately  231,978  convertible  partnership  units  ("Convertible
     Units")  outstanding  representing  a limited  partnership  interest in the
     entity.  The  Convertible  Units are  convertible  on a  one-for-one  basis
     (subject to certain  limitations)  into common shares of the Company at the
     option of the  unit-holder.  Minority  interest in income  with  respect to
     Convertible Units reflects the Convertible  Units' share of our net income,
     with net income  allocated to minority  interests  with respect to weighted
     average outstanding  Convertible Units on a per unit basis equal to diluted
     earnings per common share.

              Other Consolidated Partnerships
              -------------------------------

              At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the other consolidated partnerships
     reflect  common  equity  interests  that  we do  not  own  in  33  entities
     (generally partnerships) that own in aggregate 177 self-storage facilities.
     The related  partnership  agreements have termination  dates that cannot be
     unilaterally  extended  by  the  Company  and,  upon  termination  of  each
     partnership,  the net assets of these entities would be liquidated and paid
     to the  minority  interests  and the  Company  based  upon  their  relative
     ownership interests.

              In  May  2007  we  discontinued  consolidating  certain  of  these
     partnerships  due to our losing  effective  control  of them.  As a result,
     minority  interest  in income  with  respect to these  partnerships  ceased
     effective May 2007, and $682,000 in minority interest was eliminated.

              In connection with the Shurgard Merger we obtained  partial equity
     interests in certain joint ventures. Following the Shurgard Merger, in 2006
     we acquired the minority interests in certain of these joint ventures,  for
     an aggregate of  approximately  $62,300,000  in cash.  As a result of these
     transactions,  we  obtained  the  remaining  interest  in  a  total  of  68
     self-storage  facilities.  This  acquisition was recorded as a reduction in
     minority interest  totaling  $12,177,000,  with the remainder  allocated to
     real estate ($50,123,000).

              Impact of SFAS No. 150
              ----------------------

              In May 2003,  the FASB issued  Statement of  Financial  Accounting
     Standards  No. 150 - "Accounting  for Certain  Financial  Instruments  with
     Characteristics  of both  Liabilities  and Equity"  ("SFAS No. 150").  This
     statement  prescribes  reporting  standards for financial  instruments that
     have   characteristics  of  both  liabilities  and  equity.  This  standard
     generally indicates that certain financial instruments that give the issuer
     a choice of setting an obligation  with a variable  number of securities or
     settling  an  obligation  with  a  transfer  of  assets,   any  mandatorily
     redeemable   security,   and  certain  put  options  and  forward  purchase
     contracts,  should be classified as a liability on the balance sheet.  With
     the exception of minority  interests,  described below, we implemented SFAS
     No. 150 on July 1, 2003,  and the adoption  had no impact on our  financial
     statements.

              The  provisions of SFAS No. 150 indicate  that the Other  Minority
     Interests  would  have  to  be  treated  as  a  liability,   because  these
     partnerships have termination dates that cannot be unilaterally extended by
     us and,  upon  termination,  the net  assets  of  these  entities  would be
     liquidated  and paid to the minority  interest  and us based upon  relative
     ownership  interests.  However,  on October 29,  2003,  the FASB decided to
     defer  indefinitely a portion of the  implementation of SFAS No. 150, which
     thereby  deferred our  requirement  to recognize  these  minority  interest
     liabilities.  We  estimate  that the fair  value of the  Other  Partnership
     Interests is approximately $532 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006.

                                      F-28


                                PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2007

11.      Shareholders' Equity
         --------------------

              Cumulative Preferred Shares
              ---------------------------

              At December  31,  2007 and 2006,  we had the  following  series of
     Cumulative Preferred Shares of beneficial interest outstanding:



              The  holders  of our  Cumulative  Preferred  Shares  have  general
     preference rights with respect to liquidation and quarterly  distributions.
     Holders of the preferred  shares,  except under certain  conditions  and as
     noted below, will not be entitled to vote on most matters.  In the event of
     a  cumulative  arrearage  equal to six  quarterly  dividends  or failure to
     maintain  a  Debt  Ratio  (as  defined)  of  50% or  less,  holders  of all
     outstanding  series of preferred  shares  (voting as a single class without
     regard to series)  will have the right to elect two  additional  members to
     serve on the  Company's  Board until events of default have been cured.  At
     December  31,  2007,  there were no dividends in arrears and the Debt Ratio
     was 8.4%.

              Upon  issuance of our  Cumulative  Preferred  Shares of beneficial
     interest,  we classify the  liquidation  value as  preferred  equity on our
     consolidated  balance sheet with any issuance costs recorded as a reduction
     to paid-in capital.  Upon redemption,  we apply EITF Topic D-42, allocating
     income to the preferred shareholders equal to the original issuance costs.

              On January 9, 2007, we issued 20,000 depositary shares,  with each
     depositary share  representing  1/1,000 of a share of our 6.625% Cumulative
     Preferred Shares,  Series M. The offering resulted in $500,000,000 of gross
     proceeds.

              On  July  2,  2007,  we  issued  6,900   depositary   shares  each
     representing 1/1,000 of our 7.000% Cumulative  Preferred Shares,  Series N,
     for gross proceeds of approximately $172,500,000.

              During 2006, we issued four series of Cumulative Preferred Shares:
     Series H - issued  January 19, 2006,  net proceeds  totaling  $101,492,000,
     Series I - issued May 3, 2006, net proceeds totaling $501,601,000, Series K
     - issued August 8, 2006, net proceeds totaling  $445,852,000 and Series L -

                                      F-29


                                PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2007

     issued October 20, 2006, net proceeds totaling  $223,623,000.  During 2005,
     we issued  four series of  Cumulative  Preferred  Stock:  Series D - issued
     February 28, 2005, net proceeds  totaling  $130,548,000,  Series E - issued
     April 27,  2005,  net  proceeds  totaling  $136,601,000,  Series F - issued
     August 23, 2005, net proceeds  totaling  $242,550,000 and Series G - issued
     December 12, 2005, aggregate net proceeds totaling $96,886,000.

              During  2006,  we  redeemed  our Series R and Series S  Cumulative
     Preferred Shares at par value plus accrued dividends.  In December 2006, we
     called  for  redemption  our  Series T and  Series U  Cumulative  Preferred
     Shares,  at par. The aggregated  redemption  value of $302,150,000 of these
     two series was classified as a liability at December 31, 2006 and repaid in
     the year ended  December  31, 2007.  During 2005,  we redeemed our Series F
     Cumulative  Preferred  Stock,  at par  value  plus  accrued  dividends.  In
     November 2005, we called for  redemption our Series Q Cumulative  Preferred
     Stock,  at par. The  redemption  value of  $172,500,000  of this series was
     classified as a liability at December 31, 2005 and repaid in the year ended
     December 31, 2006.

         EQUITY SHARES

              The Company is  authorized to issue  100,000,000  Equity Shares of
     beneficial   interest.   The  Articles  of  Amendment  and  Restatement  of
     Declaration of Trust provide that the Equity Shares may be issued from time
     to time in one or more series and give our Board broad authority to fix the
     dividend and distribution rights,  conversion and voting rights, redemption
     provisions and liquidation rights of each series of Equity Shares.

         EQUITY SHARES, SERIES A

              At December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had 8,744,193  depositary shares
     outstanding,  each  representing  1/1,000  of an  Equity  Share,  Series  A
     ("Equity  Shares  A").  The Equity  Shares A rank on parity with our common
     shares  and  junior to the  Cumulative  Preferred  Shares  with  respect to
     general preference rights and have a liquidation amount which cannot exceed
     $24.50 per share. Distributions with respect to each depositary share shall
     be the  lesser  of:  (i) five  times the per share  dividend  on our common
     shares or (ii) $2.45 per annum. We have no obligation to pay  distributions
     on  the  depositary   shares  if  no  distributions   are  paid  to  common
     shareholders.

              Except in order to  preserve  the  Company's  Federal  income  tax
     status as a REIT, we may not redeem the depositary shares  representing the
     Equity  Shares A before March 31, 2010. On or after March 31, 2010, we may,
     at our option, redeem the depositary shares at $24.50 per depositary share.
     If the Company  fails to preserve its Federal  income tax status as a REIT,
     each of the  depositary  shares  will be  convertible  at the option of the
     shareholder  into .956 common shares.  The depositary  shares are otherwise
     not convertible into common shares.  Holders of depositary shares vote as a
     single class with holders of our common shares on shareholder  matters, but
     the  depositary  shares  have the  equivalent  of  one-tenth  of a vote per
     depositary share.

         EQUITY SHARES, SERIES AAA

              In  November  1999,  we sold  $100,000,000  (4,289,544  shares) of
     Equity  Shares,  Series  AAA  ("Equity  Shares  AAA")  to the  Consolidated
     Development  Joint Venture.  On November 17, 2005,  upon the acquisition of
     Mr. Hughes' interest in PSAC, we owned 100% of the partnership  interest in
     the Consolidated  Development Joint Venture. For all periods presented, the
     Equity  Shares,   Series  AAA  and  related  dividends  are  eliminated  in
     consolidation.

         COMMON SHARES

              Common Shares
              -------------

              During 2007,  2006 and 2005,  activity  with respect to our common
     shares was as follows:

                                      F-30


                                PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2007



              During 2005, we received a distribution of 503,110 shares, and one
     of the Consolidated Entities received 132,775 shares, of our common shares
     previously held by the Unconsolidated Entities. The 503,110 shares that we
     received were retired.

              Our Board of Trustees has authorized  the repurchase  from time to
     time of up to  25,000,000  of our  common  shares on the open  market or in
     privately  negotiated  transactions.  Through  December 31,  2007,  we have
     repurchased a total of  22,201,720  of our Common  Shares  pursuant to this
     authorization.

              At December 31, 2007 and 2006,  we had  2,298,242 and 2,219,404 of
     common shares reserved in connection with our share-based  incentive plans,
     respectively,  (see Note 13) and 231,978 shares reserved for the conversion
     of Convertible Partnership Units, respectively.

              At December  31, 2007 and 2006,  certain  entities we  consolidate
     owned 1,146,207  common shares.  These shares continue to be legally issued
     and outstanding. In the consolidation process, these shares and the related
     balance sheet amounts have been eliminated.  In addition,  these shares are
     not included in the computation of weighted average shares outstanding.

              Dividends
              ---------

              The unaudited characterization of dividends for Federal income tax
     purposes is made based upon earnings and profits of the Company, as defined
     by the Internal  Revenue  Code.  For the tax year ended  December 31, 2007,
     distributions for the common shares,  Equity Shares,  Series A, and all the
     various series of preferred shares were classified as follows:


                                      F-31



                                PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2007

              A percentage of the ordinary income is "qualified dividend income"
     for each quarter of 2007 as follows:


              The following table summarizes dividends declared and paid for the
years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005:



                                      F-32



                                PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2007

12.      Related Party Transactions
         --------------------------

              Relationships and transactions with the Hughes Family
              -----------------------------------------------------

              Mr.  Hughes,  the Company's  Chairman of the Board of Trustees and
     his family  (collectively the "Hughes Family") have ownership interests in,
     and operate  approximately  48 self-storage  facilities in Canada under the
     name "Public  Storage" ("PS  Canada")  pursuant to a  royalty-free  license
     agreement with the Company.  We currently do not own any interests in these
     facilities nor do we own any  facilities in Canada.  The Hughes Family owns
     approximately 27% of our common shares outstanding at December 31, 2007. We
     have a right of first  refusal  to  acquire  the  stock  or  assets  of the
     corporation that manages the 48 self-storage  facilities in Canada,  if the
     Hughes Family or the corporation agrees to sell them.  However,  we have no
     interest in the operations of this corporation, we have no right to acquire
     this stock or assets unless the Hughes Family decides to sell, the right of
     first refusal does not apply to the self-storage facilities, and we receive
     no  benefit  from the  profits  and  increases  in  value  of the  Canadian
     self-storage facilities.

              Through  consolidated  entities,  we continue  to  reinsure  risks
     relating to loss of goods stored by tenants in the self-storage  facilities
     in  Canada.  During  the years  ended  December  31,  2007,  2006 and 2005,
     respectively, we received $906,000, $989,000 and $1,052,000,  respectively,
     in reinsurance premiums attributable to the Canadian facilities.  Since our
     right to provide  tenant  reinsurance  to the  Canadian  facilities  may be
     qualified, there is no assurance that these premiums will continue.

              The  Company  and Mr.  Hughes are  co-general  partners in certain
     consolidated  entities and affiliated  entities of the Company that are not
     consolidated,  and the Hughes  Family  owns 47.9% of the voting  stock of a
     private REIT that owns  limited  partnership  interests in five  affiliated
     partnerships,  in which the Company holds 46% of the voting and 100% of the
     nonvoting stock of the entity and substantially all the economic  interest.
     The Hughes  Family also owns  limited  partnership  interests in certain of
     these  partnerships and holds securities in PSB. The Company and the Hughes
     Family receive  distributions  from these  entities in accordance  with the
     terms of the partnership agreements or other organizational documents.

              Other Related Party Transactions
              --------------------------------

              Ronald L. Havner,  Jr. is our  Vice-Chairman  and Chief  Executive
     Officer, and he is Chairman of the Board of PSB.

              Dann V. Angeloff, a trustee of the Company, is the general partner
     of a limited  partnership  formed in June of 1973 that owns a  self-storage
     facility that is managed by us. We recorded management fees with respect to
     this facility amounting to $74,000, $68,000 and $45,000 for the years ended
     December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

              PSB  manages  certain  of the  commercial  facilities  that we own
     pursuant  to  management  agreements  for a  management  fee equal to 5% of
     revenues. We paid a total of $724,000,  $625,000 and $579,000 for the years
     ended December 31, 2007,  2006 and 2005,  respectively,  in management fees
     with respect to PSB's property management  services.  At December 31, 2007,
     included in other  liabilities are normal recurring  amounts owed to PSB of
     $717,000  ($871,000 at December 31, 2006),  for unpaid  management fees and
     certain other operating  expenses  related to the managed  facilities which
     are initially paid by PSB on our behalf and then reimbursed by us.

              During  2007,  PSB acquired  certain  commercial  facilities  that
     include self-storage space. We are managing this self-storage space for PSB
     for a management fee equal to 6% of revenues  generated by the self-storage
     space.  We  recorded  management  fees  with  respect  to these  facilities
     amounting to $47,000 for the year ended December 31, 2007 (none in 2006 and
     2005).

                                      F-33


                                PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2007

              Pursuant to a cost-sharing and administrative  services agreement,
     PSB  reimburses us for certain  administrative  services that we provide to
     them. PSB's share of these costs totaled approximately  $304,000,  $320,000
     and  $340,000  for the  years  ended  December  31,  2007,  2006 and  2005,
     respectively.

              We manage our wholly-owned  self-storage facilities as well as the
     facilities owned by the Consolidated  Entities and affiliated entities that
     are not  consolidated on a joint basis, in order to take advantage of scale
     and other efficiencies. As a result, significant components of self-storage
     operating  costs,  such as payroll costs,  advertising and promotion,  data
     processing,  and  insurance  expenses  are shared and  allocated  among the
     various  entities using  methodologies  meant to fairly allocate such costs
     based upon the related activities. The amount of such expenses allocated to
     Unconsolidated  Entities was approximately  $2.5 million,  $2.3 million and
     $4.1  million  for the  years  ended  December  31,  2007,  2006 and  2005,
     respectively.

              Stor-RE, a consolidated entity, and third party insurance carriers
     provided PS Canada,  the Company,  PSB, and other affiliates of the Company
     with  liability and casualty  insurance  coverage  until March 31, 2004. PS
     Canada owns a 2.2%  interest  and PSB owns a 4.0%  interest in Stor-RE.  PS
     Canada and PSB obtained their own liability and casualty insurance covering
     occurrences  after April 1, 2004.  For  occurrences  before  April 1, 2004,
     Stor-Re  continues to provide  liability  and casualty  insurance  coverage
     consistent with the relevant agreements.

              On May 14,  2007,  one of our European  subsidiaries  sold limited
     liability  partner  interests ("LLP Interests") it held in Shurgard Europe,
     also an indirect  subsidiary of Public Storage,  to various officers of the
     Company,  other than our chief executive officer. The aggregate proceeds of
     the sale were $4,909,000.  The sale price for the LLP Interests was the net
     asset value per LLP Interest using, among other items, information provided
     by an  independent  third  party  appraisal  firm of the net asset value of
     Shurgard Europe as of March 31, 2007. The Company has a right,  but not the
     obligation  to  repurchase   the  LLP  Interests  (1)  upon  a  purchaser's
     termination of employment or (2) for any reason,  on or after May 14, 2008.
     The  repurchase  price is set at the lesser of (1) the then net asset value
     per share or (2) the original  purchase price with a 10% compounded  annual
     return.  In connection with the sale of these LLP Interests,  we recorded a
     gain of  $1,193,000  during  2007,  representing  the  excess  of the sales
     proceeds  over  the  book  value  of the LLP  Interests  sold.  The gain is
     reflected  in  gain  on  disposition  of  real  estate  investments  on our
     accompanying  consolidated  statements of income.  The  investment of these
     various  officers  is included  in  minority  interest - other  partnership
     interests on our  accompanying  consolidated  balance sheet at December 31,
     2007 and  their pro rata  share of the  earnings  of  Shurgard  Europe  are
     reflected in minority interest in income - other  partnership  interests on
     our  accompanying  consolidated  statements  of income  for the year  ended
     December 31, 2007.

13.      Share-Based Compensation
         ------------------------

              Stock Options
              -------------

              We have various  stock option plans  (collectively  referred to as
     the "PS Plans").  Under the PS Plans, the Company has granted non-qualified
     options to certain  trustees,  officers  and key  employees to purchase the
     Company's  common  shares at a price equal to the fair market  value of the
     common shares at the date of grant.  Generally,  options under the PS Plans
     vest  over a  three-year  period  from  the  date of  grant  at the rate of
     one-third per year (options  granted after December 31, 2002 vest generally
     over a five-year period) and expire between eight years and ten years after
     the date they became  exercisable.  The PS Plans also provide for the grant
     of  restricted  shares (see below) to officers,  key  employees and service
     providers on terms determined by an authorized committee of our Board.

              We recognize  compensation  expense for  share-based  awards based
     upon their fair value on the date of grant  amortized  over the  applicable

                                      F-34


                                PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2007

     vesting period (the "Fair Value  Method"),  less an allowance for estimated
     future forfeited awards.

              Information  with respect to stock options  during 2007,  2006 and
     2005 is as follows:


(a)  On August 22, 2006, in connection  with the Shurgard  Merger,  we converted
     each  outstanding  Shurgard stock option into 0.82 options  exercisable for
     the Company's  common shares.  This conversion  resulted in the issuance of
     1,912,828 stock options.

(b)  The  aggregate  intrinsic  value of  shares  exercised  during  each  year,
     representing  the  differential  between the market  price and the exercise
     price  on the  respective  dates of  exercise,  amounted  to  approximately
     $11,326,000,  $10,791,000,  and $7,508,000 for the years ended December 31,
     2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively.

(c)  The options  outstanding  at December  31,  2007,  have  remaining  average
     contractual  lives of 6.9 years, and an aggregate  intrinsic  value,  based
     upon  the  December  31,  2007  closing  price  of our  common  shares,  of
     approximately $31,259,000.

(d)  Approximately  201,585,  263,205 and 372,570  options have exercise  prices
     less  than  $30  at  December  31,  2007,  2006,  and  2005,  respectively.
     Approximately  1,166,500,  894,000 and 624,000 options have exercise prices
     greater than $45 at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

(e)  The aggregate  intrinsic value of exercisable options at December 31, 2007,
     based upon the closing  price of our common  shares at December  31,  2007,
     amounted to approximately $26,385,000.  Options exercisable at December 31,
     2007 have a weighted  average  remaining  contractual life of approximately
     5.6 years.

              We recognize  compensation  expense for  share-based  awards based
     upon their fair value on the date of grant  amortized  over the  applicable
     service period (the "Fair Value  Method"),  less an allowance for estimated
     future forfeited awards.  The fair value of the stock options is determined
     utilizing the Black-Scholes  option pricing model. The Black-Scholes option
     pricing model utilizes several assumptions, including the estimated life of
     the stock options, the average risk-free rate, the expected dividend yield,
     and expected  volatility.  We establish these  assumptions  based generally
     upon  historical  trends.  We recorded  stock option expense of $1,347,000,
     $1,173,000, and $1,010,000, respectively, in 2007, 2006, and 2005.

              Outstanding  stock options are included on a one-for-one  basis in
     our diluted  weighted  average  shares,  less a reduction  for the treasury
     stock method applied to a) the average cumulative measured but unrecognized
     compensation  expense  during the period and b) the strike  price  proceeds
     expected from the employee upon exercise.

                                      F-35


                                PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2007

The following table sets forth financial disclosures with respect to the
accounting for stock options:


(a)  Expected life is based upon our  expectations  of stock option  recipients'
     expected exercise and termination patterns.

(b)  Expected  volatility  is based  upon the level of  volatility  historically
     experienced.

(c)  At December 31, 2007,  the total  compensation  cost related to  non-vested
     stock option  awards  amounts to  approximately  $4,575,000,  which will be
     recognized over the remaining vesting period.

         RESTRICTED SHARE UNITS

              Outstanding restricted share units vest over a five or eight-year
     period from the date of grant at the rate of one-fifth or one-eighth per
     year, respectively. The employee receives additional compensation equal to
     the per-share dividends received by common shareholders with respect to
     restricted share units outstanding. Such compensation is accounted for as
     dividends paid. Any dividends paid on units which are subsequently
     forfeited are expensed. Upon vesting, the employee receives common shares
     equal to the number of vested restricted share units in exchange for the
     units.

              The total value of each  restricted  share unit grant,  based upon
     the market  price of our common  shares at the date of grant,  is amortized
     over the service  period as  compensation  expense.  The  related  employer
     portion of payroll taxes is expensed as incurred.  Until  December 31, 2005
     (see  below),   forfeitures   were  recognized  as  experienced,   reducing
     compensation expense.

              Effective  January  1,  2006,  in  accordance  with  Statement  of
     Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 123 - revised ("SFAS 123R"),  we began
     recording compensation expense net of estimates for future forfeitures (the
     "Estimated  Forfeiture Method").  In addition,  we estimated the cumulative
     compensation  expense that would have been  recorded  through  December 31,
     2005, had we used the Estimated Forfeiture Method, would have been $578,000
     lower. Accordingly, as prescribed by SFAS 123R, we recorded this adjustment
     as  a  cumulative   effect  of  change  in  accounting   principal  on  our
     accompanying  consolidated  statement of income for the year ended December
     31, 2006.

              Outstanding  restricted  share units are included on a one-for-one
     basis in our diluted  weighted  average  shares,  less a reduction  for the
     treasury  stock  method  applied to the  average  cumulative  measured  but
     unrecognized  compensation  expense during the period.  For purposes of the
     disclosures  that follow,  "fair value" on any particular date reflects the
     closing market price of our common shares on that date.

              During the year ended December 31, 2007,  187,925 restricted share
     units were  granted  with an  aggregate  fair value on the date of grant of
     approximately  $18,860,000,  82,943  restricted  share units were forfeited
     (aggregate  grant-date  fair value of $6,831,000),  and 112,684  restricted
     share units vested (aggregate  grant-date fair value of $6,871,000) with an

                                      F-36


                                PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2007

     aggregate  fair value on the date of vesting of  $10,192,000.  This vesting
     resulted  in the  issuance  of 77,215  common  shares.  In  addition,  cash
     compensation  was paid to employees in lieu of 35,469  common  shares based
     upon the  market  value of the shares at the date of  vesting,  and used to
     settle the employees' tax liability generated by the vesting.

              During the year ended December 31, 2006,  419,170 restricted share
     units were  granted  with an  aggregate  fair value on the date of grant of
     approximately  $33,861,000,  31,370  restricted  share units were forfeited
     (aggregate  grant-date  fair value of  $1,924,000),  and 71,160  restricted
     share units vested (aggregate  grant-date fair value of $3,438,000) with an
     aggregate  fair value on the date of vesting of  $5,918,000.  This  vesting
     resulted  in the  issuance  of 47,159  common  shares.  In  addition,  cash
     compensation  was paid to employees in lieu of 24,001  common  shares based
     upon the  market  value of the  stock at the date of  vesting,  and used to
     settle the employees' tax liability generated by the vesting.

              During the year ended December 31, 2005,  169,750 restricted share
     units were  granted  with an  aggregate  fair value on the date of grant of
     approximately  $9,633,000,  74,200  restricted  share units were  forfeited
     (aggregate  grant-date  fair value of  $3,388,000),  and 47,760  restricted
     share units vested (aggregate  grant-date fair value of $2,053,000) with an
     aggregate  fair value on the date of vesting of  $3,156,000.  This  vesting
     resulted  in the  issuance  of 33,478  common  shares.  In  addition,  cash
     compensation  was paid to employees in lieu of 14,282  common  shares based
     upon the  market  value of the  stock at the date of  vesting,  and used to
     settle the employees' tax liability generated by the vesting.

              At December 31, 2007, approximately 608,768 restricted share units
     were  outstanding  (616,470  and  299,830 at  December  31,  2006 and 2005,
     respectively) with an aggregate fair value at December 31, 2007, based upon
     the closing price of our common shares, of approximately  $44,690,000.  The
     aggregate  grant-date  fair value of the  608,768  restricted  share  units
     outstanding at December 31, 2007 was approximately $48,578,000 ($43,421,000
     for the 616,470 restricted share units at December 31, 2006), which will be
     recognized over the remaining vesting period of approximately four years. A
     total of $7,164,000, $5,136,000, and $3,748,000 in restricted share expense
     was  recorded  for the  years  ended  December  31,  2007,  2006 and  2005,
     respectively,  which includes  amortization  of the fair value of the grant
     reflected as an increase to paid-in  capital,  as well as payroll  taxes we
     incurred upon each respective vesting.

14.      Segment Information
         -------------------

              Description of Each Reportable Segment
              --------------------------------------

              Our reportable segments reflect significant  operating  activities
     that are  evaluated  separately by  management,  comprised of the following
     segments which are organized based upon their operating characteristics.

              Our domestic  self-storage segment comprises the direct ownership,
     development,  and operation of traditional  storage facilities in the U.S.,
     and the  ownership  of  equity  interests  in  entities  that  own  storage
     properties  in the U.S. Our European  self-storage  segment  comprises  our
     self-storage and associated  activities owned by affiliated  entities based
     in Europe.

              Our domestic  ancillary  operating  segment  represents all of our
     other  segments,  which are reported as a group,  including with respect to
     our domestic operations (i) containerized storage, (ii) commercial property
     operations,  which reflects our interest in the ownership,  operation,  and
     management of commercial  properties both directly and through our interest
     in PSB (iii) the reinsurance of policies  against losses to goods stored by
     tenants in our  self-storage  facilities,  (iv) sale of  merchandise at our
     self-storage  facilities,  (v) truck rentals at our self-storage facilities
     and  (vi)  management  of  facilities  owned  by  third-party   owners  and
     facilities owned by the Unconsolidated Entities.

                                      F-37


                                PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2007

              Measurement of Segment Income (Loss) and Segment Assets - Domestic
              ------------------------------------------------------------------
              Self-Storage and Domestic Ancillary
              -----------------------------------

              The  domestic  self-storage  and domestic  ancillary  segments are
     evaluated by management  based upon the net segment income of each segment.
     Net segment income  represents  net income in conformity  with GAAP and our
     significant  accounting  policies as denoted in Note 2, before interest and
     other income,  interest expense,  and corporate general and  administrative
     expense. Interest and other income, interest expense, corporate general and
     administrative expense, minority interest in income and gains and losses on
     sales of real estate  assets are not  allocated to these  segments  because
     management  does not utilize them to evaluate the results of  operations of
     each segment.  In addition,  there is no presentation of segment assets for
     these  other  segments  because  total  assets  are not  considered  in the
     evaluation of these segments.

              Measurement of Segment Income (Loss) and Segment Assets - European
              ------------------------------------------------------------------
              Operations
              ----------

              The European segment  operations are primarily  independent of the
     other segments, with separate management,  debt, financing activities,  and
     capital  allocation  decisions.  The operations of our European segment are
     included  in our  financial  statements  effective  August 23, 2006 when we
     completed the Shurgard  Merger.  Accordingly,  this segment is evaluated by
     management  as  a  stand-alone  business  unit  and  the  European  segment
     presentation includes all of the revenues, expenses, and operations of this
     business  unit,  including  interest  expense  paid to outside  parties and
     general and administrative  expense.  Assets of our European  operations at
     December 31, 2007,  include real estate with a book value of  approximately
     $1.6 billion ($1.4 billion at December 31, 2006),  intangibles  with a book
     value of approximately $87 million ($167 million at December 31, 2006), and
     other assets with a book value of approximately $60 million ($65 million at
     December  31,  2006).  At December 31,  2007,  liabilities  of our European
     operations include;  intercompany payables of $556 million ($521 million at
     December  31,  2006),  debt of $384 million  ($724  million at December 31,
     2006) and accrued and other  liabilities  of $101 million  ($108 million at
     December 31, 2006). At December 31, 2006, assets of our European operations
     included  approximately  $480 million in cash (of which  approximately $429
     million  was  utilized  on  January  2,  2007  to  prepay  the   (euro)325M
     collateralized notes).

              Presentation of Segment Information
              -----------------------------------

              The following table reconciles the performance of each segment, in
     terms of  segment  income,  to our  consolidated  net  income  (amounts  in
     thousands):


                                      F-38


                                PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2007

For the year ended December 31, 2007



                                      F-39



                                PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2007

For the year ended December 31, 2006


                                      F-40


                                PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2007

For the year ended December 31, 2005



                                      F-41


                                PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2007

15.      Recent Accounting Pronouncements and Guidance
         ---------------------------------------------

     The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
     --------------------------------------------------------------------

              In February 2007, the Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board (the
     "FASB")  issued SFAS No. 159, "The Fair Value Option for  Financial  Assets
     and  Financial  Liabilities,  including an amendment of FASB  Statement No.
     115" ("SFAS No. 159").  SFAS No. 159 provides  companies  with an option to
     report  selected  financial  assets  and  liabilities  at fair  value.  The
     standard establishes  presentation and disclosure  requirements designed to
     facilitate  comparisons between companies that choose different measurement
     attributes  for similar  types of assets and  liabilities.  SFAS No. 159 is
     effective as of the  beginning of an entity's  first fiscal year  beginning
     after  November 15, 2007.  We do not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 159 to
     have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations.

     Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes
     ------------------------------------------

              In July 2006, the FASB issued  Interpretation  No. 48, "Accounting
     for  Uncertainty in Income Taxes" ("FIN 48").  This  interpretation,  among
     other  things,  creates a two step  approach for  evaluating  uncertain tax
     positions.  Recognition (step one) occurs when an enterprise concludes that
     a   tax   position,    based   solely   on   its   technical   merits,   is
     more-likely-than-not  to be sustained upon  examination.  Measurement (step
     two)  determines  the amount of benefit that  more-likely-than-not  will be
     realized  upon  settlement.  Derecognition  of  a  tax  position  that  was
     previously  recognized would occur when a company  subsequently  determines
     that a tax position no longer meets the  more-likely-than-not  threshold of
     being  sustained.  FIN 48  specifically  prohibits  the use of a  valuation
     allowance as a substitute for  derecognition  of tax positions,  and it has
     expanded  disclosure  requirements.  FIN 48 was  effective for fiscal years
     beginning  after December 15, 2006, in which the impact of adoption  should
     be accounted for as a cumulative-effect adjustment to the beginning balance
     of retained earnings.  We adopted the provisions of FIN 48 as of January 1,
     2007.  The  adoption  of FIN 48 had no  material  impact  on our  financial
     position,  operating  results  or  cash  flows.  See  Note  17 for  further
     discussion of our adoption of FIN 48.

     Fair Value Measurement
     ----------------------

              In 2006,  the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,  "Fair Value  Measurement"
     (SFAS No.  157).  SFAS No. 157  provides  guidance  for using fair value to
     measure assets and liabilities.  The standard expands required  disclosures
     about the extent to which companies  measure assets and liabilities at fair
     value,  the information  used to measure fair value, and the effect of fair
     value  measurements  on  earnings.  SFAS No.  157  applies  whenever  other
     standards  require (or permit) assets or liabilities to be measured at fair
     value.  SFAS  No.  157  does not  expand  the use of fair  value in any new
     circumstances.  SFAS No. 157 is effective for financial  statements  issued
     for fiscal years  beginning  after November 15, 2007,  and interim  periods
     within those fiscal years. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 157 to
     have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations.

16.      Commitments and Contingencies
         -----------------------------

              Serrao v. Public Storage,  Inc. (filed April 2003) (Superior Court
              ------------------------------------------------------------------
              of California - Orange County)
              ------------------------------

              The  plaintiff  in this case filed a suit  against  the Company on
     behalf of a putative  class of renters who rented  self-storage  units from
     the Company.  Plaintiff alleges that the Company misrepresented the size of

                                      F-42


                                PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2007

     its storage units, has brought claims under California statutory and common
     law  relating  to  consumer  protection,  fraud,  unfair  competition,  and
     negligent misrepresentation,  and is seeking monetary damages, restitution,
     and  declaratory  and  injunctive  relief.  On November 26, 2007, the Court
     entered  an  order  dismissing  the  matter  in its  entirety  without  any
     liability to the Company.

              Drake v. Shurgard  Storage  Centers,  Inc. (filed  September 2002)
              ------------------------------------------------------------------
              (Superior Court of California - Orange County)
              ----------------------------------------------

              This is a companion case to the Serrao matter discussed above. The
     plaintiff alleges the same set of operative facts and seeks the same relief
     as in Serrao against  Shurgard,  whose  liability  Public  Storage  assumed
     following the merger of Public  Storage and Shurgard on August 22, 2006. In
     June 2007, the Court certified a class of all Shurgard renters who rented a
     storage  unit at a Shurgard  facility in  California  that was smaller than
     represented.  On November 26, 2007,  the Court entered an order  dismissing
     the matter in its entirety without any liability to the Company.

              Potter,  et al v.  Hughes,  et al (filed  December  2004)  (United
              ------------------------------------------------------------------
              States District Court - Central District of California)
              -------------------------------------------------------

              In November  2002, a  shareholder  of the Company made a demand on
     our Board  challenging  the  fairness of the  Company's  acquisition  of PS
     Insurance Company,  Ltd. ("PSIC") and related matters.  PSIC was previously
     owned by the  Hughes  Family.  In June  2003,  following  the filing by the
     Hughes  Family of a complaint  for  declaratory  relief asking the court to
     find that the  acquisition  of PSIC and  related  matters  were fair to the
     Company,  it was ruled that the PSIC transaction was just and reasonable as
     to the Company and holding that the Hughes  Family was not required to make
     any payment to the Company.

              At the end of  December  2004,  the same  shareholder  referred to
     above  and  a  second  shareholder  filed  this  shareholder's   derivative
     complaint  naming as  defendants  the Company's  directors  (and two former
     directors) and certain officers of the Company. The matters alleged in this
     complaint  relate  to  PSIC,  the  Hughes  Family's  Canadian  self-storage
     operations and the Company's 1995  reorganization.  In July 2006, the Court
     granted the  defendants'  motion to dismiss the amended  Complaint  without
     leave to amend. In August 2006,  Plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal of the
     Court's  decision.   The  appeal  is  currently  pending.  We  believe  the
     litigation  will not have any  financially  adverse  effect on the  Company
     (other than the costs and other expenses relating to the lawsuit).

              Brinkley v. Public  Storage,  Inc.  (filed  April 2005)  (Superior
              ------------------------------------------------------------------
              Court of California - Los Angeles County)
              -----------------------------------------

              The plaintiff  sued the Company on behalf of a purported  class of
     California  non-exempt  employees based on various California wage and hour
     laws and seeking  monetary  damages and injunctive  relief.  In May 2006, a
     motion  for  class   certification   was  filed  seeking  to  certify  five
     subclasses.   Plaintiff  sought   certification  for  alleged  meal  period
     violations, rest period violations, failure to pay for travel time, failure
     to pay for mileage  reimbursement,  and for wage statement  violations.  In
     October  2006,  the  Court  declined  to  certify  three  out of  the  five
     subclasses.  The Court did,  however,  certify  subclasses based on alleged
     meal period and wage statement violations.  Subsequently, the Company filed
     a motion  for  summary  judgment  seeking  to  dismiss  the  matter  in its
     entirety.  On June 22,  2007,  the  Court  granted  the  Company's  summary
     judgment  motion  as to the  causes of action  relating  to the  subclasses
     certified and dismissed those claims.  The only surviving  claims are those
     relating to the named  plaintiff only. The plaintiff has filed an appeal to
     the Court's June 22, 2007 summary judgment ruling. An appeal to the Court's
     June 22, 2007 order  granting  the  Company's  summary  judgment  motion is
     currently pending.

                                      F-43


                                PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2007

              Simas v. Public Storage, Inc. (filed January 2006) (Superior Court
              ------------------------------------------------------------------
              of California - Orange County)
              ------------------------------

              The plaintiff brought this action against the Company on behalf of
     a purported class who bought insurance coverage at the Company's facilities
     alleging  that the  Company  does not have a license to offer,  sell and/or
     transact  storage  insurance.  The  action  was  originally  brought  under
     California Business and Professions Code Section 17200 and seeks retention,
     monetary damages and injunctive relief. The Company filed a demurrer to the
     complaint.  While the  demurrer  was  pending,  the  plaintiff  amended the
     complaint  to  allege a  national  class and  claims  for  unfair  business
     practices,  unjust  enrichment,  money had and received,  and negligent and
     intentional  misrepresentation.  Ultimately  all  claims  except for unjust
     enrichment  were dismissed.  A subsequent  demurrer was filed and sustained
     without leave to amend. The case was therefore dismissed. The plaintiff has
     appealed the trial court's ruling and this appeal is currently pending.

              European Joint Venture Arbitration Proceeding
              ---------------------------------------------

              The Company  holds  indirectly a 20% interest in each of two joint
     ventures in Europe,  First Shurgard and Second  Shurgard that  collectively
     own 70 self-storage  properties in Europe. On August 24, 2006, the Company,
     through  its  affiliate,  Shurgard  Europe,  served  an exit  notice on the
     European joint venture partners informing them of its intention to purchase
     their interests in First Shurgard and Second Shurgard  pursuant to an early
     exit procedure that the Company  believes is provided for in the respective
     joint venture agreements.  The exit notice offered to pay the joint venture
     partners an amount for their interests in accordance with the provisions of
     the joint venture  agreements.  The joint ventures  partners have contested
     both the valuation of their interests and whether the Company has the right
     to purchase its interests under this early exit procedure.  Accordingly, it
     is uncertain as to whether the Company will acquire such interests pursuant
     to the early exit notice served. On January 17, 2007, Shurgard Europe filed
     an arbitration request with the International Chamber of Commerce to compel
     arbitration  of the  matter.  The  arbitration  proceedings  are  currently
     scheduled to begin on June 30, 2008.

              Other Items
              -----------

              We are a party to  various  claims,  complaints,  and other  legal
     actions that have arisen in the normal course of business from time to time
     that are not  described  above.  We believe  that it is  unlikely  that the
     outcome of these other pending legal proceedings  including  employment and
     tenant claims,  in the aggregate,  will have a material adverse impact upon
     our operations or financial position.

              Insurance and Loss Exposure
              ---------------------------

              We have historically carried  comprehensive  insurance,  including
     property, earthquake,  general liability and workers compensation,  through
     nationally  recognized insurance carriers and through our captive insurance
     programs. Our insurance programs also insure affiliates of the Company. Our
     estimated maximum annual exposure for losses that are below the deductibles
     set  forth  in  the  third-party  insurance  contracts,  assuming  multiple
     significant  events occur, is approximately  $37 million.  In addition,  if
     losses exhaust the  third-party  insurers' limit of coverage of $75 million
     for property coverage including  earthquake  coverage ((euro)25 million for
     Europe) and $102  million  for general  liability,  our  exposure  could be
     greater.  These limits are higher than estimates of maximum probable losses
     that could occur from individual  catastrophic events (i.e.  earthquake and
     wind damage) determined in recent engineering and actuarial studies.

              Our tenant insurance program reinsures policies against claims for
     losses to goods stored by tenants at our self-storage  facilities.  We have
     third-party   insurance  coverage  for  claims  paid  exceeding  $1,500,000
     resulting from any individual event, to a limit of $9,000,000.  At December
     31, 2007,  we had  approximately  490,000  reinsured  policies  outstanding
     representing aggregate coverage of approximately $1.2 billion. Our exposure
     to tenant  insurance  losses  are  minimal  with  respect  to our  European
     operations due to third-party insurance coverage.

                                      F-44


                                PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2007

              Development and Acquisition of Real Estate Facilities
              -----------------------------------------------------

              We  currently  have  43  projects  in  our  development  pipeline,
     consisting  of newly  developed  self-storage  facilities,  expansions  and
     enhancements to existing self-storage facilities.  The total estimated cost
     of these facilities is approximately  $273 million of which $60,324,000 has
     been  spent  at  December   31,  2007.   These   projects  are  subject  to
     contingencies.  We expect to incur these expenditures over the next 12 - 24
     months.  As of February  27,  2008,  we are under  contract to purchase two
     self-storage  facilities in California (total approximate net rental square
     feet of  248,000)  at an  aggregate  cost of  $31,025,000,  which  includes
     approximately   $9,900,000  of  assumed  debt.  We  anticipate  that  these
     acquisitions  will be funded entirely by us. These contracts are subject to
     significant contingencies,  and there is no assurance that these facilities
     will be acquired.

              Operating Lease Obligations

              We lease trucks, land, equipment and office space. At December 31,
     2007,  the future  minimum  rental  payments  required  under our operating
     leases for the years ending December 31, principally  representing  amounts
     payable  under land leases for our  European  subsidiaries,  are as follows
     (amounts in thousands):

  2008......................................    $   20,394
  2009......................................        16,197
  2010......................................        12,053
  2011......................................        10,658
  2012......................................        10,202
  Thereafter................................       195,371
                                                -----------
                                                $  264,875
                                                ===========

              We lease  trucks,  land,  equipment and office space under various
     operating leases. Certain leases are cancelable with substantial penalties.
     Certain of our European  land  operating  leases have  indefinite  terms or
     extension  options  exercisable at the  discretion of the lessee.  For such
     land  leases  we  have  disclosed  operating  lease  obligations  over  the
     estimated useful life of the related property.

              Expenses under operating leases were approximately  $14.7 million,
     $9.8  million,  and $6.3  million for the years ended  December  31,  2007,
     respectively. Certain of our land leases include escalation clauses, and we
     recognize related lease expenses on a straight-line basis.

17.      Income Taxes
         ------------

              For all taxable years  subsequent to 1980,  the Company  qualified
     and we intend to continue  to qualify the Company as a REIT,  as defined in
     Section  856 of the  Internal  Revenue  Code.  As a REIT,  we do not  incur
     federal or significant state tax on that portion of our REIT taxable income
     which is  distributed  to our  shareholders,  provided that we meet certain
     tests. We believe that the Company has met these REIT  requirements  during
     2007.

              Domestic  operations  other than rental real estate are  primarily
     conducted  through  taxable REIT  subsidiaries.  Income of our taxable REIT
     subsidiaries  is subject to federal,  state and local income taxes.  We are
     subject to the income tax provisions of the various  European  countries in
     which we have rental real estate operations.

              As of  August  23,  2006,  the date of the  Shurgard  Merger,  the
     Company  started to  consolidate  the income  tax  provision  of the former
     Shurgard domestic and European activities,  the latter of which are subject
     to income taxes in the jurisdictions of the countries where they operate.

                                      F-45


                                PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2007

              The  provision  for income  tax,  including  Federal,  State,  and
     Foreign taxes,  totaled $8,598,000,  $5,100,000 and $200,000 for 2007, 2006
     and  2005,  respectively.   These  amounts  are  included  in  General  and
     Administrative   Expense  as  well  as  Cost  of   Operations  -  Ancillary
     Operations.

              We adopted the provisions of Financial  Accounting Standards Board
     ("FASB") Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes
     - an  interpretation  of FASB  Statement No. 109" ("FIN 48"), on January 1,
     2007.  FIN 48 clarifies  the  accounting  for  uncertainty  in income taxes
     recognized in an enterprise's  financial  statement in accordance with FASB
     Statement 109,  "Accounting for Income Taxes", and prescribes a recognition
     threshold and measurement process for financial  statement  recognition and
     measurement  of a tax  position  taken  or  expected  to be  taken in a tax
     return.  FIN 48 also provides  guidance on  derecognition,  classification,
     interest and  penalties,  accounting in interim  periods,  disclosures  and
     transition.

              Based on our  evaluation,  we have  concluded  that  there  are no
     significant  uncertain tax positions requiring recognition in our financial
     statements.  Our  evaluation was performed for the tax years ended December
     31,  2004,  2005,  2006 and 2007,  the tax years  which  remain  subject to
     examination by major tax jurisdictions as of December 31, 2007.

              We may from time to time be  assessed  interest  or  penalties  by
     certain tax jurisdictions,  although any such assessments have historically
     been minimal and immaterial to our financial results.  In the event we have
     received  an  assessment  for  interest  and/or  penalties,   it  has  been
     classified  in the  financial  statements  as  general  and  administrative
     expense.

              At  December  31,  2007,   the  Company  had  net  operating  loss
     carryforwards of $516.9 million related to U.S. federal,  state and foreign
     jurisdictions  ($20.4  million of U.S.  federal,  $35  million of state and
     $461.5 million of foreign loss carryforwards). Utilization of net operating
     losses  to  offset  future   taxable  income  may  be  subject  to  certain
     limitations  under Sections 382 and 1502 of the Internal  Revenue Code, and
     other  limitations under state and foreign tax laws. If these net operating
     losses are not utilized, they expire at various times beginning in 2008. As
     of December  31,  2007 and 2006,  we  provided a full  valuation  allowance
     against any net deferred tax asset  arising in the various  country  filing
     groups from net operating losses,  because sufficient uncertainty exists at
     this time  regarding the future  realization  of these tax benefits  within
     individual tax  jurisdictions.  The utilization of the net operating losses
     acquired  in the  Shurgard  Merger  will not result in a  reduction  of our
     future tax expense.


18.      Supplementary Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited)
         --------------------------------------------------


                                      F-46


                                PUBLIC STORAGE
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                December 31, 2007



(a)  Revenues and cost of  operations as presented in this table differ from the
     revenue and cost of operations  as presented in our  quarterly  reports due
     primarily to reclassification  of our truck rental,  merchandise sales, and
     property  management  operations  which are now  included,  along  with our
     tenant reinsurance  operations,  under "Ancillary Operations" on our income
     statement. In previous presentations, the net income from our truck rental,
     merchandise sales, and property  management  operations were reflected as a
     component of "interest and other  income."  Revenues and cost of operations
     also  differ due to the impact of  discontinued  operations  accounting  as
     described in Note 2.

(b)  Depreciation expense, income from continuing operations, net income and net
     income per common share  differs from the amounts  previously  presented in
     our respective  financial statements for the quarters ended March 31, 2007,
     June  30,  2007  and  September  30,  2007.  We  recorded  a  reduction  in
     depreciation  expense totaling  $14,326,000 in our books and records in the
     quarter ended December 31, 2007. Of this adjustment, $5,613,000, $5,073,000
     and  $3,640,000  was for each of the three  month  periods  ended March 31,
     2007,  June 30,  2007  and  September  30,  2007  and is  reflected  in the
     respective quarterly amounts.

19.      Subsequent Events
         -----------------

              In January  2008,  we  announced  that we reached an  agreement in
     principle for a prospective investor to acquire a 51% ownership interest in
     Shurgard Europe in a private  transaction at a price  generally  consistent
     with the  previously  disclosed  proceeds  we  expected  to receive for our
     equity  interest in last year's  terminated  European  share  offering.  No
     binding  agreement has been signed with the prospective  investor and there
     is no  assurance  that  a  binding  agreement  will  be  signed  or  that a
     transaction   will  be  completed.   We  estimate  the  completion  of  the
     transaction  at the end of the first  quarter  of 2008  assuming  a binding
     agreement  is signed  and the  conditions  related to the  transaction  are
     satisfied.

              Approximately  $189.1  million in debt owed by First  Shurgard was
     originally  scheduled  to mature in May 2008.  However,  in February  2008,
     under  the  terms of the  related  credit  agreement  we have  requested  a
     one-year  extension  of the loan until May 2009.  Assuming  we have met our
     loan  covenants,  which we believe we have met,  the lender is  required to
     grant  our  request.  Notwithstanding  our  expectation  of  receiving  the
     requested one-year  extension,  if the extension is not granted, we and our
     joint  venture  partner are required to  contribute  our pro-rata  share of
     funds  necessary  to repay  the debt.  We  believe  that our joint  venture
     partner has the  intention and ability to  contribute  their  potential 80%
     share towards repayment of this debt if it is necessary.

              From January 1, 2008 through  February 28, 2008, we  repurchased a
     total of 1,520,196 of our common  shares for an aggregate of  approximately
     $111.9 million.

                                      F-47



                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION




                                       F-48


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                       F-49


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION




                                      F-50


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION




                                      F-51


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION




                                      F-52


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION





                                      F-53


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION



                                      F-54


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION




                                      F-55


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION



                                      F-56


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION




                                      F-57


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION



                                      F-58


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION



                                      F-59


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION



                                      F-60


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION




                                      F-61


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION




                                      F-62


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION




                                      F-63


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION



                                      F-64


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION




                                      F-65


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION




                                      F-66


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION



                                      F-67


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION




                                      F-68


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION



                                      F-69


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION




                                      F-70


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION




                                      F-71


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION



                                      F-72


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION




                                      F-73


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION




                                      F-74


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION



                                      F-75


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION




                                      F-76


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION




                                      F-77


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION



                                      F-78


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION




                                      F-79


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION




                                      F-80


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION




                                      F-81


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION




                                      F-82


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION




                                      F-83


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION




                                      F-84


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION




                                      F-85


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION




                                      F-86


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION




                                      F-87


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION



                                      F-88


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION




                                      F-89


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION



                                      F-90


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION




                                      F-91


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION




                                      F-92


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION




                                      F-93


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION




                                      F-94


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION




                                      F-95


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION




                                      F-96


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION




                                      F-97


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION




                                      F-98


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION




                                     F-99


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION




                                     F-100


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION




                                     F-101


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION




                                     F-102


                                 PUBLIC STORAGE
                           SCHEDULE III - REAL ESTATE
                          AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION




Note: Buildings are depreciated over a useful life of 25 years.

                                     F-103



