Item 1A. RISK FACTORS

Investing in The Hartford involves risk. In deciding whether to invest in The Hartford, you should
carefully consider the following risk factors, any of which could have a significant or material
adverse effect on the business, financial condition, operating results or liquidity of The
Hartford. This information should be considered carefully together with the other information
contained in this report and the other reports and materials filed by The Hartford with the SEC.

Our operating environment remains challenging in light of uncertainty about the timing and strength
of an economic recovery and the impact of governmental budgetary and regulatory initiatives. The
steps we have taken to realign our businesses and strengthen our capital position may not be
adequate to mitigate the financial, competitive and other risks associated with our operating
environment, particularly if economic conditions deteriorate from their current levels or
regulatory requirements change significantly, and we may be required to or we may seek to raise
additional capital or take other strategic or financial actions that could adversely affect our
business and results or trading prices for our common stock.

Persistent volatility in financial markets and uncertainty about the timing and strength of a
recovery in the global economy adversely affected our business and results in 2009, and we believe
that these conditions may continue to affect our operating environment in 2010. High unemployment,
lower family income, lower business investment and lower consumer spending in most geographic
markets we serve have adversely affected the demand for financial and insurance products, as well
as their profitability in some cases. Our results, financial condition and statutory capital
remain sensitive to equity and credit market performance, and we expect that market volatility will
continue to pressure returns in our life and property and casualty investment portfolios and that
our hedging costs will remain high. Until economic conditions become more stable and improve, we
also expect to experience realized and unrealized investment losses, particularly in the commercial
real estate sector where significant market illiquidity and risk premiums exist that reflect the
current uncertainty in the real estate market. Deterioration or negative rating agency actions
with respect to our investments, or our own credit and financial strength ratings, could also
indirectly adversely affect our statutory capital and RBC ratios, which could in turn have other
negative consequences for our business and results.

Even if the measures we have taken (or take in the future) are effective to mitigate the risks
associated with our current operating environment, they may have unintended consequences. For
example, rebalancing our hedging program may better protect our statutory surplus, but also results
in greater U.S. GAAP earnings volatility. Actions we take may also entail impairment or other
charges or adversely affect our ability to compete successfully in an increasingly difficult
consumer market.

Regulatory developments relating to the recent financial crisis may also significantly affect our
operations and prospects in ways that we cannot predict. U.S. and overseas governmental or
regulatory authorities, including the SEC, the Office of Thrift Supervision (“OTS”), the New York
Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) or the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”), are considering
enhanced or new regulatory requirements intended to prevent future crises or otherwise stabilize
the institutions under their supervision. New regulations will likely affect critical matters,
including capital requirements, and published proposals by insurance regulatory authorities that
could reduce the pressure on our capital position may not be adopted or may be adopted in a form
that does not afford as much capital relief as anticipated. If we fail to manage the impact of
these developments effectively, our prospects, results and financial condition could be materially
adversely affected.

We are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk, including changes in interest
rates, credit spreads, equity prices, foreign exchange rates and global real estate market
deterioration which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial
condition and liquidity.

We are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk, including changes in interest
rates, credit spreads, equity prices, foreign currency exchange rates and global real estate market
deterioration.





One important exposure to equity risk relates to the potential for lower earnings associated with
certain of our Life businesses, such as variable annuities, where fee income is earned based upon
the fair value of the assets under management. The decline in equity markets over the last two
years has significantly reduced assets under management and related fee income during that period.
In addition, certain of our Life products offer guaranteed benefits which increase our potential
obligation and statutory capital exposure should equity markets decline. Due to declines in equity
markets, our liability for these guaranteed benefits has significantly increased and our statutory
capital position has decreased. Further sustained declines in equity markets may result in the need
to devote significant additional capital to support these products. We are also exposed to interest
rate and equity risk based upon the discount rate and expected long-term rate of return assumptions
associated with our pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations. Sustained declines in
long-term interest rates or equity returns are likely to have a negative effect on the funded
status of these plans.

Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the market price and cash flow variability
associated with changes in interest rates. A rise in interest rates, in the absence of other
countervailing changes, will increase the net unrealized loss position of our investment portfolio
and, if long-term interest rates rise dramatically within a six-to-twelve month time period,
certain of our Life businesses may be exposed to disintermediation risk. Disintermediation risk
refers to the risk that our policyholders may surrender their contracts in a rising interest rate
environment, requiring us to liquidate assets in an unrealized loss position. An increase in
interest rates can also impact our tax planning strategies and in particular our ability to utilize
tax benefits to offset certain previously recognized realized capital losses. Due to the long-term
nature of the liabilities associated with certain of our Life businesses, such as structured
settlements and guaranteed benefits on variable annuities, sustained declines in long-term interest
rates may subject us to reinvestment risks and increased hedging costs. In other situations,
declines in interest rates or changes in credit spreads may result in reducing the duration of
certain Life liabilities, creating asset liability duration mismatches and lower spread income.

Our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price and cash flow variability
associated with changes in credit spreads. If issuer credit spreads widen significantly or retain
historically wide levels over an extended period of time, additional other-than-temporary
impairments and increases in the net unrealized loss position of our investment portfolio will
likely result. In addition, losses have also occurred due to the volatility in credit spreads.
When credit spreads widen, we incur losses associated with the credit derivatives where the Company
assumes exposure. When credit spreads tighten, we incur losses associated with derivatives where
the Company has purchased credit protection. If credit spreads tighten significantly, the
Company’s net investment income associated with new purchases of fixed maturities may be reduced.
In addition, a reduction in market liquidity can make it difficult to value certain of our
securities when trading becomes less frequent. As such, valuations may include assumptions or
estimates that may be more susceptible to significant period-to-period changes which could have a
material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition.

Our statutory surplus is also affected by widening credit spreads as a result of the accounting for
the assets and liabilities on our fixed market value adjusted (“MVA”) annuities. Statutory
separate account assets supporting the fixed MVA annuities are recorded at fair value. In
determining the statutory reserve for the fixed MVA annuities we are required to use current
crediting rates in the U.S. and Japanese LIBOR in Japan. In many capital market scenarios, current
crediting rates in the U.S. are highly correlated with market rates implicit in the fair value of
statutory separate account assets. As a result, the change in the statutory reserve from period to
period will likely substantially offset the change in the fair value of the statutory separate
account assets. However, in periods of volatile credit markets, actual credit spreads on
investment assets may increase sharply for certain sub-sectors of the overall credit market,
resulting in statutory separate account asset market value losses. As actual credit spreads are
not fully reflected in current crediting rates in the U.S. or Japanese LIBOR in Japan, the
calculation of statutory reserves will not substantially offset the change in fair value of the
statutory separate account assets resulting in reductions in statutory surplus. This has resulted
and may continue to result in the need to devote significant additional capital to support the
product.

Our primary foreign currency exchange risks are related to net income from
foreign operations, non-U.S. dollar denominated investments, investments in foreign subsidiaries,
our yen-denominated individual fixed annuity product, and certain guaranteed benefits associated
with the Japan and U.K. variable annuities. These risks relate to potential decreases in value and
income resulting from a strengthening or weakening in foreign exchange rates versus the U.S.
dollar. In general, the weakening of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar will unfavorably
affect net income from foreign operations, the value of non-U.S. dollar denominated investments,
investments in foreign subsidiaries and realized gains or losses on the yen denominated individual
fixed annuity product. In comparison, certain of our Life
products offer guaranteed benefits which could substantially increase our potential obligation and
statutory capital exposure should the yen strengthen versus other currencies. Correspondingly, a
strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to other currencies will increase our exposure to the
U.S. variable annuity guarantee benefits where policyholders have elected to invest in
international funds.

Our real estate market exposure includes investments in commercial mortgage-backed securities
(“CMBS”), residential mortgage-backed securities (“RMBS”), commercial real estate (“CRE”)
collateralized debt obligations (“CDOs”), mortgage and real estate partnerships, and mortgage
loans. The recent deterioration in the global real estate market, as evidenced by increases in
property vacancy rates, delinquencies and foreclosures, has negatively impacted property values and
sources of refinancing resulting in market illiquidity and risk premiums that reflect the current
uncertainty in the real estate market. Should these trends continue, further reductions in net
investment income associated with real estate partnerships, impairments of real estate backed
securities and increases in our valuation allowance for mortgage loans may result.





If significant, further declines in equity prices, changes in U.S. interest rates, changes in
credit spreads, the strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar, and
global real estate market deterioration, individually or in combination, could continue to have a
material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and
liquidity both directly and indirectly by creating competitive and other pressures including, but
not limited to, employee retention issues and the potential loss of distributors for our products.
In addition, in the conduct of our business, there could be scenarios where in order to reduce
risks, fulfill our obligations or to raise incremental liquidity, we would sell assets at a loss.

Declines in equity markets, changes in interest rates and credit spreads and global real estate
market deterioration can also negatively impact the fair values of each of our segments. If a
significant decline in the fair value of a segment occurred and this resulted in an excess of that
segment’s book value over fair value, the goodwill assigned to that segment might be impaired and
could cause the Company to record a charge to impair a part or all of the related goodwill assets.

Our adjustment of our risk management program relating to products we offer with guaranteed
benefits to emphasize protection of statutory surplus will likely result in greater U.S. GAAP
volatility in our earnings and potentially material charges to net income in periods of rising
equity market pricing levels.

The amount of statutory capital that we have and the amount of statutory capital that we must hold
to maintain our financial strength and credit ratings and meet other requirements can vary
significantly from time to time and is sensitive to a number of factors outside of our control,
including equity market, credit market, interest rate and foreign currency conditions, changes in
policyholder behavior and changes in rating agency models.

We conduct the vast majority of our business through licensed insurance company subsidiaries.
Accounting standards and statutory capital and reserve requirements for these entities are
prescribed by the applicable insurance regulators and the National Association of Insurance
Commissioners (“NAIC”). Insurance regulators have established regulations that provide minimum
capitalization requirements based on risk-based capital (“RBC”) formulas for both life and property
and casualty companies. The RBC formula for life companies establishes capital requirements
relating to insurance, business, asset and interest rate risks, including equity, interest rate and
expense recovery risks associated with variable annuities and group annuities that contain death
benefits or certain living benefits. The RBC formula for property and casualty companies adjusts
statutory surplus levels for certain underwriting, asset, credit and off-balance sheet risks.





We have experienced and may experience additional future downgrades in our financial strength or
credit ratings, which may make our products less attractive, increase our cost of capital and
inhibit our ability to refinance our debt, which would have a material adverse effect on our
business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.

Financial strength and credit ratings, including commercial paper ratings, are an important factor
in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. In 2009, our financial strength
and credit ratings were downgraded by multiple rating agencies. Rating agencies assign ratings
based upon several factors. While most of the factors relate to the rated company, some of the
factors relate to the views of the rating agency, general economic conditions, and circumstances
outside the rated company’s control. In addition, rating agencies may employ different models and
formulas to assess the financial strength of a rated company, and from time to time rating agencies
have, at their discretion, altered these models. Changes to the models, general economic
conditions, or circumstances outside our control could impact a rating agency’s judgment of its
rating and the rating it assigns us. We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or
what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which may adversely affect
us.

Our financial strength ratings, which are intended to measure our ability to meet policyholder
obligations, are an important factor affecting public confidence in most of our products and, as a
result, our competitiveness. A downgrade or an announced potential further downgrade in the rating
of our financial strength or of one of our principal insurance subsidiaries could affect our
competitive position and reduce future sales of our products.

Our credit ratings also affect our cost of capital. A downgrade or an announced potential
downgrade of our credit ratings could make it more difficult or costly to refinance maturing debt
obligations, to support business growth at our insurance subsidiaries and to maintain or improve
the financial strength ratings of our principal insurance subsidiaries. Downgrades could begin to
trigger potentially material collateral calls on certain of our derivative instruments and
counterparty rights to terminate derivative relationships, both of which could limit our ability to
purchase additional derivative instruments. These events could materially adversely affect our
business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.

Our valuations of many of our financial instruments include methodologies, estimations and
assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment
valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.

The following financial instruments are carried at fair value in the Company’s consolidated
financial statements: fixed maturities, equity securities, freestanding and embedded derivatives,
and separate account assets. The Company is required to categorize these securities into a
three-level hierarchy, based on the priority of the inputs to the respective valuation technique.
The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for
identical assets or liabilities (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3).
In many situations, inputs used to measure the fair value of an asset or liability position may
fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy. In these situations, the Company will
determine the level in which the fair value falls based upon the lowest level input that is
significant to the determination of the fair value.

The determination of fair values are made at a specific point in time, based on available market
information and judgments about financial instruments, including estimates of the timing and
amounts of expected future cash flows and the credit standing of the issuer or counterparty. The
use of different methodologies and assumptions may have a material effect on the estimated fair
value amounts.

During periods of market disruption, including periods of rapidly widening credit spreads or
illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less
frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes that were
in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the financial
environment. In such cases, more securities may fall to Level 3 and thus require more subjectivity
and management judgment. As such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less
observable or require greater estimation thereby resulting in values that may differ materially
from the value at which the investments may be ultimately sold. Further, rapidly changing and
unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of
securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period
changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value could have a material adverse effect
on our results of operations and financial condition. As of December 31, 2009, 9%, 75% and 16% of
our available for sale securities and short-term investments were considered to be Level 1, 2 and
3, respectively.

Evaluation of available-for-sale securities for other-than-temporary impairment involves subjective
determinations and could materially impact our results of operations.

The evaluation of impairments is a quantitative and qualitative process, which is subject to risks
and uncertainties and is intended to determine whether a credit and/or non-credit impairment exists
and whether an impairment should be recognized in current period earnings or in other comprehensive
income. The risks and uncertainties include changes in general economic conditions, the issuer’s
financial condition or future recovery prospects, the effects of changes in interest rates or
credit spreads and the expected recovery period. For securitized financial assets with contractual
cash flows, the Company currently uses its best estimate of cash flows over the life of the
security. In addition, estimating future cash flows involves incorporating information received
from third-party sources and making internal assumptions and judgments regarding the future
performance of the underlying collateral and assessing the probability that an adverse change in
future cash flows has occurred. The determination of the amount of other-than-temporary
impairments is based upon our quarterly evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks
associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as
conditions change and new information becomes available.





Additionally, our management considers a wide range of factors about the security issuer and uses
their best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the
security and in assessing the prospects for recovery. Inherent in management’s evaluation of the
security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings
potential. Considerations in the impairment evaluation process include, but are not limited to:

•the length of time and the extent to which the fair value has been less than cost or
amortized cost;

•changes in the financial condition, credit rating and near-term prospects of the issuer;

•whether the issuer is current on contractually obligated interest and principal
payments;

•changes in the financial condition of the security’s underlying collateral;

•the payment structure of the security;

•the potential for impairments in an entire industry sector or sub-sector;

•the potential for impairments in certain economically depressed geographic locations;

•the potential for impairments of securities where the issuer, series of issuers or
industry has suffered a catastrophic type of loss or has exhausted natural resources;

•unfavorable changes in forecasted cash flows on mortgage-backed and asset-backed
securities;

•for mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, commercial and residential property
value declines that vary by property type and location and average cumulative collateral
loss rates that vary by vintage year;

•other subjective factors, including concentrations and information obtained from
regulators and rating agencies;

•our intent to sell a debt or an equity security with debt-like characteristics
(collectively, “debt security”) or whether it is more likely than not that the Company will
be required to sell the debt security before its anticipated recovery; and

•our intent and ability to retain an equity security without debt-like characteristics
for a period of time sufficient to allow for the recovery of its value.

During 2009, the Company recognized $1.5 billion of impairment losses in earnings. Additional
impairments may be recorded in the future, which could materially adversely affect our results and
financial condition.

Losses due to nonperformance or defaults by others, including issuers of investment securities
(which include structured securities such as commercial mortgage backed securities and residential
mortgage backed securities or other high yielding bonds) mortgage loans or reinsurance and
derivative instrument counterparties, could have a material adverse effect on the value of our
investments, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

Issuers or borrowers whose securities or loans we hold, customers, trading counterparties,
counterparties under swaps and other derivative contracts, reinsurers, clearing agents, exchanges,
clearing houses and other financial intermediaries and guarantors may default on their obligations
to us due to bankruptcy, insolvency, lack of liquidity, adverse economic conditions, operational
failure, fraud, government intervention or other reasons. Such defaults could have a material
adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Additionally, the
underlying assets supporting our structured securities or loans may deteriorate causing these
securities or loans to incur losses.

Our investment portfolio includes securities backed by real estate assets that have been adversely
impacted due to the recent recessionary period and the associated property value declines,
resulting in a reduction in expected future cash flow for certain securities. Additional
significant property value declines and loss rates, which exceed our current estimates, as outlined
in Part II, Item 7, MD&A — Investment Credit Risk — Other-Than-Temporary Impairments, could have a
material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

The Company is not exposed to any credit concentration risk of a single issuer greater than 10% of
the Company’s stockholders’ equity other than U.S. government and U.S. government agencies backed
by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government. However, if issuers of securities or loans we
hold are acquired, merge or otherwise consolidate with other issuers of securities or loans held by
the Company, the Company’s credit concentration risk could increase above the 10% threshold, for a
period of time, until the Company is able to sell securities to get back in compliance with the
established investment credit policies.





If assumptions used in estimating future gross profits differ from actual experience, we may be
required to accelerate the amortization of DAC and increase reserves for guaranteed minimum death
and income benefits, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and
financial condition.

If our businesses do not perform well, we may be required to recognize an impairment of our
goodwill or to establish a valuation allowance against the deferred income tax asset, which could
have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.

Goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses
over the fair value of their net assets at the date of acquisition. We test goodwill at least
annually for impairment. Impairment testing is performed based upon estimates of the fair value of
the “reporting unit” to which the goodwill relates. The reporting unit is the operating segment or
a business one level below that operating segment if discrete financial information is prepared and
regularly reviewed by management at that level. The fair value of the reporting unit is impacted by
the performance of the business and could be adversely impacted by any efforts made by the Company
to limit risk. If it is determined that the goodwill has been impaired, the Company must write
down the goodwill by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to net income. These
write downs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial
condition.

Deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax basis of
assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if
they are realizable. Factors in management’s determination include the performance of the business
including the ability to generate capital gains, to offset previously recognized capital losses,
from a variety of sources and tax planning strategies. However, we anticipate limited ability,
going forward, to recognize a full tax benefit on certain realized capital losses. Therefore, if
based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will
not be realized then a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net
income. Our valuation allowance of $86, as of December 31, 2009, based on future facts and
circumstances may not be sufficient. Charges to increase our valuation allowance could have a
material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.

The occurrence of one or more terrorist attacks in the geographic areas we serve or the threat of
terrorism in general may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated operating
results, financial condition and liquidity.





It is difficult for us to predict our potential exposure for asbestos and environmental claims, and
our ultimate liability may exceed our currently recorded reserves, which may have a material
adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.

We continue to receive asbestos and environmental claims. Significant uncertainty limits the
ability of insurers and reinsurers to estimate the ultimate reserves necessary for unpaid losses
and related expenses for both environmental and particularly asbestos claims. We believe that the
actuarial tools and other techniques we employ to estimate the ultimate cost of claims for more
traditional kinds of insurance exposure are less precise in estimating reserves for our asbestos
and environmental exposures. Traditional actuarial reserving techniques cannot reasonably estimate
the ultimate cost of these claims, particularly during periods where theories of law are in flux.
Accordingly, the degree of variability of reserve estimates for these exposures is significantly
greater than for other more traditional exposures. It is also not possible to predict changes in
the legal and legislative environment and their effect on the future development of asbestos and
environmental claims. Because of the significant uncertainties that limit the ability of insurers
and reinsurers to estimate the ultimate reserves necessary for unpaid losses and related expenses
for both environmental and particularly asbestos claims, the ultimate liabilities may exceed the
currently recorded reserves. Any such additional liability cannot be reasonably estimated now but
could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results, financial condition and
liquidity.

We are particularly vulnerable to losses from the incidence and severity of catastrophes, both
natural and man-made, the occurrence of which may have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition, consolidated results of operations and liquidity.

We may incur losses due to our reinsurers’ unwillingness or inability to meet their obligations
under reinsurance contracts and the availability, pricing and adequacy of reinsurance may not be
sufficient to protect us against losses.





Our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be materially
adversely affected by unfavorable loss development.

Competitive activity may adversely affect our market share and financial results, which could have
a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Our participation in the CPP subjects us to additional restrictions, oversight and cost that could
materially affect our business, results and prospects.

Although participation in the CPP has been an important component of our strategy to enhance our
capital position and financial flexibility, our continued participation subjects us to additional
restrictions, oversight and costs, and has other potential consequences, that could materially
affect our business, results and prospects, including the following:

•Our continued participation in the CPP, even as other financial institutions have repaid
their government assistance, may cause us to be perceived as having greater capital needs and
weaker overall financial prospects than those of our competitors that have not participated in
the CPP, which could adversely affect our competitive position and results, including new
product sales and policy retention rates, and affect trading prices for our common stock.

•As a condition to our participation in CPP, we acquired Federal Trust Corporation, the
parent company of Federal Trust Bank (“FTB”), a federally chartered, FDIC-insured thrift. As a
savings and loan holding company, we are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by
the OTS and OTS reporting requirements. All of our activities must be financially-related
activities as defined by federal law (which includes insurance activities), and OTS has
enforcement authority over us, including the right to pursue administrative orders or
penalties and the right to restrict or prohibit activities determined by OTS to be a serious
risk to FTB. We must also be a source of strength to FTB, which could require further capital
contributions.

•Receipt of CPP funds subjects us to restrictions, oversight and costs that may have an
adverse impact on our business, results or the trading prices for our common stock. For
example, we are subject to significant limitations on the amount and form of bonus, retention
and other incentive compensation that we may pay to executive officers and senior management.
These provisions may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain executive officers and
other key personnel. Other regulatory initiatives applicable to participants in federal
funding programs may also be forthcoming. Compliance with such current and potential
regulation and scrutiny may significantly increase our costs, impede the efficiency of our
internal business processes, require us to increase our regulatory capital and limit our
ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner.

•Future federal statutes may adversely affect the terms of the CPP that are applicable to
us, and the Treasury may amend the terms of our agreement unilaterally if required by future
statutes, including in a manner materially adverse to us.





•While our objective is to repay the CPP funds invested in us, our ability to do so is
subject to federal regulatory approvals that may impose significant conditions, including a
requirement that we raise additional capital, and we cannot predict whether or when we may
reach agreement with the federal regulators with respect to the terms of our repayment. Our
ability to raise capital as a condition to repayment will in turn depend on a variety of
considerations, including our capital resources and market conditions at the time, as well as
the terms on which we could raise capital, and any potential dilutive impact on shareholders.

We may experience unfavorable judicial or legislative developments that could have a material
adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.

Potential changes in domestic and foreign regulation may increase our business costs and required
capital levels, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated operating
results, financial condition and liquidity.

We are subject to extensive U.S. and non-U.S. laws and regulations that are complex, subject to
change and often conflicting in their approach or intended outcomes. Compliance with these laws
and regulations is costly and can affect our strategy, as well as the demand for and profitability
of the products we offer. There is also a risk that any particular regulator’s or enforcement
authority’s interpretation of a legal issue may change over time to our detriment, or expose us to
different or additional regulatory risks.

State insurance laws regulate most aspects of our U.S. insurance businesses, and our insurance
subsidiaries are regulated by the insurance departments of the states in which they are domiciled,
licensed or authorized to conduct business. U.S. state laws grant insurance regulatory authorities
broad administrative powers with respect to, among other things:

•licensing companies and agents to transact business;

•calculating the value of assets to determine compliance with statutory requirements;

•mandating certain insurance benefits;

•regulating certain premium rates;

•reviewing and approving policy forms;

•regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including through the imposition of
restrictions on marketing and sales practices, distribution arrangements and payment of
inducements;

•establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements and solvency standards;

•fixing maximum interest rates on insurance policy loans and minimum rates for guaranteed
crediting rates on life insurance policies and annuity contracts;

•approving changes in control of insurance companies;

•restricting the payment of dividends and other transactions between affiliates;

•establishing assessments and surcharges for guaranty funds, second-injury funds and other
mandatory pooling arrangements;

•requiring insurers to dividend to policy holders any excess profits; and

•regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments.





State insurance regulators and the NAIC regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations
applicable to insurance companies and their products. Our international operations are subject to
regulation in the relevant jurisdictions in which they operate, which in many ways is similar to
the state regulation outlined above, with similar related restrictions. Our asset management
businesses are also subject to extensive regulation in the various jurisdictions where they
operate. These laws and regulations are primarily intended to protect investors in the securities
markets or investment advisory clients and generally grant supervisory authorities broad
administrative powers. Changes in these laws and regulations, or in the interpretations thereof,
are often made for the benefit of the consumer at the expense of the insurer and thus could have a
material adverse effect on our business, consolidated operating results, financial condition and
liquidity. Compliance with these laws and regulations is also time consuming and
personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may increase materially our direct
and indirect compliance costs and other expenses of doing business, thus having an adverse effect
on our business, consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity.

We may experience difficulty in marketing and distributing products through our current and future
distribution channels.

We distribute our annuity, life and property and casualty insurance products through a variety of
distribution channels, including brokers, independent agents, broker-dealers, banks, wholesalers,
affinity partners, our own internal sales force and other third-party organizations. In some areas
of our business, we generate a significant portion of our business through individual third-party
arrangements. For example, we generated approximately 72% of our personal lines earned premium in
2009 under an exclusive licensing arrangement with AARP that continues until January 1, 2020. We
periodically negotiate provisions and renewals of these relationships, and there can be no
assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to us or such third parties. An interruption in
our continuing relationship with certain of these third parties could materially affect our ability
to market our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results
and financial condition.

Our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity may be adversely affected by
the emergence of unexpected and unintended claim and coverage issues.

As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change,
unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may
either extend coverage beyond our underwriting intent or increase the frequency or severity of
claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have
issued insurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of
liability under our insurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued,
and this liability may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations,
financial condition and liquidity at the time it becomes known.

Limits on the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could have a material
adverse effect on our liquidity.

The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. is a holding company with no significant operations.
Our principal asset is the stock of our insurance subsidiaries. State insurance regulatory
authorities limit the payment of dividends by insurance subsidiaries. These restrictions and other
regulatory requirements affect the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to make dividend payments.
Limits on the ability of the insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends could have a material adverse
effect on our liquidity, including our ability to pay dividends to shareholders and service our
debt.

As a property and casualty insurer, the premium rates we are able to charge and the profits we are
able to obtain are affected by the actions of state insurance departments that regulate our
business, the cyclical nature of the business in which we compete and our ability to adequately
price the risks we underwrite, which may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results
of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

Pricing adequacy depends on a number of factors, including the ability to obtain regulatory
approval for rate changes, proper evaluation of underwriting risks, the ability to project future
loss cost frequency and severity based on historical loss experience adjusted for known trends, our
response to rate actions taken by competitors, and expectations about regulatory and legal
developments and expense levels. We seek to price our property and casualty insurance policies
such that insurance premiums and future net investment income earned on premiums received will
provide for an acceptable profit in excess of underwriting expenses and the cost of paying claims.

State insurance departments that regulate us often propose premium rate changes for the benefit of
the consumer at the expense of the insurer and may not allow us to reach targeted levels of
profitability. In addition to regulating rates, certain states have enacted laws that require a
property and casualty insurer conducting business in that state to participate in assigned risk
plans, reinsurance facilities, joint underwriting associations and other residual market plans, or
to offer coverage to all consumers and often restrict an insurer’s ability to charge the price it
might otherwise charge. In these markets, we may be compelled to underwrite significant amounts of
business at lower than desired rates, participate in the operating losses of residual market plans
or pay assessments to fund operating deficits of state-sponsored funds, possibly leading to an
unacceptable returns on equity. The laws and regulations of many states also limit an insurer’s
ability to withdraw from one or more lines of insurance in the state, except pursuant to a plan
that is approved by the state’s insurance department. Additionally, certain states require
insurers to participate in guaranty funds for impaired or insolvent insurance companies. These
funds periodically assess losses against all insurance companies doing business in the state. Any
of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations.





Additionally, the property and casualty insurance market is historically cyclical, experiencing
periods characterized by relatively high levels of price competition, less restrictive underwriting
standards and relatively low premium rates, followed by periods of relatively low levels of
competition, more selective underwriting standards and relatively high premium rates. Prices tend
to increase for a particular line of business when insurance carriers have incurred significant
losses in that line of business in the recent past or when the industry as a whole commits less of
its capital to writing exposures in that line of business. Prices tend to decrease when recent
loss experience has been favorable or when competition among insurance carriers increases. In a
number of product lines and states, we continue to experience premium rate reductions. In these
product lines and states, there is a risk that the premium we charge may ultimately prove to be
inadequate as reported losses emerge. Even in a period of rate increases, there is a risk that
regulatory constraints, price competition or incorrect pricing assumptions could prevent us from
achieving targeted returns. Inadequate pricing could have a material adverse effect on our
consolidated results of operations.

If we are unable to maintain the availability of our systems and safeguard the security of our data
due to the occurrence of disasters or other unanticipated events, our ability to conduct business
may be compromised, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results
of operations, financial condition or cash flows.

If we experience difficulties arising from outsourcing relationships, our ability to conduct
business may be compromised.

We outsource certain technology and business functions to third parties and expect to do so
selectively in the future. If we do not effectively develop and implement our outsourcing
strategy, third-party providers do not perform as anticipated, or we experience problems with a
transition, we may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and a loss of business that
may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations.

Potential changes in federal or state tax laws, including changes impacting the availability of the
separate account dividend received deduction, could adversely affect our business, consolidated
operating results or financial condition or liquidity.

Many of the products that the Company sells benefit from one or more forms of tax-favored status
under current federal and state income tax regimes. For example, the Company sells life insurance
policies that benefit from the deferral or elimination of taxation on earnings accrued under the
policy, as well as permanent exclusion of certain death benefits that may be paid to policyholders’
beneficiaries. We also sell annuity contracts that allow the policyholders to defer the recognition
of taxable income earned within the contract. Other products that the Company sells also enjoy
similar, as well as other, types of tax advantages. The Company also benefits from certain tax
benefits, including but not limited to, tax-exempt bond interest, dividends-received deductions,
tax credits (such as foreign tax credits), and insurance reserve deductions.

Due in large part to the recent financial crisis that has affected many governments, there is an
increasing risk that federal and/or state tax legislation could be enacted that would result in
higher taxes on insurance companies and/or their policyholders. Although the specific form of any
such potential legislation is uncertain, it could include lessening or eliminating some or all of
the tax advantages currently benefiting the Company or its policyholders including, but not limited
to, those mentioned above. This could occur in the context of deficit reduction or other tax
reforms. The effects of any such changes could result in materially lower product sales, lapses of
policies currently held, and/or our incurrence of materially higher corporate taxes.

Changes in accounting principles and financial reporting requirements could result in material
changes to our reported results and financial condition.

U.S. GAAP and related financial reporting requirements are complex, continually evolving and may be
subject to varied interpretation by the relevant authoritative bodies. Such varied interpretations
could result from differing views related to specific facts and circumstances. Changes in U.S.
GAAP and financial reporting requirements, or in the interpretation of U.S. GAAP or those
requirements, could result in material changes to our reported results and financial condition.





We may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims.

We rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret
laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. Although we use a broad range of measures
to protect our intellectual property rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our
intellectual property. We may have to litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks,
patents, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability, which
represents a diversion of resources that may be significant in amount and may not prove successful.
The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to secure or enforce the protection
of our intellectual property assets could have a material adverse effect on our business and our
ability to compete.

We also may be subject to costly litigation in the event that another party alleges our operations
or activities infringe upon another party’s intellectual property rights. Third parties may have,
or may eventually be issued, patents that could be infringed by our products, methods, processes or
services. Any party that holds such a patent could make a claim of infringement against us. We may
also be subject to claims by third parties for breach of copyright, trademark, trade secret or
license usage rights. Any such claims and any resulting litigation could result in significant
liability for damages. If we were found to have infringed a third-party patent or other
intellectual property rights, we could incur substantial liability, and in some circumstances could
be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers or utilizing and
benefiting from certain methods, processes, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses, or
alternatively could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties, all
of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial
condition.



