ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Overview

Las Vegas Sands Corp. (“LVSC” or together with its subsidiaries “we” or the “Company”) own and operate
The Venetian Resort Hotel Casino (“The Venetian Las Vegas”), The Palazzo Resort Hotel Casino (“The
Palazzo”) and The Sands Expo and Convention Center (the “Sands Expo Center”) in Las Vegas, Nevada,
and the Sands Macao, The Venetian Macao Resort Hotel (“The Venetian Macao”), the Four Seasons Hotel
Macao, Cotai StripTM(the “Four Seasons Hotel Macao,” which is managed by Four Seasons
Hotels Inc.) and the Plaza Casino (together with the Four Seasons Hotel Macao, the “Four Seasons
Macao”) in the Macau Special Administrative Region (“Macau”) of the People’s Republic of China
(“China”). We are also creating a master-planned development of integrated resort properties,
anchored by The Venetian Macao, which we refer to as the Cotai Striptmin
Macau. In addition, we are developing Marina Bay Sands, an integrated resort in Singapore, and
Sands Casino Resort Bethlehem (the “Sands Bethlehem”), an integrated resort in Bethlehem,
Pennsylvania.

Our Company

LVSC was incorporated as a Nevada corporation in August 2004. Our common stock is traded on
the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) under the symbol “LVS.” Immediately prior to our initial
public offering in December 2004, we acquired 100% of the capital stock of Las Vegas Sands, Inc.
(“LVSI”), a Nevada corporation and the direct or indirect owner and operator of The Venetian Las
Vegas, Sands Expo Center and Sands Macao, by merging LVSI with and into our wholly owned
subsidiary, leaving LVSI as the surviving subsidiary. LVSI was incorporated in Nevada in April
1988. In July 2005, LVSI was converted into a limited liability company and changed its name to Las
Vegas Sands, LLC (“LVSLLC”).

In November 2009, our newly formed  subsidiary, Sands China Ltd. (“SCL,”  the direct or indirect owner
and operator of the majority of our Macau operations, including Sands Macao, The Venetian Macao, Four Seasons Macao
and our ferry operations, and developer of the remaining Cotai Strip integrated
resorts), completed an initial public offering of its ordinary shares
(the “SCL Offering”) on The Main Board of
The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (“SEHK”). Immediately following the SCL Offering and several
transactions consummated in connection with such offering (see “Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — Note 9 — Equity — Noncontrolling Interests”),
we owned 70.3% of issued and outstanding ordinary shares of SCL. The shares of SCL were not, and will not, be registered under the Securities
Act of 1933, as amended, and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent a registration
under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or an applicable exception from such registration
requirements.

Our principal executive office is located at 3355 Las Vegas Boulevard South, Las Vegas, Nevada
89109. Our telephone number at that address is (702) 414-1000. Our website address iswww.lasvegassands.com.The information on our website  is not part of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K,
proxy statements and other Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) filings, and any amendments
to those reports and any other filings that we file with or furnish to the SEC under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 are made available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably
practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC
and are also available in the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington D.C.,
20549.

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains certain forward-looking statements. See “Item 7 —
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Special
Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.”





Operations

Las Vegas

Our Las Vegas Operating Properties represent
an integrated resort with approximately 7,100 suites and approximately 225,000 square feet of
gaming space, which includes approximately 240 table games and 3,020 slot machines.

The Venetian Las Vegas has 4,027 suites situated in a 3,014-suite, 35-story three-winged tower
rising above the casino and the 1,013-suite, 12-story Venezia tower situated above a parking
garage. The casino at The Venetian Las Vegas has approximately 120,000 square feet of gaming space
and includes approximately 115 table games and 1,610 slot machines. The Venetian Las Vegas features
a variety of amenities for its guests, including a Paiza Clubtmoffering
high-end services and amenities to VIP customers, such as luxurious suites, spa facilities and
private gaming rooms; a Canyon Ranch SpaClub, operated by Canyon Ranch; and a theater/entertainment
complex featuring a wide variety of entertainment. The Venetian Las Vegas also includes an enclosed
retail, dining and entertainment complex of approximately 440,000 net leasable square feet (“The
Grand Canal Shoppes”), which was sold to GGP Limited Partnership (“GGP”) in 2004.

The Palazzo features modern European ambience and design, is situated adjacent to and north of
The Venetian Las Vegas, and is directly connected to The Venetian Las Vegas and Sands Expo Center.
The casino at The Palazzo is approximately 105,000 square feet of gaming space and has
approximately 125 table games and 1,410 slot machines. The Palazzo has a 50-floor luxury hotel
tower with 3,066 suites and includes a Canyon Ranch SpaClub; a Paiza Club; an entertainment center;
and an enclosed shopping and dining complex of approximately 400,000 net leasable square feet (“The
Shoppes at The Palazzo”), which was sold to GGP on February 29, 2008.

With approximately 1.2 million gross square feet of exhibit and meeting space, Sands Expo
Center is one of the largest overall trade show and convention facilities in the United States (as
measured by net leasable square footage). We also own and operate an approximately 1.1 million
gross square foot meeting and conference facility that links Sands Expo Center to The Venetian Las
Vegas and The Palazzo. Together, we offer approximately 2.3 million gross square feet of
state-of-the-art exhibition and meeting facilities that can be configured to provide small,
mid-size or large meeting rooms and/or accommodate large-scale multi-media events or trade shows.
Management believes that these combined facilities, together with the on-site amenities offered by
The Venetian Las Vegas and The Palazzo, provide a flexible and expansive space for large-scale
trade shows and conventions.

Management markets the meeting and conference facility to complement the operations of Sands
Expo Center for business conferences and upscale business events typically held during the mid-week
period, thereby generating room-night demand and driving average daily room rates during the
weekday move-in/move-out phases of Sands Expo Center’s events. Events at our exhibition and meeting
facilities typically take place during the mid-week when Las Vegas hotels and casinos experience
lower demand, unlike weekends and holidays during which occupancy and room rates are at their
peaks. Our goal is to draw from attendees and exhibitors at these facilities to maintain mid-week
demand at our hotels from this higher-budget market segment, when room demand would otherwise be
derived from the lower-budget tour-and-travel-group market segment. In 2009, approximately
0.8 million visitors attended meetings, trade shows and conventions at Sands Expo Center and our
meeting and conference facilities.

Pennsylvania

We are in the process of developing Sands Bethlehem, a gaming, hotel, retail and dining
complex located on the site of the historic Bethlehem Steel Works in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania. Sands
Bethlehem is also expected to be home to the National Museum of Industrial History, an arts and
cultural center, and the broadcast home of the local PBS affiliate. We own 86% of the economic
interest of the gaming, hotel and entertainment portion of the property through our ownership
interest in Sands Bethworks Gaming LLC and more than 35% of the economic interest of the retail
portion of the property through our ownership interest in Sands Bethworks Retail, LLC.





On May 22, 2009, we opened the casino component of Sands Bethlehem, which features 3,250 slot
machines and several food and beverage offerings, as well as the parking garage and surface
parking. Construction activities on the remaining components, which
include a 300-room hotel, an approximate 200,000-square-foot retail facility, a
50,000-square-foot multipurpose event center and a variety of additional dining options, have been
suspended temporarily and are intended to recommence when capital markets and general economic
conditions improve, and when the suspended components are able to be financed. As of December 31,
2009, we have capitalized construction costs of $628.6 million for this project (including
$31.6 million in outstanding construction payables). We expect to spend approximately $45 million
on furniture, fixtures and equipment (“FF&E”) and other costs, and to pay outstanding construction
payables, as noted above. In February 2010, we submitted a petition to the Pennsylvania Gaming
Control Board (the “PaGCB”) seeking a certificate to add table games based on a revision to the
Pennsylvania Act in 2010 that authorized table games. If approved by the PaGCB, we expect to spend
an additional approximately $27 million to add table games, including the $16.5 million license
fee. The impact of the suspension on the estimated overall cost of the project’s remaining
components is currently not determinable with certainty.

Macau

SCL, of which we own 70.3% subsequent to the SCL Offering and related transactions, includes
the operations of the Sands Macao, The Venetian Macao, Four Seasons Macao and other ancillary
operations that support these properties. We  operate the gaming areas within these
properties pursuant to a 20-year gaming subconcession.

The Sands Macao, the first Las Vegas-style casino in Macau, is situated near the Macau-Hong
Kong Ferry Terminal on a waterfront parcel centrally located between the Gonbei border gate and the
central business district. This location provides the Sands Macao primary access to a large
customer base, particularly the approximately 8.7 million visitors who arrived in Macau by ferry in
2009. The Sands Macao includes approximately 229,000 square feet of gaming space and currently has
approximately 420 table games and 1,170 slot machines or similar electronic gaming devices. The
Sands Macao also includes a 289-suite hotel tower, several restaurants, a spacious Paiza Club, a
theater and other high-end services and amenities.

The Venetian Macao is the anchor property for our Cotai Strip development, which is located
approximately two miles from Macau’s Taipa Temporary Ferry Terminal on Macau’s Taipa Island. The
Venetian Macao includes approximately 550,000 square feet of gaming space and has approximately 600
table games and 2,200 slot machines or similar electronic gaming devices, and a designed capacity
of approximately 1,150 table games and 7,000 slot machines or similar electronic gaming devices.
The Venetian Macao, with a theme similar to that of The Venetian Las Vegas, also features a
39-floor luxury hotel tower with over 2,900 suites; approximately 1.0 million square feet of retail
and dining offerings; a convention center and meeting room complex of approximately 1.2 million
square feet; a 15,000-seat arena that has hosted a wide range of entertainment and sporting events;
and a 1,800-seat theater that features Zaia, an original production from Cirque Du Soleil.

Management believes that the convention center and meeting room complex combined with the
on-site amenities offered at The Venetian Macao provides a flexible and expansive space for
large-scale trade shows and conventions. We market The Venetian Macao similar to our Las Vegas
Operating Properties, with events at the convention and meeting room complex typically taking place
during the week when hotels and casinos in Macau normally experience lower demand, unlike weekends
and holidays during which occupancy and room rates are at their peak. Our goal is to draw from
attendees and exhibitors at our convention and meeting room complex to maintain mid-week demand at
our hotel from this higher-budget market segment.

tm





Development Projects

Given the challenging conditions in the capital markets and the global economy and their
impact on our ongoing operations, we revised our development plan to suspend portions of our
development projects and focus our development efforts on those projects with the highest expected
rates of
 return on invested capital. Should general economic conditions fail to improve, if we are
unable to obtain sufficient funding such that completion of our suspended projects is not probable,
or should management decide to abandon certain projects, all or a portion of our investment to date
on our suspended projects could be lost and would result in an impairment charge. In addition, we
may be subject to penalties under the termination clauses in our construction contracts or
termination rights under our management contracts with certain hotel management companies.

United States Development Project

We were constructing a St. Regis-branded high-rise residential condominium tower, the St.
Regis Residences at The Venetian Palazzo (the “St. Regis Residences”), located on the Las Vegas
Strip between The Palazzo and The Venetian. As part of our revised development plan, we suspended
our construction activities for the project due to reduced demand for Las Vegas Strip condominiums
and the overall decline in general economic conditions. We intend to recommence construction when
demand and conditions improve and expect that it will take approximately 18 months thereafter to
complete construction of the project. As of December 31, 2009, we have capitalized construction
costs of $184.8 million for this project (including $4.8 million in outstanding construction
payables). We expect to spend approximately $10 million on additional costs and to pay outstanding
construction payables, as noted above. The impact of the suspension on the estimated overall cost
of the project is currently not determinable with certainty.

Macao Development Projects

We submitted plans to the Macau government for our other Cotai Strip developments, which
represent three integrated resort developments, in addition to The Venetian Macao and Four Seasons
Macao, on an area of approximately 200 acres (which we refer to as parcels 3, 5 and 6, and 7 and
8). Subject to the approval from the Macau government, the developments are expected to include
hotels, exhibition and conference facilities, gaming areas, showrooms, spas, dining, retail and
entertainment facilities and other amenities. We commenced construction or pre-construction on
these developments and plan to  operate the related gaming areas under our Macau gaming
subconcession. In addition, we are completing the development of some public areas surrounding our
Cotai Strip properties on behalf of the Macau government. We currently intend to develop our other
Cotai Strip properties as follows:



•



•Parcels 7 and 8 — The integrated resort on parcels 7 and 8 is expected to be similar in
size and scope to the integrated resort on parcels 5 and 6. We had commenced
pre-construction and have capitalized construction costs of $116.2 million as of December
31, 2009. We intend to commence construction after the integrated resorts on parcels 5 and 6
and 3 are complete, necessary
government approvals are obtained, regional and global economic conditions improve, future
demand warrants it and additional financing is obtained.







•Parcel 3 — The integrated resort on parcel 3 will be connected to The Venetian Macao and
Four Seasons Macao. The multi-hotel complex is intended to include a gaming area, a shopping
mall and serviced luxury apart-hotel units. We had commenced pre-construction and have
capitalized construction costs of $35.7 million as of December 31, 2009. We intend to
commence construction after the integrated resort on parcels 5 and 6 is complete, necessary
government approvals are obtained, regional and global economic conditions improve, future
demand warrants it and additional financing is obtained.

The impact of the delayed construction on our previously estimated cost to complete our Cotai
Strip developments is currently not determinable with certainty. As of December 31, 2009, we have
capitalized an aggregate of $5.82 billion in construction costs for our Cotai Strip developments,
including The Venetian Macao and Four Seasons Macao, as well as our investments in transportation
infrastructure, including our passenger ferry service operations. In addition to the commitments for project
financing, which we received for phases I and II of parcels 5 and 6 in November 2009, we will need to
arrange additional financing to fund the balance of our Cotai Strip developments and there is no
assurance that we will be able to obtain any of the additional financing required.

We have received a land concession from the Macau government to build on parcels 1, 2 and 3,
including the sites on which The Venetian Macao (parcel 1) and Four Seasons Macao (parcel 2) are
located. We do not own these land sites in Macau; however, the land concession, which has an
initial term of 25 years and is renewable at our option in accordance with Macau law, grants us
exclusive use of the land. As specified in the land concession, we are required to pay premiums for
each parcel, which are either payable in a single lump sum upon acceptance of our land concession
by the Macau government or in seven semi-annual installments (provided that the outstanding balance
is due upon the completion of the corresponding integrated resort), as well as annual rent for the
term of the land concession. In October 2008, the Macau government amended our land concession to
allow us to subdivide parcel 2 into four separate units under Macau’s horizontal property regime,
consisting of retail, hotel/casino, Four Seasons Apartments and parking areas.

Under our land concession for parcel 3, we were
initially required to complete the corresponding
development by August 2011. The Macau government has granted us
a two-year extension to complete the
development of parcel 3, which now must be completed by April 2013. We believe that if we are not able to complete the
development by the revised deadline, we will be able to obtain another extension from the Macau government;
however, no assurances can be given that an additional extension will be granted. If we are unable to meet the
April 2013 deadline and that deadline is not extended, we could lose our land concession for parcel
3, which would prohibit us from operating any facilities developed under the land concession for
parcel 3. As a result, we could forfeit all or a substantial portion of our $35.7 million in
capitalized costs, as of December 31, 2009, related to our development on parcel 3.

In November 2009, we received the final draft of the land concession agreement from the Macau
government  for parcels 5 and 6. We have
formally accepted the terms and conditions of the draft land concession and have made an initial
premium payment of 700.0 million patacas (approximately $87.6 million at exchange rates in effect
on December 31, 2009). The land concession will not become effective until the date it is published
in Macau’s Official Gazette. Once the land concession becomes effective, we will be required to make
additional land premium and annual rent payments in the amounts and at the times specified in the
land concession. The land concession requires us to complete the development of the integrated resort
on parcels 5 and 6 within 48 months of the date it is published in Macau’s Official Gazette. If we
are not able to meet this deadline, we will need to obtain an extension to complete the development
on parcels 5 and 6; however, no assurances can be given that such extension will be granted. If we
are unable to the meet the deadline and that deadline is not extended, we could lose our land
concession for parcels 5 and 6, which would prohibit us from operating any facilities developed
under the land concession. As a result, we could forfeit all or a substantial part of our $1.73
billion in capitalized costs, as of December 31, 2009, related to our development on parcels 5 and
6.

We do not yet have all of the necessary Macau government approvals to develop our planned
Cotai Strip developments on parcels 3, 5, 6, 7 and 8. We have received a land concession for parcel
3 and will negotiate the land concession for parcels 7 and 8 once the land concession for parcels 5
and 6, as previously noted, is finalized. Based on historical experience with the Macau government
with respect to our land concessions for the Sands Macao and parcels 1, 2, 3, 5 and 6, management
believes that the land concessions for parcels 7 and 8 will be granted; however, if we do not
obtain these land concessions, we could forfeit all or a substantial part of our $116.2 million in
capitalized costs, as of December 31, 2009, related to our developments on parcels 7 and 8.





Singapore Development Project

Other Development Projects

When the current economic environment and access to capital improve, we may continue exploring
the possibility of developing and operating additional properties, including integrated resorts, in
additional Asian and U.S. jurisdictions, and in Europe.

The Las Vegas Market

In addition, certain states have legalized, and others may legalize, casino gaming in specific
areas. The continued proliferation of gaming venues could significantly and adversely affect our
business. In particular, the legalization of casino gaming in or near major metropolitan areas from
which we traditionally attract customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. The
current global trend toward liberalization of gaming restrictions and the resulting proliferation
of gaming venues could result in a decrease in the number of visitors to our Las Vegas Operating
Properties, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or
cash flows.

Las Vegas generally competes with trade show and convention facilities located in and around
major U.S. cities. Within Las Vegas, the Sands Expo Center competes with the Las Vegas Convention
Center (the “LVCC”), which currently has approximately 3.2 million gross square feet of convention
and exhibit facilities. In addition to the LVCC, Mandalay Bay, certain properties of MGM MIRAGE and
Wynn Las Vegas have convention and conference facilities that compete with our Las Vegas Operating
Properties. The large projects mentioned above, which are expected to open in the next several
years, are expected to include additional convention and conference facilities.

Competitors of our Las Vegas Operating Properties that can offer a hotel/casino experience
that is integrated with substantial trade show and convention, conference and meeting facilities,
could have an adverse effect on our competitive advantage in attracting trade show and convention,
conference and meeting attendees.





The Macau Market

Macau as a Gaming and Resort Destination

Macau is regarded as the largest gaming market in the world and is the only market in China to
offer legalized casino gaming. In May 2004, Sands Macao became the first Las Vegas-style casino to
open in Macau and with our openings of The Venetian Macao in August 2007 and the Four Seasons Macao
in August 2008, we believe that our high-quality gaming product has enabled us to capture a
meaningful share of the overall market, including the VIP player market segment, in Macau.

According to Macau government statistics, gaming revenues in Macau during 2009 reached
$14.9 billion, a 9.7% increase over 2008 despite a 5.1% decrease in visits to Macau during 2009
when compared to 2008. During 2009, 29.6% of visitors traveling to Macau stayed overnight in hotels
and guestrooms and, for those who stayed overnight in hotels and guestrooms, the average length of
stay was between 1 and 2 nights. We expect this length of stay to increase with increased
visitation, the expansion of gaming and non-gaming amenities including retail, entertainment,
meeting and convention facility offerings, and the addition of upscale hotel accommodations in
Macau.

Table games are the dominant form of gaming in Asia with baccarat being the most popular game,
followed by other traditional U.S. and Asian games. Slot machines are offered in Macau, but the
structure of the gaming market in Macau has historically favored table gaming. With the increase in
the mass gaming market in Macau, slot machines are becoming an important feature of the market. We
expect the slot machine business to grow in Macau, and we intend to continue to introduce more
modern and popular products that appeal to the Asian marketplace.

We believe that as new facilities and standards of service are introduced, Macau will become
an even more desirable tourist destination. The improved experience of visitors to Macau should
lead to longer stays, an increase in repeat visitation from existing feeder markets and the opening
of several new feeder markets. In addition, we believe that an expanding Chinese middle class will
eventually lead to increased travel to Macau and generate increased demand for gaming,
entertainment and resort offerings as global general economic conditions improve.

Proximity to Major Asian Cities

Approximately 1.0 billion people are estimated to live within a three-hour flight from Macau
and approximately 3.0 billion people are estimated to live within a five-hour flight from Macau.
According to Macau government statistics, 81.4% of the tourists who visited Macau in 2009 came from
Hong Kong or mainland China. Although the total number of visitors from Hong Kong continues to
grow, that market has shrunk as a percentage of the total visitor distribution from 38.9% in 2003
to 30.9% in 2009, while visitors from mainland China made up 50.5% of total visitors to Macau in
2009. Recent travel restrictions from mainland China are affecting overall visitation to Macau. See
“Item 1A — Risk Factors — Risks Associated with Our International Operations — The number of
visitors to Macau, particularly visitors from mainland China, may decline or travel to Macau may be
disrupted.”

Gaming customers from Hong Kong, southeast China, Taiwan and other locations in Asia can reach
Macau in a relatively short period of time, using a variety of transportation methods, and visitors
from more distant locations in Asia can take advantage of short travel times by air to Macau,
Zhuhai, Shenzhen, Guangzhou or to Hong Kong (followed by a road, ferry or helicopter trip to
Macau). In addition, numerous carriers fly directly into Macau International Airport from many
major cities in Asia. The relatively easy access from major population centers promotes Macau as a
popular gaming and resort destination in Asia.

Macau draws a significant number of gaming customers from both visitors to and residents of
Hong Kong. One of the major methods of transportation to Macau from Hong Kong is the jetfoil ferry
service, including our ferry service, The Cotai Strip CotaiJettm, which we
opened in late 2007. Macau is also accessible from Hong Kong by helicopter. In addition, the
proposed bridge linking Hong Kong, Macau and Zhuhai is expected to reduce the travel time between
central Hong Kong and Macau. The bridge is expected be completed sometime between 2015 and 2016.

The Macau pataca and the Hong Kong dollar are linked to each other and, in many cases, are
used interchangeably in Macau; however, currency exchange controls and restrictions on the export
of currency by certain countries may negatively impact the success of our operations. For example,
there are currently existing currency exchange controls and restrictions on the export of the
renminbi, the legal currency in China. In addition, restrictions on the export of the renminbi may
impede the flow of gaming customers from mainland China to Macau, inhibit the growth of gaming in
Macau or negatively impact our gaming operations.





Competition in Macau

Gaming in Macau is administered through government-sanctioned concessions awarded to three
different concessionaires and three subconcessionaires, of which we are one. The Macau government
had undertaken contractually not to grant additional gaming concessions until April 1, 2009. No
additional concessions have been granted; however, if the Macau government decides to allow
additional competitors to operate in Macau through the grant of additional concessions or
subconcessions, we will face additional competition, which could have a material adverse effect on
our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Sociedade de Jogos de Macau S.A. (“SJM”), controlled by Stanley Ho, holds one of the three
concessions and currently operates 20 facilities throughout Macau. Historically, SJM was the only
gaming operator in Macau, with over 40 years of operating experience in Macau. Many of its 20
casinos are relatively small facilities that are offered as amenities in hotels; however, a number
are large operations enjoying significant recognition by gaming customers in the marketplace. SJM
was obligated to invest at least approximately 4.7 billion patacas (approximately $588.4 million at
exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2009) by March 31, 2009, under its concession agreement
with the Macau government. SJM’s projects include the recently expanded Grand Lisboa, the
Fisherman’s Wharf entertainment complex, L’Arc, Oceanus and other projects. MGM Grand Paradise
Limited, a joint venture between MGM MIRAGE and Stanley Ho’s daughter, Pansy Ho Chiu-King, obtained
a subconcession in April 2005 allowing it to conduct gaming operations in Macau. The MGM Grand
Macau opened in December 2007 and features approximately 600 rooms, 375 table games, 900 slot
machines, restaurants and entertainment amenities.

Galaxy Casino Company Limited (“Galaxy”) holds a concession and has the ability to operate
casino properties independent of our subconcession agreement with Galaxy and the Macau government.
Galaxy was obligated to invest at least 4.4 billion patacas (approximately $550.9 million at
exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2009) by June 2012 under its concession agreement with the
Macau government. Galaxy currently operates five casinos in Macau, including StarWorld Hotel, which
opened in October 2006 and has over 500 hotel rooms and a 140,000 square foot gaming floor. Galaxy
Macau, which will be located adjacent to The Venetian Macao, is currently expected to open in 2010
and upon completion will feature approximately 2,500 hotel rooms and capacity for 700 table games
and 4,000 slot machines.

Wynn Resorts (Macau), S.A. (“Wynn Resorts Macau”), a subsidiary of Wynn Resorts Limited, holds
the third concession. Wynn Macau opened in September 2006 and with its expansion in late 2007, now
includes an approximately 600-room hotel, a casino and other non-gaming amenities. In 2006, Wynn
Resorts Macau sold its subconcession right under its gaming concession to an affiliate of
Publishing and Broadcasting Limited (“PBL”), which permitted the PBL affiliate to receive a gaming
subconcession from the Macau government. In May 2007, the PBL affiliate opened the Crown Macau,
which has been rebranded to Altira during 2009 and includes an approximately 216-room hotel, a
casino and other non-gaming amenities. In June 2009, the PBL affiliate opened the City of Dreams,
an integrated casino resort located adjacent to our Cotai Strip parcels 5 and 6, which includes a
Crown Towers hotel with 286 rooms, a Hard Rock hotel with 322 rooms, a Grand Hyatt hotel with 791
rooms, two casinos and other non-gaming facilities.

Our Macau operations will also face competition from casinos located in other areas of Asia,
such as the major gaming and resort destination Genting Highlands Resort, located outside of Kuala
Lumpur, Malaysia, and casinos in South Korea and the Philippines, as well as pachinko and pachislot
parlors in Japan. We will also encounter competition from other major gaming centers worldwide.

Advertising and Marketing

We advertise in many types of media, including television, internet, radio, newspapers,
magazines and billboards, to promote general market awareness of our properties as unique vacation,
business and convention destinations due to our first-class hotels, casinos, retail stores,
restaurants and other amenities. We actively engage in direct marketing as allowed in various
geographic regions, which is targeted at specific market segments, including the premium slot and
table games markets.

Regulation and Licensing

State of Nevada

The ownership and operation of casino gaming facilities in the State of Nevada are subject to
the Nevada Gaming Control Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the “Nevada
Act”) and various local regulations. Our gaming operations are also subject to the licensing and
regulatory control of the Nevada Gaming Commission (the “Nevada Commission”), the Nevada Gaming
Control Board (the “Nevada Board”) and the Clark County Liquor and Gaming Licensing Board (the
“CCLGLB” and together with the Nevada Commission and the Nevada Board, the “Nevada Gaming
Authorities”).





The laws, regulations and supervisory procedures of the Nevada Gaming Authorities are based
upon declarations of public policy that are concerned with, among other things:

•the prevention of unsavory or unsuitable persons from having a direct or indirect
involvement with gaming at any time or in any capacity;•the establishment and maintenance of responsible accounting practices and procedures;•the maintenance of effective controls over the financial practices of licensees,
including establishing minimum procedures for internal fiscal affairs and the safeguarding
of assets and revenues, providing reliable record-keeping and requiring the filing of
periodic reports with the Nevada Gaming Authorities;•the prevention of cheating and fraudulent practices; and•the establishment of a source of state and local revenues through taxation and licensing
fees.

Any change in such laws, regulations and procedures could have an adverse effect on our Las
Vegas operations.

LVSLLC is licensed by the Nevada Gaming Authorities to operate both The Venetian Las Vegas and
The Palazzo as a single resort hotel as set forth in the Nevada Act. The gaming license requires
the periodic payment of fees and taxes and is not transferable. LVSLLC is also registered as an
intermediary company of Venetian Casino Resort, LLC (“VCR”). VCR is licensed as a manufacturer and
distributor of gaming devices. LVSLLC and VCR are collectively referred to as the “licensed
subsidiaries.” LVSC is registered with the Nevada Commission as a publicly traded corporation (the
“registered corporation”). As such, we must periodically submit detailed financial and operating
reports to the Nevada Gaming Authorities and furnish any other information that the Nevada Gaming
Authorities may require. No person may become a stockholder of, or receive any percentage of the
profits from, the licensed subsidiaries without first obtaining licenses and approvals from the
Nevada Gaming Authorities. Additionally, the CCLGLB has taken the position that it has the
authority to approve all persons owning or controlling the stock of any corporation controlling a
gaming licensee. We, and the licensed subsidiaries, possess all state and local government
registrations, approvals, permits and licenses required in order for us to engage in gaming
activities at The Venetian Las Vegas and The Palazzo.

The Nevada Gaming Authorities may investigate any individual who has a material relationship
to or material involvement with us or the licensed subsidiaries to determine whether such
individual is suitable or should be licensed as a business associate of a gaming licensee.
Officers, directors and certain key employees of the licensed subsidiaries must file applications
with the Nevada Gaming Authorities and may be required to be licensed by the Nevada Gaming
Authorities. Our officers, directors and key employees who are actively and directly involved in
the gaming activities of the licensed subsidiaries may be required to be licensed or found suitable
by the Nevada Gaming Authorities.

The Nevada Gaming Authorities may deny an application for licensing or a finding of
suitability for any cause they deem reasonable. A finding of suitability is comparable to
licensing; both require submission of detailed personal and financial information followed by a
thorough investigation. The applicant for licensing or a finding of suitability, or the gaming
licensee by whom the applicant is employed or for whom the applicant serves, must pay all the costs
of the investigation. Changes in licensed positions must be reported to the Nevada Gaming
Authorities, and in addition to their authority to deny an application for a finding of suitability
or licensure, the Nevada Gaming Authorities have jurisdiction to disapprove a change in a corporate
position.

If the Nevada Gaming Authorities were to find an officer, director or key employee unsuitable
for licensing or to have an inappropriate relationship with us or the licensed subsidiaries, we
would have to sever all relationships with such person. In addition, the Nevada Commission may
require us or the licensed subsidiaries to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to
file appropriate applications. Determinations of suitability or questions pertaining to licensing
are not subject to judicial review in Nevada.

We, and the licensed subsidiaries, are required to submit periodic detailed financial and
operating reports to the Nevada Commission. Substantially all of our and our licensed subsidiaries’
material loans, leases, sales of securities and similar financing transactions must be reported to
or approved by the Nevada Commission.

If it were determined that we or a licensed subsidiary violated the Nevada Act, the
registration and gaming licenses we then hold could be limited, conditioned, suspended or revoked,
subject to compliance with certain statutory and regulatory procedures. In addition, we and the
persons involved could be subject to substantial fines for each separate violation of the Nevada
Act at the discretion of the Nevada Commission. Further, a supervisor could be appointed by the
Nevada Commission to operate the casinos,
and, under certain circumstances, earnings generated during the supervisor’s appointment
(except for the reasonable rental value of the casinos) could be forfeited to the State of Nevada.
Limitation, conditioning or suspension of any gaming registration or license or the appointment of
a supervisor could (and revocation of any gaming license would) materially adversely affect our
gaming operations.





Any beneficial holder of our voting securities, regardless of the number of shares owned, may
be required to file an application, be investigated, and have its suitability as a beneficial
holder of our voting securities determined if the Nevada Commission has reason to believe that such
ownership would otherwise be inconsistent with the declared policies of the State of Nevada. The
applicant must pay all costs of investigation incurred by the Nevada Gaming Authorities in
conducting any such investigation.

The Nevada Act requires any person who acquires more than 5% of our voting securities to
report the acquisition to the Nevada Commission. The Nevada Act requires that beneficial owners of
more than 10% of our voting securities apply to the Nevada Commission for a finding of suitability
within thirty days after the Chairman of the Nevada Board mails the written notice requiring such
filing. Under certain circumstances, an “institutional investor” as defined in the Nevada Act,
which acquires more than 10%, but not more than 15%, of our voting securities (subject to certain
additional holdings as a result of certain debt restructurings or stock re-purchase programs under
the Nevada Act), may apply to the Nevada Commission for a waiver of such finding of suitability if
such institutional investor holds the voting securities only for investment purposes.

An institutional investor will be deemed to hold voting securities only for investment
purposes if it acquires and holds the voting securities in the ordinary course of business as an
institutional investment and not for the purpose of causing, directly or indirectly, the election
of a majority of the members of our Board of Directors, any change in our corporate charter,
by-laws, management, policies or our operations or any of our gaming affiliates, or any other
action which the Nevada Commission finds to be inconsistent with holding our voting securities only
for investment purposes. Activities that are deemed consistent with holding voting securities only
for investment purposes include:

•voting on all matters voted on by stockholders;

•making financial and other inquiries of management of the type normally made by
securities analysts for informational purposes and not to cause a change in management,
policies or operations; and

•such other activities as the Nevada Commission may determine to be consistent with such
investment intent.

If the beneficial holder of voting securities who must be found suitable is a corporation,
partnership or trust, it must submit detailed business and financial information including a list
of beneficial owners. If the beneficial holder of nonvoting securities who must be licensed or
found suitable is a corporation, partnership or trust, it must submit detailed business and
financial information including a list of beneficial owners holding more than 5% of its voting
securities. The applicant is required to pay all costs of investigation.

Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of suitability or a license within
thirty days after being ordered to do so by the Nevada Commission or the Chairman of the Nevada
Board may be found unsuitable. The same restrictions apply to a record owner if the record owner,
after request, fails to identify the beneficial owner. Any stockholder found unsuitable and who
holds, directly or indirectly, any beneficial ownership of the common stock of a registered
corporation beyond such period of time as may be prescribed by the Nevada Commission may be guilty
of a criminal offense. We are subject to disciplinary action if, after we receive notice that a
person is unsuitable to be a stockholder or to have any other relationship with us or a licensed
subsidiary, we, or any of the licensed subsidiaries:

•allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any voting right conferred through
securities held by that person;

•pay remuneration in any form to that person for services rendered or otherwise; or

•fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require such unsuitable person to relinquish his or
her voting securities including, if necessary, the purchase for cash at fair market value.

Our charter documents include provisions intended to help us comply with these requirements.





The Nevada Commission may, in its discretion, require the holder of any debt security of a
registered corporation to file an application, be investigated and be found suitable to own the
debt security of such registered corporation. If the Nevada Commission
determines that a person is unsuitable to own such security, then pursuant to the Nevada Act,
the registered corporation can be sanctioned, including the loss of its approvals, if without the
prior approval of the Nevada Commission, it:

•pays to the unsuitable person any dividend, interest, or any distribution whatsoever;•recognizes any voting right by such unsuitable person in connection with such
securities; or•pays the unsuitable person remuneration in any form.

We are required to maintain a current stock ledger in Nevada that may be examined by the
Nevada Gaming Authorities at any time. If any securities are held in trust by an agent or by a
nominee, the record holder may be required to disclose the identity of the beneficial owner to the
Nevada Gaming Authorities and we are also required to disclose the identity of the beneficial owner
to the Nevada Gaming Authorities. A failure to make such disclosure may be grounds for finding the
record holder unsuitable. We are also required to render maximum assistance in determining the
identity of the beneficial owner. The Nevada Commission has the power to require our stock
certificates to bear a legend indicating that such securities are subject to the Nevada Act;
however, to date, no such requirement has been imposed on us.

We cannot make a public offering of any securities without the prior approval of the Nevada
Commission if the securities or the proceeds from the offering are intended to be used to
construct, acquire or finance gaming facilities in Nevada, or to retire or extend obligations
incurred for such purposes. On November 20, 2008, the Nevada Commission granted us prior approval
to make public offerings for a period of two years, subject to certain conditions (the “shelf
approval”). The shelf approval includes prior approval by the Nevada Commission permitting us to
place restrictions on the transfer of the membership interests and to enter into agreements not to
encumber the membership interests of LVSLLC. However, the shelf approval may be rescinded for good
cause without prior notice upon the issuance of an interlocutory stop order by the Chairman of the
Nevada Board. The shelf approval does not constitute a finding, recommendation, or approval by the
Nevada Commission or the Nevada Board as to the investment merits of any securities offered under
the shelf approval. Any representation to the contrary is unlawful.

Changes in our control through a merger, consolidation, stock or asset acquisition, management
or consulting agreement, or any act or conduct by any person whereby he or she obtains control,
shall not occur without the prior approval of the Nevada Commission. Entities seeking to acquire
control of a registered corporation must satisfy the Nevada Board and the Nevada Commission
concerning a variety of stringent standards prior to assuming control of such registered
corporation. The Nevada Commission may also require controlling stockholders, officers, directors
and other persons having a material relationship or involvement with the entity proposing to
acquire control, to be investigated and licensed as part of the approval process of the
transaction.

The Nevada legislature has declared that some corporate acquisitions opposed by management,
repurchases of voting securities and corporate defense tactics affecting Nevada gaming licensees,
and registered corporations that are affiliated with those operations, may be injurious to stable
and productive corporate gaming. The Nevada Commission has established a regulatory scheme to
ameliorate the potentially adverse effects of these business practices upon Nevada’s gaming
industry and to further Nevada’s policy to:

•assure the financial stability of corporate gaming operators and their affiliates;

•preserve the beneficial aspects of conducting business in the corporate form; and

•promote a neutral environment for the orderly governance of corporate affairs.

Approvals are, in certain circumstances, required from the Nevada Commission before we can
make exceptional repurchases of voting securities above the current market price thereof and before
a corporate acquisition opposed by management can be consummated.

The Nevada Act also requires prior approval of a plan of recapitalization proposed by the
Board of Directors in response to a tender offer made directly to our stockholders for the purposes
of acquiring control of the registered corporation.





License fees and taxes, computed in various ways depending upon the type of gaming or activity
involved, are payable to the State of Nevada and to Clark County, Nevada. Depending upon the
particular fee or tax involved, these fees and taxes are payable monthly, quarterly or annually and
are based upon:

•a percentage of the gross revenues received;•the number of gaming devices operated; or•the number of table games operated.

The tax on gross revenues received is generally 6.75%. In addition, an excise tax is paid by
us on charges for admission to any facility where certain forms of live entertainment are provided.
VCR is also required to pay certain fees and taxes to the State of Nevada as a licensed
manufacturer and distributor.

Any person who is licensed, required to be licensed, registered, required to be registered, or
under common control with such persons (collectively, “licensees”), and who proposes to become
involved in a gaming operation outside of Nevada, is required to deposit with the Nevada Board, and
thereafter maintain, a revolving fund in the amount of $10,000 to pay the expenses of any
investigation by the Nevada Board into their participation in such foreign gaming operation. The
revolving fund is subject to increase or decrease at the discretion of the Nevada Commission.
Thereafter, licensees are also required to comply with certain reporting requirements imposed by
the Nevada Act. Licensees are also subject to disciplinary action by the Nevada Commission if they
knowingly violate any laws of any foreign jurisdiction pertaining to such foreign gaming operation,
fail to conduct such foreign gaming operation in accordance with the standards of honesty and
integrity required of Nevada gaming operations, engage in activities that are harmful to the State
of Nevada or its ability to collect gaming taxes and fees, or employ a person in such foreign
operation who has been denied a license or a finding of suitability in Nevada on the ground of
personal unsuitability or who has been found guilty of cheating at gambling.

The sale of alcoholic beverages by the licensed subsidiaries on the casino premises and Sands
Expo Center is subject to licensing, control and regulation by the applicable local authorities.
Our licensed subsidiaries have obtained the necessary liquor licenses to sell alcoholic beverages.
All licenses are revocable and are not transferable. The agencies involved have full power to
limit, condition, suspend or revoke any such licenses, and any such disciplinary action could (and
revocation of such licenses would) have a material adverse effect upon our operations.

Commonwealth of Pennsylvania

Sands Bethworks Gaming is subject to the rules and regulations promulgated by the PaGCB and
the Pennsylvania Department of Revenue, the on-site direction of the Pennsylvania State Police and
the requirements of other agencies.

On December 20, 2006, we were awarded one of two category 2 “at large” gaming licenses
available in Pennsylvania, and a location in the Pocono Mountains was awarded the other category 2
“at large” license. On the same day, two category 2 licenses were awarded to applicants for
locations in Philadelphia, one category 2 license was awarded to an applicant in Pittsburgh, and
six race tracks were awarded permanent category 1 licenses. The principal difference between
category 1 and category 2 licenses is that the former is available only to certain race tracks. A
category 1 or category 2 licensee is authorized to open with up to 3,000 slot machines and to
increase to up to 5,000 slot machines upon approval of the PaGCB, which may not take effect earlier
than six months after opening. In July 2007, we paid a $50.0 million licensing fee to the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and in August 2007 were issued our gaming license by the PaGCB. Just
prior to the opening of the casino at Sands Bethlehem, we were required to make a deposit of
$5.0 million, which was reduced to $1.5 million in January 2010 when the Pennsylvania Act was
amended, to cover weekly withdrawals of our share of the cost of regulation and the amount
withdrawn must be replenished weekly.

In February 2010, we submitted a petition to the PaGCB to obtain a table games operation
certificate to operate up to 250 table games at Sands Bethlehem, based on a revision to the
Pennsylvania Act in 2010 that authorized table games. If approved by the PaGCB, we will be required
to pay a one-time non-refundable $16.5 million license fee.

We must notify the PaGCB if we become aware of any proposed or contemplated change of control
including more than 5% of the ownership interests of Sands Bethworks Gaming or of more than 5% of
the ownership interests of any entity that owns, directly or indirectly, at least 20% of Sands
Bethworks Gaming, including LVSC. The acquisition by a person or a group of persons acting in
concert of more than 20% of the ownership interests of Sands Bethworks Gaming or of any entity that
owns, directly or indirectly, at least 20% of Sands Bethworks Gaming with the exception of the
ownership interest of a person at the time of the original licensure when the license fee was paid,
would be defined as a change of control under applicable Pennsylvania gaming law and regulations.
Upon a change of control, the acquirer of the ownership interests would be required to qualify for
licensure and to pay a new license fee of $50.0 million. The PaGCB retains the discretion to
eliminate the need for qualification and may reduce the license fee upon a
change of control. The PaGCB may provide up to 120 days for any person who is required to
apply for a license and who is found not qualified to completely divest the person’s ownership
interest.





Any person who acquires beneficial ownership of 5% or more of our voting securities will be
required to apply to the PaGCB for licensure, obtain licensure and remain licensed. Licensure
requires, among other things, that the applicant establish by clear and convincing evidence the
applicant’s good character, honesty and integrity. Additionally, any trust that holds 5% or more of
our voting securities is required to be licensed by the PaGCB and each individual who is a grantor,
trustee or beneficiary of the trust is also required to be licensed by the PaGCB. Under certain
circumstances and under the regulations of the PaGCB, an “institutional investor” as defined under
the regulations of the PaGCB, which acquires beneficial ownership of 5% or more, but less than 10%,
of our voting securities, may not be required to be licensed by the PaGCB provided the PaGCB grants
a waiver of the licensure requirement. In addition, any beneficial owner of our voting securities,
regardless of the number of shares beneficially owned, may be required at the discretion of the
PaGCB to file an application for licensure.

In the event a security holder is required to be found qualified and is not found qualified,
the security holder may be required by the PaGCB to divest of the interest at a price not exceeding
the cost of the interest.

In February 2009, the PaGCB approved our petition seeking its consent of the suspension of the
hotel, retail and multipurpose event center components of Sands Bethlehem. This approval is subject
to monthly reviews by the PaGCB’s financial suitability task force and our meetings with this task
force to evaluate our potential to finance the completion of the suspended components. Once the
task force determines that we have the potential to finance the suspended components, a public
hearing will be set to consider establishing a completion date for the overall project. No
determination has been made to date that we have the potential to finance the suspended components.

Macau Concession and Our Subconcession

In June 2002, the Macau government granted one of three concessions to operate casinos in
Macau to Galaxy. During December 2002, we entered into a subconcession agreement with Galaxy, which
was approved by the Macau government. The subconcession agreement allows us to develop and operate
certain casino projects in Macau, including Sands Macao, The Venetian Macao and Four Seasons Macao,
separately from Galaxy. Under the subconcession agreement, we are obligated to operate casino games
of chance or games of other forms in Macau. We were also obligated to develop and open The Venetian
Macao and a convention center by December 2007 and we were required to invest, or cause to be
invested, at least 4.4 billion patacas (approximately $550.9 million at exchange rates in effect on
December 31, 2009) in various development projects in Macau by June 2009, which obligations we have
fulfilled.

If the Galaxy concession is terminated for any reason, our subconcession will remain in
effect. The subconcession may be terminated by agreement between ourselves and Galaxy. Galaxy is
not entitled to terminate the subconcession unilaterally; however, the Macau government, with the
consent of Galaxy, may terminate the subconcession under certain circumstances. Galaxy will develop
hotel and casino projects separately from us.

We are subject to licensing and control under applicable Macau law and are required to be
licensed by the Macau gaming authorities to operate a casino. We must pay periodic fees and taxes,
and our gaming license is not transferable. We must periodically submit detailed financial and
operating reports to the Macau gaming authorities and furnish any other information that the Macau
gaming authorities may require. No person may acquire any rights over the shares or assets of
Venetian Macau Limited (“VML,” SCL’s wholly owned subsidiary) without first obtaining the approval
of the Macau gaming authorities. Similarly, no person may enter into possession of its premises or
operate them through a management agreement or any other contract or through step in rights without
first obtaining the approval of, and receiving a license from, the Macau gaming authorities. The
transfer or creation of encumbrances over ownership of shares representing the share capital of VML
or other rights relating to such shares, and any act involving the granting of voting rights or
other stockholders’ rights to persons other than the original owners, would require the approval of
the Macau government and the subsequent report of such acts and transactions to the Macau gaming
authorities.

Our subconcession agreement requires, among other things, (i) approval of the Macau government
for transfers of shares in VML, or of any rights over or inherent to such shares, including the
grant of voting rights or other stockholder’s rights to persons other than the original owners, as
well as for the creation of any charge, lien or encumbrance on such shares; (ii) approval of the
Macau government for transfers of shares, or of any rights over such shares, in any of our direct
or indirect stockholders, provided that such shares or rights are directly or indirectly equivalent
to an amount that is equal to or higher than 5.0% of VML’s share capital; and (iii) that the Macau
government be given notice of the creation of any encumbrance or the grant of voting rights or
other stockholder’s
rights to persons other than the original owners on shares in any of the direct or indirect
stockholders in VML, provided that such shares or rights are equivalent to an amount that is equal
to or higher than 5.0% of VML’s share capital. The requirements in provisions (ii) and (iii) above
will not apply, however, to securities listed as tradable on a stock exchange.





The Macau gaming authorities may investigate any individual who has a material relationship
to, or material involvement with, us to determine whether our suitability and/or financial capacity
is affected by this individual. Our shareholders with 5% or more of the share capital, directors
and some of our key employees must apply for and undergo a finding of suitability process and
maintain due qualification during the subconcession term, and accept the persistent and long-term
inspection and supervision exercised by the Macau government. VML is required to immediately notify
the Macau government should VML become aware of any fact that may be material to the appropriate
qualification of any shareholder who owns 5% of the share capital, or any officer, director or key
employee. Changes in licensed positions must be reported to the Macau gaming authorities, and in
addition to their authority to deny an application for a finding of suitability or licensure, the
Macau gaming authorities have jurisdiction to disapprove a change in corporate position. If the
Macau gaming authorities were to find one of our officers, directors or key employees unsuitable
for licensing, we would have to sever all relationships with that person. In addition, the Macau
gaming authorities may require us to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file
appropriate applications.

Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of suitability after being ordered to
do so by the Macau gaming authorities may be found unsuitable. Any stockholder found unsuitable and
who holds, directly or indirectly, any beneficial ownership of the common stock of a company
incorporated in Macau and registered with the Macau Companies and Moveable Assets Registrar (a
“Macau registered corporation”) beyond the period of time prescribed by the Macau gaming
authorities may lose their rights to the shares. We will be subject to disciplinary action if,
after we receive notice that a person is unsuitable to be a stockholder or to have any other
relationship with us, we:

•pay that person any dividend or interest upon its shares;

•allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any voting right conferred through
 shares held by that person;

•pay remuneration in any form to that person for services rendered or otherwise; or

•fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require that unsuitable person to relinquish its
 shares.

The Macau gaming authorities also have the authority to approve all persons owning or
controlling the stock of any corporation holding a gaming license.

The Macau gaming authorities also require prior approval for the creation of liens and
encumbrances over VML’s assets and restrictions on stock in connection with any financing.

The Macau gaming authorities must give their prior approval to changes in control of VML
through a merger, consolidation, stock or asset acquisition, management or consulting agreement or
any act or conduct by any person whereby he or she obtains control. Entities seeking to acquire
control of a Macau registered corporation must satisfy the Macau gaming authorities concerning a
variety of stringent standards prior to assuming control. The Macau Gaming Commission may also
require controlling stockholders, officers, directors and other persons having a material
relationship or involvement with the entity proposing to acquire control, to be investigated and
licensed as part of the approval process of the transaction.

The Macau gaming authorities may consider that some management opposition to corporate
acquisitions, repurchases of voting securities and corporate defense tactics affecting Macau gaming
licensees, and Macau registered corporations that are affiliated with those operations, may be
injurious to stable and productive corporate gaming.

The Macau gaming authorities also have the power to supervise gaming licensees in order to:

•assure the financial stability of corporate gaming operators and their affiliates;

•preserve the beneficial aspects of conducting business in the corporate form; and

•promote a neutral environment for the orderly governance of corporate affairs.







The subconcession agreement requires the Macau gaming authorities’ prior approval of any
recapitalization plan proposed by VML’s Board of Directors. The Chief Executive of Macau could also
require VML to increase its share capital if he deemed it necessary.

The Macau government also has the right, after consultation with Galaxy, to unilaterally
terminate the subconcession agreement at any time upon the occurrence of specified events of
default, including:

•the operation of gaming without permission or operation of business which does not fall
within the business scope of the subconcession;

•the suspension of operations of our gaming business in Macau without reasonable grounds
for more than seven consecutive days or more than fourteen non-consecutive days within one
calendar year;

•the unauthorized transfer of all or part of our gaming operations in Macau;

•the failure to pay taxes, premiums, levies or other amounts payable to the Macau
government;

•the failure to resume operations following the temporary assumption of operations by the
Macau government;

•the repeated failure to comply with decisions of the Macau government;

•the failure to provide or supplement the guarantee deposit or the guarantees specified in
the subconcession within the prescribed period;

•the bankruptcy or insolvency of VML;

•fraudulent activity by VML;

•serious and repeated violation by VML of the applicable rules for carrying out casino
games of chance or games of other forms or the operation of casino games of chance or games
of other forms;

•the grant to any other person of any managing power over VML; or

•the failure by a controlling shareholder in VML to dispose of its interest in VML
following notice from the gaming authorities of another jurisdiction in which such
controlling shareholder is licensed to operate casino games of chance to the effect that
such controlling shareholder can no longer own shares in VML.

In addition, we must comply with various covenants and other provisions under the
subconcession, including obligations to:

•ensure the proper operation and conduct of casino games;

•employ people with appropriate qualifications;

•operate and conduct casino games of chance in a fair and honest manner without the
influence of criminal activities;

•safeguard and ensure Macau’s interests in tax revenue from the operation of casinos and
other gaming areas; and

•maintain a specified level of insurance.

The subconcession agreement also allows the Macau government to request various changes in the
plans and specifications of our Macau properties and to make various other decisions and
determinations that may be binding on us. For example, the Macau government has the right to
require that we contribute additional capital to our Macau subsidiaries or that we provide certain
deposits or other guarantees of performance in any amount determined by the Macau government to be
necessary. VML is limited in its ability to raise additional capital by the need to first obtain
the approval of the Macau gaming and governmental authorities before raising certain debt or
equity.





If our subconcession is terminated in the event of a default, the casinos and gaming-related
equipment would be automatically transferred to the Macau government without compensation to us and
we would cease to generate any revenues from these operations. In many of these instances, the
subconcession agreement does not provide a specific cure period within which any such events may be
cured and, instead, we would rely on consultations and negotiations with the Macau government to
give us an opportunity to remedy any such default.

The Sands Macao, The Venetian Macao and Four Seasons Macao are being operated under our
subconcession agreement. This subconcession excludes the following gaming activities: mutual bets,
lotteries, raffles, interactive gaming and games of chance or other gaming, betting or gambling
activities on ships or planes. Our subconcession is exclusively governed by Macau law. We are
subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of Macau in case of any dispute or conflict
relating to our subconcession.

Our subconcession agreement expires on June 26, 2022. Unless our subconcession is extended, on
that date, the casinos and gaming-related equipment will automatically be transferred to the Macau
government without compensation to us and we will cease to generate any revenues from these
operations. Beginning on December 26, 2017, the Macau government may redeem our subconcession by
giving us at least one year prior notice and by paying us fair compensation or indemnity. See “Item 1A — Risk Factors — Risks
Associated with Our International Operations — We will stop generating any revenues from our Macau
gaming operations if we cannot secure an extension of our subconcession in 2022 or if the Macau
government exercises its redemption right.”

Under the subconcession, we are obligated to pay to the Macau government an annual premium
with a fixed portion and a variable portion based on the number and type of gaming tables employed
and gaming machines operated by us. The fixed portion of the premium is equal to 30.0 million
patacas (approximately $3.8 million at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2009). The variable
portion is equal to 300,000 patacas per gaming table reserved exclusively for certain kinds of
games or players, 150,000 patacas per gaming table not so reserved and 1,000 patacas per electrical
or mechanical gaming machine, including slot machines (approximately $37,559, $18,780 and $125,
respectively, at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2009), subject to a minimum of
45.0 million patacas (approximately $5.6 million at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2009).
We also have to pay a special gaming tax of 35% of gross gaming revenues and applicable withholding
taxes. We must also contribute 4% of our gross gaming revenue to utilities designated by the Macau
government, a portion of which must be used for promotion of tourism in Macau. This percentage will
be subject to change in 2010.

Currently, the gaming tax in Macau is calculated as a percentage of gross gaming revenue;
however, unlike Nevada, gross gaming revenue does not include deductions for credit losses. As a
result, if we extend credit to our customers in Macau and are unable to collect on the related
receivables from them, we have to pay taxes on our winnings from these customers even though we
were unable to collect on the related receivables. If the laws are not changed, our business in
Macau may not be able to realize the full benefits of extending credit to our customers. Although
there are proposals to revise the gaming tax laws in Macau, there can be no assurance that the laws
will be changed.

We have received an exemption from Macau’s corporate income tax on profits generated by the
operation of casino games of chance for the five-year period ending December 31, 2013. See
“Item 1A — Risk Factors — Risks Associated with Our International Operations — We are currently not
required to pay corporate income taxes on our casino gaming operations in Macau. This tax exemption
expires at the end of 2013.”

Development Agreement with Singapore Tourism Board

On August 23, 2006, MBS entered into the Development Agreement with the STB to design,
develop, construct and operate an integrated resort in Singapore called Marina Bay Sands. The
Development Agreement includes a concession for MBS to own and operate a casino within the
integrated resort. In addition to the casino, the integrated resort will include, among other
amenities, a hotel, a retail complex, a convention center and meeting room complex, theaters,
restaurants and an art/science museum. MBS expects the Development Agreement will be amended to
reflect an agreement between MBS and the STB once approval is obtained on the final design plans of
the integrated resort. MBS is one of two companies that has been awarded a concession to operate a
casino in Singapore. Under the Development Agreement, the STB has provided a ten-year exclusive
period (the “Exclusivity Period,” which began January 29, 2009) during which only two licensees
will be granted the right to operate a casino in Singapore. In connection with entering into the
Development Agreement, MBS entered into a 60-year lease with the STB for the parcels underlying the
project site and entered into an agreement with the Land Transport Authority of Singapore for the
provision of necessary infrastructure for rapid transit systems and road works within and/or
outside the project site.





The term of the casino concession provided under the Development Agreement is for 30 years
commencing from the date the Development Agreement was entered into, or August 23, 2006. In order
to renew the casino concession, MBS must give notice to the STB and other relevant authorities in
Singapore at least five years before its expiration in August 2036. The Singapore government may
terminate the casino concession prior to its expiration in order to serve the best interests of the
public, in which event fair compensation will be paid to MBS.

Under the Development Agreement, MBS is required to be licensed by the relevant gaming
authorities in Singapore before it can commence operating the casino under the casino concession.
In connection with issuing the gaming license, the relevant gaming authorities will look into
various factors relating to MBS, including, but not limited to, (i) its reputation, character,
honesty and integrity, (ii) whether or not it is sound and stable from a financial point of view,
(iii) confirming that it has a satisfactory corporate ownership structure, (iv) the adequacy of its
financial resources in order to ensure the financial viability of the proposed casino operations,
(v) whether it has engaged and employed persons who have sufficient experience managing and
operating a casino and that are suitable to act in such capacities, (vi) its ability to
sufficiently establish and maintain a successful casino operation, (vii) confirming that there are
no business associations with any person, body or association who is not of good repute, has a
disregard for character, honesty and integrity, or has undesirable or unsatisfactory financial
resources, (viii) determining whether the persons associated or connected with the ownership,
administration or management of the casino operations or business are suitable persons to act in
such capacity and (ix) the development and operation plan for the casino.

The Development Agreement contains, among other things, restrictions limiting the use of the
leased land to the development and operation of the project, requirements that MBS obtain prior
approval from the STB in order to subdivide the hotel and retail components of the project, and
prohibitions on any such subdivision during the Exclusivity Period. The Development Agreement also
contains provisions relating to the construction of the project and associated deadlines for
substantial completion and opening; the location of the casino within the project site and casino
licensing issues; insurance requirements; and limitations on MBS’ ability to assign the lease or
sub-lease any portion of the land during the exclusivity period. In addition, the Development
Agreement contains events of default, including, among other things, the failure of MBS to perform
its obligations under the Development Agreement and events of bankruptcy or dissolution.

The Development Agreement requires MBS to invest at least SGD 3.85 billion (approximately
$2.74 billion at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2009) in the integrated resort, which
investment is to be allocated in specified amounts among the casino, hotel, food and beverage
outlets, retail areas, meeting, convention and exhibition facilities, key attractions,
entertainment venues and public areas. This minimum investment requirement must be satisfied in
full upon the earlier of eight years from the date of the Development Agreement or three years from
the issuance of the casino license, which will not be granted by the relevant authorities in
Singapore until at least 50% of the required investment has been made and at least 50% of the
construction of the integrated resort is complete. MBS must complete the construction of the Marina
Bay Sands by no later than August 22, 2014. See “— Supplement to the Development Agreement” for the
revised opening obligations. Under the terms of the Development Agreement, MBS has agreed to
design, develop and construct the integrated resort in accordance with the plans set forth in its
response to the request for proposal which was ultimately accepted by the STB. Any changes in the
overall design and the components of the integrated resort from what was contained in the response
to the request for proposal will require the prior approval of the Singapore government.

Employees whose job duties relate to the operations of the casino will need to be licensed by
the relevant authorities in Singapore. MBS will also have to comply with internal control standards
concerning the location, floor plans and layout of the casino; internal controls with respect to
casino operations; relationships with and permitted payments to junket operators; security; casino
access by Singaporeans and non-Singaporeans; and those relating to social controls and maintaining
law and order. The Singapore Casino Regulatory Authority (“CRA”) has issued certain final
regulations and internal control standards and is nearing the completion of that process. MBS has
been and is actively engaged in a regular dialogue with the relevant authorities in Singapore in
connection with the drafting, adoption and compliance with these regulatory requirements.

MBS will have to pay an annual license fee of SGD 12.5 million (approximately $8.9 million at
exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2009) that will cover the costs of implementing and
enforcing the proposed regulations. During the Exclusivity Period, the Company must continue to be
the single largest entity with a direct or indirect controlling interest of at least 20% in MBS.
The Company is currently a 100% indirect controlling shareholder of MBS.





There will be a goods and services tax of 7% imposed on gross gaming revenue and a casino tax
of 15% imposed on the gross gaming revenue from the casino after reduction for the amount of goods
and services tax, except in the case of gaming by premium players, in which case a casino tax of 5%
will be imposed on the gross gaming revenue generated from such players after reduction for
the amount of the goods and services tax. The tax rates will not be changed for a period of 15
years from January 29, 2009. The casino tax will be deductible against the Singapore corporate
taxable income of MBS. The provision for bad debts arising from the extension of credit granted to
gaming patrons will not be deductible against gross gaming revenue when calculating the casino tax,
but will be deductible for the purposes of calculating corporate income tax and the goods and
services tax (subject to the prevailing law). MBS will be permitted to extend casino credit to
persons who are not Singapore citizens or permanent residents, but will not be permitted to extend
casino credit to Singapore citizens or permanent residents except to premium players.

The key constraint imposed on the casino under the Development Agreement is the total size of
the gaming area, which must not be more than 15,000 square meters (approximately 161,000 square
feet). The following will not be counted towards the gaming area: back of house facilities,
reception, toilets, food and beverage areas, retail shops, stairs, escalators and lift lobbies
leading to the gaming area, aesthetic and decorative displays, performance areas and major aisles.
The casino located within Marina Bay Sands may not have more than 2,500 gaming machines, but there
is no limit on the number of tables for casino games permitted in the casino. In November 2008, the
CRA informed us, following our submission, that our conceptual casino floor plan for Marina Bay
Sands complies with the CRA’s requirements for casino layout. MBS has submitted a casino floor plan
for approval by the CRA as part of the licensing process and MBS believes the floor plan is
consistent with the parameters established by the CRA for such submissions.

We filed our casino license application in Singapore in October 2009 and were notified by the
CRA, that the application had been accepted for filing. The CRA has been reviewing the applications
since that time, requesting additional documentation and information and scheduling and conducting
interviews of the principals of LVSC and its subsidiaries including MBS as a normal part of the
license application process.

Supplement to the Development Agreement

On December 11, 2009, MBS signed a supplement to the Development Agreement with the  STB (the
“Supplemental Agreement”). Pursuant to the Supplemental Agreement, MBS will be permitted to open
the Marina Bay Sands in stages over the course of calendar year 2010 in accordance with an agreed upon
schedule. In the event that the opening of any component of the Marina Bay Sands is delayed more
than 90 days from the agreed upon schedule, MBS must seek the STB’s approval for an extension of time.
The STB is obliged to approve the extension of time so long as the delay is not for a period of
more than 12 months, does not extend the opening of the component in question after December 31,
2011, or is not due to MBS’s recklessness or gross negligence.

There are no financial consequences to MBS if MBS fails to meet the agreed
upon schedule, provided
that the entire integrated resort is opened by December 31, 2011. If MBS fails to meet this
deadline, the STB will be entitled to draw on the SGD 192.6 million (approximately $137.1 million
at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2009) security deposit provided by MBS in the form of a
banker’s guarantee at the time MBS entered into the Development Agreement.

The Supplemental Agreement also provides for an adjustment to the boundaries of the site of
the Marina Bay Sands, with MBS surrendering partial lots that are not required for the integrated
resort to the Singapore government for the purposes of providing access to a subway station
that will be connected to the Marina Bay Sands and the Singapore government transferring to MBS a plot of land
to enable the integration of a pedestrian bridge across the Marina Channel connecting with the Marina Bay
Sands.

Employees

We directly employ over 27,000 employees worldwide and hire temporary employees on an
as-needed basis. The employees in Las Vegas,  Bethlehem
and Macau
are not covered by collective bargaining
agreements.  We believe that we have
good relations with our employees.





Certain culinary personnel are hired from time to time for trade shows and conventions at
Sands Expo Center and are covered under a collective bargaining agreement between Local 226 and
Sands Expo Center. This collective bargaining agreement expired in December 2000, but automatically
renews for annual periods on an annual basis. As a result, Sands Expo Center is operating under the
terms of the expired bargaining agreement with respect to these employees.

Intellectual Property

Our principal intellectual property consists of, among others, the Sands, Venetian, Palazzo
and Paiza trademarks, all of which have been registered or allowed in various classes in the
U.S. In addition, we have also registered or applied to register numerous other trademarks in
connection with our properties, facilities and development projects in the U.S., Macau and
Singapore. We have also registered and/or applied to register many of our trademarks in various
foreign jurisdictions. These trademarks are brand names under which we market our properties and
services. We consider these brand names to be important to our business since they have the effect
of developing brand identification. We believe that the name recognition, reputation and image that
we have developed attract customers to our facilities. Once granted, our trademark registrations
are of perpetual duration so long as they are used and periodically renewed. It is our intent to
pursue and maintain our trademark registrations consistent with our goals for brand development and
identification, and enforcement of our trademark rights.

Agreements Relating to the Malls

The Grand Canal Shoppes

In April 2004, we entered into an agreement with GGP to sell The Grand Canal Shoppes and lease
to GGP certain restaurant and other retail space at the casino level of The Venetian Las Vegas for
approximately $766.0 million. In May 2004, we completed the sale of The Grand Canal Shoppes and
leased to GGP 19 spaces on the casino level of The Venetian Las Vegas currently occupied by various
retail and restaurant tenants for 89 years with annual rent of one dollar, and GGP assumed our
interest as landlord under the various space leases associated with these 19 spaces. In addition,
we agreed with GGP to:

•continue to be obligated to fulfill certain lease termination and asset purchase
agreements;

•lease the portion of the Blue Man Group theater space located within The Grand Canal
Shoppes from GGP for a period of 25 years, subject to an additional 50 years of extension
options, with initial fixed minimum rent of $3.3 million per year;

•lease the gondola retail store and the canal space located within The Grand Canal Shoppes
from GGP (and by amendment the extension of the canal space extended into The Shoppes at The
Palazzo) for a period of 25 years, subject to an additional 50 years of extension options,
with initial fixed minimum rent of $3.5 million per year; and

•lease certain office space from GGP for a period of 10 years, subject to an additional
65 years of extension options, with initial annual rent of approximately $0.9 million.

The lease payments relating to the Blue Man Group theater, the canal space within The Grand
Canal Shoppes and the office space from GGP are subject to automatic increases of 5% in the sixth
lease year and each subsequent fifth lease year.

The Shoppes at The Palazzo

The Shoppes at The Palazzo opened on January 18, 2008, with some tenants not yet open and with
construction of certain portions of the mall not yet completed. We contracted to sell The Shoppes
at The Palazzo to GGP pursuant to a purchase and sale agreement dated as of April 12, 2004, as
amended (the “Amended Agreement”). The total purchase price to be paid by GGP for The Shoppes at
The Palazzo is determined by taking The Shoppes at The Palazzo’s net operating income (“NOI”), as
defined in the Amended Agreement, for months 19 through 30 of its operations (assuming that the
rent and other periodic payments due from all tenants in month 30 was actually due in each of
months 19 through 30, provided that this 12-month period can be delayed if certain conditions are
satisfied) divided by a capitalization rate. The capitalization rate is 0.06 for every dollar of
net operating income up to $38.0 million and 0.08 for every dollar of net operating income above
$38.0 million. On the closing date





of the sale, February 29, 2008, GGP made its initial purchase price payment of $290.8 million based on projected net
operating income for the first 12 months of operations (only taking into account tenants open for
business or paying rent as of February 29, 2008). Pursuant to the Amended Agreement, periodic
adjustments to the purchase price (up or down, but never to less than $250.0 million) are to be
made based on projected net operating income for the then upcoming 12 months. An additional $4.6
million was received from GGP in June 2008, representing the adjustment payment at the fourth month
after closing. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we agreed with GGP to suspend the scheduled
purchase price adjustments, subsequent to the June 2008 payment, until March 2010. Subject to
adjustments for certain audit and other issues, the final adjustment to the purchase price will be
made on the 30-month anniversary of the closing date (or later if certain conditions are satisfied)
and will be based on the previously described formula. For all purchase price and purchase price
adjustment calculations, “net operating income” will be calculated by using the “accrual” method of
accounting. Under the Amended Agreement, we leased to GGP certain restaurant and retail space on
the casino level of The Palazzo for 89 years with annual rent of one dollar and GGP assumed our
interest as landlord under the various space leases associated with these spaces.

In April 2009, GGP and its subsidiary that owns The Shoppes at The Palazzo filed voluntary
petitions under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (the “Chapter 11 Cases”). Additionally,
given the economic and market conditions facing retailers on a national and local level, tenants
are facing economic challenges that have effected, and may effect in the future, the calculation of
NOI. We will continue to review the Chapter 11 Cases and the projected financial performance of our
tenants to be included in the NOI calculation. Based on GGP’s current financial condition, there
can be no assurance that GGP will make its future periodic payments.

Cooperation Agreement

Our business plan calls for each of The Venetian Las Vegas, The Palazzo, Sands Expo Center,
The Grand Canal Shoppes, The Shoppes at The Palazzo and the currently delayed St. Regis Residences,
though separately owned, to be integrally related components of one facility (the “LV Integrated
Resort”). In establishing the terms for the integrated operation of these components, the
cooperation agreement sets forth agreements regarding, among other things, encroachments,
easements, operating standards, maintenance requirements, insurance requirements, casualty and
condemnation, joint marketing, and the sharing of some facilities and related costs. Subject to
applicable law, the cooperation agreement binds all current and future owners of all portions of
the LV Integrated Resort, and has priority over the liens securing LVSLLC’s senior secured credit
facility and in some or all respects any liens that may secure any indebtedness of the owners of
any portion of the LV Integrated Resort. Accordingly, subject to applicable law, the obligations in
the cooperation agreement will “run with the land” if any of the components change hands.

Operating Covenants.The cooperation agreement regulates certain aspects of the operation of
the LV Integrated Resort. For example, under the cooperation agreement, we are obligated to operate
The Venetian Las Vegas continuously and to use it exclusively in accordance with standards of
first-class Las Vegas Boulevard-style hotels and casinos. We are also obligated to operate and to
use the Sands Expo Center exclusively in accordance with standards of first-class convention, trade
show and exposition centers. The owners of The Grand Canal Shoppes and The Shoppes at The Palazzo
are obligated to operate their properties exclusively in accordance with standards of first-class
restaurant and retail complexes. For so long as The Venetian Las Vegas is operated in accordance
with a “Venetian” theme, the owner of The Grand Canal Shoppes must operate The Grand Canal Shoppes
in accordance with the overall Venetian theme.

Maintenance and Repair.We must maintain The Venetian Las Vegas and The Palazzo as well as
some common areas and common facilities that are to be shared with The Grand Canal Shoppes and The
Shoppes at The Palazzo. The cost of maintenance of all shared common areas and common facilities is
to be shared between us and the owners of The Grand Canal Shoppes and The Shoppes at The Palazzo.
We must also maintain, repair, and restore Sands Expo Center and certain common areas and common
facilities located in Sands Expo Center. The owners of The Grand Canal Shoppes and The Shoppes at
The Palazzo must maintain, repair, and restore The Grand Canal Shoppes and The Shoppes at The
Palazzo and certain common areas and common facilities located within.

Insurance.We and the owners of The Grand Canal Shoppes and The Shoppes at The Palazzo must
maintain minimum types and levels of insurance, including property damage, general liability and
business interruption insurance. The cooperation agreement establishes an insurance trustee to
assist in the implementation of the insurance requirements.

Parking.The cooperation agreement also addresses issues relating to the use of the LV
Integrated Resort’s parking facilities and easements for access. The Venetian Las Vegas, The
Palazzo, Sands Expo Center, The Grand Canal Shoppes and The Shoppes at The Palazzo may use the
parking spaces in the LV Integrated Resort’s parking facilities on a “first come, first served”
basis. The LV Integrated Resort’s parking facilities are owned, maintained, and operated by us,
with the operating costs proportionately allocated
among and/or billed to the owners of the components of the LV Integrated Resort. Each party to
the cooperation agreement has granted to the others non-exclusive easements and rights to use the
roadways and walkways on each other’s properties for vehicular and pedestrian access to the parking
garages.





Utility Easement.All property owners have also granted each other all appropriate and
necessary easement rights to utility lines servicing the LV Integrated Resort.

Consents, Approvals and Disputes.If any current or future party to the cooperation agreement
has a consent or approval right or has discretion to act or refrain from acting, the consent or
approval of such party will only be granted and action will be taken or not taken only if a
commercially reasonable owner would do so and such consent, approval, action or inaction would not
have a material adverse effect on the property owned by such property owner. The cooperation
agreement provides for the appointment of an independent expert to resolve some disputes between
the parties, as well as for expedited arbitration for other disputes.

Sale of The Grand Canal Shoppes or The Shoppes at The Palazzo by GGP.We have a right of
first offer in connection with any proposed sale of The Grand Canal Shoppes or The Shoppes at The
Palazzo by GGP. We also have the right to receive notice of any default by GGP sent by any lender
holding a mortgage on The Grand Canal Shoppes or The Shoppes at The Palazzo, if any, and the right
to cure such default subject to our meeting certain net worth tests.



