ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Overview

Las Vegas Sands Corp. (“LVSC” or together with its subsidiaries “we”
or the “Company”) owns and
operates The Venetian Resort Hotel Casino (“The Venetian Las Vegas”), The Palazzo Resort Hotel
Casino (“The Palazzo”) and The Sands Expo and Convention Center (the “Sands Expo Center”) in Las
Vegas, Nevada, and the Sands Macao, The Venetian Macao Resort Hotel (“The Venetian Macao”), the
Four Seasons Hotel Macao, Cotai Striptm(the “Four Seasons Hotel Macao,” which
is managed by Four Seasons Hotels Inc.) and the Plaza Casino (together with the Four Seasons Hotel
Macao, the “Four Seasons Macao”) in the Macau Special Administrative Region (“Macau”) of the
People’s Republic of China (“China”). We are also creating a master-planned development of
integrated resort properties, anchored by The Venetian Macao, which we refer to as the Cotai
Striptmin Macau. We also own and operate the Marina Bay Sands
 in Singapore, and the Sands Casino Resort Bethlehem (the “Sands Bethlehem”) in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania.

Our Company

LVSC was incorporated as a Nevada corporation in August 2004. Our common stock is traded on
the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) under the symbol “LVS.” Immediately prior to our initial
public offering in December 2004, we acquired 100% of the capital stock of Las Vegas Sands, Inc.
(“LVSI”), a Nevada corporation and the direct or indirect owner and operator of The Venetian Las
Vegas, Sands Expo Center and Sands Macao, by merging LVSI with and into our wholly owned
subsidiary, leaving LVSI as the surviving subsidiary. LVSI was incorporated in Nevada in April
1988. In July 2005, LVSI was converted into a limited liability company and changed its name to Las
Vegas Sands, LLC (“LVSLLC”).

In November 2009, our subsidiary, Sands China Ltd. (“SCL,” the direct or indirect owner and
operator of the majority of our Macau operations, including Sands Macao, The Venetian Macao, Four
Seasons Macao and our ferry operations, and developer of the remaining Cotai Strip integrated
resorts), completed an initial public offering of its ordinary shares (the “SCL Offering”) on The
Main Board of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (“SEHK”). Immediately following the SCL
Offering and several transactions consummated in connection with such offering (see “Item 8 —
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — Note
10 — Equity — Noncontrolling Interests”), we owned 70.3% of the issued and outstanding ordinary
shares of SCL. The shares of SCL were not, and will not, be registered under the Securities Act of
1933, as amended, and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent a registration under
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or an applicable exception from such registration
requirements.

Our principal executive office is located at 3355 Las Vegas Boulevard South, Las Vegas, Nevada
89109. Our telephone number at that address is (702) 414-1000. Our website address iswww.lasvegassands.com.The information on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form
10-K.

Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K,
proxy statements and other Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) filings, and any amendments
to those reports and any other filings that we file with or furnish to the SEC under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 are made available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably
practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC and are also
available in the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington D.C., 20549.

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains certain forward-looking statements. See “Item 7 —
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Special
Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.”





Operations

Las Vegas

Our Las Vegas Operating Properties represent an integrated resort with approximately 7,100
suites and approximately 225,000 square feet of gaming space, which includes approximately 230
table games and 2,640 slot machines.

The Venetian Las Vegas has 4,027 suites situated in a 3,014-suite, 35-story three-winged tower
rising above the casino and the 1,013-suite, 12-story Venezia tower situated above a parking
garage. The casino at The Venetian Las Vegas has approximately 120,000 square feet of gaming space
and includes approximately 110 table games and 1,370 slot machines. The Venetian Las Vegas features
a variety of amenities for its guests, including a Paiza Clubtmoffering
high-end services and amenities to VIP customers, such as luxurious suites, spa facilities and
private gaming rooms; a Canyon Ranch SpaClub, operated by Canyon Ranch; and a theater/entertainment
complex featuring a wide variety of entertainment. The Venetian Las Vegas also includes an enclosed
retail, dining and entertainment complex of approximately 440,000 net leasable square feet (“The
Grand Canal Shoppes”), which was sold to GGP Limited Partnership (“GGP”) in 2004.

The Palazzo features modern European ambience and design, is situated adjacent to and north of
The Venetian Las Vegas, and is directly connected to The Venetian Las Vegas and Sands Expo Center.
The casino at The Palazzo has approximately 105,000 square feet of gaming space and includes
approximately 120 table games and 1,270 slot machines. The Palazzo has a 50-floor luxury hotel
tower with 3,066 suites and includes a Canyon Ranch SpaClub; a Paiza Club; an entertainment center;
and an enclosed shopping and dining complex of approximately 400,000 net leasable square feet (“The
Shoppes at The Palazzo”), which was sold to GGP on February 29, 2008.

With approximately 1.2 million gross square feet of exhibit and meeting space, Sands Expo
Center is one of the largest overall trade show and convention facilities in the United States (as
measured by net leasable square footage). We also own and operate an approximately 1.1 million
gross square foot meeting and conference facility that links Sands Expo Center to The Venetian Las
Vegas and The Palazzo. Together, we offer approximately 2.3 million gross square feet of
state-of-the-art exhibition and meeting facilities that can be configured to provide small,
mid-size or large meeting rooms and/or accommodate large-scale multi-media events or trade shows.
Management believes that these combined facilities, together with the on-site amenities offered by
The Venetian Las Vegas and The Palazzo, provide a flexible and expansive space for large-scale
trade shows and conventions.

Management markets the meeting and conference facility to complement the operations of Sands
Expo Center for business conferences and upscale business events typically held during the mid-week
period, thereby generating room-night demand and driving average daily room rates during the
weekday move-in/move-out phases of Sands Expo Center’s events. Events at our exhibition and meeting
facilities typically take place during the mid-week when Las Vegas hotels and casinos experience
lower demand, unlike weekends and holidays during which occupancy and room rates are at their
peaks. Our goal is to draw from attendees and exhibitors at these facilities to maintain mid-week
demand at our hotels from this higher-budget market segment, when room demand would otherwise be
derived from the lower-budget tour-and-travel-group market segment. In 2010, approximately 0.9
million visitors attended meetings, trade shows and conventions at Sands Expo Center and our
meeting and conference facilities.





Pennsylvania

Macau

SCL, of which we currently own 70.3%, includes the operations of the Sands Macao, The Venetian
Macao, Four Seasons Macao and other ancillary operations that support these properties. We operate
the gaming areas within these properties pursuant to a 20-year gaming subconcession.

The Sands Macao, the first Las Vegas-style casino in Macau, is situated near the Macau-Hong
Kong Ferry Terminal on a waterfront parcel centrally located between the Gonbei border gate and the
central business district. This location provides the Sands Macao primary access to a large
customer base, particularly the approximately 10.2 million visitors who arrived in Macau by ferry
in 2010. The Sands Macao includes approximately 197,000 square feet of gaming space with
approximately 420 table games and 1,140 slot machines or similar electronic gaming devices. The
Sands Macao also includes a 289-suite hotel tower, several restaurants, a spacious Paiza Club, a
theater and other high-end services and amenities.

The Venetian Macao is the anchor property for our Cotai Strip development, which is located
approximately two miles from Macau’s Taipa Temporary Ferry Terminal on Macau’s Taipa Island. The
Venetian Macao includes approximately 550,000 square feet of gaming space with approximately 600
table games and 2,160 slot machines or similar electronic gaming devices, and a designed capacity
of approximately 1,150 table games and 7,000 slot machines or similar electronic gaming devices.
The Venetian Macao, with a theme similar to that of The Venetian Las Vegas, also features a
39-floor luxury hotel tower with over 2,900 suites; approximately 1.0 million square feet of retail
and dining offerings; a convention center and meeting room complex of approximately 1.2 million
square feet; a 15,000-seat arena that has hosted a wide range of entertainment and sporting events;
and a 1,800-seat theater that features ZAIA, an original production from Cirque Du Soleil.

Management believes that the convention center and meeting room complex combined with the
on-site amenities offered at The Venetian Macao provides a flexible and expansive space for
large-scale trade shows and conventions. We market The Venetian Macao similar to our Las Vegas
Operating Properties, with events at the convention and meeting room complex typically taking place
during the week when hotels and casinos in Macau normally experience lower demand, unlike weekends
and holidays during which occupancy and room rates are at their peak. Our goal is to draw from
attendees and exhibitors at our convention and meeting room complex to maintain mid-week demand at
our hotel from this higher-budget market segment.

The Four Seasons Macao, which is located adjacent to The Venetian Macao, includes the Four
Seasons Hotel Macao with 360 rooms and suites managed by Four Seasons Hotels Inc. and the Plaza
Casino, which we own and operate and which features approximately 70,000 square feet of gaming
space with approximately 120 table games and 200 slot machines or similar electronic gaming
devices; 19 Paiza mansions; several food and beverage offerings; conference and banquet facilities;
and retail space of approximately 211,000 square feet, which is connected to the mall at The
Venetian Macao. The property will also feature the Four Seasons Apartments Macao,
Cotai Striptm(the “Four Seasons Apartments”), which will consist of
approximately 1.0 million square feet of Four Seasons-serviced and -branded luxury apart-hotel
units and common areas. We have completed the structural work of the tower and expect to monetize
the units within the Four Seasons Apartments subject to market conditions and obtaining the
relevant government approvals. As of December 31, 2010, we have capitalized construction costs of
$1.07 billion for the property (including $16.2 million of outstanding construction payables). We
expect to spend approximately $115 million primarily on costs to complete the Four Seasons
Apartments, including FF&E and pre-opening costs, and to pay for outstanding construction payables,
as noted above.





Singapore

tm

Development Projects

We have suspended portions of our development projects to focus our efforts on those projects
with the highest expected rates of return on invested capital. Should general economic conditions
fail to improve, if we are unable to obtain sufficient funding or applicable government approvals
such that completion of our suspended projects is not probable, or should management decide to
abandon certain projects, all or a portion of our investment to date on our suspended projects
could be lost and would result in an impairment charge. In addition, we may be subject to penalties
under the termination clauses in our construction contracts or termination rights under our
management contracts with certain hotel management companies.

United States

We were constructing a high-rise residential condominium tower (the “Las Vegas Condo Tower”),
located on the Las Vegas Strip between The Palazzo and The Venetian Las Vegas. We suspended our
construction activities for the project due to reduced demand for Las Vegas Strip condominiums and
the overall decline in general economic conditions. We intend to recommence construction when
demand and conditions improve and expect that it will take approximately 18 months thereafter to
complete construction of the project. As of December 31, 2010, we have capitalized construction
costs of $176.4 million for this project. The impact of the suspension on the estimated overall
cost of the project is currently not determinable with certainty.





Macau

We submitted plans to the Macau government for our other Cotai Strip developments, which
represent three integrated resort developments, in addition to The Venetian Macao and Four Seasons
Macao, on an area of approximately 200 acres (which we refer to as parcels 3, 5 and 6, and 7 and
8). Subject to the approval from the Macau government, as discussed further below, the developments are expected to include
hotels, exhibition and conference facilities, gaming areas, showrooms, spas, dining, retail and
entertainment facilities and other amenities. We commenced construction or pre-construction
activities on these developments and plan to operate the related gaming areas under our Macau
gaming subconcession. In addition, we are completing the development of some public areas
surrounding our Cotai Strip properties on behalf of the Macau government. We currently intend to
develop our other Cotai Strip properties as follows:



•



•Parcels 7 and 8 —  If we are successful in winning our appeal and obtaining the land
concession for parcels 7 and 8 (as discussed below), the related integrated resort is
expected to be similar in size and scope to the integrated resort on parcels 5 and 6. We had
commenced pre-construction activities and have capitalized construction costs of $102.1
million as of December 31, 2010. We intend to commence construction after the integrated
resorts on parcels 5 and 6 and 3 are complete, necessary government approvals are obtained
(including the land concession), regional and global economic conditions improve, future
demand warrants it and additional financing is obtained.

•Parcel 3 — The integrated resort on parcel 3 will be connected to The Venetian Macao and
Four Seasons Macao. The multi-hotel complex is intended to include a gaming area, a shopping
mall and serviced luxury apart-hotel units. We had commenced pre-construction activities and
have capitalized construction costs of $34.3 million as of December 31, 2010. We intend to
commence construction after the integrated resort on parcels 5 and 6 is complete, necessary
government approvals are obtained, regional and global economic conditions improve, future
demand warrants it and additional financing is obtained.

The impact of the delayed construction on our previously estimated cost to complete our Cotai
Strip developments is currently not determinable. As of December 31, 2010, we have capitalized an
aggregate of $6.1 billion in construction costs for our Cotai Strip developments, including The
Venetian Macao and Four Seasons Macao, as well as our investments in transportation infrastructure,
including our passenger ferry service operations. In addition to funding phases I and II of parcels
5 and 6 with the $1.75 billion VOL credit facility, we will need to arrange additional financing to
fund the balance of our Cotai Strip developments and there is no assurance that we will be able to
obtain any of the additional financing required.





Under our land concession for parcel 3, we were initially required to complete the
corresponding development by August 2011. The Macau government has granted us a two-year extension
to complete the development of parcel 3, which now must be completed by April 2013. The land
concession for parcels 5 and 6 contains a similar requirement that the corresponding development be
completed by May 2014 (48 months from the date the land concession became effective). We believe
that if we are not able to complete the developments by the respective deadlines, we will likely be
able to obtain extensions from the Macau government; however, no assurances can be given that
additional extensions will be granted. If we are unable to meet the applicable deadlines and those
deadlines are not extended, we could lose our land concessions for parcels 3 or 5 and 6, which
would prohibit us from operating any facilities developed under the respective land concessions.
As
a result, we could record a charge for all or some portion of the $34.3 million and $2.01 billion in
capitalized construction costs, as of December 31, 2010, related to our developments on parcels 3
or 5 and 6, respectively.

Other

When the current economic environment and access to capital improve, we may continue exploring
the possibility of developing and operating additional properties, including integrated resorts, in
additional Asian and U.S. jurisdictions, and in Europe.

The Las Vegas Market

In addition, certain states have legalized, and others may legalize, casino gaming in specific
areas. The continued proliferation of gaming venues could have a significant and adverse effect on
our business. In particular, the legalization of casino gaming in or near major metropolitan areas
from which we traditionally attract customers could have a material adverse effect on our business.
The current global trend toward liberalization of gaming restrictions and the resulting
proliferation of gaming venues could result in a decrease in the number of visitors to our Las
Vegas Operating Properties, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results
of operations or cash flows.





Las Vegas generally competes with trade show and convention facilities located in and around
major U.S. cities. Within Las Vegas, the Sands Expo Center competes with the Las Vegas Convention
Center (the “LVCC”), which currently has approximately 3.2 million gross square feet of convention
and exhibit facilities. In addition to the LVCC, Mandalay Bay, certain properties of MGM Resorts
International and Wynn Las Vegas have convention and conference facilities that compete with our
Las Vegas Operating Properties.

Competitors of our Las Vegas Operating Properties that can offer a hotel/casino experience
that is integrated with substantial trade show and convention, conference and meeting facilities,
could have an adverse effect on our competitive advantage in attracting trade show and convention,
conference and meeting attendees.

The Macau Market

Macau as a Gaming and Resort Destination

Macau is regarded as the largest gaming market in the world and is the only market in China to
offer legalized casino gaming. In May 2004, Sands Macao became the first Las Vegas-style casino to
open in Macau and with our openings of The Venetian Macao in August 2007 and the Four Seasons Macao
in August 2008, we believe that our high-quality gaming product has enabled us to capture a
meaningful share of the overall market, including the VIP player market segment, in Macau.

According to Macau government statistics, gaming revenues in Macau during 2010 reached $23.6
billion, a 57.5% increase over 2009. During 2010, 31.1% of visitors traveling to Macau stayed
overnight in hotels and guestrooms and, for those who stayed overnight in hotels and guestrooms,
the average length of stay was between 1 and 2 nights. We expect this length of stay to increase
with increased visitation, the expansion of gaming and non-gaming amenities including retail,
entertainment, meeting and convention facility offerings, and the addition of upscale hotel
accommodations in Macau.

Table games are the dominant form of gaming in Asia with baccarat being the most popular game,
followed by other traditional U.S. and Asian games. Slot machines are offered in Macau, but the
structure of the gaming market in Macau has historically favored table gaming. With the increase in
the mass gaming market in Macau, slot machines are becoming an important feature of the market. We
have seen a significant increase in slot machine play since 2003 and expect the slot machine
business to continue to grow in Macau. We intend to continue to introduce more modern and popular
products that appeal to the Asian marketplace, such as a stadium gaming table game product, which
is a hybrid between a slot machine and a table game that we introduced subsequent to year-end.

We believe that as new facilities and standards of service are introduced, Macau will become
an even more desirable tourist destination. The improved experience of visitors to Macau should
lead to longer stays, an increase in repeat visitation from existing feeder markets and the opening
of several new feeder markets. In addition, we believe that an expanding Chinese middle class will
eventually lead to increased travel to Macau and generate increased demand for gaming,
entertainment and resort offerings as global general economic conditions improve.

Proximity to Major Asian Cities

Approximately 1.0 billion people are estimated to live within a three-hour flight from Macau
and approximately 3.0 billion people are estimated to live within a five-hour flight from Macau.
According to Macau government statistics, 82.9% of all tourists who visited Macau in 2010 came from
either Hong Kong or mainland China. Although the total number of visitors from Hong Kong continues
to grow, that market has shrunk as a percentage of the total visitor distribution from 38.9% in
2003 to 29.9% in 2010, while visitors from mainland China made up 53.0% of total visitors to Macau
in 2010. Travel restrictions from mainland China have historically affected overall visitation to
Macau and may continue to do so in the future. See “Item 1A — Risk Factors — Risks Associated
with Our International Operations — The number of visitors to Macau, particularly visitors from
mainland China, may decline or travel to Macau may be disrupted.”

Gaming customers from Hong Kong, southeast China, Taiwan and other locations in Asia can reach
Macau in a relatively short period of time, using a variety of transportation methods, and visitors
from more distant locations in Asia can take advantage of short travel times by air to Macau,
Zhuhai, Shenzhen, Guangzhou or to Hong Kong
(followed by a road, ferry or helicopter trip to Macau). In addition, numerous carriers fly
directly into Macau International Airport from many major cities in Asia. The relatively easy
access from major population centers promotes Macau as a popular gaming and resort destination in
Asia.





Macau draws a significant number of gaming customers from both visitors to and residents of
Hong Kong. One of the major methods of transportation to Macau from Hong Kong is the jetfoil ferry
service, including our ferry service, The Cotai Strip CotaiJettm, which opened
in late 2007. Macau is also accessible from Hong Kong by helicopter. In addition, the proposed
bridge linking Hong Kong, Macau and Zhuhai is expected to reduce the travel time between central
Hong Kong and Macau. The bridge is expected be completed sometime between 2015 and 2016.

The Macau pataca and the Hong Kong dollar are linked to each other and, in many cases, are
used interchangeably in Macau; however, currency exchange controls and restrictions on the export
of currency by certain countries may negatively impact the success of our operations. For example,
there are currently existing currency exchange controls and restrictions on the export of the
renminbi, the legal currency in China. In addition, restrictions on the export of the renminbi may
impede the flow of gaming customers from mainland China to Macau, inhibit the growth of gaming in
Macau or negatively impact our gaming operations.

Competition in Macau

Gaming in Macau is administered through government-sanctioned concessions awarded to three
different concessionaires and three subconcessionaires, of which we are one. No additional
concessions have been granted; however, if the Macau government decides to allow additional
competitors to operate in Macau through the grant of additional concessions or subconcessions, we
will face additional competition, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Sociedade de Jogos de Macau S.A. (“SJM”)
 holds one of the three
concessions and currently operates 21 facilities throughout Macau. Historically, SJM was the only
gaming operator in Macau, with over 40 years of operating experience in Macau. Many of its gaming
facilities are relatively small locations that are offered as amenities in hotels; however, a
number are large operations enjoying significant recognition by gaming customers in the
marketplace. SJM’s projects include the Grand Lisboa, the Fisherman’s Wharf entertainment complex,
L’Arc, Oceanus and other projects. MGM Grand Paradise Limited, a joint venture between MGM Resorts
International and Pansy Ho Chiu-King obtained a subconcession in April 2005
allowing it to conduct gaming operations in Macau. The MGM Grand Macau opened in December 2007 and
features approximately 600 rooms, 375 table games, 900 slot machines, restaurants and entertainment
amenities.

Galaxy Casino Company Limited (“Galaxy”) holds a concession and has the ability to operate
casino properties independent of our subconcession agreement with Galaxy and the Macau government.
Galaxy was obligated to invest at least 4.4 billion patacas (approximately $548.9 million at
exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2010) by June 2012 under its concession agreement with the
Macau government. Galaxy currently operates five casinos in Macau, including StarWorld Hotel, which
opened in October 2006 and has over 500 hotel rooms and a 140,000 square foot gaming floor. Galaxy
Macau, which will be located adjacent to The Venetian Macao, is currently expected to open in early
2011 and upon completion will feature approximately 2,260 hotel rooms and capacity for 700 table
games and 4,000 slot machines.

Wynn Resorts (Macau), S.A. (“Wynn Resorts Macau”), a subsidiary of Wynn Resorts Limited, holds
the third concession. Wynn Macau opened in September 2006 and includes a 600-room hotel, a casino
and other non-gaming amenities. In April 2010, Wynn Resorts Macau opened Encore at Wynn Macau, which
includes 414 suites and villas, a casino and other non-gaming amenities. In 2006, Wynn Resorts
Macau sold its subconcession right under its gaming concession to an affiliate of Publishing and
Broadcasting Limited (“PBL”), which permitted the PBL affiliate to receive a gaming subconcession
from the Macau government. In May 2007, the PBL affiliate opened the Crown Macau, now known as
Altira, which includes an approximately 216-room hotel, a casino and other non-gaming amenities. In
June 2009, the PBL affiliate opened the City of Dreams, an integrated casino resort located
adjacent to our Cotai Strip parcels 5 and 6, which includes a Crown Towers hotel with approximately
290 rooms, a Hard Rock hotel with approximately 320 rooms, a Grand Hyatt hotel with approximately
790 rooms, two casinos and other non-gaming facilities.

Our Macau operations will also face competition from casinos located in other areas of Asia,
such as the major gaming and resort destination Genting Highlands Resort, located outside of Kuala
Lumpur, Malaysia, and casinos in South Korea and the Philippines, as well as pachinko and pachislot
parlors in Japan. We will also encounter competition from other major gaming centers worldwide.





The Singapore Market

Singapore as a Gaming and Resort Destination

Singapore is regarded as having the most developed financial and transportation infrastructure
in the Southeast Asia region. Singapore has established itself as a destination for both business
and leisure visitors, offering convention and exhibition facilities as well as world-class shopping
malls and hotel accommodations. In 2006, after a competitive bid process, the Singapore government
awarded two concessions to develop and operate two integrated resorts to further develop
Singapore’s appeal as a business and leisure destination. We were awarded the concession for the
Marina Bay site, which is adjacent to Singapore’s central business district, and opened our Marina
Bay Sands property on April 27, 2010. The second integrated resort site is located on Singapore’s
Sentosa Island.

Based on figures released by the Singapore Tourism Board (the “STB”), Singapore welcomed 11.6
million international visitors in 2010, an increase of 20% as compared to 2009, and cumulative
tourism receipts are estimated to have reached more than $14.0 billion in 2010, a 49% increase as
compared to 2009. The total average length of stay for visitors to Singapore in 2010 was estimated
to be 3.9 days by the STB. The gaming regulator in Singapore, the Casino Regulatory Authority (the
“CRA”), does not disclose gaming revenue for the market and thus no official figure exists.

We believe Marina Bay Sands is ideally positioned within Singapore to cater to both business
and leisure visitors. The property offers approximately 1.3 million square feet of convention and
meeting room space, approximately 2,600 rooms and suites, and additional amenities including
entertainment, retail and dining offerings, and is approximately a 20 minute drive from
Singapore’s Changi International Airport. We believe this unique set of features will enable the
property to increase the overall appeal of Singapore, grow visitation to the market, and ultimately
allow us to benefit from these developments.

To date, the overall gaming market consists of a balanced contribution from both the VIP and
mass gaming segments. Consistent with our experience in Macau, baccarat is the preferred table game
in both the VIP and mass gaming segments. Additionally, contributions from slot machines and from
the mass gaming segment, including electronic table games offerings, have enhanced the early growth
of the market. Gaming patrons have principally come from three core markets: Singapore, Malaysia
and Indonesia. As Marina Bay Sands and the Singapore market as a whole continue to mature, we
expect to broaden the visitor base to capture visitors from new feeder markets.

Unlike most other Asian casino markets, the Singapore VIP gaming market has not been driven by
junket activity. Singapore regulations require junket operators proposing to operate in either
casino to pass a background check and be licensed. The licensing requirements are comprehensive and
to date, no junket operator has been licensed in Singapore.

Proximity to Major Asian Cities

Over 100 airlines operate in Singapore connecting the city-state to over 200 cities in 60
countries. Approximately 42.0 million passengers passed through Singapore’s Changi Airport in 2010,
a 13% increase as compared to 2009. Cities within a 5-hour flight radius include Kuala Lumpur,
Jakarta, Hong Kong, Taipei, Guangzhou, Shanghai, Perth, Chennai, Bangalore, Manila and Bangkok.
Malaysia is linked to Singapore via two causeways, and the nearest Indonesian island, Batam, is
just a 30-minute boat ride away.





The estimated population within a 5-hour flight of Singapore is more than 2 billion. Based on
figures released by the STB, in 2010 the largest source markets for visitors to Singapore were
Indonesia and China, which comprised 20% and 10% of visitors, respectively. The STB’s methodology
for reporting visitor arrivals does not recognize
Malaysian citizens entering Singapore by land, although this method of visitation is generally
thought to be substantial. The fastest growing sources of visitation to Singapore include Malaysia,
Thailand and Indonesia, each of which registered a greater than 30% increase in 2010 as compared to
2009. Transportation infrastructure within Singapore is efficient and advanced with a
well-developed mass rapid transit railway system, an island-wide road system and several licensed
taxi companies.

Competition in Singapore

Gaming in Singapore is administered through government-sanctioned licenses awarded to two
operators, of which we are one. Under the Casino Control Act, the CRA is required to ensure that
there will not be more than two casino licenses during a ten-year exclusive period that began on
January 29, 2009.

Resorts World Sentosa, which is 100% owned by Genting Singapore and located on Sentosa Island,
began its phased opening on January 20, 2010, and is primarily a family tourist destination
connected to Singapore via a 500 meter long vehicular and pedestrian bridge. Apart from the casino,
the resort will, when fully opened, include six hotels with around 1,800 rooms, a Universal Studios
theme park, the Marine Life park, the Maritime Xperential Museum, conventions and exhibitions
facilities, restaurants and retail shops. Resorts World Sentosa features approximately 470 gaming
tables, 500 electronic gaming tables and 1,200 slots.

Advertising and Marketing

We advertise in many types of media, including television, internet, radio, newspapers,
magazines and billboards, to promote general market awareness of our properties as unique vacation,
business and convention destinations due to our first-class hotels, casinos, retail stores,
restaurants and other amenities. We actively engage in direct marketing as allowed in various
geographic regions, which is targeted at specific market segments, including the premium slot and
table games markets.

Regulation and Licensing

State of Nevada

The ownership and operation of casino gaming facilities in the State of Nevada are subject to
the Nevada Gaming Control Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the “Nevada
Act”) and various local regulations. Our gaming operations are also subject to the licensing and
regulatory control of the Nevada Gaming Commission (the “Nevada Commission”), the Nevada Gaming
Control Board (the “Nevada Board”) and the Clark County Liquor and Gaming Licensing Board (the
“CCLGLB” and together with the Nevada Commission and the Nevada Board, the “Nevada Gaming
Authorities”).

The laws, regulations and supervisory procedures of the Nevada Gaming Authorities are based
upon declarations of public policy that are concerned with, among other things:

•the prevention of unsavory or unsuitable persons from having a direct or indirect
involvement with gaming at any time or in any capacity;

•the establishment and maintenance of responsible accounting practices and procedures;

•the maintenance of effective controls over the financial practices of licensees,
including establishing minimum procedures for internal fiscal affairs and the safeguarding
of assets and revenues, providing reliable record-keeping and requiring the filing of
periodic reports with the Nevada Gaming Authorities;

•the prevention of cheating and fraudulent practices; and

•the establishment of a source of state and local revenues through taxation and licensing
fees.

Any change in such laws, regulations and procedures could have an adverse effect on our Las
Vegas operations.





LVSLLC is licensed by the Nevada Gaming Authorities to operate both The Venetian Las Vegas and
The Palazzo as a single resort hotel as set forth in the Nevada Act. The gaming license requires
the periodic payment of fees and taxes and is not transferable. LVSLLC is also registered as an
intermediary company of Venetian Casino Resort, LLC (“VCR”). VCR is licensed as a manufacturer and
distributor of gaming devices. LVSLLC and VCR are collectively referred to as the “licensed
subsidiaries.” LVSC is registered with the Nevada Commission as a publicly traded corporation (the
“registered corporation”). As such, we must periodically submit detailed financial and operating
reports to the Nevada Gaming Authorities and furnish any other information that the Nevada Gaming
Authorities may require. No person may become a stockholder of, or receive any percentage of the
profits from, the licensed subsidiaries without first obtaining licenses and approvals from the
Nevada Gaming Authorities. Additionally, the CCLGLB has taken the position that it has the
authority to approve all persons owning or controlling the stock of any corporation controlling a
gaming licensee. We, and the licensed subsidiaries, possess all state and local government
registrations, approvals, permits and licenses required in order for us to engage in gaming
activities at The Venetian Las Vegas and The Palazzo.

The Nevada Gaming Authorities may investigate any individual who has a material relationship
to or material involvement with us or the licensed subsidiaries to determine whether such
individual is suitable or should be licensed as a business associate of a gaming licensee.
Officers, directors and certain key employees of the licensed subsidiaries must file applications
with the Nevada Gaming Authorities and may be required to be licensed by the Nevada Gaming
Authorities. Our officers, directors and key employees who are actively and directly involved in
the gaming activities of the licensed subsidiaries may be required to be licensed or found suitable
by the Nevada Gaming Authorities.

The Nevada Gaming Authorities may deny an application for licensing or a finding of
suitability for any cause they deem reasonable. A finding of suitability is comparable to
licensing; both require submission of detailed personal and financial information followed by a
thorough investigation. The applicant for licensing or a finding of suitability, or the gaming
licensee by whom the applicant is employed or for whom the applicant serves, must pay all the costs
of the investigation. Changes in licensed positions must be reported to the Nevada Gaming
Authorities, and in addition to their authority to deny an application for a finding of suitability
or licensure, the Nevada Gaming Authorities have jurisdiction to disapprove a change in a corporate
position.

If the Nevada Gaming Authorities were to find an officer, director or key employee unsuitable
for licensing or to have an inappropriate relationship with us or the licensed subsidiaries, we
would have to sever all relationships with such person. In addition, the Nevada Commission may
require us or the licensed subsidiaries to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to
file appropriate applications. Determinations of suitability or questions pertaining to licensing
are not subject to judicial review in Nevada.

We, and the licensed subsidiaries, are required to submit periodic detailed financial and
operating reports to the Nevada Commission. Substantially all of our and our licensed subsidiaries’
material loans, leases, sales of securities and similar financing transactions must be reported to
or approved by the Nevada Commission.

If it were determined that we or a licensed subsidiary violated the Nevada Act, the
registration and gaming licenses we then hold could be limited, conditioned, suspended or revoked,
subject to compliance with certain statutory and regulatory procedures. In addition, we and the
persons involved could be subject to substantial fines for each separate violation of the Nevada
Act at the discretion of the Nevada Commission. Further, a supervisor could be appointed by the
Nevada Commission to operate the casinos, and, under certain circumstances, earnings generated
during the supervisor’s appointment (except for the reasonable rental value of the casinos) could
be forfeited to the State of Nevada. Limitation, conditioning or suspension of any gaming
registration or license or the appointment of a supervisor could (and revocation of any gaming
license would) materially adversely affect our gaming operations.

Any beneficial holder of our voting securities, regardless of the number of shares owned, may
be required to file an application, be investigated, and have its suitability as a beneficial
holder of our voting securities determined if the Nevada Commission has reason to believe that such
ownership would otherwise be inconsistent with the declared policies of the State of Nevada. The
applicant must pay all costs of investigation incurred by the Nevada Gaming Authorities in
conducting any such investigation.





The Nevada Act requires any person who acquires more than 5% of our voting securities to
report the acquisition to the Nevada Commission. The Nevada Act requires that beneficial owners of
more than 10% of our voting securities apply to the Nevada Commission for a finding of suitability
within thirty days after the Chairman of the Nevada Board mails the written notice requiring such
filing. Under certain circumstances, an “institutional investor” as defined in the Nevada Act,
which acquires more than 10%, but not more than 15%, of our voting securities (subject to certain
additional holdings as a result of certain debt restructurings or stock re-purchase programs under
the Nevada Act), may apply to the Nevada Commission for a waiver of such finding of suitability if
such institutional investor holds the voting securities only for investment purposes.

An institutional investor will be deemed to hold voting securities only for investment
purposes if it acquires and holds the voting securities in the ordinary course of business as an
institutional investment and not for the purpose of causing, directly or indirectly, the election
of a majority of the members of our Board of Directors, any change in our corporate charter,
by-laws, management, policies or our operations or any of our gaming affiliates, or any other
action which the Nevada Commission finds to be inconsistent with holding our voting securities only
for investment purposes. Activities that are deemed consistent with holding voting securities only
for investment purposes include:

•voting on all matters voted on by stockholders;

•making financial and other inquiries of management of the type normally made by
securities analysts for informational purposes and not to cause a change in management,
policies or operations; and

•such other activities as the Nevada Commission may determine to be consistent with such
investment intent.

If the beneficial holder of voting securities who must be found suitable is a corporation,
partnership or trust, it must submit detailed business and financial information including a list
of beneficial owners. If the beneficial holder of nonvoting securities who must be licensed or
found suitable is a corporation, partnership or trust, it must submit detailed business and
financial information including a list of beneficial owners holding more than 5% of its voting
securities. The applicant is required to pay all costs of investigation.

Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of suitability or a license within
thirty days after being ordered to do so by the Nevada Commission or the Chairman of the Nevada
Board may be found unsuitable. The same restrictions apply to a record owner if the record owner,
after request, fails to identify the beneficial owner. Any stockholder found unsuitable and who
holds, directly or indirectly, any beneficial ownership of the common stock of a registered
corporation beyond such period of time as may be prescribed by the Nevada Commission may be guilty
of a criminal offense. We are subject to disciplinary action if, after we receive notice that a
person is unsuitable to be a stockholder or to have any other relationship with us or a licensed
subsidiary, we, or any of the licensed subsidiaries:

•allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any voting right conferred through
securities held by that person;

•pay remuneration in any form to that person for services rendered or otherwise; or

•fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require such unsuitable person to relinquish his or
her voting securities including, if necessary, the purchase for cash at fair market value.

Our charter documents include provisions intended to help us comply with these requirements.

The Nevada Commission may, in its discretion, require the holder of any debt security of a
registered corporation to file an application, be investigated and be found suitable to own the
debt security of such registered corporation. If the Nevada Commission determines that a person is
unsuitable to own such security, then pursuant to the Nevada Act, the registered corporation can be
sanctioned, including the loss of its approvals, if without the prior approval of the Nevada
Commission, it:

•pays to the unsuitable person any dividend, interest, or any distribution whatsoever;

•recognizes any voting right by such unsuitable person in connection with such securities;
or•pays the unsuitable person remuneration in any form.







We are required to maintain a current stock ledger in Nevada that may be examined by the
Nevada Gaming Authorities at any time. If any securities are held in trust by an agent or by a
nominee, the record holder may be required to disclose the identity of the beneficial owner to the
Nevada Gaming Authorities and we are also required to disclose the identity of the beneficial owner
to the Nevada Gaming Authorities. A failure to make such disclosure may be grounds for finding the
record holder unsuitable. We are also required to render maximum assistance in determining the
identity of the beneficial owner. The Nevada Commission has the power to require our stock
certificates to bear a legend indicating that such securities are subject to the Nevada Act;
however, to date, no such requirement has been imposed on us.

We cannot make a public offering of any securities without the prior approval of the Nevada
Commission if the securities or the proceeds from the offering are intended to be used to
construct, acquire or finance gaming facilities in Nevada, or to retire or extend obligations
incurred for such purposes. On November 18, 2010, the Nevada Commission granted us prior approval
to make public offerings for a period of two years, subject to certain conditions (the “shelf
approval”). The shelf approval includes prior approval by the Nevada Commission permitting us to
place restrictions on the transfer of the membership interests and to enter into agreements not to
encumber the membership interests of LVSLLC. However, the shelf approval may be rescinded for good
cause without prior notice upon the issuance of an interlocutory stop order by the Chairman of the
Nevada Board. The shelf approval does not constitute a finding, recommendation, or approval by the
Nevada Commission or the Nevada Board as to the investment merits of any securities offered under
the shelf approval. Any representation to the contrary is unlawful.

Changes in our control through a merger, consolidation, stock or asset acquisition, management
or consulting agreement, or any act or conduct by any person whereby he or she obtains control,
shall not occur without the prior approval of the Nevada Commission. Entities seeking to acquire
control of a registered corporation must satisfy the Nevada Board and the Nevada Commission
concerning a variety of stringent standards prior to assuming control of such registered
corporation. The Nevada Commission may also require controlling stockholders, officers, directors
and other persons having a material relationship or involvement with the entity proposing to
acquire control, to be investigated and licensed as part of the approval process of the
transaction.

The Nevada legislature has declared that some corporate acquisitions opposed by management,
repurchases of voting securities and corporate defense tactics affecting Nevada gaming licensees,
and registered corporations that are affiliated with those operations, may be injurious to stable
and productive corporate gaming. The Nevada Commission has established a regulatory scheme to
ameliorate the potentially adverse effects of these business practices upon Nevada’s gaming
industry and to further Nevada’s policy to:

•assure the financial stability of corporate gaming operators and their affiliates;

•preserve the beneficial aspects of conducting business in the corporate form; and

•promote a neutral environment for the orderly governance of corporate affairs.

Approvals are, in certain circumstances, required from the Nevada Commission before we can
make exceptional repurchases of voting securities above the current market price thereof and before
a corporate acquisition opposed by management can be consummated.

The Nevada Act also requires prior approval of a plan of recapitalization proposed by the
Board of Directors in response to a tender offer made directly to our stockholders for the purposes
of acquiring control of the registered corporation.

License fees and taxes, computed in various ways depending upon the type of gaming or activity
involved, are payable to the State of Nevada and to Clark County, Nevada. Depending upon the
particular fee or tax involved, these fees and taxes are payable monthly, quarterly or annually and
are based upon:

•a percentage of the gross revenues received;•the number of gaming devices operated; or

•the number of table games operated.





The tax on gross revenues received is generally 6.75%. In addition, an excise tax is paid by
us on charges for admission to any facility where certain forms of live entertainment are provided.
VCR is also required to pay certain fees and taxes to the State of Nevada as a licensed
manufacturer and distributor.

Any person who is licensed, required to be licensed, registered, required to be registered, or
under common control with such persons (collectively, “licensees”), and who proposes to become
involved in a gaming operation outside of Nevada, is required to deposit with the Nevada Board, and
thereafter maintain, a revolving fund in the amount of $10,000 to pay the expenses of any
investigation by the Nevada Board into their participation in such foreign gaming operation. The
revolving fund is subject to increase or decrease at the discretion of the Nevada Commission.
Thereafter, licensees are also required to comply with certain reporting requirements imposed by
the Nevada Act. Licensees are also subject to disciplinary action by the Nevada Commission if they
knowingly violate any laws of any foreign jurisdiction pertaining to such foreign gaming operation,
fail to conduct such foreign gaming operation in accordance with the standards of honesty and
integrity required of Nevada gaming operations, engage in activities that are harmful to the State
of Nevada or its ability to collect gaming taxes and fees, or employ a person in such foreign
operation who has been denied a license or a finding of suitability in Nevada on the ground of
personal unsuitability or who has been found guilty of cheating at gambling.

The sale of alcoholic beverages by the licensed subsidiaries on the casino premises and Sands
Expo Center is subject to licensing, control and regulation by the applicable local authorities.
Our licensed subsidiaries have obtained the necessary liquor licenses to sell alcoholic beverages.
All licenses are revocable and are not transferable. The agencies involved have full power to
limit, condition, suspend or revoke any such licenses, and any such disciplinary action could (and
revocation of such licenses would) have a material adverse effect upon our operations.

Commonwealth of Pennsylvania

Sands
Bethworks Gaming LLC (“Sands Bethworks Gaming”) is subject to the rules and regulations promulgated by the Pennsylvania
Gaming Control Board (“PaGCB”) and the Pennsylvania Department of Revenue, the on-site direction of
the Pennsylvania State Police and the requirements of other agencies.

On December 20, 2006, we were awarded one of two category 2 “at large” gaming licenses
available in Pennsylvania, and a location in the Pocono Mountains was awarded the other category 2
“at large” license. On the same day, two category 2 licenses were awarded to applicants for
locations in Philadelphia, one category 2 license was awarded to an applicant in Pittsburgh, and
six race tracks were awarded permanent category 1 licenses.
One of the Philadelphia category 2 licenses recently was revoked by the PaGCB; however, the revocation has been appealed.

The principal difference between
category 1 and category 2 licenses is that the former is available only to certain race tracks. A
category 1 or category 2 licensee is authorized to open with up to 3,000 slot machines and to
increase to up to 5,000 slot machines upon approval of the PaGCB, which may not take effect earlier
than six months after opening.
The PaGCB also is permitted to award three category 3 licenses. A category 3 licensee is authorized to operate up to 600 slot
machines and 50 table games or up to 500 slot machines without table games. To date, one category 3 license has been awarded
(but is under appeal) and one cannot be issued before July 2017. Several contenders currently are applying for the third
category 3 license.

In July 2007, we paid a $50.0 million licensing fee to the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and in August 2007, were issued our gaming license by the PaGCB. Just
prior to the opening of the casino at Sands Bethlehem, we were required to make a deposit of $5.0
million, which was reduced to $1.5 million in January 2010
when the law was amended,
to cover weekly withdrawals of our share of the cost of regulation and the amount withdrawn must be
replenished weekly.

In February 2010, we submitted a petition to the PaGCB to obtain a table games operation
certificate to operate table games at Sands Bethlehem, based on a revision to the
law in 2010 that authorized table games. The petition was approved in April 2010, we
paid a $16.5 million table game licensing fee in May 2010 and were issued a table games certificate
in June 2010. Table games operations commenced on July 18, 2010.

We must notify the PaGCB if we become aware of any proposed or contemplated change of control
including more than 5% of the ownership interests of Sands Bethworks Gaming or of more than 5% of
the ownership interests of any entity that owns, directly or indirectly, at least 20% of Sands
Bethworks Gaming, including LVSC. The acquisition by a person or a group of persons acting in
concert of more than 20% of the ownership interests of Sands Bethworks Gaming or of any entity that
owns, directly or indirectly, at least 20% of Sands Bethworks Gaming with
the exception of the ownership interest of a person at the time of the original licensure when
the license fee was paid, would be defined as a change of control under applicable Pennsylvania
gaming law and regulations. Upon a change of control, the acquirer of the ownership interests would
be required to qualify for licensure and to pay a new license fee of $50.0 million. The PaGCB
retains the discretion to eliminate the need for qualification and may reduce the license fee upon
a change of control. The PaGCB may provide up to 120 days for any person who is required to apply
for a license and who is found not qualified to completely divest the person’s ownership interest.





Any person who acquires beneficial ownership of 5% or more of our voting securities will be
required to apply to the PaGCB for licensure, obtain licensure and remain licensed. Licensure
requires, among other things, that the applicant establish by clear and convincing evidence the
applicant’s good character, honesty and integrity. Additionally, any trust that holds 5% or more of
our voting securities is required to be licensed by the PaGCB and each individual who is a grantor,
trustee or beneficiary of the trust is also required to be licensed by the PaGCB. Under certain
circumstances and under the regulations of the PaGCB, an “institutional investor” as defined under
the regulations of the PaGCB, which acquires beneficial ownership of 5% or more, but less than 10%,
of our voting securities, may not be required to be licensed by the PaGCB provided the PaGCB grants
a waiver of the licensure requirement. In addition, any beneficial owner of our voting securities,
regardless of the number of shares beneficially owned, may be required at the discretion of the
PaGCB to file an application for licensure.

In the event a security holder is required to be found qualified and is not found qualified,
the security holder may be required by the PaGCB to divest of the interest at a price not exceeding
the cost of the interest.

In February 2009, the PaGCB approved our petition seeking its consent of the suspension of the
hotel, retail and multipurpose event center components of Sands Bethlehem. This approval is subject
to monthly reviews by the PaGCB’s financial suitability task force and our meetings with this task
force to evaluate our potential to finance the completion of the suspended components. Once the
task force determines that we have the potential to finance the suspended components, a public
hearing will be set to consider establishing a completion date for the overall project. No
determination has been made to date that we have the potential to finance all of the suspended
components. In April 2010, we recommenced construction of the 300-room hotel tower, which is
expected to open in the second quarter of 2011. Subsequent to year-end, we are initiating
construction activities on the remaining components of the integrated resort, which include the
retail and multipurpose event center.

Macau Concession and Our Subconcession

In June 2002, the Macau government granted one of three concessions to operate casinos in
Macau to Galaxy. During December 2002, we entered into a subconcession agreement with Galaxy, which
was approved by the Macau government. The subconcession agreement allows us to develop and operate
certain casino projects in Macau, including Sands Macao, The Venetian Macao and Four Seasons Macao,
separately from Galaxy. Under the subconcession agreement, we are obligated to operate casino games
of chance or games of other forms in Macau. We were also obligated to develop and open The Venetian
Macao and a convention center by December 2007 and we were required to invest, or cause to be
invested, at least 4.4 billion patacas (approximately $548.9 million at exchange rates in effect on
December 31, 2010) in various development projects in Macau by June 2009, which obligations we have
fulfilled.

If the Galaxy concession is terminated for any reason, our subconcession will remain in
effect. The subconcession may be terminated by agreement between ourselves and Galaxy. Galaxy is
not entitled to terminate the subconcession unilaterally; however, the Macau government, with the
consent of Galaxy, may terminate the subconcession under certain circumstances. Galaxy will develop
hotel and casino projects separately from us.

We are subject to licensing and control under applicable Macau law and are required to be
licensed by the Macau gaming authorities to operate a casino. We must pay periodic fees and taxes,
and our gaming license is not transferable. We must periodically submit detailed financial and
operating reports to the Macau gaming authorities and furnish any other information that the Macau
gaming authorities may require. No person may acquire any rights over the shares or assets of
Venetian Macau Limited (“VML,” SCL’s wholly owned subsidiary) without first obtaining the approval
of the Macau gaming authorities. Similarly, no person may enter into possession of its premises or
operate them through a management agreement or any other contract or through step in rights without
first obtaining the approval of, and receiving a license from, the Macau gaming authorities. The
transfer or creation
of encumbrances over ownership of shares representing the share capital of VML or other rights
relating to such shares, and any act involving the granting of voting rights or other stockholders’
rights to persons other than the original owners, would require the approval of the Macau
government and the subsequent report of such acts and transactions to the Macau gaming authorities.





Our subconcession agreement requires, among other things, (i) approval of the Macau government
for transfers of shares in VML, or of any rights over or inherent to such shares, including the
grant of voting rights or other stockholder’s rights to persons other than the original owners, as
well as for the creation of any charge, lien or encumbrance on such shares; (ii) approval of the
Macau government for transfers of shares, or of any rights over such shares, in any of our direct
or indirect stockholders, provided that such shares or rights are directly or indirectly equivalent
to an amount that is equal to or higher than 5% of VML’s share capital; and (iii) that the Macau
government be given notice of the creation of any encumbrance or the grant of voting rights or
other stockholder’s rights to persons other than the original owners on shares in any of the direct
or indirect stockholders in VML, provided that such shares or rights are equivalent to an amount
that is equal to or higher than 5% of VML’s share capital. The requirements in provisions (ii)
and (iii) above will not apply, however, to securities listed as tradable on a stock exchange.

The Macau gaming authorities may investigate any individual who has a material relationship
to, or material involvement with, us to determine whether our suitability and/or financial capacity
is affected by this individual. LVSC and SCL shareholders with 5% or more of the share capital,
directors and some of our key employees must apply for and undergo a finding of suitability process
and maintain due qualification during the subconcession term, and accept the persistent and
long-term inspection and supervision exercised by the Macau government. VML is required to
immediately notify the Macau government should VML become aware of any fact that may be material to
the appropriate qualification of any shareholder who owns 5% of the share capital, or any officer,
director or key employee. Changes in licensed positions must be reported to the Macau gaming
authorities, and in addition to their authority to deny an application for a finding of suitability
or licensure, the Macau gaming authorities have jurisdiction to disapprove a change in corporate
position. If the Macau gaming authorities were to find one of our officers, directors or key
employees unsuitable for licensing, we would have to sever all relationships with that person. In
addition, the Macau gaming authorities may require us to terminate the employment of any person who
refuses to file appropriate applications.

Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of suitability after being ordered to
do so by the Macau gaming authorities may be found unsuitable. Any stockholder found unsuitable and
who holds, directly or indirectly, any beneficial ownership of the common stock of a company
incorporated in Macau and registered with the Macau Companies and Moveable Assets Registrar (a
“Macau registered corporation”) beyond the period of time prescribed by the Macau gaming
authorities may lose their rights to the shares. We will be subject to disciplinary action if,
after we receive notice that a person is unsuitable to be a stockholder or to have any other
relationship with us, we:

•pay that person any dividend or interest upon its shares;

•allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any voting right conferred through shares held by that person;

•pay remuneration in any form to that person for services rendered or otherwise; or

•fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require that unsuitable person to relinquish its shares.

The Macau gaming authorities also have the authority to approve all persons owning or
controlling the stock of any corporation holding a gaming license.

The Macau gaming authorities also require prior approval for the creation of liens and
encumbrances over VML’s assets and restrictions on stock in connection with any financing.

The Macau gaming authorities must give their prior approval to changes in control of VML
through a merger, consolidation, stock or asset acquisition, management or consulting agreement or
any act or conduct by any person whereby he or she obtains control. Entities seeking to acquire
control of a Macau registered corporation must satisfy
the Macau gaming authorities concerning a variety of stringent standards prior to assuming
control. The Macau Gaming Commission may also require controlling stockholders, officers, directors
and other persons having a material relationship or involvement with the entity proposing to
acquire control, to be investigated and licensed as part of the approval process of the
transaction.





The Macau gaming authorities may consider that some management opposition to corporate
acquisitions, repurchases of voting securities and corporate defense tactics affecting Macau gaming
licensees, and Macau registered corporations that are affiliated with those operations, may be
injurious to stable and productive corporate gaming.

The Macau gaming authorities also have the power to supervise gaming licensees in order to:

•assure the financial stability of corporate gaming operators and their affiliates;

•preserve the beneficial aspects of conducting business in the corporate form; and

•promote a neutral environment for the orderly governance of corporate affairs.

The subconcession agreement requires the Macau gaming authorities’ prior approval of any
recapitalization plan proposed by VML’s Board of Directors. The Chief Executive of Macau could also
require VML to increase its share capital if he deemed it necessary.

The Macau government also has the right, after consultation with Galaxy, to unilaterally
terminate the subconcession agreement at any time upon the occurrence of specified events of
default, including:

•the operation of gaming without permission or operation of business which does not fall
within the business scope of the subconcession;

•the suspension of operations of our gaming business in Macau without reasonable grounds
for more than seven consecutive days or more than fourteen non-consecutive days within one
calendar year;

•the unauthorized transfer of all or part of our gaming operations in Macau;

•the failure to pay taxes, premiums, levies or other amounts payable to the Macau
government;

•the failure to resume operations following the temporary assumption of operations by the
Macau government;

•the repeated failure to comply with decisions of the Macau government;

•the failure to provide or supplement the guarantee deposit or the guarantees specified in
the subconcession within the prescribed period;

•the bankruptcy or insolvency of VML;

•fraudulent activity by VML;

•serious and repeated violation by VML of the applicable rules for carrying out casino
games of chance or games of other forms or the operation of casino games of chance or games
of other forms;

•the grant to any other person of any managing power over VML; or

•the failure by a controlling shareholder in VML to dispose of its interest in VML
following notice from the gaming authorities of another jurisdiction in which such
controlling shareholder is licensed to operate casino games of chance to the effect that
such controlling shareholder can no longer own shares in VML.







In addition, we must comply with various covenants and other provisions under the
subconcession, including obligations to:

•ensure the proper operation and conduct of casino games;

•employ people with appropriate qualifications;

•operate and conduct casino games of chance in a fair and honest manner without the
influence of criminal activities;

•safeguard and ensure Macau’s interests in tax revenue from the operation of casinos and
other gaming areas; and

•maintain a specified level of insurance.

The subconcession agreement also allows the Macau government to request various changes in the
plans and specifications of our Macau properties and to make various other decisions and
determinations that may be binding on us. For example, the Macau government has the right to
require that we contribute additional capital to our Macau subsidiaries or that we provide certain
deposits or other guarantees of performance in any amount determined by the Macau government to be
necessary. VML is limited in its ability to raise additional capital by the need to first obtain
the approval of the Macau gaming and governmental authorities before raising certain debt or
equity.

If our subconcession is terminated in the event of a default, the casinos and gaming-related
equipment would be automatically transferred to the Macau government without compensation to us and
we would cease to generate any revenues from these operations. In many of these instances, the
subconcession agreement does not provide a specific cure period within which any such events may be
cured and, instead, we would rely on consultations and negotiations with the Macau government to
give us an opportunity to remedy any such default.

The Sands Macao, The Venetian Macao and Four Seasons Macao are being operated under our
subconcession agreement. This subconcession excludes the following gaming activities: mutual bets,
lotteries, raffles, interactive gaming and games of chance or other gaming, betting or gambling
activities on ships or planes. Our subconcession is exclusively governed by Macau law. We are
subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of Macau in case of any dispute or conflict
relating to our subconcession.

Our subconcession agreement expires on June 26, 2022. Unless our subconcession is extended, on
that date, the casinos and gaming-related equipment will automatically be transferred to the Macau
government without compensation to us and we will cease to generate any revenues from these
operations. Beginning on December 26, 2017, the Macau government may redeem our subconcession by
giving us at least one year prior notice and by paying us fair compensation or indemnity. See “Item
1A — Risk Factors — Risks Associated with Our International Operations — We will stop generating
any revenues from our Macau gaming operations if we cannot secure an extension of our subconcession
in 2022 or if the Macau government exercises its redemption right.”

Under the subconcession, we are obligated to pay to the Macau government an annual premium
with a fixed portion and a variable portion based on the number and type of gaming tables employed
and gaming machines operated by us. The fixed portion of the premium is equal to 30.0 million
patacas (approximately $3.7 million at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2010). The variable
portion is equal to 300,000 patacas per gaming table reserved exclusively for certain kinds of
games or players, 150,000 patacas per gaming table not so reserved and 1,000 patacas per electrical
or mechanical gaming machine, including slot machines (approximately $37,426, $18,713 and $125,
respectively, at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2010), subject to a minimum of 45.0
million patacas (approximately $5.6 million at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2010). We
also have to pay a special gaming tax of 35% of gross gaming revenues and applicable withholding
taxes. We must also contribute 4% of our gross gaming revenue to utilities designated by the Macau
government, a portion of which must be used for promotion of tourism in Macau. This percentage may
be subject to change in the future.

Currently, the gaming tax in Macau is calculated as a percentage of gross gaming revenue;
however, unlike Nevada, gross gaming revenue does not include deductions for credit losses. As a
result, if we extend credit to our customers in Macau and are unable to collect on the related
receivables from them, we have to pay taxes on our
winnings from these customers even though we were unable to collect on the related
receivables. If the laws are not changed, our business in Macau may not be able to realize the full
benefits of extending credit to our customers. Although there are proposals to revise the gaming
tax laws in Macau, there can be no assurance that the laws will be changed.





We have received an exemption from Macau’s corporate income tax on profits generated by the
operation of casino games of chance for the five-year period ending December 31, 2013. See “Item 1A
— Risk Factors — Risks Associated with Our International Operations — We are currently not
required to pay corporate income taxes on our casino gaming operations in Macau. This tax exemption
expires at the end of 2013.”

Development Agreement with Singapore Tourism Board

The term of the casino concession provided under the Development Agreement is for 30 years
commencing from the date the Development Agreement was entered into, or August 23, 2006. In order
to renew the casino concession, MBS must give notice to the STB and other relevant authorities in
Singapore at least five years before its expiration in August 2036. The Singapore government may
terminate the casino concession prior to its expiration in order to serve the best interests of the
public, in which event fair compensation will be paid to MBS.

Under the Development Agreement, MBS is required to be licensed by the relevant gaming
authorities in Singapore before it can commence operating the casino under the casino concession.
In connection with issuing the gaming license, the relevant gaming authorities will look into
various factors relating to MBS, including, but not limited to, (i) its reputation, character,
honesty and integrity, (ii) whether or not it is sound and stable from a financial point of view,
(iii) confirming that it has a satisfactory corporate ownership structure, (iv) the adequacy of its
financial resources in order to ensure the financial viability of the casino operations,
(v) whether it has engaged and employed persons who have sufficient experience managing and
operating a casino and that are suitable to act in such capacities, (vi) its ability to
sufficiently  maintain a successful casino operation, (vii) confirming that there are
no business associations with any person, body or association who is not of good repute, has a
disregard for character, honesty and integrity, or has undesirable or unsatisfactory financial
resources, (viii) determining whether the persons associated or connected with the ownership,
administration or management of the casino operations or business are suitable persons to act in
such capacity and (ix) the  operation plan for the casino.

On April 26, 2010, MBS was issued a gaming license for a three-year period, which was acquired
for SGD 37.5 million (approximately $29.1 million at exchange rates in effect on December 31,
2010). This license is being amortized over its three-year term and is renewable upon submitting a
renewal application, paying the applicable license fee and meeting the renewal requirements as
determined by the CRA.

The Development Agreement contains, among other things, restrictions limiting the use of the
leased land to the development and operation of the project, requirements that MBS obtain prior
approval from the STB in order to subdivide the hotel and retail components of the project, and
prohibitions on any such subdivision during a ten-year exclusive period, which began March 1, 2007. The Development Agreement also
contains provisions relating to the construction of the project
and associated deadlines for substantial completion and opening; the location of the casino
within the project site and casino licensing issues; insurance requirements; and limitations on
MBS’ ability to assign the lease or sub-lease any portion of the land during the exclusivity
period. In addition, the Development Agreement contains events of default, including, among other
things, the failure of MBS to perform its obligations under the Development Agreement and events of
bankruptcy or dissolution.





The Development Agreement requires MBS to invest at least SGD 3.85 billion (approximately
$2.98 billion at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2010) in the integrated resort, which
investment is to be allocated in specified amounts among the casino, hotel, food and beverage
outlets, retail areas, meeting, convention and exhibition facilities, key attractions,
entertainment venues and public areas. This minimum investment requirement must be satisfied in
full upon the earlier of eight years from the date of the Development Agreement or three years from
the issuance of the casino license, which was issued in April 2010. As of December 31, 2010, MBS
has fulfilled this obligation.

MBS must complete the construction of the Marina Bay Sands by no later than August 22, 2014,
in order to avoid an event of default under the Development Agreement that could result in a
forfeiture of the lease for the land parcels underlying the integrated resort. Under the terms of
the Development Agreement, MBS has agreed to design, develop and construct the integrated resort in
accordance with the plans set forth in its response to the request for proposal, which was
ultimately accepted by the STB. Any changes in the overall design and the components of the
integrated resort from what was contained in the response to the request for proposal will require
the prior approval of the Singapore government.

Pursuant to the Development Agreement, MBS was permitted to open the Marina Bay Sands in
stages and in accordance with an agreed upon schedule that runs until March 31, 2011. In the event
that the opening of any of the component of the Marina Bay Sands is delayed, MBS must seek the
STB’s approval for an extension of time. The STB is obliged to approve the extension of time so
long as the delay is not for a period of more than 12 months, does not extend the opening of the
component in question after December 31, 2011, or is not due to MBS’s recklessness or gross
negligence. There are no financial consequences to MBS if MBS fails to open a component according
to the schedule, provided that the entire integrated resort is opened by December 31, 2011. If MBS
fails to meet this deadline, the STB will be entitled to draw on the SGD 192.6 million
(approximately $149.3 million at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2010) security deposit
provided by MBS in the form of a banker’s guarantee at the time MBS entered into the Development
Agreement.

Employees whose job duties relate to the operations of the casino are required to be licensed
by the relevant authorities in Singapore. MBS also must comply with comprehensive internal control
standards or regulations concerning advertising; branch office operations; the location, floor
plans and layout of the casino; casino operations including casino related financial transactions
and patron disputes, issuance of credit and collection of debt, relationships with and permitted
payments to junket operators; security and surveillance; casino access by Singaporeans and
non-Singaporeans; compliance functions and the prevention of money laundering; periodic standard
and other reports to the CRA; and those relating to social controls including the exclusion of
certain persons from the casino.

There is a goods and services tax of 7% imposed on gross gaming revenue and a casino tax of
15% imposed on the gross gaming revenue from the casino after reduction for the amount of goods and
services tax, except in the case of gaming by premium players, in which case a casino tax of 5% is
imposed on the gross gaming revenue generated from such players after reduction for the amount of
the goods and services tax. The tax rates will not be changed for a period of 15 years from January
29, 2009. The casino tax is deductible against the Singapore corporate taxable income of MBS. The
provision for bad debts arising from the extension of credit granted to gaming patrons is not
deductible against gross gaming revenue when calculating the casino tax, but is deductible for the
purposes of calculating corporate income tax and the goods and services tax (subject to the
prevailing law). MBS is permitted to extend casino credit to persons who are not Singapore citizens
or permanent residents, but is not permitted to extend casino credit to Singapore citizens or
permanent residents except to premium players.

The key constraint imposed on the casino under the Development Agreement is the total size of
the gaming area, which must not be more than 15,000 square meters (approximately 161,000 square
feet). The following will not be counted towards the gaming area: back of house facilities,
reception, restrooms, food and beverage areas, retail
shops, stairs, escalators and lift lobbies leading to the gaming area, aesthetic and
decorative displays, performance areas and major aisles. The casino located within Marina Bay Sands
may not have more than 2,500 gaming machines, but there is no limit on the number of tables for
casino games permitted in the casino.





Employees

We directly employ over 34,000 employees worldwide and hire temporary employees on an
as-needed basis. The employees in Las Vegas, Bethlehem, Macau and Singapore are not covered by
collective bargaining agreements. We believe that we have good relations with our employees.

Certain unions have engaged in confrontational and obstructive tactics at some of our
properties, including contacting potential customers, tenants and investors, objecting to various
administrative approvals and picketing, and may continue these tactics in the future. Although we
believe we will be able to operate despite such tactics, no assurance can be given that we will be
able to do so or that the failure to do so would not have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Although no assurances can be given, if
employees decide to be represented by labor unions, management does not believe that such
representation would have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or
cash flows.

Certain culinary personnel are hired from time to time for trade shows and conventions at
Sands Expo Center and are covered under a collective bargaining agreement between Local 226 and
Sands Expo Center. This collective bargaining agreement expired in December 2000, but automatically
renews on an annual basis. As a result, Sands Expo Center is operating under the terms of the
expired bargaining agreement with respect to these employees.

Intellectual Property

Our intellectual property (“IP”) portfolio currently consists of a combination of copyrights,
contractual rights, domain names and domain name system configurations, patents, trade secrets,
trademarks, service marks and trade names. As they have the effect of developing brand
identification and we believe that the name recognition, reputation and image that we have
developed attract customers to facilities, we seek to protect the marks of material importance to
our business in the countries where we operate or significantly advertise, as well as in countries
where we might operate in the future. The marks we consider material include Paiza, Palazzo, Sands,
The Venetian, the sunburst design mark, the V crest and winged lion design mark, and variations of
these marks and logos. Depending on the jurisdiction, our marks remain valid provided we continue
to use them and/or we properly maintain their registrations.

Agreements Relating to the Malls

The Grand Canal Shoppes

In April 2004, we entered into an agreement with GGP to sell The Grand Canal Shoppes and lease
to GGP certain restaurant and other retail space at the casino level of The Venetian Las Vegas for
approximately $766.0 million. In May 2004, we completed the sale of The Grand Canal Shoppes and
leased to GGP 19 spaces on the casino level of The Venetian Las Vegas currently occupied by various
retail and restaurant tenants for 89 years with annual rent of one dollar, and GGP assumed our
interest as landlord under the various space leases associated with these 19 spaces. In addition,
we agreed with GGP to:

•continue to be obligated to fulfill certain lease termination and asset purchase
agreements;

•lease the portion of the Blue Man Group theater space located within The Grand Canal
Shoppes from GGP for a period of 25 years, subject to an additional 50 years of extension
options, with initial fixed minimum rent of $3.3 million per year;

•lease the gondola retail store and the canal space located within The Grand Canal Shoppes
from GGP (and by amendment the extension of the canal space extended into The Shoppes at The
Palazzo) for a period of 25 years, subject to an additional 50 years of extension options,
with initial fixed minimum rent of $3.5 million per year; and•lease certain office space from GGP for a period of 10 years, subject to an additional 65
years of extension options, with initial annual rent of approximately $0.9 million.

The lease payments relating to the Blue Man Group theater, the canal space within The Grand
Canal Shoppes and the office space from GGP are subject to automatic increases of 5% in the sixth
lease year and each subsequent fifth lease year.





The Shoppes at The Palazzo

In April 2009, GGP and its subsidiary that owns The Shoppes at The Palazzo filed voluntary
petitions under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (the “Chapter 11 Cases”). The United States
Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York entered orders approving the plans of
reorganization of GGP and the subsidiary that owns The Shoppes at The Palazzo on October 21 and
April 29, 2010, respectively, and the effective date of such plans of reorganization occurred on November 9 and
May 28, 2010, respectively. Under the confirmed plans of reorganization, the only impaired
creditors were mortgage holders. We will continue to review the Chapter 11 Cases and will adjust
the estimates of NOI and capitalization rates as additional information is received.

Cooperation Agreement

Our business plan calls for each of The Venetian Las Vegas, The Palazzo, Sands Expo Center,
The Grand Canal Shoppes, The Shoppes at The Palazzo and the Las Vegas Condo Tower, though
separately owned, to be integrally related components of one facility (the “LV Integrated Resort”).
In establishing the terms for the integrated operation of these components, the cooperation
agreement sets forth agreements regarding, among other things, encroachments, easements, operating
standards, maintenance requirements, insurance requirements, casualty and condemnation, joint
marketing, and the sharing of some facilities and related costs. Subject to applicable law, the
cooperation agreement binds all current and future owners of all portions of the LV Integrated
Resort, and has priority over the liens securing LVSLLC’s senior secured credit facility and in
some or all respects any liens that may secure any indebtedness of the owners of any portion of the
LV Integrated Resort. Accordingly, subject to applicable law, the obligations in the cooperation
agreement will “run with the land” if any of the components change hands.





Operating Covenants.The cooperation agreement regulates certain aspects of the operation of
the LV Integrated Resort. For example, under the cooperation agreement, we are obligated to operate
The Venetian Las Vegas continuously and to use it exclusively in accordance with standards of
first-class Las Vegas Boulevard-style hotels and casinos. We are also obligated to operate and to
use the Sands Expo Center exclusively in accordance with standards of first-class convention, trade
show and exposition centers. The owners of The Grand Canal Shoppes and The Shoppes at The Palazzo
are obligated to operate their properties exclusively in accordance with standards of first-class
restaurant and retail complexes. For so long as The Venetian Las Vegas is operated in accordance
with a “Venetian” theme, the owner of The Grand Canal Shoppes must operate The Grand Canal Shoppes
in accordance with the overall Venetian theme.

Maintenance and Repair.We must maintain The Venetian Las Vegas and The Palazzo as well as
some common areas and common facilities that are to be shared with The Grand Canal Shoppes and The
Shoppes at The Palazzo. The cost of maintenance of all shared common areas and common facilities is
to be shared between us and the owners of The Grand Canal Shoppes and The Shoppes at The Palazzo.
We must also maintain, repair, and restore Sands Expo Center and certain common areas and common
facilities located in Sands Expo Center. The owners of The Grand Canal Shoppes and The Shoppes at
The Palazzo must maintain, repair, and restore The Grand Canal Shoppes and The Shoppes at The
Palazzo and certain common areas and common facilities located within.

Insurance.We and the owners of The Grand Canal Shoppes and The Shoppes at The Palazzo must
maintain minimum types and levels of insurance, including property damage, general liability and
business interruption insurance. The cooperation agreement establishes an insurance trustee to
assist in the implementation of the insurance requirements.

Parking.The cooperation agreement also addresses issues relating to the use of the LV
Integrated Resort’s parking facilities and easements for access. The Venetian Las Vegas, The
Palazzo, Sands Expo Center, The Grand Canal Shoppes and The Shoppes at The Palazzo may use the
parking spaces in the LV Integrated Resort’s parking facilities on a “first come, first served”
basis. The LV Integrated Resort’s parking facilities are owned, maintained, and operated by us,
with the operating costs proportionately allocated among and/or billed to the owners of the
components of the LV Integrated Resort. Each party to the cooperation agreement has granted to the
others non-exclusive easements and rights to use the roadways and walkways on each other’s
properties for vehicular and pedestrian access to the parking garages.

Utility Easement.All property owners have also granted each other all appropriate and
necessary easement rights to utility lines servicing the LV Integrated Resort.

Consents, Approvals and Disputes.If any current or future party to the cooperation agreement
has a consent or approval right or has discretion to act or refrain from acting, the consent or
approval of such party will only be granted and action will be taken or not taken only if a
commercially reasonable owner would do so and such consent, approval, action or inaction would not
have a material adverse effect on the property owned by such property owner. The cooperation
agreement provides for the appointment of an independent expert to resolve some disputes between
the parties, as well as for expedited arbitration for other disputes.

Sale of The Grand Canal Shoppes or The Shoppes at The Palazzo by GGP.We have a right of first
offer in connection with any proposed sale of The Grand Canal Shoppes or The Shoppes at The Palazzo
by GGP. We also have the right to receive notice of any default by GGP sent by any lender holding a
mortgage on The Grand Canal Shoppes or The Shoppes at The Palazzo, if any, and the right to cure
such default subject to our meeting certain net worth tests.



