ITEM 1.    BUSINESS.

Our Company

All references to "CF Holdings," "the Company," "we," "us" and "our" refer to CF Industries
Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries, including CF Industries, Inc., except where the context makes clear that the reference is only to CF Holdings itself and not its subsidiaries. All
references to "our pre-IPO owners" refer to the eight stockholders of CF Industries, Inc. prior to the consummation of our reorganization transaction and initial public offering
(IPO) which closed on August 16, 2005. Notes referenced throughout this document refer to financial statement footnote disclosures that are found in Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

We
are one of the largest manufacturers and distributors of nitrogen and phosphate fertilizer products in North America. Our operations are organized into two business segments: the
nitrogen segment and
the phosphate segment. Our principal products in the nitrogen segment are ammonia, urea and urea ammonium nitrate solution (UAN). Our principal products in the phosphate segment are diammonium
phosphate (DAP), monoammonium phosphate (MAP) and granular muriate of potash (potash). Our core market and distribution facilities are concentrated in the Midwestern U.S. grain-producing states. Our
principal customers are cooperatives and independent fertilizer distributors. We also export nitrogen and phosphate fertilizer products from our Florida and Louisiana manufacturing facilities which
have international shipping capabilities due to their locations.

Our
principal assets include:

•the largest nitrogen fertilizer complex in North America (Donaldsonville, Louisiana);•a 66% economic interest in the largest nitrogen fertilizer complex in Canada (which we operate in Medicine Hat, Alberta,
through Canadian Fertilizers Limited (CFL);•one of the largest integrated ammonium phosphate fertilizer complexes in the United States (Plant City, Florida);•the most-recently constructed phosphate rock mine and associated beneficiation plant in the United States
(Hardee County, Florida);•an extensive system of terminals, warehouses and associated transportation equipment located primarily in the Midwestern
United States; and•a 50% interest in KEYTRADE AG (Keytrade), a global fertilizer trading company headquartered near Zurich, Switzerland.

For
the year ended December 31, 2009, we sold 5.9 million tons of nitrogen fertilizers and 2.2 million tons of phosphate fertilizers, generating net sales of
$2.6 billion.

Our
principal executive offices are located outside of Chicago, Illinois, at 4 Parkway North, Suite 400, Deerfield, Illinois 60015. Our Internet website address iswww.cfindustries.com.

We
make available free of charge on or through our Internet website,www.cfindustries.com, all of our reports on
Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed electronically with, or furnished
to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Copies of our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Corporate Conduct and charters for the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, and Corporate
Governance and Nominating Committee of our Board of Directors are also available on our Internet website. We will provide electronic or paper copies of these documents free of charge upon request. The
SEC also









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.



maintains
a website atwww.sec.govthat contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file
electronically with the SEC.

Company History

We were founded in 1946 as a fertilizer brokerage operation by a group of regional agricultural cooperatives seeking to pool their
purchasing power. During the 1960s, we expanded our distribution capabilities and diversified into fertilizer manufacturing through the acquisition of several existing plants and facilities. During
the 1970s and again during the 1990s, we expanded our production and distribution capabilities significantly, spending approximately $1 billion in each of these decades.

Through
the end of 2002, we operated as a traditional supply cooperative. Our focus was on providing our pre-IPO owners with an assured supply of fertilizer. Typically, over
80% of our annual sales volume was to our pre-IPO owners. Though important, financial performance was subordinate to our mandated supply objective.

In
2002, we adopted a new business model that established financial performance, rather than assured supply to our pre-IPO owners, as our principal objective. A critical
aspect of the new business model was to establish a more economically driven approach to the marketplace. We began to
pursue markets and customers and make pricing decisions with a primary focus on financial performance. One result of this approach was a substantial shift in our customer mix. By 2009, our sales to
customers other than our pre-IPO owners and Viterra, our joint venture partner in CFL, reached approximately 62% of our total sales volume for the year, which was more than triple the
comparable percentage for 2002.

In
August 2005, we completed our initial public offering of common stock and listing on the New York Stock Exchange. We sold approximately 47.4 million shares of our common
stock in the offering and received net proceeds, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions, of approximately $715.4 million. We did not retain any of the proceeds from the IPO. In
connection with the IPO, we consummated a reorganization transaction whereby we ceased to be a cooperative. In the reorganization transaction, our pre-IPO owners' equity interests in CF
Industries, Inc., now our wholly-owned subsidiary, were cancelled in exchange for all of the proceeds of the offering and approximately 7.6 million shares of our common stock.

Operating Segments

Our business is divided into two operating segments, the nitrogen segment and the phosphate segment. The nitrogen segment includes the
manufacture and sale of ammonia, urea, and UAN. The phosphate segment includes the manufacture and sale of DAP, MAP and the sale of potash.

Nitrogen Segment

We are one of the leading nitrogen fertilizer producers in North America. Our primary nitrogen fertilizer products are ammonia, urea
and UAN. Our historical sales of nitrogen fertilizer products are shown in the following table. The sales shown do not reflect amounts used internally in the









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.



manufacture
of other products (for example in 2009, we used about 2.2 million tons of ammonia in the production of urea and UAN).

200920082007TonsNet SalesTonsNet SalesTonsNet Sales(tons in thousands; dollars in millions)Nitrogen Fertilizer ProductsAmmonia1,083$557.31,079$604.11,434$556.0Urea2,604787.22,6171,208.32,701889.0UAN2,112489.52,405772.62,754591.8Other nitrogen fertilizers(1)525.3406.1495.1Total5,851$1,839.36,141$2,591.16,938$2,041.9

(1)Other
nitrogen segment products include aqua ammonia.

Gross
margin for the nitrogen segment was $784.2 million, $770.3 million and $446.8 million for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.

Total
assets for the nitrogen segment were $712.7 million and $758.2 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

We
operate world-scale nitrogen fertilizer production facilities in Donaldsonville, Louisiana and Medicine Hat, Alberta, Canada. We own the Donaldsonville nitrogen fertilizer complex and
have a 66% economic interest in CFL, a Canadian variable interest entity that owns the Medicine Hat nitrogen fertilizer complex. In 2009, the combined production capacity of these two facilities
represented approximately 20% of North American ammonia capacity, 33% of North American dry urea capacity and 18% of North American UAN capacity.

The
following table summarizes our nitrogen fertilizer production volume for the last three years at our facilities in Donaldsonville, Louisiana and Medicine Hat, Alberta.

December 31,200920082007(tons in thousands)Ammonia(1)(2)3,0983,2493,289Granular urea(2)2,3502,3552,358UAN (28%)2,3122,6022,611

(1)Gross
ammonia production, including amounts subsequently upgraded on-site into granular urea and/or UAN.(2)Includes
total production of the Donaldsonville and Medicine Hat facilities, including the 34% interest of Viterra Inc., the
noncontrolling interest holder in Canadian Fertilizers Limited.

Donaldsonville Nitrogen Complex

The Donaldsonville nitrogen fertilizer complex is the largest nitrogen fertilizer production facility in North America. It has four
world-scale ammonia plants, four urea plants and two UAN plants. It has the annual capacity to produce approximately 2.3 million tons of ammonia (most of which is typically upgraded into urea
and UAN), 2.6 million tons of liquid urea (including amounts upgraded into UAN) and 2.8 million tons of UAN (measured on a 28% nitrogen content basis). With the UAN plants









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.



operating
at capacity, approximately 1.7 million tons of granular urea can be produced. Granular urea production can be increased to 2 million tons per year if UAN production is reduced.

We
believe that this facility is the most versatile nitrogen fertilizer production complex in North America. With multiple production units for each product, the complex has considerable
flexibility to adjust its product mix. Donaldsonville is located near the mouth of the Mississippi River and has three docks that can be used simultaneously under most river conditions. In addition,
Donaldsonville is located on the Union Pacific railroad and a 2000-mile ammonia pipeline, providing us with flexible and competitively priced transportation to our in-market
nitrogen fertilizer terminals and warehouses by rail and pipeline, as well as by barge. The facility is capable of docking, loading and unloading ocean-going ships, providing us with direct access to
global customers and suppliers. The complex has on-site storage for 70,000 tons of ammonia, 135,000 tons of UAN (measured on a 28% nitrogen content basis) and 83,000 tons of granular urea,
providing us with flexibility to handle temporary disruptions to shipping activities without impacting production and also flexibility to purchase and store liquid product for resale.

Medicine Hat Nitrogen Complex

Medicine Hat is the largest nitrogen fertilizer complex in Canada. It has two world-scale ammonia plants that have a combined gross
annual production capacity of approximately 1.3 million tons and a world-scale urea plant that has a gross annual production capacity of 810,000 tons. The complex has on-site
storage for 60,000 tons of ammonia and 70,000 tons of urea, providing flexibility to handle temporary disruptions of outbound shipments.

The
Medicine Hat facility is owned by CFL. We own 49% of the voting common stock of CFL and 66% of CFL's non-voting preferred stock. Viterra Inc.
(Viterra) owns 34% of the voting common stock and non-voting preferred stock of CFL. The remaining 17% of the voting common stock of CFL is owned by GROWMARK, Inc. (GROWMARK) and La
Coop fédérée. We designate four members of CFL's nine-member board of directors, Viterra designates three members and GROWMARK
and La Coop fédérée each designate one member. CFL is a consolidated variable interest entity in our financial statements.

We
operate the Medicine Hat facility and purchase approximately 66% of the facility's ammonia and urea production, pursuant to a management agreement and a product purchase agreement.
Both the management agreement and the product purchase agreement can be terminated by either CF Industries, Inc. or CFL upon a twelve-month notice. Viterra has the right, but not the
obligation, to purchase the remaining 34% of the facility's ammonia and urea production under a similar product purchase agreement. To the extent that Viterra does not purchase its 34% of the
facility's production, we are obligated to purchase any remaining amounts. Since 1995, however, Viterra or its predecessor has purchased at least 34% of the facility's production each year.

Under
the product purchase agreements, both we and Viterra pay the greater of operating cost or market price for purchases. However, the product purchase agreements also provide that CFL
will distribute its net earnings to Viterra and us annually based on the respective quantities of product purchased from CFL. Our product purchase agreement also requires us to advance funds to CFL in
the event that CFL is unable to meet its debts as they become due. The amount of each advance would be at least 66% of the deficiency and would be more in any year in which we purchased more than 66%
of Medicine Hat's production. A similar obligation also exists for Viterra. We and Viterra currently manage CFL such that each party is responsible for its share of CFL's fixed costs
and CFL's production volume is managed to meet the parties' combined requirements. The management









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.



agreement,
the product purchase agreements and any other agreements related to CFL are subject to change with the consent of both parties.

Nitrogen Fertilizer Raw Materials

Natural gas is the principal raw material, as well as the primary fuel source, used in the ammonia production process at both the
Donaldsonville and the Medicine Hat facilities. In 2009, our natural gas purchases accounted for approximately 52% of our total cost of sales for nitrogen fertilizers and a higher percentage of cash
production costs (total production costs less depreciation and amortization). Donaldsonville is located in close proximity to one of the most heavily-traded natural gas pricing basis in North America,
known as the Henry Hub. Medicine Hat is
located in close proximity to one of the most heavily-traded natural gas pricing basis in Canada, known as AECO.

We
use a combination of spot and term purchases of varied duration from a variety of suppliers to maintain a reliable, competitively-priced natural gas supply. In addition, we use
certain financial instruments to hedge natural gas prices.

In
2009, the Donaldsonville nitrogen fertilizer complex consumed approximately 76 million MMBtus of natural gas. The facility has access to five natural gas pipelines and obtains
gas from several suppliers. In 2009, the largest individual supplier provided approximately 56% of the Donaldsonville facility's total gas requirement. The Medicine Hat complex consumed approximately
36 million MMBtus of natural gas in 2009. The facility has access to two natural gas pipelines and obtains gas from numerous suppliers, the largest of which supplied approximately 37% of the
gas consumed in 2009.

Nitrogen Fertilizer Distribution

The Donaldsonville nitrogen fertilizer complex, which is located on the Mississippi River, includes a deep-water docking
facility, access to an ammonia pipeline, and truck and railroad loading capabilities. We ship our share of ammonia and urea produced at the Medicine Hat nitrogen fertilizer complex by truck and rail
to customers in the United States and Canada and to our storage facilities in the northern United States.

Ammonia,
urea and UAN from Donaldsonville can be loaded into river barges and ocean-going vessels for direct shipment to domestic customers, for transport to storage facilities, or for
export. We own six ammonia river barges with a total capacity of approximately 16,400 tons. We contract on a dedicated basis for tug services and the operation of these barges. We have 16 UAN river
barges contracted on a dedicated basis with a total capacity of approximately 48,000 tons. We contract for additional ammonia and UAN barge capacity as needed. River transportation for urea is
provided primarily under an agreement with one of the major inland river system barge operators.

The
Donaldsonville facility is connected to a 2,000-mile long ammonia pipeline used by several nitrogen producers to transport ammonia to over 20 terminals and shipping
points located in the Midwestern U.S. corn belt. We are a major customer of this ammonia pipeline. In 2009, approximately 46% of our ammonia shipments from our Donaldsonville nitrogen fertilizer
complex were transported via the ammonia pipeline.

We
also transport substantial volumes of urea and UAN from the Donaldsonville nitrogen fertilizer complex and ammonia and urea from the Medicine Hat nitrogen fertilizer complex by rail.
In addition
to using rail cars provided by the rail carriers, as of December 31, 2009, we had leases for approximately 600 ammonia tank cars, 900 UAN tank cars and 600 dry product hopper cars.







CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

Phosphate Segment

We are a major manufacturer of phosphate fertilizer products. Our main phosphate fertilizer products are DAP and MAP. We also sold
potash fertilizer in 2009 but have ceased sales of this product. Potash results are included in the phosphate segment.

Our
historical sales of phosphate fertilizer products are shown in the table below.

200920082007TonsNet SalesTonsNet SalesTonsNet Sales(tons in thousands; dollars in millions)Phosphate Fertilizer ProductsDAP1,736$557.71,532$1,165.01,624$579.4MAP349121.6255165.0370135.4Potash16489.8————Total2,249$769.11,787$1,330.01,994$714.8

Gross
margin for the phosphate segment was $55.2 million, $452.4 million and $223.2 million for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.

Total
assets for the phosphate segment were $564.1 million and $764.1 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Our
phosphate fertilizer manufacturing operations are located in central Florida and consist of a phosphate fertilizer chemical complex in Plant City, a phosphate rock mine, a
beneficiation plant and phosphate rock reserves in Hardee County and a deepwater terminal facility in the port of Tampa. We own each of these facilities and properties.

The
following table summarizes our phosphate fertilizer production volumes for the last three years and current production capacities for phosphate-related products.

December 31,NormalizedAnnualCapacity200920082007(tons in thousands)Hardee Phosphate Rock MinePhosphate rock3,0883,4433,2333,500Plant City Phosphate Fertilizer ComplexSulfuric acid2,3222,4482,5312,800Phosphoric acid as P2O5(1)9189859761,055DAP/MAP1,8301,9801,9482,165

(1)P2O5is the basic measure of the nutrient content in phosphate fertilizer products. Phosphoric acid capacity is based
on captive sulfuric acid capacity.

Hardee County Phosphate Rock Mine

In 1975, we purchased 20,000 acres of land in Hardee County, Florida that was originally estimated to contain in excess of
100 million tons of recoverable rock reserves. Between 1978 and mid-1993, we operated a one million ton per year phosphate rock mine on a 5,000-acre portion of these
reserves.









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

In
1992, we initiated a project to expand and relocate mining operations to the remaining 15,000-acre area of the reserve property. This phosphate rock mine cost
$135 million and began operations in late 1995. In 1997, we added approximately 20 million tons to our reserve base through an exchange with a neighboring rock producer. In 1999, we
acquired 1,400 acres of land containing an estimated 8 million tons of rock reserves. In 2008, we acquired approximately 800 acres of land containing an estimated 1.6 million tons of
rock reserves, and in 2009, we acquired approximately 175 acres of land containing an estimated 1.4 million tons of rock reserves.

The
table below shows the estimated reserves at the Hardee phosphate complex as of December 31, 2009. Also reflected in the table is the grade of the reserves, expressed as a
percentage of bone phosphate of lime (BPL) and P2O5. Finally, the table also reflects the average values of the following material contaminants contained in the reserves:
ferrous oxide (Fe2O3) plus aluminum oxide (Al2O3) and magnesium oxide (MgO).

PROVEN AND PROBABLE RESERVES(1)Hardee Phosphate ComplexAs of December 31, 2009

Recoverable Tons(2)(in millions)% BPL% P2O5% Fe2O3+ AI2O3% MgOPermitted46.464.6829.602.390.79Pending permit34.064.5729.552.390.79Total80.464.6429.562.390.79

(1)The
minimum drill hole density for the proven reserves classification is 1 hole per 20 acres.(2)The
reserve estimates provided have been developed by the Company in accordance with Industry Guide 7 promulgated by the SEC. We estimate that
99% of the reserves are proven.

Our
phosphate reserve estimates are based on geological data assembled and analyzed by our staff geologist as of December 31, 2009. Reserve estimates are updated periodically to
reflect actual phosphate rock recovered, new drilling information and other geological or mining data. Estimates for 99% of the reserves are based on 20-acre density drilling.

Plant City Phosphate Complex

Our Plant City phosphate fertilizer complex is one of the largest phosphate fertilizer facilities in North America. At one million tons
per year, its phosphoric acid capacity represents approximately 10% of the total U.S. capacity. All of Plant City's phosphoric acid is converted into ammonium phosphates (DAP and MAP), representing
approximately 13% of U.S. capacity for ammonium phosphate fertilizer products in 2009. The combination of the Plant City phosphate fertilizer complex and the Hardee mine gives us one of the largest
integrated ammonium phosphate fertilizer operations in North America.

Bartow Phosphate Complex

We own a former phosphate manufacturing complex in Bartow, Florida that ceased production in 1999. The former manufacturing facilities
have since been dismantled and disposed of in accordance with local laws and regulations, the phosphogypsum stack has been closed and the former storage and distribution facilities were sold along
with approximately 35 acres of land. We continue to be obligated for the closure of the cooling pond, management of water treatment on the site and providing long-term care for the site in
accordance with regulatory requirements.









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

Phosphate Raw Materials

Phosphate Rock Supply.Phosphate rock is the basic nutrient source for phosphate fertilizers. Approximately 3.5 tons of phosphate rock
are needed to
produce one ton of P2O5(the measure of nutrient content of phosphate fertilizers). Our Plant City phosphate fertilizer complex typically consumes in excess of three million
tons of rock annually. As of December 31, 2009, our Hardee rock mine had approximately 13 years of fully permitted recoverable phosphate reserves remaining at current operating rates. We
have initiated the process of applying for authorization and permits to expand the geographical area at our Hardee property where we can mine. The expanded area has an estimated 34 million tons
of recoverable phosphate reserves. We estimate that we will be able to conduct mining operations at our Hardee property for approximately ten additional years at current operating rates, assuming we
secure the authorization and permits to mine in this area.

Sulfur Supply.Sulfur is used to produce sulfuric acid, which is combined with phosphate rock to produce phosphoric acid. Approximately
three-quarters of a long ton of sulfur is needed to produce one ton of P2O5. Our Plant City phosphate fertilizer complex uses approximately 800,000 long tons of sulfur annually
when operating at capacity. We obtain molten sulfur from several domestic and foreign producers under contracts of varied duration. In 2009, Martin Sulphur, our largest molten sulfur supplier,
supplied approximately 60% of the molten sulfur used at Plant City.

Ammonia Supply.DAP and MAP have a nitrogen content of 18% and 11%, respectively, and a phosphate nutrient content of 46% and 52%,
respectively.
Ammonia is the primary source of nitrogen in DAP and MAP. Operating at capacity, our Plant City phosphate fertilizer complex consumes approximately 400,000 tons of ammonia annually.

The
ammonia used at our Plant City phosphate fertilizer complex is shipped by rail from our ammonia storage facility located in Tampa, Florida. This facility consists of a
38,000-ton ammonia storage tank, access to a deep-water dock that is capable of discharging ocean-going vessels, and rail and truck loading facilities. In addition to supplying
our Plant City phosphate fertilizer complex, our Tampa ammonia distribution system has the capacity to support ammonia sales to, and distribution services for, other customers. Sales of ammonia from
our Tampa terminal are reported in our nitrogen business segment. The ammonia supply for Tampa is purchased from offshore sources, providing us with access to the broad international ammonia market.

Phosphate Distribution

We operate a phosphate fertilizer warehouse located at a deep-water port facility in Tampa, Florida. Most of the phosphate
fertilizer produced at Plant City is shipped by truck or rail to our Tampa warehouse, where it is loaded onto vessels for shipment to export customers or for transport across the Gulf of Mexico to the
Mississippi River. In 2009, our Tampa warehouse handled approximately 1.3 million tons of phosphate fertilizers, or about 72% of our production. The remainder of our phosphate fertilizer
production is transported by truck or rail directly to customers or to in-market storage facilities.

Phosphate
fertilizer shipped across the Gulf of Mexico to the Mississippi River is transferred into river barges near New Orleans. Phosphate fertilizer in these river barges is
transported to our storage facilities or delivered directly to customers. River transportation is provided primarily under an agreement with one of the major inland river system barge operators.









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

Storage Facilities and Other Properties

We currently own or rent space at 47 in-market storage terminals and warehouses located in a 14-state region.
Including storage at our production facilities and at the Tampa warehouse and ammonia terminal, we have an aggregate storage capacity for approximately two million tons of fertilizer. Our storage
capabilities are summarized in the following table.

AmmoniaUAN(1)Dry Products(2)Number ofFacilitiesCapacity(tons inthousands)Number ofFacilitiesCapacity(tons inthousands)Number ofFacilitiesCapacity(tons inthousands)Plants213011353210Tampa Port138——175168135285In-Market LocationsOwned1968092835360Leased(3)——13152126Total in-market19680224356386Total Storage Capacity848570671

(1)Capacity
is expressed as the equivalent volume of UAN measured on a 28% nitrogen content basis.(2)Our
dry products include urea, DAP and MAP.(3)Our
lease agreements are typically for periods of one to three years.

In
addition to these facilities, we also own our former corporate headquarters facility, located in Long Grove, Illinois. In 2007, we relocated our corporate headquarters to a leased
office facility located in Deerfield, Illinois. We are currently seeking a buyer for our facility in Long Grove, Illinois.









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

Customers

The principal customers for our nitrogen and phosphate fertilizers are cooperatives and independent fertilizer distributors. Sales are
generated by CF's internal marketing and sales force.

The
following table sets forth the sales to our major customers for the past three years.

200920082007SalesPercentSalesPercentSalesPercent(in millions)Sales by major customerCHS Inc.(1)$572.522%$796.420%$654.424%Gavilon Fertilzer LLC(2)315.112%353.19%238.49%KEYTRADE AG(3)304.212%452.212%33.11%GROWMARK, Inc.233.89%377.210%288.410%Others1,182.845%1,942.249%1,542.456%Consolidated$2,608.4100%$3,921.1100%$2,756.7100%



(1)Includes
sales to Agriliance, LLC (a 50-50 joint venture between CHS Inc. (CHS) and Land O'Lakes, Inc.) prior
to the September 1, 2007 transaction in which Agriliance distributed its crop nutrients business to CHS.(2)Gavilon
Fertilizer LLC (Gavilon) was previously ConAgra International Fertilizer Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of ConAgra
Foods, Inc.(3)The
Company owns 50% of the common stock of KEYTRADE AG (Keytrade). Keytrade purchases fertilizer products from various manufacturers around
the world and resells them in approximately 50 countries through a network of seven offices. We utilize Keytrade as our exclusive exporter of phosphate fertilizers from North America and importer of
UAN products into North America. Profits resulting from sales or purchases with Keytrade are eliminated until realized by Keytrade or us, respectively. See Note 19—Investments in
and Advances to Unconsolidated Affiliates.

CHS,
GROWMARK, and Gavilon are significant customers of both the nitrogen and phosphate segments. CHS has notified us that its multi-year supply contract set to expire on
June 30, 2010 will not be renewed. A loss of any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and the individual results of each segment.

The
chief executive officer of GROWMARK, William Davisson, and the president and chief executive officer of CHS, John D. Johnson, serve as members of our board of directors. As of
December 31, 2009, GROWMARK was the beneficial owner of approximately 3% of our outstanding common stock. For additional information on related party transactions, see
Note 33—Related Party Transactions.

Phosphate
Chemicals Export Association, Inc, (PhosChem) was our primary means of exporting phosphate products from October 2006 to December 2007, when we ended our membership. Sales to
PhosChem represented approximately 5% of our 2007 phosphate net sales. In December 2007, we began an exclusive marketing arrangement with Keytrade under which Keytrade became our exclusive exporter of
phosphate products outside of the U.S. For additional information on Keytrade, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 19—Investments in and Advances to Unconsolidated
Affiliates.









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

Competition

Our markets are intensely competitive, based primarily on delivered price and to a lesser extent on customer service and product
quality. During the peak demand periods, product availability and delivery time also play a role in the buying decisions of customers.

In
our nitrogen segment, our primary North American-based competitors are Agrium, Koch Nitrogen and Terra Industries. There is also significant competition from product sourced from
regions of the world with lower natural gas costs. Because urea is a widely-traded fertilizer product and there are limited barriers to entry, competition from foreign-sourced product is particularly
acute with respect to urea.

In
our phosphate segment, our primary North American-based competitors are Agrium, Mosaic, Potash Corp. and Simplot. Historically, imports have not been a significant factor, as the
United States is a large net exporter of phosphate fertilizers.

Seasonality

The sales patterns of all five of our major products are seasonal. The strongest demand for our products occurs during the spring
planting season, with a second period of strong demand following the fall harvest. We and/or our customers generally build inventories during the low demand periods of the year in order to ensure
timely product availability during the peak sales seasons. Seasonality is greatest for ammonia due to the limited ability of our customers and their customers to store significant quantities of this
product. The seasonality of fertilizer demand generally results in our sales volumes and net sales being the highest during the spring and our working capital requirements being the highest just prior
to the start of the spring season. Our quarterly financial results can vary significantly from one year to the next due to weather-related shifts in planting schedules and purchasing patterns.

Financial Information About Foreign and Domestic Sales and Operations

The amount of net sales attributable to our sales to foreign and domestic markets over the last three fiscal years and the carrying
value of our foreign and domestic assets are set forth in Note 32—Segment Disclosures.

Environment, Health and Safety

We are subject to numerous environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including laws and regulations relating to land
reclamation; the generation, treatment,
storage, disposal and handling of hazardous substances and wastes; and the cleanup of hazardous substance releases. These laws include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act (RCRA), the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), the Toxic Substances Control Act and various other federal, state, provincial, local and
international statutes. Violations can result in substantial penalties, court orders to install pollution-control equipment, civil and criminal sanctions, permit revocations and facility shutdowns. In
addition, environmental, health and safety laws and regulations may impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault, for cleanup costs on potentially responsible parties who have released
or disposed of hazardous substances into the environment.

We
have received notices from time to time from governmental agencies or third parties alleging that we are a potentially responsible party at certain cleanup sites under CERCLA or other
environmental cleanup laws. We are currently involved in remediation activities at certain of our current and former facilities. We are also participating in the cleanup of third-party sites at which
we









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.



have
disposed of wastes. In 2002, we were asked by the current owner of a former phosphate mine and processing facility that we may have operated in the late 1950s and early 1960s located in
Georgetown Canyon, Idaho, to contribute to a remediation of this property. We declined to participate in the cleanup. In 2009, we were again asked by the current owner to participate in the
remediation of the property. It is our understanding that the current owner signed a Consent Judgment with the Idaho Department of Environmental Quality (IDEQ) for cleanup of the processing facility
portion of the site and has submitted a Draft Remedial Action Plan that is under review by the IDEQ and related agencies. We anticipate that the current owner might bring a lawsuit against us seeking
contribution for the cleanup costs, although we do not have sufficient information to determine when such a suit may be brought. We are not able to estimate at this time our potential liability, if
any, with respect to the remediation of this property. Based on currently available information, we do not expect that any remedial or financial obligations we may be subject to involving this or
other sites will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Environmental Health and Safety Expenditures

Our environmental, health and safety capital expenditures in 2009 were approximately $6.8 million. In 2010 we estimate that we
will spend approximately $10 million for environmental, health and safety capital expenditures. Environmental, health and safety laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have
tended to become more stringent over time. We expect that continued government and public emphasis on environmental issues will result in increased future expenditures for environmental controls at
our operations. Such expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

RCRA Enforcement Initiative

In December 2004 and January 2005, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) inspected our Plant City, Florida phosphate
fertilizer complex to evaluate the facility's compliance with the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), the federal statute that governs the generation, transportation, treatment, storage and
disposal of hazardous wastes. This inspection was undertaken as a part of a broad enforcement initiative commenced by the EPA to evaluate whether mineral processing and mining facilities, including,
in particular, all wet process phosphoric acid production facilities, are in compliance with RCRA, and the extent to which such facilities' waste management practices have impacted the environment.

By
letter dated September 27, 2005, EPA Region 4 issued to the Company a Notice of Violation (NOV) and Compliance Evaluation Inspection Report. The NOV and Compliance Evaluation
Inspection Report alleged a number of violations of RCRA, including violations relating to recordkeeping, the failure to properly make hazardous waste determinations as required by RCRA, and alleged
treatment of sulfuric acid waste without a permit. The most significant allegation in the NOV is that the Plant City facility's reuse of phosphoric acid process water (which is otherwise exempt from
regulation as a hazardous waste) in the production of ammoniated phosphate fertilizer, and the return of this process water to the facility's process water recirculating system, have resulted in the
disposal of hazardous waste into the system without a permit. The Compliance Evaluation Inspection Report indicates that as a result, the entire process water system, including all pipes, ditches,
cooling ponds and gypsum stacks, could be regulated as hazardous waste management units under RCRA.

Several
of the Company's competitors have received NOVs making this same allegation. This particular recycling of process water is common in the industry and, the Company believes, was
authorized by the EPA in 1990. The Company also believes that this allegation is inconsistent with recent case law governing the scope of the EPA's regulatory authority under RCRA. Nonetheless, the









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.



Company
has conducted a successful pilot test to replace process water as a scrubbing medium at the ammonium phosphate fertilizer plants and maintain compliance with Plant City's air permit. The
Company has received a permit from the Florida Department of Environmental Protection that authorizes the Company to make this change for the three ammonium phosphate plants that utilize process
water. Although this does not fully resolve the NOV or address all of the issues identified by the EPA and the United States Department of Justice (DOJ), this does address a significant issue
identified in the NOV.

The
NOV indicated that the Company is liable for penalties up to the statutory maximum (for example, the statutory maximum per day of noncompliance for each violation that occurred after
March 15, 2004 is $32,500 per day). Although penalties of this magnitude are rarely, if ever, imposed, the Company is at risk of incurring substantial civil penalties with respect to these
allegations. The EPA has referred
this matter to the DOJ for enforcement. The Company is currently in negotiations with the DOJ that have included not only the issues identified in the NOV but other operational practices of the
Company and its competitors. A final settlement may include the requirement for the Company to meet specified financial tests and/or contribute cash or other qualifying assets into a trust designated
to be used for the closure, long-term maintenance, and monitoring costs for our phosphogypsum stacks, as well as any costs incurred to manage the water contained in the stack systems upon
closure. The Company does not know if this matter will be resolved prior to the commencement of litigation by the United States.

Legislation and Regulation of Greenhouse Gasses

There have been increased initiatives by various parties to legislate and/or regulate carbon emissions, including carbon dioxide. The
Company's nitrogen operations produce substantial quantities of carbon dioxide in the chemical reactions that are necessary to produce anhydrous ammonia.

Pursuant
to the Kyoto Protocol, Canada has committed to reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. In the U.S., it is possible that GHG emissions will be limited through federal
legislation and/or regulatory action. In June 2009, the American Clean Energy and Security Act was passed by the U.S. House of Representatives. This legislation would establish an
economy-wide cap and trade system for carbon emissions commencing in 2012. Emitters of GHGs would be required to have allowances to offset their GHG emissions and, over time, the cap on
aggregate GHG emissions would decline. Similar legislation was introduced in the U.S. Senate in September 2009. At this time, we cannot predict whether legislation imposing limits on GHG emissions in
the U.S. will be enacted.

The
Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) new Greenhouse Gas Mandatory Reporting Rule requires our facilities in Donaldsonville, Louisiana and Plant City, Florida to monitor emissions
beginning on January 1, 2010 and begin reporting the previous year's emissions annually starting in 2011. In addition to the GHG reporting rule, which directly affects our facilities, the EPA
has issued or proposed other regulations which could eventually impact us, including potentially applying the Clean Air Act to regulate GHGs.

Neither
of the state governments in Florida nor Louisiana, where our U.S. production facilities are located, has proposed regulations on GHG emissions. However, coalitions of states in
the Northeast, Midwest and West are working together to develop regional GHG emission reduction programs and several states (the most noteworthy being California) are developing regulatory programs on
their own.

Federal
and/or state regulation of GHGs may require us to make changes in our operating activities that would increase our operating costs, reduce our efficiency, limit our output,
require us to make capital improvements to our facilities, increase our costs for or limit the availability of energy, raw materials or transportation, or otherwise materially adversely affect our
operating results. In









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.



addition,
to the extent climate change restrictions imposed in countries where our competitors operate are less stringent than in the U.S. or Canada, our competitors could gain cost or other
competitive advantages over us.

Regulatory Permits and Approvals

We hold numerous environmental and mining permits authorizing operations at our facilities. A decision by a government agency to deny
or delay issuing a new or renewed material permit or approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operations at
the affected facility. Any future expansion of our existing operations is also predicated upon securing the necessary environmental or other permits or approvals.

As
of December 31, 2009, the area permitted for mining at our Hardee phosphate complex had approximately 46 million tons of recoverable phosphate rock reserves, which will
meet our requirements, at current production rates, for approximately 13 years. We have secured the necessary permits to mine these reserves from the Florida Department of Environmental
Protection and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. We have initiated the process of applying for authorization and permits to expand the geographical area in which we can mine at our Hardee property.
The expanded geographical area has an estimated additional 34 million tons of recoverable phosphate reserves, which will allow us to conduct mining operations at our Hardee property for
approximately ten additional years at current operating rates, assuming we secure the authorization and permits to mine in this area. The estimated recoverable phosphate reserves are reflective of the
anticipated permittable mining areas based on recent similar permitting efforts. In Florida, local community participation has become an important factor in the authorization and permitting process
for mining companies. A denial of the authorizations or permits to continue and/or expand our mining operations at our Hardee property would prevent us from mining all of our reserves and have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Likewise,
our phosphogypsum stack system at Plant City has sufficient capacity to meet our requirements through 2014 at current operating rates and subject to regular renewals of our
operating permits. We have secured the local development authorization to increase the capacity of this stack system. Based on this authorization, estimated stack system capacity is expected to meet
our requirements until 2040 at current operating rates and is subject to securing the corresponding operating permits. This time frame is approximately eight years beyond our current estimate of
available phosphate rock reserves at our Hardee mine. A decision by the state or federal authorities to deny a renewal of our current permits or to deny operating permits for the expansion of our
stack system could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

In
certain cases, as a condition to procuring such permits and approvals, we may be required to comply with financial assurance regulatory requirements. The purpose of these requirements
is to assure that sufficient company funds will be available for the ultimate closure, post-closure care and/or reclamation at our facilities. We currently utilize an escrow account
established for the benefit of the Florida Department of Environmental Protection as a means of complying with Florida's regulations governing financial assurance requirements for the closure of
phosphogypsum stacks. For additional information on the cash deposit arrangement, see Note 13—Asset Retirement Obligations.

Several
of our permits, including our mining permit at the Hardee phosphate complex, require us to reclaim any property disturbed by our operations. At our Hardee property, we currently
mine approximately 300 to 400 acres of land each year, all of which must be reclaimed. The costs to reclaim this land vary based on the type of land involved and range from $3,600 to $18,000 an acre,
with an









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.



average
of $8,300 an acre. For additional information on our Hardee asset retirement obligations, see Note 13—Asset Retirement Obligations.

Our
phosphate operations in Florida are subject to regulations governing the closure and long-term maintenance of our phosphogypsum stack systems. At our Bartow phosphate
complex, we estimate that we will spend a total of approximately $7 million between 2010 and 2017 to complete closure of the cooling pond and channels. Water treating expenditures at Bartow are
estimated to require about $13 million over the next 47 years. Post-closure long-term care expenditures at Bartow are estimated to total approximately
$61 million for a 58 year period including 2010. To close the phosphogypsum stack currently in use at the Plant City phosphate complex, we estimate that we will spend approximately
$67 million during the years 2033 through 2037, and another $46 million in 2087 to close the cooling pond. Water treating expenditures at Plant City are estimated to approximate
$6 million in 2018, $65 million in 2033 through 2037, and $169 million thereafter through 2087. Post-closure long-term care expenditures at Plant City are
estimated to total $108 million for a 50 year period commencing in 2038. These amounts are in nominal dollars using an assumed inflation rate of 3%. For additional information on our
asset retirement obligations related to our phosphogypsum stack systems, see Note 13—Asset Retirement Obligations.

Cost
estimates for closure of our phosphogypsum stack systems are based on formal closure plans submitted to the State of Florida, which are subject to revision during negotiations over
the next several years. Moreover, the time frame involved in the closure of our phosphogypsum stack systems extends as far as the year 2087. Accordingly, the actual amount to be spent also will depend
upon
factors such as the timing of activities, refinements in scope, technological developments, cost inflation and changes in applicable laws and regulations. These cost estimates may also increase if the
Plant City phosphogypsum stack is expanded further. For additional information on our Plant City asset retirement obligations, see Note 13—Asset Retirement Obligations.

Employees and Labor Relations

As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately 1,500 full-time and 100 part-time employees.









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

