ITEM 1.    BUSINESS.

Our Company

All references to "CF Holdings," "the Company," "we," "us" and "our" refer to CF Industries
Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries, including CF Industries, Inc., except where the context makes clear that the reference is only to CF Holdings itself and not its subsidiaries. Notes
referenced throughout this document refer to financial statement footnote disclosures that are found in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

We
are one of the largest manufacturers and distributors of nitrogen and phosphate fertilizer products in the world. Our operations are organized into two business
segments—the nitrogen segment and the phosphate segment. Our principal products in the nitrogen segment are ammonia, granular urea, urea ammonium nitrate solution, or UAN, and ammonium
nitrate, or AN. Our other nitrogen products include urea liquor, diesel exhaust fluid, or DEF, and aqua ammonia, which are sold primarily to our industrial customers. Our principal products in the
phosphate segment are diammonium phosphate, or DAP, and monoammonium phosphate, or MAP.

Our
core market and distribution facilities are concentrated in the midwestern United States and other major agricultural areas of the U.S. and Canada. We also export nitrogen fertilizer
products from our Donaldsonville, Louisiana manufacturing facilities and phosphate fertilizer products from our Florida phosphate operations through our Tampa port facility.

Our
principal assets include:

•five nitrogen fertilizer manufacturing facilities in Donaldsonville, Louisiana (the largest nitrogen fertilizer complex in
North America), Port Neal, Iowa, Courtright, Ontario, Yazoo City, Mississippi and Woodward, Oklahoma;•a 75.3% interest in Terra Nitrogen Company, L.P. (TNCLP), a publicly traded limited partnership of which we are the sole
general partner and the majority limited partner and which, through its subsidiary Terra Nitrogen, Limited Partnership (TNLP), operates a nitrogen fertilizer manufacturing facility in Verdigris,
Oklahoma;•a 66% economic interest in the largest nitrogen fertilizer complex in Canada (which we operate in Medicine Hat, Alberta
through Canadian Fertilizers Limited (CFL), a consolidated variable interest entity);•one of the largest integrated ammonium phosphate fertilizer complexes in the United States in Plant City, Florida;•the most-recently constructed phosphate rock mine and associated beneficiation plant in the United States in
Hardee County, Florida;•an extensive system of terminals and associated transportation equipment located primarily in the midwestern United
States; and•joint venture investments that we account for under the equity method, which consist
of:•a 50% interest in GrowHow UK Limited (GrowHow), a nitrogen products production joint venture located in the United Kingdom
and serving the British agricultural and industrial markets;









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

•a 50% interest in Point Lisas Nitrogen Limited (PLNL), an ammonia production joint venture located in the Republic of
Trinidad and Tobago; and•a 50% interest in KEYTRADE AG (Keytrade), a global fertilizer trading company headquartered near Zurich, Switzerland.

For
the year ended December 31, 2011, we sold 13.0 million tons of nitrogen fertilizers and 1.9 million tons of phosphate fertilizers, generating net sales of
$6.1 billion and pre-tax earnings of $2.6 billion.

Our
principal executive offices are located outside of Chicago, Illinois, at 4 Parkway North, Suite 400, Deerfield, Illinois 60015 and our telephone number is
847-405-2400. Our Internet website address iswww.cfindustries.com.Information made available on our website does not
constitute part of the Annual Report on Form 10-K.

We
make available free of charge on or through our Internet website,www.cfindustries.com, all of our reports on
Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed electronically with, or furnished
to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Copies of our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Corporate Conduct and charters for the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, and Corporate
Governance and Nominating Committee of our Board of Directors are also available on our Internet website. We will provide electronic or paper copies of these documents free of charge upon request. The
SEC also maintains a website atwww.sec.govthat contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file
electronically with the SEC.

Company History

We were founded in 1946 as a fertilizer brokerage operation by a group of regional agricultural cooperatives. During the 1960s, we
expanded our distribution capabilities and diversified into fertilizer manufacturing through the acquisition of several existing plants and facilities. During the 1970s and again during the 1990s, we
expanded our production and distribution capabilities significantly, spending approximately $1 billion in each of these decades.

We
operated as a traditional supply cooperative until 2002, when we adopted a new business model that established financial performance as our principal objective, rather than assured
supply to our owners. A critical aspect of the new business model was to establish a more economically driven approach to the marketplace.

In
August 2005, we completed our initial public offering (IPO) of common stock, which is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. In connection with the IPO, we consummated a
reorganization transaction whereby we ceased to be a cooperative and our pre-IPO owners' equity interests in CF Industries, Inc., now our wholly-owned subsidiary, were cancelled in
exchange for all of the proceeds of the offering and shares of our common stock.

In
April 2010, we acquired Terra Industries Inc. (Terra), a leading North American producer and marketer of nitrogen fertilizer products for a purchase price of $4.6 billion,
which was paid in cash and shares of our common stock. Terra's financial results have been included in our consolidated financial results and in the nitrogen segment results since the acquisition date
of April 5, 2010. As a result of the Terra acquisition, we acquired five nitrogen fertilizer manufacturing facilities, our 75.3% interest in TNCLP and certain joint venture interests.









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

Operating Segments

Our business is divided into two operating segments, the nitrogen segment and the phosphate segment. The nitrogen segment includes the
manufacture and sale of ammonia, urea, UAN and AN. The phosphate segment includes the manufacture and sale of DAP and MAP.

Nitrogen Segment

We are the largest nitrogen fertilizer producer in North America. Our primary nitrogen fertilizer products are ammonia, urea, UAN and
AN. Our historical sales of nitrogen fertilizer products are shown in the following table. The sales shown do not reflect amounts used internally, such as ammonia, in the manufacture of other
products.

201120102009TonsNet SalesTonsNet SalesTonsNet Sales(tons in thousands; dollars in millions)Nitrogen Fertilizer ProductsAmmonia2,668$1,562.82,809$1,129.41,083$557.3Urea2,6001,069.72,602777.72,604787.2UAN6,2411,991.64,843994.32,112489.5AN953247.5788164.7——Other nitrogen products(1)540140.5419121.4525.3Total13,002$5,012.111,461$3,187.55,851$1,839.3

(1)Other
nitrogen segment products include aqua ammonia, nitric acid, urea liquor and DEF.

Gross
margin for the nitrogen segment was $2,563.2 million, $1,026.7 million and $784.2 million for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. Total assets for the nitrogen segment were $6.0 billion and $6.1 billion as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.

We
operate seven nitrogen fertilizer production facilities in North America. We are 100% owners of these production facilities; four in the Central United States and one in Ontario,
Canada. We also have a 75.3% interest in TNCLP and its subsidiary, TNLP, which owns a nitrogen fertilizer facility in Verdigris, Oklahoma, and a 66% economic interest in CFL, a variable interest
entity that owns the nitrogen fertilizer complex in Medicine Hat, Alberta, Canada. In 2011, the combined production capacity of these seven facilities represented approximately 39% of North American
ammonia capacity, 35% of North American dry urea capacity, 47% of North American UAN capacity and 22% of North American ammonium nitrate products capacity. Each of our nitrogen fertilizer production
facilities in North America has on-site storage to provide flexibility to manage the flow of outbound shipments without impacting production.

Our
joint venture interests in PLNL and GrowHow provide additional production capacity in three additional nitrogen fertilizer production facilities, one located in the Republic of
Trinidad and Tobago and two located in the United Kingdom.









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

The
following table shows the production capacities at each of our nitrogen fertilizer production facilities:

Average Annual Capacity(1)LocationAmmonia(2)UAN(3)Urea(4)Ammonium Nitrate(5)Fertilizer Compounds(in thousands of short tons)Donaldsonville, Louisiana(6)2,8502,4151,680——Medicine Hat, Alberta1,250—810——Port Neal, Iowa(7)38080050——Verdigris, Oklahoma(9)1,1001,965———Woodward, Oklahoma48080025——Yazoo City, Mississippi(7)(8)(9)560160201,075—Courtright, Ontario(7)(9)500345160——7,1206,4852,7451,075—Unconsolidated Affiliates(10)Point Lisas, Trinidad360————Ince, U.K.(11)190——330165Billingham, U.K.275——310—Total7,9456,4852,7451,715165

(1)

Average
annual capacity includes allowance for normal outages and planned maintenance shutdowns.

(2)

Ammonia
capacity is gross production capacity, some of which is used to produce upgraded products.

(3)

Measured
in tons of UAN containing 32% nitrogen by weight.

(4)

Urea
is sold as granular urea from the Donaldsonville and Medicine Hat facilities, as urea liquor from the Port Neal, Woodward and Yazoo City
facilities and as either granular urea or urea liquor from the Courtright facility. Urea liquor produced at the Yazoo City, Courtright and Woodward facilities can be sold as DEF.

(5)

Ammonium
nitrate includes prilled products (Amtrate and IGAN) and ammonium nitrate solution produced for sale.

(6)

The
Donaldsonville facility's production capacity depends on product mix. With the UAN plants operating at capacity, approximately
1.7 million tons of granular urea can be produced. Granular urea production can be increased to 2 million tons if UAN production is reduced.

(7)

Production
of urea products at the Port Neal and Courtright facilities can be increased by reducing UAN production. Urea liquor production at
the Yazoo City facility can be increased by bringing in additional ammonia to supplement the facility's ammonia production.

(8)

The
Yazoo City facility's production capacity depends on product mix. With the facility maximizing the production of AN products,
160,000 tons of UAN can be produced. UAN production can be increased to 510,000 tons by reducing the production of AN nitrate products.

(9)

The
Yazoo City, Courtright and Verdigris facilities also produce merchant nitric acid by reducing UAN or ammonium nitrate production.

(10)

Represents
our 50% interest in the capacity of each of these facilities.









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

(11)The
Ince facility's production capacity depends on product mix. The facility can increase production of fertilizer compounds to
335,000 tons by reducing ammonium nitrate production to 220,000 tons (volumes represent our 50% interest).

The
following table summarizes our nitrogen fertilizer production volume for the last three years.

December 31,201120102009(tons in thousands)Ammonia(1)7,2446,1103,098Granular urea2,5882,4882,350UAN (32%)6,3494,6262,023AN1,062783—

(1)Gross
ammonia production, including amounts subsequently upgraded on-site into granular urea or UAN.

Donaldsonville, Louisiana

The Donaldsonville nitrogen fertilizer complex is the largest nitrogen fertilizer production facility in North America. It has five
world-scale ammonia plants, four urea plants and two UAN plants. The complex, which is located on the Mississippi River, includes deep-water docking facilities, access to an ammonia
pipeline, and truck and railroad loading capabilities. The complex has on-site storage for 130,000 tons of ammonia, 168,000 tons of UAN (measured on a 32% nitrogen content
basis) and 83,000 tons of granular urea.

Medicine Hat, Alberta, Canada

Medicine Hat is the largest nitrogen fertilizer complex in Canada. The facility is owned by CFL, a variable interest entity which we
consolidate in our financial statements. It has two ammonia plants and a urea plant. The complex has on-site storage for 60,000 tons of ammonia and 70,000 tons of urea.

We
operate the Medicine Hat facility and purchase approximately 66% of the facility's ammonia and urea production, pursuant to a management agreement and a product purchase agreement. We
ship our share of ammonia and urea produced at the Medicine Hat nitrogen fertilizer complex by truck and rail to customers in the United States and Canada and to our storage facilities in the northern
United States. Viterra, Inc. (Viterra), which owns 34% of CFL, has the right, but not the obligation, to purchase the remaining 34% of the facility's ammonia and urea production under a similar
product purchase agreement. To the extent that Viterra does not purchase its 34% of the facility's production, we are obligated to purchase any remaining amounts. However, since 1995, Viterra and its
predecessor purchased at least 34% of the facility's production each year.

For
further information about CFL, see Note 4—Noncontrolling Interest.

Port Neal, Iowa

The Port Neal facility is located approximately 12 miles south of Sioux City, Iowa on the Missouri River. The facility consists
of an ammonia plant, two urea plants, two nitric acid plants and a UAN plant. The location has on-site storage for 30,000 tons of ammonia and 81,000 tons of 32% UAN.









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

Verdigris, Oklahoma

The Verdigris facility is located northeast of Tulsa, Oklahoma, near the Verdigris River and is owned by TNLP. It is the second largest
UAN production facility in North America. The facility comprises two ammonia plants, two nitric acid plants, two UAN plants and a port terminal. Through our 75.3% interest in TNCLP and its subsidiary,
TNLP, we operate the plants and lease the port terminal from the Tulsa-Rogers County Port Authority. The complex has on-site storage for 28,000 tons of ammonia and
49,100 tons of 32% UAN.

Woodward, Oklahoma

The Woodward facility is located in rural northwest Oklahoma and consists of an integrated ammonia plant, a nitric acid plant, a urea
plant and two UAN plants. The facility has on-site storage for 36,000 tons of ammonia and 83,900 tons of 32% UAN.

Yazoo City, Mississippi

The facility includes one ammonia plant, four nitric acid plants, an AN plant, two urea plants, a UAN plant and a dinitrogen tetroxide
production and storage facility. The site has on-site storage for 28,000 tons of ammonia, 48,000 tons of 32% UAN and 7,000 tons of AN and related products.

Courtright, Ontario, Canada

The Courtright facility is located south of Sarnia, Ontario near the St. Clair River. The facility consists of one ammonia
plant, a UAN plant, a nitric acid plant and one urea plant. The location has on-site storage for 64,100 tons of ammonia and 16,000 tons of 32% UAN.

Point Lisas, Trinidad

The Point Lisas Nitrogen facility in the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago is owned jointly through a 50/50 venture with Koch
Fertilizers. This facility has the capacity to produce 720,000 tons of ammonia annually from natural gas supplied under a contract with the National Gas Company of Trinidad and Tobago.

United Kingdom

GrowHow is a 50/50 joint venture between us and Yara International ASA (Yara) that owns and operates the Ince and Billingham
facilities. The Ince facility is located in northwestern England and consists of an ammonia plant, three nitric acid plants, an AN plant and three fertilizer compound plants. The Billingham facility
located in the Teesside chemical area, is geographically split among two primary areas: the main site contains an ammonia plant, three nitric acid plants and a carbon dioxide plant and the Portrack
site, approximately two miles away, contains an AN fertilizer plant.

Nitrogen Fertilizer Raw Materials

Natural gas is the principal raw material and primary fuel source used in the ammonia production process at our nitrogen fertilizer
manufacturing facilities. In 2011, natural gas accounted for approximately 45% of our total cost of sales for nitrogen fertilizers and a higher percentage of cash production costs (total production
costs less depreciation and amortization). Our nitrogen fertilizer manufacturing facilities access abundant, competitively-priced natural gas through a reliable network of pipelines that are connected
to major natural gas trading hubs near the facilities. We have facilities









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

located
at or near Henry Hub in Louisiana, Oneok in Oklahoma, AECO in Alberta, Ventura in Iowa and Dawn in Ontario.

Our
nitrogen manufacturing facilities consume, in the aggregate, in excess of 250 million MMBtus of natural gas annually. We employ a combination of spot and term purchases from a
variety of quality suppliers to maintain a reliable, competitively-priced supply of natural gas. We also use certain financial instruments to hedge natural gas prices. For further information about
our natural gas hedging activities, see Note 28—Derivative Financial Instruments.

Nitrogen Fertilizer Distribution

The safe, efficient and economical distribution of nitrogen fertilizer products is critical for successful operations. Our nitrogen
fertilizer production facilities have access to multiple transportation modes by which we ship fertilizer to terminals, warehouses and customers. Each of our production facilities has a unique
distribution pattern based on production capability and location.

Our
North American production facilities can ship products via truck and rail to customers and our storage facilities in the U.S. and Canada, with access to our leased railcar fleet of
approximately 5,100 tank and hopper cars, as well as railcars provided by rail carriers.

The
North American waterway system is also used extensively to ship products from our Donaldsonville, Verdigris and Yazoo City facilities. We employ a fleet of ten leased tow boats and
32 river barges to ship ammonia and UAN. We also utilize contract marine services to move urea and phosphate fertilizers.

Three
of our nitrogen production facilities also have access to pipelines for the transportation of ammonia. The Donaldsonville facility is connected to the 2,000-mile long
Nustar pipeline through which we transport ammonia to over 20 terminals and shipping points located in the Midwestern U.S. Corn Belt. Our Verdigris and Port Neal facilities are connected to the
1,100-mile long Magellan ammonia pipeline that also serves the U.S. Midwest.

Phosphate Segment

We are a major manufacturer of phosphate fertilizer products. Our main phosphate fertilizer products are DAP and MAP. We also sold
potash fertilizer in 2009 but have ceased sales of this product. Potash results are included in the phosphate segment.

Our
historical sales of phosphate fertilizer products are shown in the table below.

201120102009TonsNet SalesTonsNet SalesTonsNet Sales(tons in thousands; dollars in millions)Phosphate Fertilizer ProductsDAP1,468$829.11,412$583.31,736$557.7MAP454256.7455194.2349121.6Potash————16489.8Total1,922$1,085.81,867$777.52,249$769.1







CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

Gross margin for the phosphate segment was $332.4 million, $152.8 million and $55.2 million for the fiscal years ended December 31,
2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Total assets for the phosphate segment were $696.4 million and $618.3 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.

Our
phosphate fertilizer manufacturing operations are located in central Florida and consist of a phosphate fertilizer chemical complex in Plant City, a phosphate rock mine, a
beneficiation plant and phosphate rock reserves in Hardee County and a deepwater terminal facility in the port of Tampa. We own each of these facilities and properties.

The
following table summarizes our phosphate fertilizer production volumes for the last three years and current production capacities for phosphate-related products.

December 31,Normalized Annual Capacity(2)201120102009(tons in thousands)Hardee Phosphate Rock MinePhosphate rock3,5043,3433,0883,500Plant City Phosphate Fertilizer ComplexSulfuric acid2,6332,4192,3222,800Phosphoric acid as P2O5(1)1,0059069181,055DAP/MAP1,9971,7991,8302,165

(1)P2O5is the basic measure of the nutrient content in phosphate fertilizer products.(2)Capacities
shown for phosphate rock at the Hardee County Phosphate Rock Mine and DAP/MAP granulation at the Plant City facility are
constrained by Plant City's capacity to produce phosphoric acid.

Hardee County Phosphate Rock Mine

In 1975, we purchased 20,000 acres of land in Hardee County, Florida that was originally estimated to contain in excess of
100 million tons of recoverable rock reserves. Between 1978 and 1993, we operated a one million ton per year phosphate rock mine on a 5,000-acre portion of these reserves. In 1995,
we began operations at an expanded mine on the remaining 15,000-acre area of the reserve property. Since that time, we have acquired additional rock reserves through acquisitions or
exchanges of several smaller parcels of land.

The
table below shows the estimated reserves at the Hardee phosphate complex as of December 31, 2011. Also reflected in the table is the grade of the reserves, expressed as a
percentage of bone phosphate of lime (BPL) and P2O5. The table also reflects the average values of the following material contaminants contained in the reserves: ferrous oxide
(Fe2O3) plus aluminum oxide (Al2O3) and magnesium oxide (MgO).









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

PROVEN AND PROBABLE RESERVES(1)Hardee Phosphate ComplexAs of December 31, 2011

Recoverable Tons(2)(in millions)% BPL% P2O5% Fe2O3+AI2O3% MgOPermitted45.965.1129.802.390.75Pending permit34.064.5729.552.390.78Total79.964.8929.702.390.76

(1)The
minimum drill hole density for the proven reserves classification is 1 hole per 20 acres.(2)The
reserve estimates provided have been developed by the Company in accordance with Industry Guide 7 promulgated by the SEC. We
estimate that 99% of the reserves are proven.

Our
phosphate reserve estimates are based on geological data assembled and analyzed by our staff geologist as of December 31, 2011. Reserve estimates are updated periodically to
reflect actual phosphate rock recovered, new drilling information and other geological or mining data. Estimates for 99% of the reserves are based on 20-acre density drilling.

Plant City Phosphate Complex

Our Plant City phosphate fertilizer complex is one of the largest phosphate fertilizer facilities in North America. At one million tons
per year, its phosphoric acid capacity represents approximately 10% of the total U.S. capacity. All of Plant City's phosphoric acid is converted into ammonium phosphates (DAP and MAP), representing
approximately 14% of U.S. capacity for ammonium phosphate fertilizer products in 2011. The combination of the Plant City phosphate fertilizer complex and the Hardee mine gives us one of the largest
integrated ammonium phosphate fertilizer operations in North America.

Bartow Phosphate Complex

We own a former phosphate manufacturing complex in Bartow, Florida that ceased production in 1999. The former manufacturing facilities
have since been dismantled and disposed of in accordance with local laws and regulations. The phosphogypsum stack has been closed and the former storage and distribution facilities were sold along
with excess land. We continue to be obligated for the closure of the cooling pond, management of water treatment on the site and providing long-term care for the site in accordance with
regulatory requirements.

Phosphate Raw Materials

Phosphate Rock Supply.Phosphate rock is the basic nutrient source for phosphate fertilizers. Approximately 3.5 tons of phosphate
rock are
needed to produce one ton of P2O5(the measure of nutrient content of phosphate fertilizers). Our Plant City phosphate fertilizer complex typically consumes in excess of three
million tons of rock annually. As of December 31, 2011, our Hardee rock mine had approximately 13 years of fully permitted recoverable phosphate reserves remaining at current operating
rates. We have initiated the process of applying for authorization and permits to expand the geographical area at our Hardee property where we can mine. The expanded area has an estimated
34 million tons of recoverable phosphate reserves. We estimate that we will be able to conduct mining operations at our Hardee property for approximately 10 additional years at current
operating rates, assuming we secure the authorization and permits to mine in this area.









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

Sulfur Supply.Sulfur is used to produce sulfuric acid, which is combined with phosphate rock to produce phosphoric acid. Approximately
three
quarters of a long ton of sulfur is needed to produce one ton of P2O5. Our Plant City phosphate fertilizer complex uses approximately 800,000 long tons of sulfur annually when
operating at capacity. We obtain molten sulfur from several domestic and foreign producers under contracts of varied duration. In 2011, Martin Sulphur, our largest molten sulfur supplier, supplied
approximately 60% of the molten sulfur used at Plant City.

Ammonia Supply.DAP and MAP have a nitrogen content of 18% and 11%, respectively, and a phosphate nutrient content of 46% and 52%,
respectively.
Ammonia is the primary source of nitrogen in DAP and MAP. Operating at capacity, our Plant City phosphate fertilizer complex consumes approximately 400,000 tons of ammonia annually.

The
ammonia used at our Plant City phosphate fertilizer complex is shipped by rail from our ammonia storage facility located in Tampa, Florida. This facility consists of a
38,000-ton ammonia
storage tank, access to a deep-water dock that is capable of discharging ocean-going vessels, and rail and truck loading facilities. In addition to supplying our Plant City phosphate
fertilizer complex, our Tampa ammonia distribution system has the capacity to support ammonia sales to, and distribution services for other customers. Sales of ammonia from our Tampa terminal are
reported in our nitrogen business segment. The ammonia supply for Tampa is purchased from offshore sources, providing us with access to the broad international ammonia market.

Phosphate Distribution

We operate a phosphate fertilizer warehouse located at a deep-water port facility in Tampa, Florida. Most of the phosphate
fertilizer produced at Plant City is shipped by truck or rail to our Tampa warehouse, where it is loaded onto vessels for shipment to export customers or for transport across the Gulf of Mexico to the
Mississippi River. In 2011, our Tampa warehouse handled approximately 1.3 million tons of phosphate fertilizers, or about 66% of our production. The remainder of our phosphate fertilizer
production is transported by truck or rail directly to customers or to in-market storage facilities.

Phosphate
fertilizer shipped across the Gulf of Mexico to the Mississippi River is transferred into river barges near New Orleans. Phosphate fertilizer in these river barges is
transported to our storage facilities or delivered directly to customers. River transportation is provided primarily under an agreement with one of the major inland river system barge operators.









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

Storage Facilities and Other Properties

At December 31, 2011, we owned or leased space at 75 in-market storage terminals and warehouses located in a
20-state region. Including storage at our production facilities and at the Tampa warehouse and ammonia terminal, we have an aggregate storage capacity for approximately three million tons
of fertilizer. Our storage capabilities are summarized in the following table.

AmmoniaUAN(1)Ammonium NitrateDry Products(2)Number ofFacilitiesCapacity(000 Tons)Number ofFacilitiesCapacity(000 Tons)Number ofFacilitiesCapacity(000 Tons)Number ofFacilitiesCapacity(000 Tons)Plants73766446173210Tampa Port138————11004144467310Terminal & Warehouse LocationsOwned2073010269——1170Leased(3)16040490123239Total In-Market21790507591233209Total Storage Capacity1,2041,20530519

(1)Capacity
is expressed as the equivalent volume of UAN measured on a 32% nitrogen content basis.(2)Our
dry products include urea, DAP and MAP.(3)Our
lease agreements are typically for periods of one to three years.

Customers

The principal customers for our nitrogen and phosphate fertilizers are cooperatives and independent fertilizer distributors. Sales are
generated by our internal marketing and sales force.

The
following table sets forth the sales to our major customers for the past three years.

201120102009SalesPercentSalesPercentSalesPercent(in millions)Sales by major customerCHS Inc.$609.210%$425.511%$572.522%GROWMARK, Inc.474.28%259.87%233.89%KEYTRADE AG(1)396.26%263.87%304.212%Gavilon Fertilizer LLC351.66%215.75%315.112%Others4,266.770%2,800.270%1,182.845%Consolidated$6,097.9100%$3,965.0100%$2,608.4100%

(1)We
own 50% of the common stock of Keytrade. Keytrade purchases fertilizer products from various manufacturers around the world and resells
them in approximately 90 countries through a network of nine offices. We utilize Keytrade as our exclusive exporter of phosphate fertilizers from North America and importer of UAN products into North
America. Profits resulting from sales or purchases with Keytrade are eliminated until realized by Keytrade or us, respectively. See Note 19—Equity Method Investments.







CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

CHS, Inc. (CHS), GROWMARK, Inc. (GROWMARK), and Gavilon Fertilizer LLC are significant customers of both the nitrogen and phosphate segments. A loss of any of
these customers could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and the individual results of each segment.

Competition

Our markets are intensely competitive, based primarily on delivered price and to a lesser extent on customer service and product
quality. During the peak demand periods, product availability and delivery time also play a role in the buying decisions of customers.

In
our nitrogen segment, our primary North American-based competitors include Agrium and Koch Nitrogen Fertilizers. There is also significant competition from products sourced from other
regions of the world, including some with lower natural gas costs. Because ammonia, urea and UAN are widely-traded fertilizer products and there are limited barriers to entry, we experience
competition from foreign-sourced products continuously.

In
our phosphate segment, our primary North American-based competitors include Agrium, Mosaic, Potash Corp. and Simplot. The domestic phosphate industry is tied to the global market
through its position as the world's largest exporter of DAP/MAP. Consequently, phosphate fertilizer prices and demand for U.S. DAP/MAP are subject to considerable volatility and dependent on a wide
variety of factors impacting the world market, including fertilizer and/or trade policies of foreign governments, changes in ocean bound freight rates and international currency fluctuations.

Seasonality

The sales patterns of all six of our major products are seasonal. The strongest demand for our products occurs during the spring
planting season, with a second period of strong demand following the fall harvest. We and/or our customers generally build inventories during the low demand periods of the year in order to ensure
timely product availability during the peak sales seasons. Seasonality is greatest for ammonia due to the limited ability of our customers and their customers to store significant quantities of this
product. The seasonality of fertilizer demand generally results in our sales volumes and net sales being the highest during the spring and our working capital requirements being the highest just prior
to the start of the spring season. Our quarterly financial results can vary significantly from one year to the next due to weather-related shifts in planting schedules and purchasing patterns.

Financial Information About Foreign and Domestic Sales and Operations

The amount of net sales attributable to our sales to foreign and domestic markets over the last three fiscal years and the carrying
value of our foreign and domestic assets are set forth in Note 33—Segment Disclosures.

Environment, Health and Safety

We are subject to numerous environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including laws and regulations relating to land
reclamation; the generation, treatment, storage, disposal and handling of hazardous substances and wastes; and the cleanup of hazardous substance releases. These laws include the Clean Air Act, the
Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), the Toxic Substances Control Act and various
other federal, state, provincial, local and international statutes. Violations can result in substantial penalties, court orders to install pollution-control equipment, civil and criminal sanctions,
permit revocations and facility shutdowns. In addition, environmental, health and safety laws and regulations may impose joint and several liability, without









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

regard
to fault, for cleanup costs on potentially responsible parties who have released or disposed of hazardous substances into the environment.

Environmental Health and Safety Expenditures

Our environmental, health and safety capital expenditures in 2011 totaled approximately $13.2 million. In 2012, we estimate that
we will spend approximately $79.5 million for environmental, health and safety capital expenditures. The increase in expenditures in 2012 is primarily related to certain projects to reduce
emissions from our facilities, including projects related to the Consent Decrees that the company has entered into, and to improve the storage tank integrity and capacity at certain plant locations.
Environmental, health and safety laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. We expect that continued
government and public emphasis on environmental issues will result in increased future expenditures for environmental controls at our operations. Such expenditures could have a material adverse effect
on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

RCRA Enforcement Initiative (Plant City Consent Decree)

In the third quarter of 2010, we executed a Consent Decree (Plant City Consent Decree) with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) and the Florida Department of Environmental Protection (FDEP) with respect to the Company's Florida phosphate fertilizer complex and its compliance with RCRA. For additional information on the
Plant City Consent Decree, see Note 12—Asset Retirement Obligations.

Nitric Acid Consent Decree

In August 2007, Terra received a request for information from the EPA pursuant to Section 114 of the Clean Air Act with respect
to the nitric acid plant at Port Neal, Iowa. Subsequently, a proposal was made to the EPA to resolve a number of potential Clean Air Act violations associated with prior modifications at Terra's other
nitric acid plants. On April 19, 2011, a consent decree with the United States, Iowa, Mississippi and Oklahoma was lodged with the court and the consent decree became effective on
June 29, 2011. The consent decree requires the Company to achieve compliance with significantly lower nitrogen oxide emission standards. Compliance with these emission limits will require new
or upgraded selective catalytic reduction systems and continuous emission monitors which have an estimated capital cost of approximately $15.0 million.

Clean Air Act—Section 185 Fee

Our Donaldsonville Nitrogen Complex is located in a five-parish region near Baton Rouge, Louisiana that, as of 2005, was
designated as being in "severe" nonattainment with respect to the national ambient air quality standard (NAAQS) for ozone (the "1-hour ozone standard") pursuant to the Federal Clean Air
Act (the Act). Section 185 of the Act requires states, in their state implementation plans, to levy a fee (Section 185 fee) on major stationary sources (such as the Donaldsonville
facility) located in a severe nonattainment area that did not meet the 1-hour ozone standard by November 30, 2005. For additional information on the Section 185 fee, see
Note 32—Contingencies.

Clean Air Act Information Request

On February 26, 2009, the Company received a letter from the EPA under Section 114 of the Federal Clean Air Act
requesting information and copies of records relating to compliance with New Source Review and New Source Performance Standards at the Donaldsonville facility. For additional information on the Clean
Air Act Information Request, see Note 32—Contingencies.









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

Clean Air Act Investigation.

By letter dated June 16, 2010, the Company received a Notice of Violation (NOV) from the EPA alleging violations of the
Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) Clean Air Act regulations relating to certain projects undertaken at the Company's sulfuric acid plants at its Plant City, Florida facility. For
additional information on the Clean Air Act Investigation, see Legal Proceedings—Environmental and Note 32—Contingencies.

EPCRA/CERCLA Investigation

By letter dated July 6, 2010, the EPA issued to the Company a NOV alleging violations of the Emergency Planning and Community
Right-to-know Act (EPCRA) and CERCLA. For additional information on the EPCRA/CERCLA Investigation, see Legal Proceedings—Environmental and
Note 32—Contingencies.

CERCLA/Remediation Matters

From time to time, we receive notices from governmental agencies or third parties alleging that we are a potentially responsible party
at certain cleanup sites under CERCLA or other environmental cleanup laws. In 2002 and in 2009, we were asked by the current owner of a former phosphate mine and processing facility that we are
alleged to have operated in the late 1950s and early 1960s located in Georgetown Canyon, Idaho, to contribute to a remediation of this property. For additional information on the CERCLA/Remediation
matters, see Note 32—Contingencies.

Federal Numeric Nutrient Criteria Regulation

On August 18, 2009, the EPA entered into a consent decree with certain environmental groups with respect to the promulgation of
numeric criteria for nitrogen and phosphorous in surface waters in Florida. The consent decree was approved by a Federal district court judge on November 16, 2009. The EPA adopted final numeric
nutrient criteria for Florida lakes and inland flowing waters on November 14, 2010. On February 18, 2012, the Court upheld parts of the numeric nutrient criteria regulation, but found
that the EPA had not adequately justified the criteria for streams and therefore concluded that the adoption of such criteria was arbitrary and capricious. The Court ordered the EPA to issue proposed
or final numeric nutrient criteria for streams by May 21, 2012 (subject to the EPA seeking an extension of such time period pursuant to the terms of the 2009 consent decree). Depending on the
developments discussed herein, federal or state numeric water quality criteria for lakes and inland flowing waters could result in substantially more stringent nitrogen and phosphorous limits in
wastewater discharge permits for our mining, manufacturing and distribution operations in Florida.

The
federal criteria for lakes and inland flowing waters (excluding the criteria found arbitrary and capricious by the Court) will become effective in March 2012, subject to
(i) the EPA's proposed delay in the effective date of the regulation (which may require the approval of the Court) and (ii) the development of numeric nutrient criteria by the State of
Florida.

Prior
to the February 18, 2012 order, the EPA had proposed to stay the effective date of its criteria until June 4, 2012 due to the development of numeric nutrient criteria
proposed by the State of Florida in December 2011. However, the Court's order stated that the Court must approve an extension of the effective date of the federal rule pursuant to the terms of the
consent decree. The nitrogen and phosphorous criteria in the December 2011 rule proposed by the State of Florida are substantially identical to the federal rule, but the state proposal includes
biological verification as a component of the criteria and adopts existing nutrient Total Maximum Daily Loads (TMDL) as applicable numeric criteria. The impact of these modifications could be to
provide more flexibility with respect to nitrogen and phosphorous limits in wastewater discharge permits so long as such discharges do not impair the biological health of receiving water bodies.
Environmental groups have filed a









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

challenge
to the proposed state rule with the Florida Division of Administrative Hearings, which will be reviewed by an administrative law judge in early 2012. If the state numeric criteria are
promulgated and approved subsequently by the EPA, the state criteria would result in EPA withdrawing the federal numeric criteria.

The
2009 consent decree also requires the EPA to develop numeric nutrient criteria for Florida coastal and estuarine waters. The development of such criteria has been delayed. The EPA
has announced its intention to issue proposed numeric nutrient criteria for these water bodies by March 2012 and a final rule by November 2012. It is unclear the extent to which the
February 18, 2012 decision will impact this proposed rule. The numeric criteria proposed by the State of Florida, discussed above, include criteria for coastal and estuarine waters and if
finally promulgated by the State and approved by the EPA, would also supplant federal standards for such water bodies.

The
numeric nutrient criteria regulation is not yet final. However, more stringent limits on wastewater discharge permits could increase our costs or limit our operations and, therefore,
could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Regulation of Greenhouse Gasses

We are subject to regulations in the United Kingdom, Canada and the United States concerning climate change and greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions.

The
United Kingdom is a party to the Kyoto Protocol. As a result of agreements reached during a conference in Durban, South Africa, the Kyoto Protocol will continue in force for a second
commitment period, which will expire by 2020, to be replaced by another international agreement to be negotiated by 2015 (which agreement is to go into effect in 2020). The United Kingdom has adopted
GHG emissions regulations, including regulations to implement the European Union Greenhouse Gas Trading System. Our joint venture U.K. manufacturing plants are required to report GHG emissions
annually to the United Kingdom Environment Agency pursuant to their site Environmental Permits and Climate Change Agreement, which specify energy efficiency targets. Failure to meet efficiency targets
may require the joint venture to purchase CO2emissions allowances. The steam boilers at each of our joint venture U.K. sites are also subject to the European Union Emissions Trading
Scheme. More stringent GHG emission limits in the U.K and Europe are expected to go into effect beginning in 2013.

In
Canada (which in December 2011 withdrew from further participation in the Kyoto Protocol, but signed the Durban platform to negotiate a new international greenhouse gas agreement or
protocol by 2015), we are required to conduct an annual review of our operations with respect to compliance with Environment Canada's National Pollutant Release Inventory and Ontario's Mandatory
Monitoring and Reporting Regulation and the GHG Reporting Regulation. Ontario is also a party to the Western Climate Initiative, comprised of California (the other states in the initiative having
withdrawn) and several Canadian provinces, which intends to establish a cap and trade regime for the trading of GHG credits within the regional area (ostensibly to begin in 2013, with 2012 functioning
as a transition year). Although Ontario has not disavowed its participation in the initiative, it has not developed regulations to establish a cap and trade program.

In
the United States (not a party to the Kyoto Protocol, but a signatory to the Durban platform with respect to the negotiation of a replacement for the Kyoto Protocol), GHG regulation
is evolving at state, regional and federal levels. Although there were federal legislative developments in the 111thCongress, including the passage of a comprehensive climate
change bill in the House of Representatives, efforts to pass such legislation have ceased. However, the EPA issued federal GHG regulations that impact our facilities, including a mandatory greenhouse
gas reporting rule that required all of our U.S. manufacturing facilities to commence monitoring GHG emissions beginning on January 1, 2010 and begin reporting the previous year's emissions
annually starting in 2011. In May 2010, the EPA issued the Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) and Title V Greenhouse Gas









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

Tailoring
Rule (Tailoring Rule). This regulation establishes that the construction of new or modification of existing major sources of GHG emissions would become subject to the PSD air permitting
program (and later, the Title V permitting program) beginning in January 2011, although the regulation also significantly increases the emissions thresholds that would subject facilities to these
regulations. This regulation (along with other GHG regulations and determinations issued by the EPA) is currently subject to judicial appeal. Regulation of GHG emissions pursuant to the PSD program
could subject new capital projects to additional permitting requirements that may result in increased costs or delays in completing such projects.

Under
the Title V provisions of the Tailoring Rule, all of our U.S. manufacturing facilities will be required to include GHG emissions in future air emissions inventory reports. Other
than the states' implementation of the Tailoring Rule, none of the states where our U.S. production facilities are located—Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi, Iowa and
Oklahoma—has proposed regulations limiting GHG emissions. Iowa is a member of the Midwest Greenhouse Gas Reduction Accord, signed in 2007, but the member states appear to have discontinued
any action to implement the accord.

Proposed Revisions to New Source Performance Standards for Nitric Acid Plants.

In October 2011, the EPA issued a proposed regulation revising air emission standards applicable to newly constructed, reconstructed or
modified nitric acid plants. We operate 13 nitric acid plants in the United States. The regulations, when finalized, will apply to these plants if and when we undertake activities or operations that
are considered modifications, including physical changes that would allow us to increase our production capacity at these plants. The proposed regulations include certain provisions that could make it
difficult for us to meet the proposed limits on emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx) notwithstanding pollution controls we may add to our plants, and accordingly, the proposed regulation, if
finalized as is, could impact our ability to expand production at our existing plants. Although the proposed EPA regulation did not include a proposed limitation on emissions of nitrous oxide (a
greenhouse gas), comments have been submitted urging EPA to include such limits in the final regulation. The final regulation is expected to be issued in 2012.

Regulatory Permits and Approvals

We hold numerous environmental and mining permits authorizing operations at our facilities. A decision by a government agency to deny
or delay issuing a new or renewed material permit or approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operations at
the affected facility. Any future expansion of our existing operations is also predicated upon securing the necessary environmental or other permits or approvals.

As
of December 31, 2011, the area permitted for mining at our Hardee phosphate complex had approximately 45.9 million tons of recoverable phosphate rock reserves, which we
expect to meet our requirements, at current production rates, for approximately 13 years. We have secured the necessary permits to mine these reserves from the FDEP and the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers. We have initiated the process of applying for authorization and permits to expand the geographical area in which we can mine at our Hardee property. The expanded geographical area has an
estimated additional 34 million tons of recoverable phosphate reserves, which we expect will allow us to conduct mining operations at our Hardee property for approximately 10 additional years
at current operating rates, assuming we secure the authorization and permits to mine in this area. The estimated recoverable phosphate reserves are reflective of the anticipated permittable mining
areas based on recent similar permitting efforts. In Florida, local community participation has become an important factor in the authorization and permitting process for mining companies. A denial of
the authorizations or permits to continue and/or expand our mining operations at our Hardee property would prevent us from mining all of our reserves and have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations.









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

We
have secured the state environmental authorization to increase the capacity of our phosphogypsum stack system at Plant City. With the completion of our current expansion project, this
stack has sufficient capacity to meet our requirements through 2026 at current operating rates and subject to regular renewals of our operating permits. Including additional expansion phases, the
estimated stack system capacity is expected to meet our requirements until 2040 at current operating rates and is subject to securing the corresponding operating permits. This date is approximately
six years beyond our current estimate of available phosphate rock reserves at our Hardee mine. A decision by the state or federal authorities to deny a renewal of our current permits or to deny
operating permits for the expansion of our stack system could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

In
certain cases, as a condition to procuring such permits and approvals, we may be required to comply with financial assurance regulatory requirements. The purpose of these requirements
is to assure that sufficient company funds will be available for the ultimate closure, post-closure care and/or reclamation at our facilities. We currently utilize a trust established for
the benefit of the EPA and the FDEP and an escrow account established for the benefit of the FDEP as a means of complying with financial assurance requirements for the closure and
long-term care of our phosphogypsum stack systems. For additional information on the cash deposit arrangements, see Note 12—Asset Retirement Obligations.

Several
of our permits, including our mining permit at the Hardee phosphate complex, require us to reclaim any property disturbed by our operations. At our Hardee property, we currently
mine approximately 300 to 500 acres of land each year, all of which must be reclaimed. The costs to reclaim this land vary based on the type of land involved and range from $3,700 to $18,200 an
acre, with an average of $9,600 an acre. For additional information on our Hardee asset retirement obligations, see Note 12—Asset Retirement Obligations.

Our
phosphate operations in Florida are subject to regulations governing the closure and long-term maintenance of our phosphogypsum stack systems. At our Bartow phosphate
complex, we estimate that we will spend a total of approximately $3 million between 2012 and 2016 to complete closure of the cooling pond and channels. Water treating expenditures at Bartow are
estimated to require about $12 million over the next 45 years. Post-closure long-term care expenditures at Bartow are estimated to total approximately
$51 million for a 51 year period including 2012. To close the phosphogypsum stack currently in use at the Plant City phosphate complex, we estimate that we will spend approximately
$65 million during the years 2033 through 2037, and another $45 million in 2087 to close the cooling pond. Water treating expenditures at Plant City are estimated to approximate
$6 million in 2018, $64 million in 2033 through 2037, and $166 million thereafter through 2087. Post-closure long-term care expenditures at Plant City are
estimated to total $106 million for a 50 year period commencing in 2038. These amounts are in nominal dollars using an assumed inflation rate of 3%.

Cost
estimates for closure of our phosphogypsum stack systems are based on formal closure plans submitted to the State of Florida, which are subject to revision during negotiations over
the next several years. Moreover, the time frame involved in the closure of our phosphogypsum stack systems extends as far as the year 2087. Accordingly, the actual amount to be spent also will depend
upon factors such as the timing of activities, refinements in scope, technological developments, cost inflation and changes in applicable laws and regulations. These cost estimates may also increase
if the Plant City phosphogypsum stack is expanded further. For additional information on asset retirement obligations related to our phosphogypsum systems, see Note 12—Asset
Retirement Obligations.

Employees and Labor Relations

As of December 31, 2011, we employed approximately 2,400 full-time and 100 part-time employees.









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

