ITEM 1.    BUSINESS.

Our Company

All references to "CF Holdings," "the Company," "we," "us" and "our" refer to CF Industries
Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries, except where the context makes clear that the reference is only to CF Holdings itself and not its subsidiaries. Notes referenced throughout this document
refer to financial statement footnote disclosures that are found in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

We
are one of the largest manufacturers and distributors of nitrogen and phosphate fertilizer products in the world. Our operations are organized into two business
segments—the nitrogen segment and the phosphate segment. Our principal customers are cooperatives and independent fertilizer distributors. Our principal fertilizer products in the nitrogen
segment are ammonia, granular urea, urea ammonium nitrate solution, or UAN, and ammonium nitrate, or AN. Our other nitrogen products include urea liquor, diesel exhaust fluid, or DEF, and aqua
ammonia, which are sold primarily to our industrial customers. Our principal fertilizer products in the phosphate segment are diammonium phosphate, or DAP, and monoammonium phosphate, or MAP.

Our
core market and distribution facilities are concentrated in the midwestern United States and other major agricultural areas of the U.S. and Canada. We also export nitrogen fertilizer
products from our Donaldsonville, Louisiana manufacturing facilities and phosphate fertilizer products from our Florida phosphate operations through our Tampa port facility.

Our
principal assets include:

•five nitrogen fertilizer manufacturing facilities in Donaldsonville, Louisiana (the largest nitrogen fertilizer complex in
North America), Port Neal, Iowa, Courtright, Ontario, Yazoo City, Mississippi and Woodward, Oklahoma;•a 75.3% interest in Terra Nitrogen Company, L.P. (TNCLP), a publicly traded limited partnership of which we are the
sole general partner and the majority limited partner and which, through its subsidiary Terra Nitrogen, Limited Partnership (TNLP), operates a nitrogen fertilizer manufacturing facility in Verdigris,
Oklahoma;•a 66% economic interest in the largest nitrogen fertilizer complex in Canada which we operate in Medicine Hat, Alberta
through Canadian Fertilizers Limited (CFL), a consolidated variable interest entity. We have announced our plans to acquire all of the noncontrolling interests of CFL (see Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A));•one of the largest integrated ammonium phosphate fertilizer complexes in the United States in Plant City, Florida;•the most-recently constructed phosphate rock mine and associated beneficiation plant in the United States in
Hardee County, Florida;•an extensive system of terminals and associated transportation equipment located primarily in the midwestern United
States; and









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

•joint venture investments that we account for under the equity method, which consist
of:•a 50% interest in GrowHow UK Limited (GrowHow), a nitrogen products production joint venture located in the United Kingdom
and serving primarily the British agricultural and industrial markets;•a 50% interest in Point Lisas Nitrogen Limited (PLNL), an ammonia production joint venture located in the Republic of
Trinidad and Tobago; and•a 50% interest in KEYTRADE AG (Keytrade), a global fertilizer trading company headquartered near Zurich, Switzerland.

For
the year ended December 31, 2012, we sold 13.0 million tons of nitrogen fertilizers and 2.0 million tons of phosphate fertilizers, generating net sales of
$6.1 billion and pre-tax earnings of $2.8 billion.

Our
principal executive offices are located outside of Chicago, Illinois, at 4 Parkway North, Suite 400, Deerfield, Illinois 60015 and our telephone number is
847-405-2400. Our Internet website address iswww.cfindustries.com.Information made available on our website does not
constitute part of the Annual Report on Form 10-K.

We
make available free of charge on or through our Internet website,www.cfindustries.com, all of our reports on
Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed electronically with, or furnished
to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Copies of our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Corporate Conduct and charters for the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, and Corporate
Governance and Nominating Committee of our Board of Directors are also available on our Internet website. We will provide electronic or paper copies of these documents free of charge upon request. The
SEC also maintains a website atwww.sec.govthat contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file
electronically with the SEC.

Company History

We were founded in 1946 as a fertilizer brokerage operation by a group of regional agricultural cooperatives. During the 1960s, we
expanded our distribution capabilities and diversified into fertilizer manufacturing through the acquisition of several existing plants and facilities. During the 1970s and again during the 1990s, we
expanded our production and distribution capabilities significantly, spending approximately $1 billion in each of these decades.

We
operated as a traditional manufacturing and supply cooperative until 2002, when we adopted a new business model that established financial performance as our principal objective,
rather than assured supply to our owners. A critical aspect of the new business model was to establish a more economically driven approach to the marketplace.

In
August 2005, we completed our initial public offering (IPO) of common stock, which is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. In connection with the IPO, we consummated a
reorganization transaction whereby we ceased to be a cooperative and our pre-IPO owners' equity interests in CF Industries, Inc., now our wholly-owned subsidiary, were cancelled in
exchange for all of the proceeds of the offering and shares of our common stock.

In
April 2010, we acquired Terra Industries Inc. (Terra), a leading North American producer and marketer of nitrogen fertilizer products for a purchase price of
$4.6 billion, which was paid in cash and shares of our common stock. Terra's financial results have been included in our consolidated financial results and in the nitrogen segment results since
the acquisition date of April 5, 2010. As a result of the









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

Terra
acquisition, we acquired five nitrogen fertilizer manufacturing facilities, our 75.3% interest in TNCLP and certain joint venture interests.

Operating Segments

Our business is divided into two operating segments, the nitrogen segment and the phosphate segment. The nitrogen segment includes the
manufacture and sale of ammonia, granular urea, UAN and AN. The phosphate segment includes the manufacture and sale of DAP and MAP.

Nitrogen Segment

We are the largest nitrogen fertilizer producer in North America. Our primary nitrogen fertilizer products are ammonia, granular urea,
UAN and AN. Our historical sales of nitrogen fertilizer products are shown in the following table. The sales shown do not reflect amounts used internally, such as ammonia, in the manufacture of other
products.

201220112010TonsNet SalesTonsNet SalesTonsNet Sales(tons in thousands; dollars in millions)Nitrogen Fertilizer ProductsAmmonia2,786$1,677.62,668$1,562.82,809$1,129.4Granular urea2,5931,143.42,6001,069.72,602777.7UAN6,1311,886.26,2411,991.64,843994.3AN839222.8953247.5788164.7Other nitrogen products(1)620166.6540140.5419121.4Total12,969$5,096.613,002$5,012.111,461$3,187.5

(1)Other
nitrogen segment products include aqua ammonia, nitric acid, urea liquor and DEF.

Gross
margin for the nitrogen segment was $2,913.6 million, $2,563.2 million and $1,026.7 million for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010,
respectively. Total assets for the nitrogen segment were $6.0 billion as of both December 31, 2012 and 2011 and $6.1 billion as of December 31, 2010.

We
operate seven nitrogen fertilizer production facilities in North America. We own 100% of four production facilities in the Central United States and one in Ontario, Canada. We also
have a 75.3% interest in TNCLP and its subsidiary, TNLP, which owns a nitrogen fertilizer facility in Verdigris, Oklahoma, and a 66% economic interest in CFL, a variable interest entity that owns the
nitrogen fertilizer complex in Medicine Hat, Alberta, Canada. In 2012, the combined production capacity of these seven facilities represented approximately 39%, 34%, 47% and 22% of North American
ammonia, granular urea, UAN and ammonium nitrate production capacity, respectively. Each of our nitrogen fertilizer production facilities in North America has on-site storage to provide
flexibility to manage the flow of outbound shipments without impacting production.

Our
joint venture interests in PLNL and GrowHow provide additional production capacity in three additional nitrogen fertilizer production facilities, one located in the Republic of
Trinidad and Tobago and two located in the United Kingdom.









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

The following table shows the production capacities at each of our nitrogen fertilizer production facilities:

Average Annual Capacity(1)GrossAmmonia(2)NetAmmonia(2)UAN(3)Urea(4)AmmoniumNitrate(5)FertilizerCompounds(in thousands of tons)Donaldsonville, Louisiana(6)2,9501,0102,4151,680——Medicine Hat, Alberta(7)1,250790—810——Port Neal, Iowa(8)3803080050——Verdigris, Oklahoma(7)(10)1,1303451,965———Woodward, Oklahoma48014082025——Yazoo City, Mississippi(8)(9)(10)560—160201,075—Courtright, Ontario(8)(10)500265345160——7,2502,5806,5052,7451,075—Unconsolidated Affiliates(11)Point Lisas, Trinidad360360————Ince, U.K.(12)190———330165Billingham, U.K.275135——310—Total8,0753,0756,5052,7451,715165

(1)

Average
annual capacity includes allowance for normal outages and planned maintenance shutdowns.

(2)

Gross
ammonia capacity includes ammonia used to produce upgraded products. Net ammonia capacity is gross ammonia capacity less ammonia used to
produce upgraded products based on the product mix shown in the table.

(3)

Measured
in tons of UAN containing 32% nitrogen by weight.

(4)

Urea
is sold as granular urea from the Donaldsonville and Medicine Hat facilities, as urea liquor from the Port Neal, Woodward and Yazoo City
facilities and as either granular urea or urea liquor from the Courtright facility. Urea liquor produced at the Yazoo City, Courtright, Woodward and Port Neal facilities can be sold as DEF.

(5)

Ammonium
nitrate includes prilled products (Amtrate and IGAN) and ammonium nitrate solution produced for sale.

(6)

The
Donaldsonville facility's production capacity depends on product mix. With the UAN plants operating at capacity, approximately
1.7 million tons of granular urea can be produced. Granular urea production can be increased to 2 million tons if UAN production is reduced.

(7)

Represents
100% of the capacity of each of these facilities.

(8)

Production
of urea products at the Port Neal and Courtright facilities can be increased by reducing UAN production. Urea liquor production at
the Yazoo City facility can be increased by obtaining additional ammonia to supplement the facility's ammonia production.

(9)

The
Yazoo City facility's production capacity depends on product mix. With the facility maximizing the production of AN products, 160,000 tons
of UAN can be produced. UAN production can be increased to 450,000 tons by reducing the production of AN nitrate products.









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

(10)The
Yazoo City, Courtright and Verdigris facilities also produce merchant nitric acid by reducing UAN or ammonium nitrate production.(11)Represents
our 50% interest in the capacity of each of these facilities.(12)The
Ince facility's production capacity depends on product mix. The facility can increase production of fertilizer compounds to 335,000 tons
by reducing ammonium nitrate production to 220,000 tons (volumes represent our 50% interest).

The
following table summarizes our nitrogen fertilizer production volume for the last three years.

December 31,201220112010(tons in thousands)Ammonia(1)7,0677,2446,110Granular urea2,5602,5882,488UAN (32%)6,0276,3494,626AN839952796

(1)Gross
ammonia production, including amounts subsequently upgraded on-site into granular urea or UAN.

Donaldsonville, Louisiana

The Donaldsonville nitrogen fertilizer complex is the largest nitrogen fertilizer production facility in North America. It has five
world-scale ammonia plants, four urea plants, three nitric acid plants and two UAN plants. The complex, which is located on the Mississippi River, includes deep-water docking facilities,
access to an ammonia pipeline, and truck and railroad loading capabilities. The complex has on-site storage for 130,000 tons of ammonia, 168,000 tons of UAN (measured on a 32% nitrogen
content basis) and 83,000 tons of granular urea.

In
the fourth quarter of 2012, we announced plans to invest $2.1 billion in an expansion project at our Donaldsonville, Louisiana facility which is projected to be completed by
2016. When completed, this project will increase our annual capacity of ammonia and granular urea each by approximately 1.3 million tons. For additional details regarding this project, see
MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources.

Medicine Hat, Alberta, Canada

Medicine Hat is the largest nitrogen fertilizer complex in Canada. The facility is owned by CFL, a variable interest entity which we
consolidate in our financial statements. It has two ammonia plants and a urea plant. The complex has on-site storage for 60,000 tons of ammonia and 70,000 tons of urea.

We
operate the Medicine Hat facility and purchase approximately 66% of the facility's ammonia and urea production, pursuant to a management agreement and a product purchase agreement. We
ship our share of ammonia and urea produced at the Medicine Hat nitrogen fertilizer complex by truck and rail to customers in the United States and Canada and to our storage facilities in the northern
United States. Viterra, Inc. (Viterra), which owns 34% of CFL, has the right, but not the obligation, to purchase the remaining 34% of the facility's ammonia and urea production under a similar
product purchase agreement. To the extent that Viterra does not purchase its 34% of the facility's production, we are obligated to purchase any remaining amounts. However, since 1995, Viterra and its
predecessor purchased at least 34% of the facility's production each year.









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

In
August 2012, we entered into an agreement to acquire the 34% of CFL's common and preferred shares owned by Viterra and the product purchase agreement between Viterra
and CFL for a total purchase price of C$0.9 billion, subject to certain adjustments. In October 2012, we entered into an agreement with each of GROWMARK and La Coop
fédérée to acquire CFL's common shares held by them. As a result of these transactions, we will own 100% of CFL and will be entitled to
purchase 100% of CFL's ammonia and granular urea production. The completion of the transactions is subject to receipt of regulatory approvals in Canada and other terms and conditions in
the definitive agreements.

For
further information about CFL, see Note 4—Noncontrolling Interest.

Port Neal, Iowa

The Port Neal facility is located approximately 12 miles south of Sioux City, Iowa on the Missouri River. The facility consists of an
ammonia plant, two urea plants, two nitric acid plants and a UAN plant. The location has on-site storage for 30,000 tons of ammonia and 81,000 tons of 32% UAN.

In
the fourth quarter of 2012, we announced plans to invest $1.7 billion in an expansion project at our Port Neal, Iowa facility which is projected to be completed by 2016. When
completed, this project will increase our annual capacity of ammonia by approximately 0.8 million tons and granular urea by approximately 1.3 million tons. For additional details
regarding this project, see MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources.

Verdigris, Oklahoma

The Verdigris facility is located northeast of Tulsa, Oklahoma, near the Verdigris River and is owned by TNLP. It is the second largest
UAN production facility in North America. The facility comprises two ammonia plants, two nitric acid plants, two urea plants, two UAN plants and a port terminal. Through our 75.3% interest in TNCLP
and its subsidiary, TNLP, we operate
the plants and lease the port terminal from the Tulsa-Rogers County Port Authority. The complex has on-site storage for 28,000 tons of ammonia and 49,100 tons of 32% UAN.

Woodward, Oklahoma

The Woodward facility is located in rural northwest Oklahoma and consists of an ammonia plant, two nitric acid plants, two urea plants
and two UAN plants. The facility has on-site storage for 36,000 tons of ammonia and 83,900 tons of 32% UAN.

Yazoo City, Mississippi

The facility includes one ammonia plant, four nitric acid plants, an AN plant, two urea plants, a UAN plant and a dinitrogen tetroxide
production and storage facility. The site has on-site storage for 28,000 tons of ammonia, 48,000 tons of 32% UAN and 7,000 tons of AN and related products.

Courtright, Ontario, Canada

The Courtright facility is located south of Sarnia, Ontario near the St. Clair River. The facility consists of one ammonia
plant, a UAN plant, a nitric acid plant and one urea plant. The location has on-site storage for 64,100 tons of ammonia, 10,400 tons of granular urea and 16,000 tons of 32% UAN.

Point Lisas, Trinidad

The Point Lisas Nitrogen facility in the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago is owned jointly through a 50/50 venture with Koch
Fertilizers. This facility has the capacity to produce 720,000 tons of ammonia









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

annually
from natural gas supplied under a contract with the National Gas Company of Trinidad and Tobago.

United Kingdom

GrowHow is a 50/50 joint venture between us and Yara International ASA (Yara) that owns and operates the Ince and Billingham
facilities. The Ince facility is located in northwestern England and consists of an ammonia plant, three nitric acid plants, an AN plant and three fertilizer compound plants. The Billingham facility
located in the Teesside chemical area, is geographically split among two primary areas: the main site contains an ammonia plant, three nitric acid plants and a carbon dioxide plant and the Portrack
site, approximately two miles away, contains an AN fertilizer plant.

Nitrogen Fertilizer Raw Materials

Natural gas is the principal raw material and primary fuel source used in the ammonia production process at our nitrogen fertilizer
manufacturing facilities. In 2012, natural gas accounted for approximately 39% of our total cost of sales for nitrogen fertilizers and a higher percentage of cash production costs (total production
costs less depreciation and amortization). Our nitrogen fertilizer manufacturing facilities have access to abundant, competitively-priced natural gas through a reliable network of pipelines that are
connected to major natural gas trading hubs near the facilities. We have facilities located at or near Henry Hub in Louisiana, ONEOK in Oklahoma, AECO in Alberta, Ventura in Iowa and Dawn in Ontario.

Our
nitrogen manufacturing facilities consume, in the aggregate, in excess of 250 million MMBtus of natural gas annually. We employ a combination of spot and term purchases from a
variety of quality suppliers to maintain a reliable, competitively-priced supply of natural gas. We also use certain financial instruments to hedge natural gas prices. For further information about
our natural gas hedging activities, see Note 25—Derivative Financial Instruments.

Nitrogen Fertilizer Distribution

The safe, efficient and economical distribution of nitrogen fertilizer products is critical for successful operations. Our nitrogen
fertilizer production facilities have access to multiple transportation modes by which we ship fertilizer to terminals, warehouses and customers. Each of our production facilities has a unique
distribution pattern based on its production capability and location.

Our
North American production facilities can ship products via truck and rail to customers and our storage facilities in the U.S. and Canada, with access to our leased railcar fleet of
approximately 5,200 tank and hopper cars, as well as railcars provided by rail carriers.

The
North American waterway system is also used extensively to ship products from our Donaldsonville, Verdigris and Yazoo City facilities. We employ a fleet of ten leased tow boats and
32 river barges to ship ammonia and UAN. We also utilize contract marine services to move urea and phosphate fertilizers.

Three
of our nitrogen production facilities also have access to pipelines for the transportation of ammonia. The Donaldsonville facility is connected to the 2,000-mile long
Nustar pipeline through which we transport ammonia to more than 20 terminals and shipping points in the midwestern U.S. corn belt. Our Verdigris and Port Neal facilities are connected to the
1,100-mile long Magellan ammonia pipeline that also serves the U.S. Midwest.









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

Phosphate Segment

We are a major manufacturer of phosphate fertilizer products. Our phosphate fertilizer products are DAP and MAP.

Our
historical sales of phosphate fertilizer products are shown in the table below.

201220112010TonsNet SalesTonsNet SalesTonsNet Sales(tons in thousands; dollars in millions)Phosphate Fertilizer ProductsDAP1,611$794.51,468$829.11,412$583.3MAP424212.9454256.7455194.2Total2,035$1,007.41,922$1,085.81,867$777.5

Gross
margin for the phosphate segment was $199.7 million, $332.4 million and $152.8 million for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010,
respectively. Total assets for the phosphate segment were $795.2 million, $696.4 million and $618.3 million as of December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.

Our
phosphate fertilizer manufacturing operations are located in central Florida and consist of a phosphate fertilizer chemical complex in Plant City, a phosphate rock mine, a
beneficiation plant and phosphate rock reserves in Hardee County and a deepwater terminal facility in the port of Tampa. We own each of these facilities and properties.

The
following table summarizes our phosphate fertilizer production volumes for the last three years and current production capacities for phosphate-related products.

December 31,NormalizedAnnualCapacity(2)201220112010(tons in thousands)Hardee Phosphate Rock MinePhosphate rock3,4833,5043,3433,500Plant City Phosphate Fertilizer ComplexSulfuric acid2,5302,6332,4192,785Phosphoric acid as P2O5(1)9751,0059061,055DAP/MAP1,9521,9971,7992,165

(1)P2O5is the basic measure of the nutrient content in phosphate fertilizer products.(2)Capacities
shown for phosphate rock at the Hardee County Phosphate Rock Mine and DAP/MAP granulation at the Plant City facility are
constrained by Plant City's capacity to produce phosphoric acid.

Hardee County Phosphate Rock Mine

In 1975, we purchased 20,000 acres of land in Hardee County, Florida that was originally estimated to contain in excess of
100 million tons of recoverable rock reserves. Between 1978 and 1993, we operated a one million ton per year phosphate rock mine on a 5,000-acre portion of these reserves. In 1995,
we began operations at an expanded mine on the remaining 15,000-acre area of the reserve property. Since that time, we have acquired additional rock reserves through acquisitions or
exchanges of several smaller parcels of land.









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

The table below shows the estimated reserves at the Hardee phosphate complex as of December 31, 2012. Also reflected in the table is the grade of the
reserves, expressed as a percentage of bone phosphate of lime (BPL) and P2O5. The table also reflects the average values of the following material
contaminants contained in the reserves: ferrous oxide (Fe2O3) plus aluminum oxide (Al2O3) and magnesium oxide (MgO).

PROVEN AND PROBABLE RESERVES(1)As of December 31, 2012

Recoverable Tons(2)(in millions)% BPL% P2O5% Fe2O3+AI2O3% MgOPermitted42.265.2129.842.380.74Pending permit34.764.6129.572.380.78Total76.964.9429.722.380.76

(1)The
minimum drill hole density for the proven reserves classification is 1 hole per 20 acres.(2)The
reserve estimates provided have been developed by the Company in accordance with Industry Guide 7 promulgated by the SEC. We estimate that
99% of the reserves are proven.

Our
phosphate reserve estimates are based on geological data assembled and analyzed by our staff geologist as of December 31, 2012. Reserve estimates are updated periodically to
reflect actual phosphate rock recovered, new drilling information and other geological or mining data. Estimates for 99% of the reserves are based on 20-acre density drilling.

Plant City Phosphate Complex

Our Plant City phosphate fertilizer complex is one of the largest phosphate fertilizer facilities in North America. At one million tons
per year, its phosphoric acid capacity represents approximately 10% of the total U.S. capacity. All of Plant City's phosphoric acid is converted into ammonium phosphates (DAP and MAP), representing
approximately 13% of U.S. capacity for ammonium phosphate fertilizer products in 2012. The combination of the Plant City phosphate fertilizer complex and the Hardee mine gives us one of the largest
integrated ammonium phosphate fertilizer operations in North America.

Bartow Phosphate Complex

We own a site in Bartow, Florida on which we operated a phosphate manufacturing complex. This complex ceased production in 1999 and the
former manufacturing facilities have been dismantled and disposed of in accordance with local laws and regulations. The related phosphogypsum stack has been closed and the former storage and
distribution facilities were sold along with excess land. We continue to be obligated for the closure of the cooling pond,
management of water treatment on the site and providing long-term care for the site in accordance with regulatory requirements.

Phosphate Raw Materials

Phosphate Rock Supply.Phosphate rock is the basic nutrient source for phosphate fertilizers. Approximately 3.5 tons of phosphate rock
are needed to
produce one ton of P2O5(the measure of nutrient content of phosphate fertilizers). Our Plant City phosphate fertilizer complex typically consumes in excess of three million
tons of rock annually. As of December 31, 2012, our Hardee rock mine had approximately 12 years of fully permitted recoverable phosphate reserves remaining at current operating rates. We
have initiated the process of applying for authorization and permits to









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

expand
the geographical area at our Hardee property where we can mine. The expanded area has an estimated 34.7 million tons of recoverable phosphate reserves. We estimate that we will be able
to conduct mining operations at our Hardee property for approximately 10 additional years at current operating rates, assuming we secure the authorization and permits to mine in this area.

Sulfur Supply.Sulfur is used to produce sulfuric acid, which is combined with phosphate rock to produce phosphoric acid. Approximately
three
quarters of a long ton of sulfur is needed to produce one ton of P2O5. Our Plant City phosphate fertilizer complex uses approximately 800,000 long tons of sulfur annually when
operating at capacity. We obtain molten sulfur from several domestic and foreign producers under contracts of varied duration. In 2012, Martin Sulphur, our largest molten sulfur supplier, supplied
approximately 61% of the molten sulfur used at Plant City.

Ammonia Supply.DAP and MAP have a nitrogen content of 18% and 11%, respectively, and a phosphate nutrient content of 46% and 52%,
respectively.
Ammonia is the primary source of nitrogen
in DAP and MAP. Operating at capacity, our Plant City phosphate fertilizer complex consumes approximately 400,000 tons of ammonia annually.

The
ammonia used at our Plant City phosphate fertilizer complex is shipped by rail from our ammonia storage facility located in Tampa, Florida. This facility consists of a
38,000-ton ammonia storage tank, access to a deep-water dock that is capable of discharging ocean-going vessels, and rail and truck loading facilities. In addition to supplying
our Plant City phosphate fertilizer complex, our Tampa ammonia distribution system has the capacity to support ammonia sales to, and distribution services for other customers. Sales of ammonia from
our Tampa terminal are reported in our nitrogen business segment. The ammonia supply for Tampa is purchased from offshore sources, providing us with access to the broad international ammonia market.

Phosphate Distribution

We operate a phosphate fertilizer warehouse located at a deep-water port facility in Tampa, Florida. Most of the phosphate
fertilizer produced at Plant City is shipped by truck or rail to our Tampa warehouse, where it is loaded onto vessels for shipment to export customers or for transport across the Gulf of Mexico to the
Mississippi River. In 2012, our Tampa warehouse handled approximately 1.3 million tons of phosphate fertilizers, or about 67% of our production. The remainder of our phosphate fertilizer
production is transported by truck or rail directly to customers or to in-market storage facilities.

Phosphate
fertilizer shipped across the Gulf of Mexico to the Mississippi River is transferred into river barges near New Orleans. Phosphate fertilizer in these river barges is
transported to our storage facilities or delivered directly to customers. River transportation is provided primarily under an agreement with one of the major inland river system barge operators.

Storage Facilities and Other Properties

At December 31, 2012, we owned or leased space at 76 in-market storage terminals and warehouses located in a
20-state region. Including storage at our production facilities and at the Tampa









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

warehouse
and ammonia terminal, we have an aggregate storage capacity for approximately three million tons of fertilizer. Our storage capabilities are summarized in the following table.

AmmoniaUAN(1)Ammonium NitrateDry Products(2)Number ofFacilitiesCapacity(000 Tons)Number ofFacilitiesCapacity(000 Tons)Number ofFacilitiesCapacity(000 Tons)Number ofFacilitiesCapacity(000 Tons)Plants73766446174220Tampa Port138————11004144467320Terminal & Warehouse Locations Owned1970010269——1170Leased(3)2904149318239Total In-Market2179051762183209Total Storage Capacity1,2041,20815529

(1)Capacity
is expressed as the equivalent volume of UAN measured on a 32% nitrogen content basis.(2)Our
dry products include urea, DAP and MAP.(3)Our
lease agreements are typically for periods of one to three years.

Customers

The principal customers for our nitrogen and phosphate fertilizers are cooperatives and independent fertilizer distributors.
CHS Inc. was our largest customer in 2012 and accounted for ten percent of our consolidated net sales. Sales are generated by our internal marketing and sales force.

Competition

Our markets are intensely competitive, based primarily on delivered price and to a lesser extent on customer service and product
quality. During the peak demand periods, product availability and delivery time also play a role in the buying decisions of customers.

In
our nitrogen segment, our primary North American-based competitors include Agrium and Koch Nitrogen. There is also significant competition from products sourced from other regions of
the world, including some with lower natural gas costs. Because ammonia, urea and UAN are widely-traded fertilizer products and there are limited barriers to entry, we experience competition from
foreign-sourced products continuously.

In
our phosphate segment, our primary North American-based competitors include Agrium, Mosaic, Potash Corp. and Simplot. The domestic phosphate industry is tied to the global market
through its position as the world's largest exporter of DAP/MAP. Consequently, phosphate fertilizer prices and demand for U.S. DAP/MAP are subject to considerable volatility and dependent on a wide
variety of factors impacting the world market, including fertilizer and/or trade policies of foreign governments, changes in ocean bound freight rates and international currency fluctuations.

Seasonality

The sales patterns of our six major products are seasonal. The strongest demand for our products occurs during the spring planting
season, with a second period of strong demand following the fall harvest. We and/or our customers generally build inventories during the low demand periods of the year in order to ensure timely
product availability during the peak sales seasons. Seasonality is greatest for ammonia due to the limited ability of our customers and their customers to store significant









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

quantities
of this product. The seasonality of fertilizer demand generally results in our sales volumes and net sales being the highest during the spring and our working capital requirements being the
highest just prior to the start of the spring season. Our quarterly financial results can vary significantly from one year to the next due to weather-related shifts in planting schedules and
purchasing patterns.

Financial Information About Foreign and Domestic Sales and Operations

The amount of net sales attributable to our sales to foreign and domestic markets over the last three fiscal years and the carrying
value of our foreign and domestic assets are set forth in Note 30—Segment Disclosures.

Environment, Health and Safety

We are subject to numerous environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including laws and regulations relating to land
reclamation; the generation, treatment, storage, disposal and handling of hazardous substances and wastes; and the cleanup of hazardous substance releases. These laws include the Clean Air Act, the
Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), the Toxic Substances Control Act and various
other federal, state, provincial, local and international statutes. Violations can result in substantial penalties, court orders to install pollution-control equipment, civil and criminal sanctions,
permit revocations and facility shutdowns. In addition, environmental, health and safety laws and regulations may impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault, for cleanup costs on
potentially responsible parties who have released or disposed of hazardous substances into the environment.

Environmental Health and Safety Expenditures

Our environmental, health and safety capital expenditures in 2012 totaled approximately $45.2 million. In 2013, we estimate that
we will spend approximately $61.3 million for environmental, health and safety capital expenditures. The increase in expenditures in 2013 is primarily related to certain projects to reduce
emissions from our facilities, including projects to improve the integrity and capacity of storage tanks at certain plant locations. Environmental, health and safety laws and regulations are complex,
change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. We expect that continued government and public emphasis on environmental issues will result in increased future expenditures for
environmental controls at our operations. Such expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Clean Air Act—Section 185 Fee

Our Donaldsonville Nitrogen Complex is located in a five-parish region near Baton Rouge, Louisiana that, as of 2005, was
designated as being in "severe" nonattainment with respect to the national ambient air quality standard (NAAQS) for ozone (the "1-hour ozone standard") pursuant to the Federal Clean Air
Act (the Clean Air Act). Section 185 of the Act requires states, in their state implementation plans, to levy a fee (Section 185 fee) on major stationary sources (such as the
Donaldsonville facility) located in a severe nonattainment area that did not meet the 1-hour ozone standard by November 30, 2005. For additional information on the
Section 185 fee, see Note 29—Contingencies.









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

Clean Air Act Information Request

On February 26, 2009, the Company received a letter from the EPA under Section 114 of the Federal Clean Air Act
requesting information and copies of records relating to compliance with New Source Review and New Source Performance Standards at the Donaldsonville facility. For additional information on the Clean
Air Act Information Request, see Note 29—Contingencies.

Clean Air Act Investigation.

By letter dated June 16, 2010, the Company received a Notice of Violation (NOV) from the EPA alleging violations of the
Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) Clean Air Act regulations relating to certain projects undertaken at the Company's sulfuric acid plants at its Plant City, Florida facility. For
additional information on the Clean Air Act Investigation, see Legal Proceedings—Environmental and Note 29—Contingencies.

EPCRA/CERCLA Investigation

By letter dated July 6, 2010, the EPA issued to the Company a NOV alleging violations of the Emergency Planning and Community
Right-to-know Act (EPCRA) and CERCLA. For additional information on the EPCRA/CERCLA Investigation, see Legal Proceedings—Environmental and
Note 29—Contingencies.

CERCLA/Remediation Matters

From time to time, we receive notices from governmental agencies or third parties alleging that we are a potentially responsible party
at certain cleanup sites under CERCLA or other environmental cleanup laws. In 2002 and in 2009, we were asked by the current owner of a former phosphate mine and processing facility that we owned in
the late 1950s and early 1960s located in Georgetown Canyon, Idaho, to contribute to a cleanup of the former processing portion of the site. For additional information on the CERCLA/Remediation
matters, see Note 29—Contingencies.

Federal and State Numeric Nutrient Criteria Regulation

On August 18, 2009, the EPA entered into a consent decree with certain environmental groups with respect to the promulgation of
numeric criteria for nitrogen and phosphorous in surface waters in Florida. The consent decree was approved by a Federal District Court (the Court) on November 16, 2009. The EPA adopted final
numeric nutrient criteria for Florida lakes and inland flowing waters on November 14, 2010. On February 18, 2012, the Court upheld parts of the numeric nutrient criteria regulation, but
found that the EPA had not adequately justified the criteria for streams and therefore concluded that the adoption of such criteria was arbitrary and capricious. The Court ordered the EPA to issue
proposed or final numeric nutrient criteria for streams by May 21, 2012 (subject to the EPA seeking an extension of such time period pursuant to the terms of the 2009 consent decree).
Subsequently, the Court granted the EPA's motion to allow the EPA to propose numeric nutrient criteria for streams by November 30, 2012 and to finalize such criteria by August 31, 2013.

In
December 2011, the State of Florida proposed its own numeric nutrient criteria for surface waters. The nitrogen and phosphorous criteria in the proposed rule are substantially
identical to the federal rule, but the state proposal includes biological verification as a component of the criteria and adopts
existing nutrient Total Maximum Daily Loads (TMDL) as applicable numeric criteria. The impact of these modifications could be to provide more flexibility with respect to nitrogen and phosphorous
limits in wastewater discharge permits so long as such discharges do not impair the biological health of receiving water bodies. Environmental groups filed a challenge to the proposed









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

state
rule, but the rule was upheld by an administrative law judge on June 8, 2012 and became final. An appeal of the administrative decision upholding the rule is now pending before a Florida
appellate court.

On
November 30, 2012, the EPA approved Florida's rule. However, because the EPA identified what it considered to be gaps in the scope of the waters covered by Florida's rule and
potential legal issues that might bar the Florida rule from going into effect, the EPA, pursuant to the Court order described above, has again proposed numeric nutrient criteria for Florida streams.
There is substantial uncertainty as to whether this rule will be withdrawn before it is finalized or, if a rule is finalized, as to the scope of Florida inland flowing waters that will be covered by
the EPA regulation.

Moreover,
notwithstanding the EPA's approval of the Florida rule, the federal criteria for lakes and inland waters previously upheld by the Court (excluding the criteria found to be
arbitrary and capricious) became effective on January 6, 2013. The EPA has proposed to stay the effective date of these criteria in light of the on-going developments with the
Florida regulation.

The
2009 consent decree also requires the EPA to develop numeric nutrient criteria for Florida coastal and estuarine waters. The numeric criteria adopted by the State of Florida and
approved by the EPA includes numeric criteria for some coastal and estuarine waters, but, as with streams, EPA has raised issues regarding the scope of coverage of Florida's regulation. Accordingly,
on November 30, 2012, the EPA proposed numeric nutrient criteria for Florida coastal and estuarine waters. The EPA must finalize these criteria by September 30, 2013 unless future
developments allow the EPA to withdraw the rule.

Depending
on the developments discussed herein, federal or state numeric nutrient water quality criteria for Florida waters could result in substantially more stringent nitrogen and
phosphorous limits in wastewater discharge permits for our mining, manufacturing and distribution operations in Florida. More stringent limits on wastewater discharge could increase our costs and
limit our operations and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Regulation of Greenhouse Gases

We are subject to regulations in the United Kingdom, Canada and the United States concerning climate change and greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions.

The
United Kingdom is a party to the Kyoto Protocol. As a result of agreements reached during a conference in Durban, South Africa in 2011, the Kyoto Protocol will continue in force for
a second commitment period, which will expire by 2020, to be replaced by another international agreement to be negotiated by 2015 (which agreement is to go into effect in 2020). The United Kingdom has
adopted GHG emissions regulations, including regulations to implement the European Union Greenhouse Gas Trading System. Our joint venture U.K. manufacturing plants are required to report GHG emissions
annually to the United Kingdom Environment Agency pursuant to their site Environmental Permits and Climate Change Agreement, which specify energy efficiency targets. Failure to meet efficiency targets
may require the joint venture to purchase CO2emissions allowances. The steam boilers at each of our joint venture U.K. sites are also subject to the European Union Emissions Trading
Scheme. More stringent GHG emission limits in the U.K and Europe are expected to go into effect beginning in 2013.

In
Canada (which in December 2011 withdrew from further participation in the Kyoto Protocol, but signed the Durban platform to negotiate a new international GHG agreement or protocol by
2015), we are required to conduct an annual review of our operations with respect to compliance with Environment Canada's National Pollutant Release Inventory and Ontario's Mandatory Monitoring and









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

Reporting
Regulation and the GHG Reporting Regulation. Ontario is also a party to the Western Climate Initiative, comprised of California (the other states in the initiative having withdrawn) and
several Canadian provinces, which intends to establish a cap and trade regime for the trading of GHG credits within the regional area beginning in 2013. Although Ontario has not disavowed its
participation in the initiative, it has not developed regulations to establish a cap and trade program.

In
the United States (not a party to the Kyoto Protocol, but a signatory to the Durban platform with respect to the negotiation of a replacement for the Kyoto Protocol), GHG regulation
is evolving at state, regional and federal levels. The EPA has issued federal GHG regulations that impact our facilities, including a mandatory GHG reporting rule that required all of our U.S.
manufacturing facilities to commence monitoring GHG emissions beginning on January 1, 2010 and begin reporting the previous year's emissions annually starting in 2011. In May 2010, the EPA
issued the Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) and Title V Greenhouse Gas Tailoring Rule (Tailoring Rule). This regulation establishes that the construction of new or modification of
existing major sources of GHG
emissions would become subject to the PSD air permitting program (and later, the Title V permitting program) beginning in January 2011, and the regulation could significantly decrease the emissions
thresholds that would subject facilities to these regulations in the future. On December 20, 2012, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit rejected a request to reconsider its decision
to uphold the GHG regulations. Regulation of GHG emissions pursuant to the PSD program could subject new capital projects to additional permitting requirements that may result in increased costs or
delays in completing such projects.

Under
the Title V provisions of the Tailoring Rule, all of our U.S. manufacturing facilities will be required to include GHG emissions in future Title V air permit applications. Other
than the states' implementation of the Tailoring Rule, none of the states where our U.S. production facilities are located—Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi, Iowa and
Oklahoma—has proposed control regulations limiting GHG emissions. Iowa is a member of the Midwest Greenhouse Gas Reduction Accord, signed in 2007, but the member states appear to have
discontinued any action to implement the accord.

Revisions to New Source Performance Standards for Nitric Acid Plants.

We operate 13 nitric acid plants in the United States. On August 14, 2012, the EPA issued a final regulation revising air
emission standards applicable to newly constructed, reconstructed or modified nitric acid plants. The regulations will apply to these plants if and when we undertake activities or operations that are
considered modifications, including physical changes that would allow us to increase our production capacity at these plants. The regulations include certain provisions that could make it difficult
for us to meet the limits on emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx) notwithstanding pollution controls we may add to our plants, and accordingly, the regulations, could impact our ability to
expand production at our existing plants. The EPA regulation did not include a limitation on emissions of nitrous oxide (a greenhouse gas).

Regulatory Permits and Approvals

We hold numerous environmental and mining permits authorizing operations at our facilities. A decision by a government agency to deny
or delay issuing a new or renewed material permit or approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operations at
the affected facility. Any future expansion of our existing operations is also predicated upon securing the necessary environmental or other permits or approvals.

As
of December 31, 2012, the area permitted for mining at our Hardee phosphate complex had approximately 42.2 million tons of recoverable phosphate rock reserves, which we
expect to meet our









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

requirements,
at current production rates, for approximately 12 years. We have secured the necessary permits to mine these reserves from the FDEP and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. We have
initiated the process of applying for authorization and permits to expand the geographical area in which we can mine at our Hardee property. The expanded geographical area has an estimated additional
34.7 million tons of recoverable phosphate reserves, which we expect will allow us to conduct mining operations at our Hardee property for approximately 10 additional years at current operating
rates, assuming we secure the authorization and permits to mine in this area. The estimated recoverable phosphate reserves are reflective of the anticipated permittable mining areas based on recent
similar permitting efforts. In Florida, local community participation has become an important factor in the authorization and permitting process for mining companies. A denial of the authorizations or
permits to continue and/or expand our mining operations at our Hardee property would prevent us from mining all of our reserves and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows.

We
have secured the state environmental authorization to increase the capacity of our phosphogypsum stack system at Plant City. With the completion of our current expansion project, this
stack has sufficient capacity to meet our requirements through 2026 at current operating rates and subject to regular renewals of our operating permits. Including additional expansion phases, the
estimated stack system capacity is expected to meet our requirements until 2040 at current operating rates and is subject to securing the corresponding operating permits. This date is approximately
six years beyond our current estimate of available phosphate rock reserves at our Hardee mine. A decision by the state or federal authorities to deny a renewal of our current permits or to deny
operating permits for the expansion of our stack system could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

In
certain cases, as a condition to procuring such permits and approvals, we may be required to comply with financial assurance regulatory requirements. The purpose of these requirements
is to assure that sufficient company funds will be available for the ultimate closure, post-closure care and/or reclamation at our facilities. We currently utilize a trust established for
the benefit of the EPA and the FDEP and an escrow account established for the benefit of the FDEP as a means of complying with financial assurance requirements for the closure and
long-term care of our phosphogypsum stack systems. For additional information on the cash deposit arrangements, see Note 10—Asset Retirement Obligations.

Several
of our permits, including our mining permit at the Hardee phosphate complex, require us to reclaim any property disturbed by our operations. At our Hardee property, we currently
mine approximately 300 to 500 acres of land each year, all of which must be reclaimed. The costs to reclaim
this land vary based on the type of land involved and range from $3,700 to $18,200 an acre, with an average of $11,000 an acre. For additional information on our Hardee asset retirement obligations,
see Note 10—Asset Retirement Obligations.

Our
phosphate operations in Florida are subject to regulations governing the closure and long-term maintenance of our phosphogypsum stack systems. At the site of our former
Bartow phosphate complex, we estimate that we will spend a total of approximately $2 million between 2013 and 2016 to complete closure of the cooling pond and channels. Water treating
expenditures at Bartow are estimated to require about $11 million over the next 44 years. Post-closure long-term care expenditures at Bartow are estimated to
total approximately $51 million for a 50 year period including 2013. To close the phosphogypsum stack at the Plant City phosphate complex including the recently constructed expansion, we
estimate that we will spend approximately $96 million during the years 2033 through 2037, and another $45 million in 2087 to close the cooling pond. Water treating expenditures at Plant
City are estimated to approximate $6 million in 2018, $63 million in 2033 through 2037, and









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

$164 million
thereafter through 2087. Post-closure long-term care expenditures at Plant City are estimated to total $105 million for a 50 year period
commencing in 2038. These amounts are in nominal dollars using an assumed inflation rate of 3%.

Cost
estimates for closure of our phosphogypsum stack systems are based on formal closure plans submitted to the State of Florida, which are subject to revision during negotiations over
the next several years. Moreover, the time frame involved in the closure of our phosphogypsum stack systems extends as far as the year 2087. Accordingly, the actual amount to be spent also will depend
upon factors such as the timing of activities, refinements in scope, technological developments, cost inflation and changes in applicable laws and regulations. These cost estimates may also increase
if the Plant City phosphogypsum stack is expanded further. For additional information on asset retirement obligations related to our phosphogypsum systems, see Note 10—Asset
Retirement Obligations.

Employees and Labor Relations

As of December 31, 2012, we employed approximately 2,500 full-time and 100 part-time employees.









CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

