ITEM 1.BUSINESS

General

Pfizer Inc. (which may be referred to asPfizer, the Company, we, usorour) is a research-based, global biopharmaceutical company. We apply science and our global resources to improve
health and well-being at every stage of life. We strive to set the standard for quality, safety and value in the discovery, development and manufacturing of medicines for people and animals. Our diversified global healthcare portfolio includes human
and animal biologic and small molecule medicines and vaccines, as well as nutritional products and many of the world’s best-known consumer healthcare products. Every day, we work across developed and emerging markets to advance wellness,
prevention, treatments and cures that challenge the most feared diseases of our time. We also collaborate with other biopharmaceutical companies, healthcare providers, governments and local communities to support and expand access to reliable,
affordable healthcare around the world.

The Company was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on June 2,
1942.

On October 15, 2009, we completed our acquisition of Wyeth. The acquisition was a cash-and-stock transaction
valued at $50.40 per share of Wyeth common stock, or a total of approximately $68.2 billion, based on the closing market price of Pfizer common stock on the acquisition date.

On January 31, 2011, we completed a tender offer for the outstanding shares of common stock of King Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (King) and acquired approximately 92.5% of the outstanding shares for
approximately $3.3 billion in cash. On February 28, 2011, we acquired the remaining outstanding shares of King for approximately $300 million in cash. Commencing from January 31, 2011, our financial statements include the assets,
liabilities, operating results and cash flows of King. Therefore, in accordance with our domestic and international reporting periods, our consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 reflect approximately 11
months of King’s U.S. operations and 10 months of King’s international operations.

In July 2011, we announced our
decision to explore strategic alternatives for our Animal Health and Nutrition businesses, which may include, among other things, a full or partial separation of each of these businesses from Pfizer through a spin-off, sale or other transaction. We
believe these potential actions may create greater shareholder value, enable us to become a more focused organization and optimize capital allocation. Given the separate and distinct nature of Animal Health and Nutrition, we may pursue a different
strategic alternative for each of these businesses. Although the timeline for each evaluation may differ, we expect to announce our strategic decision for each of these businesses in 2012 and to complete any separation of these businesses between
July 2012 and July 2013. For additional information, see theOverview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook–Our Business Development Initiativessection ofManagement’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations(MD&A) in our 2011 Financial Report.

On August 1, 2011, we
completed the sale of our Capsugel business for approximately $2.4 billion in cash. For additional information, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements –Note 2D. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Collaborative Arrangements and Equity
Method Arrangements – Divestituresin our 2011 Financial Report,as well asOther Products – Capsugelbelow.

Pfizer Website

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 (2011 Form 10-K),
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or






furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), are available on our website(www.pfizer.com), in text format and,
where applicable, in interactive data file format,as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).

Throughout this 2011 Form 10-K, we “incorporate by reference” certain information from other documents filed or to be filed
with the SEC, including our Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (2012 Proxy Statement) and the 2011 Financial Report, portions of which are filed as Exhibit 13 to this 2011 Form 10-K, and which also will be contained in
Appendix A to our 2012 Proxy Statement (2011 Financial Report). The SEC allows us to disclose important information by referring to it in that manner. Please refer to such information. Our 2011 Annual Report to Shareholders consists of the 2011
Financial Report and the Corporate and Shareholder Information attached to the 2012 Proxy Statement. Our 2011 Financial Report will be available on our website(www.pfizer.com)on or about February 28, 2012. Our 2012 Proxy Statement will
be available on our website(www.pfizer.com)on or about March 15, 2012.

Information relating to corporate
governance at Pfizer, including our Corporate Governance Principles; Director Qualification Standards; Pfizer Policies on Business Conduct (for all of our employees, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Principal
Accounting Officer); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for our Directors; information concerning our Directors; ways to communicate by e-mail with our Directors; Board Committees; Committee Charters; the Lead Independent Director Charter; and
transactions in Pfizer securities by Directors and Officers; as well as Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer certifications, are available on our website(www.pfizer.com). We will provide any of the foregoing information
without charge upon written request to Matthew Lepore, Vice President and Corporate Secretary, Chief Counsel-Corporate Governance, Pfizer Inc., 235 East 42nd Street, New York, NY 10017-5755. Information relating to shareholder services, including
our Shareholder Investment Program, book-entry share ownership and direct deposit of dividends, is also available on our website(www.pfizer.com).

The information contained in our website does not constitute a part of this 2011 Form 10-K.

Operating Segments

We manage our operations through five operating segments—Primary Care; Specialty Care and
Oncology; Established Products and Emerging Markets; Animal Health and Consumer Healthcare; and Nutrition. Each operating segment has responsibility for its commercial activities and for certain research and development activities related to in-line
products and in-process research and development (IPR&D) projects that generally have achieved proof-of-concept. Previously, we managed our operations through two operating segments—Biopharmaceutical and Diversified.

We regularly review our segments and the approach used by management to evaluate performance and allocate resources.

A description of each of our five operating segments follows:



•Primary Care operating segment—includes revenues from human pharmaceutical products primarily prescribed by primary-care physicians, and may
include products in the following therapeutic and disease areas: Alzheimer’s disease, cardiovascular (excluding pulmonary arterial hypertension), erectile dysfunction, genitourinary, major depressive disorder, pain, respiratory and smoking
cessation. Examples of products in this segment includeCelebrex,Chantix/Champix,Lipitor,Lyrica,Premarin,PristiqandViagra. All revenues for such products are allocated to the Primary Care
business unit, except those generated in emerging markets and those that are managed by the Established Products business unit.

Through the end of 2011, sales ofLipitorin the U.S. are reported in our Primary Care business unit. Beginning in 2012, sales ofLipitorin the U.S. will be reported in our Established
Products business unit.






•Specialty Care and Oncology operating segment—comprises the Specialty Care business unit and the Oncology business unit.



¡Specialty Care—includes revenues from most human pharmaceutical products primarily prescribed by physicians who are specialists, and may include
products in the following therapeutic and disease areas: anti-infectives, endocrine disorders, hemophilia, inflammation, multiple sclerosis, ophthalmology, pulmonary arterial hypertension, specialty neuroscience and vaccines. Examples of products in
this business unit includeBeneFIX,Enbrel,Genotropin,Geodon, thePrevnar/Prevenarfranchise,Rebif,ReFacto AF,Revatio,Xalatan,XynthaandZyvox. All revenues for such
products are allocated to the Specialty Care business unit, except those generated in emerging markets and those that are managed by the Established Products business unit.



¡Oncology—includes revenues from human prescription pharmaceutical products addressing oncology and oncology-related illnesses. Examples of
products in this business unit includeAromasin,Sutent,ToriselandXalkori. All revenues for such products are allocated to the Oncology business unit, except those generated in emerging markets and those that are
managed by the Established Products business unit.



•Established Products and Emerging Markets operating segment—comprises the Established Products business unit and the Emerging Markets business
unit.



¡Established Products—generally includes revenues from human prescription pharmaceutical products that have lost patent protection or marketing
exclusivity in certain countries and/or regions. Typically, products are transferred to this business unit in the beginning of the fiscal year following loss of patent protection or marketing exclusivity. In certain situations, products may be
transferred to this business unit at a different point than the beginning of the fiscal year following loss of patent protection or marketing exclusivity in order to maximize their value. This business unit also excludes revenues generated in
emerging markets. Examples of products in this business unit includeArthrotec,Effexor,Medrol,Norvasc,Protonix,RelpaxandZosyn/Tazocin.



¡Emerging Markets––includes revenues from all human prescription pharmaceutical products sold in emerging markets, including Asia (excluding
Japan and South Korea), Latin America, Middle East, Africa, Central and Eastern Europe and Turkey.



•Animal Health and Consumer Healthcare operating segment—comprises the Animal Health business unit and the Consumer Healthcare business unit.



¡Animal Health––includes worldwide revenues from products and services to prevent and treat disease in livestock and companion animals,
including vaccines, parasiticides and anti-infectives.



¡Consumer Healthcare––generally includes worldwide revenues from non-prescription products in the following therapeutic categories: dietary
supplements, pain management, respiratory and personal care. Products marketed by Consumer Healthcare includeAdvil,Caltrate,Centrum,ChapStick,Preparation HandRobitussin.



•Nutrition operating segment––generally includes revenues from a full line of infant and toddler nutritional products sold outside the U.S.
and Canada. Examples of products in this segment include theS-26andSMAproduct lines, as well as formula for infants with special nutritional needs.

For a further discussion of our operating segments, including certain costs that are not allocated to our operating segment results, as
well as comparative segment information for 2011, 2010 and 2009, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements –Note 18. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Information – Segment






Information,including the tables therein captionedSelected Income Statement Information, Geographic InformationandSignificant Product Revenuesin our 2011 Financial
Report and the table captionedRevenues by Segment and Geographic Areain the MD&Ain our 2011 Financial Report. The information from those tables in our 2011 Financial Report is incorporated by reference into this 2011
Form 10-K.

Our businesses are heavily regulated in most of the countries in which we operate. In the U.S., the principal
authority regulating our operations is the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA regulates the safety and efficacy of the products we offer and our research quality, manufacturing processes, product promotion, advertising and product
labeling. Similar regulations exist in most other countries, and in many countries the government also regulates our prices. SeeGovernment Regulation and Price Constraintsbelow.

Biopharmaceutical Products

Revenues from
biopharmaceutical products contributed approximately 86% of our total revenues in 2011, 87% of our total revenues in 2010 and 92% of our total revenues in 2009.

We recorded direct product sales of more than $1 billion for each of 12 biopharmaceutical products in 2011, each of 15 biopharmaceutical products in 2010 and each of nine legacy Pfizer biopharmaceutical
products in 2009. These products represented 56% of our revenues from biopharmaceutical products in 2011, 60% of our revenues from biopharmaceutical products in 2010, and 56% of our revenues from biopharmaceutical products in 2009. SeeItem 1A.
Risk Factors – Dependence on Key In-Line Productsbelow.

Worldwide revenues from biopharmaceutical products
in 2011 were $57.7 billion, a decrease of 1% compared to 2010, primarily due to the decrease of $4.7 billion in operational revenues fromLipitor,Effexor,Protonix,Xalatan,Caduet,Vfend,AromasinandZosyn,and lower Alliance revenues forAricept, all due to loss of exclusivity in certain markets, and a reduction in revenues of $359 million due to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health
Care and Education Reconciliation Act (commonly referred to as the Affordable Care Act, or ACA). This decrease was partially offset by the solid performance ofLyrica, thePrevnar/Prevenarfranchise andEnbrel, the inclusion of
operational revenues from legacy King products of approximately $950 million, which favorably impacted biopharmaceutical revenues by 2%, and the favorable impact of foreign exchange of $1.7 billion, or 3%.

Geographically, in the U.S., revenues from biopharmaceutical products decreased 9% in 2011, compared to 2010, reflecting lower revenues
fromLipitor,Protonix,Effexor,Zosyn,Xalatan,Vfend,CaduetandAromasin, all due to loss of exclusivity, lower Alliance revenues due to loss of exclusivity ofAricept5mg and 10mg
tablets in November 2010 and lower revenues fromDetrol/Detrol LA, as well as the reduction in revenues of $359 million in 2011 due to the ACA. The impact of these adverse factors was partially offset by the strong performance of certain
other biopharmaceutical products and the addition of U.S. revenues from legacy King products of approximately $904 million in 2011.

For additional information regarding the impact of the ACA on our revenues, see theOverview of our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook – Our Operating Environment – U.S.
Healthcare Legislationsection of the MD&A in our 2011 Financial Report.

In our international markets, revenues from
biopharmaceutical products increased 5% in 2011, compared to 2010, reflecting the favorable impact of foreign exchange of 6% in 2011, partially offset by a net operational decrease. Operationally, revenues were favorably impacted by increases in thePrevenarfranchise,Lyrica,Enbrel,Celebrexand Alliance revenues and unfavorably impacted by declines inLipitor,Effexor,NorvascandXalatan/Xalacom. International revenues from legacy King
products were not significant to our international revenues in 2011. During 2011, international revenues from biopharmaceutical products represented 59% of total revenues from biopharmaceutical products, compared to 56% in 2010.

For additional information, see theAnalysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income – Biopharmaceutical Revenuessection of
the MD&A in our 2011 Financial Report.






Biopharmaceutical—Selected Product Descriptions:



•Lipitor, for the treatment of elevated LDL-cholesterol levels in the blood, lost U.S. exclusivity on November 30, 2011, and faces generic
competition in the U.S.Lipitorlost exclusivity in Australia in February 2012; in Japan in 2011; and in Brazil, Canada, Spain and Mexico in 2010; and it has lost exclusivity in nearly all emerging market countries. We do not expect thatLipitorrevenues in emerging markets will be materially impacted over the next several years by the loss of exclusivity.Lipitorwill have lost exclusivity in the majority of European markets by May 2012. SeePatents and
Intellectual Property Rightsbelow for further information onLipitor.



•Lyricais indicated for the management of post-herpetic neuralgia, neuropathic pain associated with diabetic peripheral neuropathy, the
management of fibromyalgia, and as adjunctive therapy for adult patients with partial onset seizures in the U.S., and for neuropathic pain (peripheral and central), adjunctive treatment of epilepsy and general anxiety disorder in certain countries
outside the U.S.



•Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13is our 13-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine for the prevention of various syndromes of pneumococcal disease in
infants and young children and in adults 50 years of age and older.Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13for use in infants and young children has been launched in the U.S. for the prevention of invasive pneumococcal disease caused by the 13 serotypes inPrevnar 13and otitis media caused by the seven serotypes inPrevnar, and in the European Union (EU) and many other international markets for the prevention of invasive pneumococcal disease, otitis media and pneumococcal pneumonia
caused by the vaccine serotypes. The launch of thePrevnar 13/Prevenar 13pediatric indication has reduced ourPrevnar/Prevenar (7-valent)revenues (see discussion below), and we expect this trend to continue. In addition, in 2011, we
received approval ofPrevnar 13/Prevenar 13for use in adults 50 years of age and older in the U.S. for the prevention of pneumococcal pneumonia and invasive pneumococcal disease caused by the 13 serotypes inPrevnar 13, and in the EU
for the prevention of invasive pneumococcal disease caused by the vaccine serotypes.Prevenar 13for use in adults 50 years of age and older also has been approved in many other international markets. We expect to commence commercial launches
for the adult indication in 2012.

We currently are conducting the Community-Acquired Pneumonia Immunization
Trial in Adults (CAPiTA) to fulfill requirements in connection with the FDA’s approval of thePrevnar 13adult indication under its accelerated approval program. CAPiTA is an efficacy trial involving subjects 65 years of age and older
that is designed to evaluate whetherPrevnar 13is effective in preventing the first episode of community-acquired pneumonia caused by the serotypes contained in the vaccine. We estimate that this event-driven trial will be completed in 2013.
At its regular meeting held on February 22, 2012, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) indicated that it will defer voting on a recommendation for the routine use ofPrevnar 13in adults 50 years of age and older until the results of CAPiTA, as well as data on the impact of pediatric use ofPrevnar 13on the disease burden and serotype distribution among adults, are available. We expect that the
rate of uptake for the use ofPrevnar 13in adults 50 years of age and older will be impacted by ACIP’s decision to defer voting on a recommendation for the routine use ofPrevnar 13by that population.



•Enbrelis our treatment for moderate-to-severe rheumatoid arthritis, polyarticular juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, plaque
psoriasis and ankylosing spondylitis, a type of arthritis affecting the spine. Under our co-promotion agreement with Amgen Inc. (Amgen), we and Amgen co-promoteEnbrelin the U.S. and Canada and share in the profits fromEnbrelsales
in those countries, which we include in Alliance revenues. Our co-promotion agreement with Amgen will expire in October 2013, and, subject to the terms of the agreement, we are entitled to a royalty stream for 36 months thereafter, which we expect
will be significantly less than our current share ofEnbrelprofits from U.S. and Canadian sales. Following the end of the royalty period, we will not be entitled to any further revenues fromEnbrelsales in the U.S. and Canada. Our
exclusive rights toEnbreloutside the U.S. and Canada will not be affected by the expiration of the co-promotion agreement with Amgen.






•Celebrexis for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis worldwide and for the management of acute
pain in adults in the U.S. and certain markets in the EU.Celebrexis supported by continued educational and promotional efforts highlighting its efficacy and safety profile for appropriate patients.



•Viagraremains the leading treatment for erectile dysfunction and one of the world’s most recognized pharmaceutical brands after more than
a decade.Viagrabegan facing generic competition in certain markets, including Spain and Finland, in December 2009.



•Norvasc, for treating hypertension, lost exclusivity in the U.S. and other major markets in 2007 and in Canada in 2009.



•Zyvoxis the world’s best selling agent among those used to treat serious Gram-positive pathogens, including methicillin-resistant
staphylococcus-aureus.



•Xalabrandsconsists ofXalatan, a prostaglandin, which is a branded agent used to reduce elevated eye pressure in patients with
open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension, andXalacom, a fixed combination of prostaglandin (Xalatan) and beta blocker (timolol), available outside the U.S.Xalatanlost exclusivity in the U.S. in March 2011.XalatanandXalacomlost exclusivity in 15 major European markets in January 2012.



•Sutentis for the treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma, including metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC) and gastrointestinal stromal
tumors (GIST) after disease progression on, or intolerance to, imatinib mesylate. In May 2011, the FDA approvedSutentfor the treatment of progressive, well-differentiated pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (pNET) in patients with unresectable
locally advanced or metastatic disease. In the U.S.,Sutentis the most prescribed oral mRCC therapy, and more than 100,000 patients have been treated withSutentworldwide.



•Geodon/Zeldox,an atypical antipsychotic, is indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia, as monotherapy for the acute treatment of bipolar
manic or mixed episodes, and as an adjunct to lithium or valproate for the maintenance treatment of bipolar disorder.Geodon/Zeldoxis expected to lose exclusivity in the U.S. in March 2012.



•OurPremarinfamily of products remains the leading therapy to help women address moderate to severe menopausal symptoms.



•Genotropin, one of the world’s leading human growth hormones, is used in children for the treatment of short stature with growth hormone
deficiency, Prader-Willi Syndrome, Turner Syndrome, Small for Gestational Age Syndrome, Idiopathic Short Stature (in the U.S. only) and Chronic Renal Insufficiency (outside the U.S. only), as well as in adults with growth hormone deficiency.Genotropinis supported by a broad platform of innovative injection-delivery devices and patient support programs.



•Detrol/Detrol LA, a muscarinic receptor antagonist, is one of the most prescribed branded medicines worldwide for overactive bladder. Detrol
LAis an extended-release formulation taken once a day.Detrolimmediate release (Detrol IR) will lose exclusivity in the U.S. in September 2012.



•Vfendis a broad-spectrum agent for treating yeast and molds.Vfendtablets lost exclusivity in the U.S. in February 2011.



•Chantix/Champixis an aid to smoking-cessation treatment in adults 18 years of age and older. We are continuing our educational and promotional
efforts, which are focused on addressing the significant health consequences of smoking, highlighting theChantixbenefit-risk proposition and emphasizing the importance of the physician-patient dialogue in helping patients quit smoking.






In July 2011, the U.S. prescribing information was revised to include clinical data showing
thatChantixis an effective aid to smoking-cessation treatment for smokers with stable cardiovascular disease (CVD) and mild-to-moderate chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). The revised label also includes a warning/precaution
advising smokers with CVD to inform their physician of any new or worsening symptoms of cardiovascular disease, and to seek emergency medical help if they experience any symptoms of a heart attack. This safety information was added at the FDA’s
request following an observation of a small numeric increase in certain cardiovascular events in patients treated withChantixversus those taking a placebo in a study of 700 smokers with stable cardiovascular disease. Approval of the EU
labeling, revised at the European Medicines Agency’s (EMA’s) request to include a similar cardiovascular-related warning/precaution, was received in late December 2011, with regulators reaffirming the positive benefit/risk profile of the
medication. Approval of the Japan labeling, which includes a similar precaution, occurred in late October 2011. In December 2011, Pfizer received a positive opinion from the EMA’s Committee for Medical Products for Human Use for changes to theChampixEU label regarding schizophrenia data.



•BeneFIXandReFacto AF/Xynthaare hemophilia products using state of the art manufacturing that assist patients with a lifelong
bleeding disorder.BeneFIXis the only available recombinant factor IX product for the treatment of hemophilia B, whileReFacto AF/Xynthaare recombinant factor VIII products for the treatment of hemophilia A. Both products are
indicated for the control and prevention of bleeding in patients with these disorders and in some countries also are indicated for prophylaxis in certain situations, such as surgery.



•Effexoris an antidepressant for treating adult patients with major depressive disorder, generalized anxiety disorder, social anxiety disorder
and panic disorder.EffexorandEffexor XR, an extended-release formulation, face generic competition in most markets, including the U.S., whereEffexor XRlost exclusivity on July 1, 2010. This generic competition has had
a significant adverse impact on our revenues forEffexorandEffexor XR.



•Zosyn/Tazocin, our broad-spectrum intravenous antibiotic, faces generic global competition. U.S. exclusivity was lost in September 2009.



•Pristiqis approved for the treatment of major depressive disorder in the U.S. and in various other countries.Pristiqhas also been
approved for treatment of moderate-to-severe vasomotor symptoms associated with menopause in Thailand, Mexico, the Philippines and Ecuador.



•Caduetis a single pill therapy combiningLipitorandNorvascfor the prevention of cardiovascular events.Caduetlost U.S.
exclusivity on November 30, 2011 and faces generic competition.



•Revatiois for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension. In the U.S.,Revatiotablet will lose exclusivity in September 2012, andRevatio IVinjection will lose exclusivity in May 2013.



•Prevnar/Prevenar(7-valent) is our 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine for preventing invasive, and, in certain international
markets, non-invasive pneumococcal disease in infants and young children. Many markets have transitioned from the use ofPrevnar/Prevenar(7-valent) toPrevnar 13/Prevenar 13(see discussion above).



•Aricept, discovered and developed by Eisai Co., Ltd. (Eisai), is the most commonly dispensed medicine to treat symptoms of Alzheimer’s
disease. We co-promoteAriceptwith Eisai in the U.S. and several other countries and have an exclusive license to sellAriceptin certain other countries. Revenues associated with this co-promotion are included in Alliance revenues.
We lost exclusivity forAricept5mg and 10mg tablets in the U.S. in November 2010. We expect that theAricept23mg tablet will have exclusivity in the U.S. until July 2013.Ariceptlost exclusivity in many of the major European
markets in February 2012, and our Established Products business unit is introducing a second brand of donepezil HCl (the active ingredient inAricept) in Europe.Ariceptwill have exclusivity in Canada until December 2013, and our
rights toAriceptin Japan will return to Eisai in December 2012.






•Spirivais indicated in the U.S. for the long-term, once-daily, maintenance treatment of bronchospasm associated with COPD, including chronic
bronchitis and emphysema, and for reducing COPD exacerbations. We co-promoteSpirivawith Boehringer Ingelheim (BI) in the U.S. and selected countries on a worldwide basis. Revenues associated with this co-promotion are included in Alliance
revenues. Our collaboration with BI forSpirivawill expire on a country-by-country basis between 2012 and 2016. As a result, we expect to experience a graduated decline in revenues fromSpirivaduring that period. Our collaboration
with BI forSpirivawill expire in the EU from 2012 and 2016, in 2014 in the U.S. and Japan, and by 2016 in all other countries where the collaboration exists.



•Xalkori,the first-ever therapy targeting anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK), for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic
non-small cell lung cancer that is ALK-positive as detected by an FDA-approved test, was approved by the FDA in August 2011.



•Inlytawas approved by the FDA in January 2012 for the treatment of patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma after failure of one prior
systemic therapy.

Embeda– On February 23, 2011, we stopped distribution of ourEmbedaproduct due
to failed specification tolerances related to naltrexone degradation identified in post-manufacturing testing. On March 10, 2011, we initiated a voluntary recall to wholesale and retail customers of allEmbedaproducts. We are committed
to returning this important product to the market as quickly as possible, once the stability issue is resolved.

Other Products

Animal Health

Our Animal
Health business unit is the largest animal health business in the world. We discover, develop and sell products for the prevention and treatment of diseases in livestock and companion animals. Revenues from Animal Health products were approximately
$4.2 billion in 2011, an increase of 17% compared to 2010, reflecting higher operational revenues of 14% and the favorable impact of foreign exchange of 3%. Operational revenues from Animal Health products were favorably impacted by approximately
$329 million, or 9%, due to the addition of revenues from legacy King animal health products. Legacy Pfizer products grew 7% primarily driven by improving market conditions and resulting increased demand for products across the livestock business,
as well as deeper market penetration in emerging markets. This was partially offset by the adverse impact of required product divestitures in 2010 related to the acquisition of Wyeth.

We market vaccines, anti-infectives, anti-inflammatories, antiemetics and parasiticides, including the following products:



•Startectis a novel dual-active parasiticide that delivers a broad spectrum control of parasitic worm infestation in sheep.



•Improvac/Improvestis a novel gonadotropin releasing factor (GnRF) product for swine that prevents boar taint.



•Fostera PCVis a vaccine that protects pigs against porcine circovirus.



•Palladiais a treatment of mast cell tumors, a common form of cancer that affects dogs; it works by killing tumor cells and by cutting off the
blood supply to the tumor.



•Conveniais an anti-infective for dogs and cats that delivers an assured full course of therapy from a single injection.



•Cereniais a selective NK-1 receptor antagonist for the treatment and prevention of vomiting in dogs and for the prevention of motion sickness.



•Revolution/Strongholdis a topically administered parasiticide for dogs and cats that controls a number of different parasites such as fleas and
heartworm.






•Rimadylrelieves pain and inflammation associated with canine osteoarthritis and soft tissue orthopedic surgery.



•Draxxinis an effective and convenient single dose anti-infective used to treat infections in cattle and swine.



•Excedeis an effective and convenient single-dose anti-infective used to treat infections in cattle and swine.Excedeoffers a convenient
two-dose regimen for horses.



•Zulvacis a vaccine that protects cattle and sheep against bluetongue disease.



•Boprivais a novel GnRF vaccine which temporarily reduces undesirable bull behaviors such as fighting.

The Company is exploring strategic alternatives for Animal Health, which may include, among other things, a full or partial separation
from Pfizer through a spin-off, sale or other transaction. SeeGeneralabove.

Consumer Healthcare

Our Consumer Healthcare business unit is the fifth-largest over-the-counter healthcare products business in the world and sells two of
the ten largest selling over-the-counter healthcare brands (CentrumandAdvil) in the world. Consumer Healthcare revenues totaled $3.1 billion for 2011, an increase of 10% compared to 2010, reflecting higher operational revenues of 8%
and the favorable impact of foreign exchange of 2%. The operational revenue increase in 2011 was primarily driven by increased sales of core brands includingAdvil,CaltrateandRobitussin, as well as the temporary voluntary
withdrawal ofCentrumin Europe in the third quarter of 2010. The Consumer Healthcare business unit holds strong positions in various geographic markets, with its highest revenue volume in the U.S., Canada, China, Germany, Italy, Brazil and
Australia.

Major categories and product lines include:



•Dietary Supplements:Centrumbrands (includingCentrum,Centrum Silver,Centrum Men’sandWomen’s,Centrum Performance,Centrum Specialists,Centrum Cardio,andCentrum Kids),Caltrate, andProNutrientbrands (includingProbiotic,Omega-3, andFruit and Veggie);



•Pain Management:Advilbrands (includingAdvil,Advil PM,Advil Liqui-Gels,Children’s Advil,Infant’s
Advil,and Advil Migraine),andThermaCare;



•Respiratory:Robitussin,Advil Cold & Sinus,Advil Congestion Relief,andDimetapp;



•Personal Care:ChapStickandPreparation H.

In December 2011 (which falls in the first fiscal quarter of 2012 for our international operations), we completed our acquisition of the consumer healthcare business of Ferrosan Holding A/S, a Danish
company engaged in the sale of science-based consumer healthcare products, including dietary supplements and lifestyle products, primarily in the Nordic region and the emerging markets of Russia and Central and Eastern Europe.

Nutrition

Pfizer Nutrition is
a leader in infant nutritionals in the markets in which we operate. We have a targeted geographic presence in key markets throughout Asia, the Middle East, Europe and Latin America. Our largest markets include China, the Philippines, the U.K.,
Mexico and Australia, and more than 80% of our revenues are in emerging markets. Since it became part of Pfizer in 2009, the Nutrition business has grown in new and existing markets through innovation and developing and launching a number of new
products. Nutrition’s revenues totaled $2.1 billion in 2011, an increase of 15% compared to 2010, reflecting higher operational revenues of 11% and the favorable impact of foreign exchange of 4%. The operational revenue increase was primarily
due to increased demand for premium products, launches of new products and strength in China and the Middle East.

Nutrition
products include infant milk formula brands for newborns and toddlers: ourGoldline includes brandsS-26and/orSMA(brand names vary slightly from country to country), and in 2011 we launched our super-premiumIllumabrand. We also commercialize specialty formulas such asS-26 Gold Hypoallergenic,S-26 Gold Anti-Regurgitation,S-26 Gold Lactose-Free,andS-26 Picky Eater.






The Company is exploring strategic alternatives for Nutrition, which may include, among
other things, a full or partial separation from Pfizer through a spin-off, sale or other transaction. SeeGeneralabove.

For additional information regarding the revenues of our Animal Health, Consumer Healthcare and Nutrition business units, see theAnalysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income – Other Product Revenuessection of the MD&A in our 2011 Financial Report.

Capsugel

On August 1,
2011, we sold our Capsugel business for approximately $2.4 billion in cash. Results of Capsugel, as well as the gain on its sale, are reflected in discontinued operations through the date of sale. Capsugel was a business that had a diverse product
line of hard gelatin capsules, and liquid, softgel, non-animal, and fish gelatin capsules, all for use in pharmaceutical and dietary supplement dosage delivery. For additional information, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements –Note 2D. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Collaborative Arrangements and Equity Method Arrangements – Divestituresin our 2011 Financial Report.

Research and Development

Innovation by our
research and development operations is very important to our success. As a result, and also because we are predominantly a human health company, the vast majority of our research and development spending is associated with human health products,
compounds and activities. Our goal is to discover, develop and bring to market innovative products that address major unmet medical needs. We spent $9.1 billion in 2011, $9.4 billion in 2010 and $7.8 billion in 2009 on research and development.

Biopharmaceutical R&D

We conduct research internally and also through contracts with third parties, through collaborations with universities and biotechnology companies and in cooperation with other pharmaceutical firms. We
also seek out promising compounds and innovative technologies developed by third parties to incorporate into our discovery and development processes or projects, as well as our product lines, through collaborations, alliance and license agreements,
acquisitions and other arrangements.

Drug discovery and development is time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable. According
to the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA), out of 5,000-10,000 screened compounds, only 250 enter preclinical testing, five enter human clinical trials and one is approved by the FDA. The process from early discovery or
design to development to regulatory approval can take more than ten years. Drug candidates can fail at any stage of the process. Candidates may not receive regulatory approval even after many years of research.

As of year-end 2011, we had 262 projects in research and development, ranging from discovery through registration, of which 95 programs
are in Phase 1 through registration, with the remainder of the projects in pre-clinical development. At year-end 2011, our Phase III portfolio contained 22 programs. Development of a single compound is often pursued as part of multiple different
programs. While these new candidates may or may not eventually receive regulatory approval, new drug candidates entering clinical development phases are the foundation for future products.

In addition to discovering and developing new products, our research operations seek to add value to our existing products by improving
their effectiveness and by discovering new uses or indications for them.

Information concerning several of our drug
candidates in development, as well as supplemental filings for existing products, is set forth in theAnalysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income – Product Developments – Biopharmaceuticalsection of the MD&Ain our
2011 Financial Report. That information is incorporated by reference.






Our competitors also devote substantial funds and resources to research and development. We
also compete against numerous small biotechnology companies in developing potential drug candidates. The extent to which our competitors are successful in their research could result in erosion of the sales of our existing products and products in
development, as well as unanticipated product obsolescence.

We continue to closely evaluate our global research and
development function and pursue strategies to improve innovation and overall productivity by prioritizing areas with the greatest scientific and commercial promise, utilizing appropriate risk/return profiles, and focusing on areas with the highest
potential to deliver value in the near term and over time. To that end, our research primarily focuses on five high-priority areas that have a mix of small and large molecules – immunology and inflammation; oncology; cardiovascular, metabolic
and endocrine diseases; neuroscience and pain; and vaccines. In addition to reducing the number of disease areas of focus, we are realigning and reducing our research and development footprint, and outsourcing certain functions that do not drive
competitive advantage for Pfizer. As a result of these actions, we expect significant reductions in our annual research and development expenses, which are reflected in our 2012 financial guidance, and we expect to incur significant costs, which are
also reflected in our 2012 financial guidance. For additional information, see theOverview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook – Our Strategyand– Our Financial Guidance for 2012andCosts and
Expenses – Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiativessections of the MD&A in our 2011 Financial Report.

For additional information regarding our R&D operations, see theAnalysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income – Research
and Development Operationssection of the MD&A in our 2011 Financial Report.

International Operations

We have significant operations outside the United States. They are managed through the same segments as our U.S.
operations, with our operations in emerging markets for human pharmaceutical products managed through the Established Products and Emerging Markets segment.

Revenues from operations outside the U.S. of $40.5 billion accounted for 60% of our total revenues in 2011. Revenues exceeded $500 million in each of 18 countries outside the U.S. in 2011. The U.S. is our
largest national market, comprising 40% of total revenues in 2011, 43% of total revenues in 2010 and 44% of total revenues in 2009. Japan is our second-largest national market, with 9% of total revenues in 2011, 7.5% of total revenues in 2010 and
8.7% of total revenues in 2009.

For a geographic breakdown of revenues and changes in revenues, see the table captionedGeographic Information,inthe Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements –Note 18. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Informationin our 2011 Financial Report, and the table captionedRevenues by Segment and
Geographic Areain the MD&Ain our 2011 Financial Report. Those tables are incorporated by reference.

Our international businesses are subject, in varying degrees, to a number of risks inherent in carrying on business in other countries. These include currency fluctuations, capital and exchange control
regulations, expropriation and other restrictive government actions. Our international businesses are also subject to government-imposed constraints, including laws and regulations on pricing, reimbursement, and access to our products. SeeGovernment Regulation and Price Constraintsbelow for a discussion of these matters.

Depending on the direction of
change relative to the U.S. dollar, foreign currency values can increase or decrease the reported dollar value of our net assets and results of operations. In 2011, both revenues and net income were favorably impacted by foreign exchange in general,
as foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar increased our revenues and net income in many countries. While we cannot predict with certainty future changes in foreign exchange rates or the effect they will have on us, we attempt to
mitigate their impact through operational means and by using various financial instruments, depending upon market conditions. See the discussions in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements– Note 7E. Financial Instruments –
Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activitiesin our 2011 Financial Report.






Marketing

In our global biopharmaceutical businesses, we promote our products to healthcare providers and patients. Through our marketing
organizations, we explain the approved uses, benefits and risks of our products to healthcare providers, such as doctors, nurse practitioners, physician assistants, pharmacists, hospitals, Pharmacy Benefit Managers (PBMs), Managed Care Organizations
(MCOs), employers and government agencies. We also market directly to consumers in the U.S. through direct-to-consumer advertising that communicates the approved uses, benefits and risks of our products while motivating people to have meaningful
conversations with their doctors. In addition, we sponsor general advertising to educate the public on disease awareness, prevention and wellness, important public health issues, and our patient assistance programs.

Our biopharmaceutical businesses include five human health, customer-focused business units: Primary Care, Specialty Care, Oncology,
Established Products and Emerging Markets. Our Specialty Care customer-focused business unit includes vaccines. We operate in customer-focused business units within our biopharmaceutical businesses to better meet the diverse needs of physicians,
patients and our customers while maximizing value for our company and our shareholders.

Our U.S. Primary Care operations are
structured into regional units in order to create a more flexible organization empowered to identify and address local market dynamics and customer needs. Our structure aligns the sales, marketing, and medical functions to work closely to meet the
needs of key customer groups while ensuring common coordination, focus and accountability across the organizations.

Our
prescription pharmaceutical products are sold principally to wholesalers, but we also sell directly to retailers, hospitals, clinics, government agencies and pharmacies, and in the case ofPrevnar 13, directly to individual provider offices
in the U.S. We seek to gain access to healthcare authority, PBM and MCO formularies (lists of recommended, approved, and/or reimbursed medicines and other products). We also work with MCOs, PBMs, employers and other appropriate healthcare providers
to assist them with disease management, patient education and other tools that help their medical treatment routines.

During
2011, Pfizer revenues from our three largest biopharmaceutical wholesalers were as follows:



•McKesson, Inc.—13% of our total revenues (and 30% of our total U.S. revenues);



•Cardinal Health, Inc.—10% of our total revenues (and 26% of our total U.S. revenues); and



•AmerisourceBergen Corporation—9% of our total revenues (and 21% of our total U.S. revenues).

Sales to these wholesalers were concentrated in the biopharmaceutical businesses. Apart from these instances, none of our operating
segments is dependent on any one customer or group of related customers.

Each of our global Animal Health, Consumer
Healthcare and Nutrition business units utilizes its own sales and marketing organizations to promote its products, and each occasionally uses distributors in smaller markets.

Our Animal Health business unit’s advertising and promotions are generally targeted to veterinary healthcare professionals. Animal Health products are sold directly to veterinarians and livestock
producers, as well as through distributors and retail outlets.

Our Consumer Healthcare business unit’s advertising and
promotions are generally disseminated to consumers through television, print, digital and other media advertising, as well as through in-store promotion. Consumer Healthcare products are sold through a wide variety of channels, including
distributors, pharmacies, retail chains and grocery and convenience stores.

Our Nutrition business unit fully supports and
adheres to the World Health Organization Code and national codes on the marketing of breast milk substitutes. Pfizer Nutrition encourages breastfeeding as the best nutrition






for infants and provides important products for infants who are not exclusively breastfed. Advertising and promotion of our Nutrition products adhere to the aim and principles of the World Health
Organization Code as a minimum standard, consistent with national legislation. Consequently, we do not advertise breast milk substitutes, but rather products intended for older children and adults, where permitted. Such activities are aimed at
healthcare professionals and consumers through media advertising (print, television, Internet). Our Nutrition products are available to consumers in a wide variety of channels, including pharmacies, hospitals and food retailers (supermarkets,
grocery stores and convenience stores).

Patents and Intellectual Property Rights

Our products are sold around the world under brand-name, logo and certain product design trademarks that we consider in the aggregate to
be of material importance. Trademark protection continues in some countries for as long as the mark is used and, in other countries, for as long as it is registered. Registrations generally are for fixed, but renewable, terms.

We own or license a number of U.S. and foreign patents. These patents cover pharmaceutical and other products and their uses,
pharmaceutical formulations, product manufacturing processes and intermediate chemical compounds used in manufacturing.

Patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents
in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. The actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage and the availability of legal remedies in
the country. Further, patent term extension may be available in many major countries to compensate for a regulatory delay in approval of the product.

In the aggregate, our patent and related rights are of material importance to our businesses in the U.S. and most other countries. Based on current product sales, and considering the vigorous competition
with products sold by others, the patent rights we consider most significant in relation to our business as a whole, together with the year in which the U.S. basic product patent expires (including, where applicable, the additional six-month
pediatric exclusivity period and/or the granted patent term extension), are those for the drugs set forth in the table below. The basic patents for these products in other large markets may expire in the same, earlier or later years.



DrugU.S. Basic Product PatentExpiration Year(1)Geodon2012Viagra2012Detrol2012Celebrex2014Zyvox2015Lyrica2018Chantix2020Sutent2021Xalkori2029

(1) With respect to the products in the table above, the corresponding European and Japanese patent
expiration dates are generally within one year before or after the U.S. dates indicated, except as follows:



•With respect to Japan, the patent expiration year forCelebrexis 2019, forZyvoxis 2019, forLyricais 2022, forChampixis 2022, forSutentis 2024 and forXalkori(not currently approved) is 2025. ForDetrol, post-marketing surveillance in Japan extends until 2014.






•With respect to major European markets, the patent expiration year forXalkori(not currently approved) is 2025. ForLyrica, regulatory
exclusivity in Europe extends until 2014.

In some instances, there are later-expiring patents relating to
our products directed to particular forms or compositions, to methods of manufacturing, or to use of the drug in the treatment of particular diseases or conditions. For example, in addition to the basic product patent coveringViagra, it is
also covered by a U.S. method of treatment patent which, including the six-month pediatric exclusivity period associated withRevatio, which has the same active ingredient asViagra, expires in 2020. However, in some cases, such
patents may not protect our drug from generic competition after the expiration of the basic patent.

We co-promoteAriceptwith Eisai,Enbrelwith Amgen andSpirivawith BI. SeeBiopharmaceutical Products – Biopharmaceutical – Selected Product Descriptionsfor a further discussion.

Lipitor

Lipitor

Caduet

Lipitor

Note 17. Commitments and Contingencies

Lipitor

Lipitor

Lipitor

– Note 17. Commitments
and Contingencies

Lipitor

Xalatanlost exclusivity in the U.S. in March 2011.XalatanandXalacomlost exclusivity in 15 major European
markets in January 2012.

Effexor/Effexor XR,Zosyn,Protonix,Xalatan,NorvascandVfendtablets are examples of other Pfizer products that currently face generic competition in the U.S.

Companies have
filed applications with the FDA seeking approval of products that we believe infringe our patents covering, among other products,Lipitor,Viagra,Detrol/Detrol LA,Lyrica,Tygacil,Sutent,Rapamune,Zyvox,Avinza,EpiPen,ToriselandEmbeda.Wyeth, and a subsidiary of Wyeth, are defendants in a lawsuit alleging that theirReFacto AFandXynthaproducts infringe the patents of another
company.

We also have other patent rights covering additional products that have lesser revenues than most of the products
set forth in the table above. Of these, we also lost exclusivity in the U.S. forCaduetin 2011 and in the U.S. and the EU forAromasinin 2011.

The expiration of a basic product patent or loss of patent protection resulting from a legal challenge normally results in significant competition from generic products against the originally patented
product and can result in a significant reduction in sales of that product in a very short period. In some cases, however, we can continue to obtain commercial benefits from product manufacturing trade secrets; patents on uses for products; patents
on processes and intermediates for the economical manufacture of the active ingredients; patents for special formulations of the product or delivery mechanisms; and conversion of the active ingredient to over-the-counter products.








Enbrel

Prevnar

Government Regulation and Price Constraints – Biosimilars

Item 1A. Risk Factors – Biotechnology Products



In Europe, the European Commission has granted marketing authorizations for several biosimilars pursuant to a set of general and product class-specific guidelines for biosimilar approvals issued over the
past few years, and in Japan, the regulatory authority has granted marketing authorizations for certain biosimilars, including somatropin (the recombinant human growth hormone in ourGenotropinproduct) pursuant to a guideline for biosimilar
approvals issued in 2009. If competitors are able to obtain marketing approval for biosimilars referencing our biotechnology products, our biotechnology products may become subject to competition from biosimilars, with the attendant competitive
pressure, and price reductions could follow. Expiration or successful challenge of applicable patent rights could generally trigger this competition, assuming any relevant exclusivity period has expired.

We may face litigation with respect to the validity and/or scope of patents relating to our biotechnology products with substantial
revenue. Likewise, as we enter the biosimilars area and seek to launch products, patents may be asserted against us.

One of
the main limitations on our operations in some countries outside the U.S. is the lack of effective intellectual property protection for our products. Under international and U.S. free trade agreements in recent years, global protection of
intellectual property rights has been improving. The World Trade Organization Agreement on Trade Related Aspects of Intellectual Property (WTO-TRIPs) required participant countries to amend their intellectual property laws to provide patent
protection for pharmaceutical products by 2005 with an extension until 2016 for least-developed nations. A number of countries have made improvements. We have experienced significant growth in our businesses in some of those nations, and our
continued business expansion in other participant countries depends to a large degree on further patent protection improvement.

Competition

Our businesses are conducted in intensely competitive and often highly regulated markets. Many of our
human prescription pharmaceutical products face competition in the form of branded drugs or generic drugs that treat similar diseases or indications. The principal forms of competition include efficacy, safety, ease of use, and cost effectiveness.
Though the means of competition vary among product categories and business groups, demonstrating the value of our products is a critical factor for success in all of our principal businesses.

Our acquisition of Wyeth in October 2009 created a broader, more diverse portfolio and pipeline with industry-leading positions in
potential high-growth areas, further strengthened by new capabilities in biotechnology and vaccines. The addition of Wyeth not only strengthened our presence in the United States and Europe, but also enhances our abilities to provide emerging
markets in Asia, Latin America, Africa, the Middle East and Eastern Europe/Russia with high-quality, innovative medicines.






Our competitors include other worldwide research-based drug companies, smaller research
companies with more limited therapeutic focus, and generic drug and consumer healthcare manufacturers. We compete with other companies that manufacture and sell products that treat similar diseases or indications as our major products.

Such competition affects our core product business, which is focused on applying innovative science to discover and market products that
satisfy unmet medical needs and provide therapeutic improvements. Our emphasis on innovation is underscored by our multi-billion-dollar investment in research and development, as well as our business development transactions over the past decade,
resulting in a strong product pipeline. Our investment in research does not stop with drug approval; we continue to invest in further understanding the value of our products for the conditions they treat, as well as potential new applications. We
seek to protect the health and well-being of patients by striving to ensure that medically sound knowledge of the benefits and risks of our medicines is understood and communicated to patients, physicians and global health authorities. We also
continue to enhance the organizational effectiveness of all of our biopharmaceutical functions, including coordinating support for our salespersons’ efforts to accurately and ethically launch and promote our products to our customers.

Operating conditions have become more challenging under the mounting global pressures of competition, industry regulation and
cost containment. We continue to take measures to evaluate, adapt and improve our organization and business practices to better meet customer and public needs. For instance, our U.S. Primary Care operations are structured into regional units in
order to create a more flexible organization empowered to identify and address local market dynamics and customer needs. We have taken an industry-leading role in evolving our approaches to U.S. direct-to-consumer advertising, interactions with, and
payments to, healthcare professionals and medical education grants. We also continue to sponsor programs to address patient affordability and access barriers, as we strive to advance fundamental health system change through support for better
healthcare solutions.

While our Animal Health business unit is the leading animal health company with market positions
throughout the world, many other companies offer competing products. Altogether, there are hundreds of producers of animal health products throughout the world. The principal methods of competition vary somewhat depending on the particular product.
They include product innovation, quality, price, service and effective promotion to veterinary professionals and livestock producers.

Our Consumer Healthcare business unit faces competition from over-the-counter business units in other major pharmaceutical and consumer packaged goods companies, as well as retailers who carry their own
private label brands. Our competitive position is affected by several factors, including the amount and effectiveness of our and our competitors’ promotional resources; customer acceptance; product quality; our and our competitors’
introduction of new products, ingredients, claims, dosage forms, or other forms of innovation; and pricing, regulatory and legislative matters (e.g., product labeling, patient access, prescription to over-the-counter switches, etc.).

Our Nutrition business unit competes with multinational companies in the pharmaceutical and food industries, as well as numerous smaller
local and regional companies manufacturing infant nutrition products. Our competitive position is affected by several factors, particularly the amount of resources deployed to develop, enhance and promote products; the rapid pace of product and
packaging innovation in the category, including scientific and technological advances; overall product quality; the effectiveness of our promotional efforts; and product launch campaigns. All of these factors drive brand recommendations from
healthcare professionals and overall customer preference for our product brands.

Managed Care Organizations

The growth of MCOs in the U.S. has been a major factor in the competitive makeup of the healthcare marketplace. Approximately
250 million people in the U.S. now participate in some form of managed care.






Because of the size of the patient population covered by MCOs, the marketing of prescription drugs to them and the PBMs that serve many of those organizations continues to grow in importance.

MCOs can include medical insurance companies, medical plan administrators, health maintenance organizations, alliances of
hospitals and physicians and other physician organizations. The purchasing power of MCOs has increased in recent years due to the growing numbers of patients enrolled in MCOs. At the same time, those organizations have been consolidating into fewer,
even larger entities. This consolidation enhances both their purchasing strength and importance to us.

The growth of MCOs has
increased pressure on drug prices. One objective of MCOs is to contain and, where possible, reduce healthcare expenditures. MCOs typically use formularies, volume purchases and long-term contracts to negotiate discounts from pharmaceutical
providers. Also, MCOs use their purchasing power and their ability to influence market share and volume of prescription drugs to bargain for lower supplier prices. They also emphasize primary and preventive care, out-patient treatment and procedures
performed at doctors’ offices and clinics. Hospitalization and surgery, typically the most expensive forms of treatment, are carefully managed. Since the use of certain drugs can reduce the need for hospitalization, professional therapy, or
even surgery, such drugs can become favored first-line treatments for certain diseases.

As discussed above inMarketing, MCOs and PBMs typically develop formularies, which are selections of medicines available to members that are tiered according to co-pay amounts. Formularies are typically based on the prices and therapeutic benefits, or a
combination of the two, of the available products. Due to their generally lower cost, generic medicines typically are placed in lowest cost tiers. The breadth of the products covered by formularies can vary considerably from one MCO to another and
many formularies include alternative and competitive products for treatment of particular medical problems. MCOs use a variety of means to encourage patients’ use of products listed on their formularies.

Exclusion of a product from a formulary or other MCO-implemented restriction can significantly impact drug usage in the MCO patient
population. Consequently, pharmaceutical companies compete aggressively to gain access to formularies for their products. Unique product features, such as greater efficacy, better patient ease of use, or fewer side effects, are generally beneficial
to achieving access to formularies. However, lower overall cost of therapy is also an important factor. We have been generally, although not universally, successful in having our major products included on most MCO formularies.

The impact of MCOs on drug prices and volumes has increased as a result of their role in negotiating on behalf of Medicare beneficiaries
in connection with the Medicare Outpatient Prescription Drug Benefit, Medicare Part D, which took effect January 1, 2006. MCOs and PBMs negotiate on behalf of the federal government as Prescription Drug Plans (PDPs). We have been generally,
although not universally, successful in having our major products that are used by the senior population included on the formularies of the Medicare PDPs in 2011.

Generic Products

One of the biggest competitive challenges that we face
is from generic pharmaceutical manufacturers. Upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for a product, especially a small molecule product, we can lose the major portion of sales of that product in a very short period. Several such
competitors make a regular practice of challenging our product patents before their expiration. Generic competitors operate without large research and development expenses, as well as without costs of conveying medical information about products to
the medical community, all of which we are required to do. In addition, the FDA approval process exempts generics from costly and time-consuming clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy, allowing generic manufacturers to rely on the
safety and efficacy data of the innovator product. Generic products need only demonstrate a level of availability in the body equivalent to that of the innovator product. This means that generic competitors can market a competing version of our
product after the expiration or loss of our patent and often charge much less.






In addition, our patent-protected products can face competition in the form of generic
versions of competitors’ branded products that lose their market exclusivity.

As noted above, MCOs that focus primarily
on the immediate cost of drugs often favor generics over brand-name drugs. Many governments also encourage the use of generics as alternatives to brand-name drugs in their healthcare programs, including Medicaid in the U.S. Laws in the U.S.
generally allow, and in some cases require, pharmacists to substitute generic drugs that have been rated under government procedures to be therapeutically equivalent to brand-name drugs. The substitution must be made unless the prescribing physician
expressly forbids it. In the U.S., Pfizer’s Greenstone subsidiary and Pfizer Injectables sell generic versions of Pfizer’s, as well as certain competitors’, solid oral dose and sterile injectable pharmaceutical products, respectively,
upon loss of exclusivity, as appropriate.

Raw Materials

Raw materials essential to our businesses are purchased worldwide in the ordinary course of business from numerous suppliers. In general,
these materials are available from multiple sources. No serious shortages or delays were encountered in 2011, and none are expected in 2012. However, select materials have, from time to time, increased in price due to short-term imbalances between
supply and demand. We have successfully secured the materials necessary to meet our requirements in these circumstances but generally at higher prices than those historically paid.

Government Regulation and Price Constraints

In the United
States

General.Pharmaceutical companies are subject to extensive regulation by national, state and local agencies
in the countries in which they do business. Of particular importance in the U.S. is the FDA. It has jurisdiction over our biopharmaceutical products and administers requirements covering the testing, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling,
marketing, advertising and post-marketing surveillance of these products. The FDA also regulates our Consumer Healthcare and Animal Health products. The U.S. Department of Agriculture and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency also regulate some
of our products.

In addition, many of our activities are subject to the jurisdiction of various other federal regulatory and
enforcement departments and agencies, such as the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) (which also has the authority to regulate the advertising of consumer healthcare products, including over-the-counter
drugs and dietary supplements), the Department of Justice (DOJ) and the SEC. Individual states, acting through their attorneys general, have become active as well, seeking to regulate the marketing of prescription drugs under state consumer
protection and false advertising laws.

We are subject to possible administrative and legal proceedings and actions by these
various regulatory bodies. See the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements– Note 17. Commitments and Contingenciesin our 2011 Financial Report. Such actions may involve product recalls, seizures and other civil
and criminal sanctions.

Healthcare Reform.In March 2010, the ACA was enacted in the U.S. The provisions of the ACA
are effective on various dates. The principal provisions affecting the biopharmaceutical industry include:



•an increase, from 15.1% to 23.1%, in the minimum rebate on branded prescription drugs sold to Medicaid beneficiaries (effective January 1, 2010);



•extension of Medicaid prescription drug rebates to drugs dispensed to enrollees in certain Medicaid managed care organizations (effective March 23,
2010);



•expansion of the types of institutions eligible for the “Section 340B discounts” for outpatient drugs provided to hospitals meeting the
qualification criteria under Section 340B of the Public Health Service Act of 1944 (effective January 1, 2010);



•discounts on branded prescription drug sales to Medicare Part D participants who are in the Medicare “coverage gap,” also known as the
“doughnut hole” (effective January 1, 2011); and






•a fee payable to the federal government (which is not deductible for U.S. income tax purposes) based on our prior-calendar-year share relative to other
companies of branded prescription drug sales to specified government programs (effective January 1, 2011, with the total fee to be paid each year by the pharmaceutical industry increasing annually through 2018).

The ACA is estimated to result in the coverage of 32 million previously uninsured individuals. Approximately half of this will occur
through an expansion of the Medicaid program. Effective in 2014, individuals with incomes below 133% of the federal poverty level (FPL) will be eligible for Medicaid. The remainder will be covered with private sector coverage either through their
employers or new state-based Health Insurance Exchanges. With limited exceptions, individuals who fail to purchase health insurance will pay a penalty. Individuals with incomes between 100%-400% of the FPL will be eligible for subsidies to help pay
for coverage.

Expanding insurance coverage and other costs are expected to represent a relatively modest gain to overall
pharmaceutical sales as the newly insured are principally young and relatively healthy. At the same time, the rebates, discounts, taxes and other costs associated with the ACA are a significant cost to the industry.

The ACA created the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB), a 15-member panel appointed by the President with the advice and consent
of the Senate. The IPAB is charged with developing proposals to “reduce the per capita rate of growth in Medicare spending” in the event that the actual Medicare per capita growth rate exceeds a specified target. Unless Congress acts to
alter the proposals, the proposals will be automatically implemented. However, the IPAB cannot directly ration care, raise premiums, increase cost sharing, or otherwise restrict benefits or modify eligibility. If the IPAB fails to act, the Secretary
of HHS is directed to prepare such proposals. The IPAB is prohibited by statute from making payment reductions to certain sectors such as hospitals and home health agencies, which increases the risk that the IPAB will propose to limit access to
pharmaceutical treatments or mandate price controls for our products.

The ACA also established the Patient Centered Outcomes
Research Institute (PCORI), a federally-funded, private, non-profit corporation empowered to fund and disseminate comparative effectiveness research (CER) and build infrastructure for improved outcomes analysis. PCORI has no authority to impose
formulary changes directly in government-funded health programs. We expect that due to the PCORI, as well as the underlying market demand for data-driven differentiation, CER studies will have growing influence on access. Overseeing and managing the
PCORI is an advisory board drawn from multiple and varied stakeholder organizations, including the pharmaceutical industry. Pfizer’s Chief Medical Officer currently serves as the industry representative on the advisory board.

The ACA specifies certain benefits and services that must be covered for health insurers to qualify to participate in the state insurance
exchanges. Prescription drugs are among these essential benefits in the law. Regulators are expected to provide guidance to states on the types of benefits and services that must be covered.

In 2012, the U.S. Supreme Court is to review certain provisions of the ACA, including: (1) the constitutionality of the ACA’s
individual mandate that requires most Americans to buy health insurance starting in 2014; (2) the “severability” of the individual mandate from the other provisions of the ACA, if the individual mandate is struck down; (3) the
ACA’s Medicaid expansion, which would require each state to expand its program or lose all federal Medicaid funds; and (4) the applicability of a federal tax law, the Anti-Injunction Act, to the lawsuits brought on the individual mandate,
which could bar review of that ACA provision until at least 2014. The Court is scheduled to hear oral arguments in late March and a decision is likely in June.

Changes in Marketing Activity Disclosure. The ACA expands the government’s investigative and enforcement authority and increases the penalties for fraud and abuse, including amendments to both
the False Claims Act and the Anti-Kickback Statute to make it easier to bring suit under these statutes. The ACA also allocates additional resources and tools for the government to police healthcare fraud, with expanded subpoena power for HHS,
additional funding to investigate fraud and abuse, and expanded use of Recovery Audit Contractors for enforcement.






Starting in 2012, pharmaceutical manufacturers will be required to record any transfers of
value made to doctors and teaching hospitals and to disclose such data to HHS, with the initial disclosure to HHS due in 2013. In addition to civil penalties for failure to report transfers of value to physicians or teaching hospitals, there will be
criminal penalties if a manufacturer intentionally makes false statements in such reports. Further, the increased access to such data by fraud and abuse investigators could potentially raise the risk of liability for improper payments under the
False Claims Act. Pfizer already records and makes public these types of transfers and expects to be prepared to report the information in the format requested by HHS. This national payment transparency effort and industry commitment to uphold
voluntary codes of conduct (the updated PhRMACode on Interactions with Healthcare Professionals, PhRMAGuiding Principles Direct to Consumer Advertisements About Prescription Medicines,etc.) will complement existing laws and
regulations to help ensure ethical collaboration and truthful product communications. These efforts are in place to help ensure responsible marketing approaches and to address concerns.

Medicare.Medicare Part D went into effect on January 1, 2006. Elderly and disabled beneficiaries have access to the Medicare
drug benefit through private plans approved by the federal government. Beneficiaries with low incomes and modest assets are eligible for assistance with Medicare Part D plan premiums and cost sharing. Nationally, the share of such beneficiaries with
comprehensive drug coverage increased from 59% in 2005 to over 90% in 2010. Medicare beneficiaries report high levels of satisfaction, with an overwhelming majority saying the program works well. In addition, the program costs less than originally
expected.

The ACA made some important changes to the drug benefit—in particular, phasing out the coverage gap by 2020.
Prior to the ACA, beneficiaries who reached a certain level of spending on prescription medications (the Medicare Part D coverage gap or “doughnut hole”) had to pay 100% of the cost of their drugs until personal out-of-pocket spending
reached a level qualifying them for catastrophic coverage. The Medicare Part D Coverage Gap Discount Program uses public and private funding to relieve the financial burden facing beneficiaries who fall into this coverage gap. Beginning in 2011,
branded pharmaceutical companies paid 50% of the cost of the branded drugs in the gap and the government paid 7% of the cost of the generic drugs in the gap. As a result, rather than paying 100% of the total cost of their drugs when they reach the
coverage gap, enrollees paid 50% of the total cost of branded drugs and 93% of the total cost of generic drugs. In 2012, the branded discount will remain 50%, but the generic discount will increase to 14%. By 2020, enrollees will pay only 25% of the
cost of their branded and generic drugs in the gap as the share covered by the government will increase.

Biosimilars.The ACA also created a framework for the approval of follow-on biologics, or biosimilars, following the expiration of 12 years of exclusivity for the innovator biologic, with a potential six-month pediatric extension. The FDA is responsible for
implementation of the legislation, which will require the FDA to address such key topics as the type and extent of data needed to establish biosimilarity; the data required to achieve interchangeability compared to biosimilarity; the naming of
biosimilars; the implications of having or not having unique names; the tracking and tracing of adverse events; and the acceptability of data from an ex-U.S. licensed reference product comparator to demonstrate biosimilarity and/or
interchangeability. The FDA has begun to address some of these issues with its recent release of three draft guidance documents. Specifically, the FDA has clarified that biosimilar applicants may use a non-U.S. licensed comparator in certain studies
to support a demonstration of biosimilarity to a U.S.-licensed reference product.

Pfizer is developing biosimilar medicines.
Leveraging our expertise in biologics, and our regulatory, commercial, and manufacturing strengths, we will seek to provide high-quality, safe and effective biosimilars that provide patients and prescribers with additional treatment options and
expand access by offering high-quality, more affordable alternatives for biologic medicines.

The budget proposal submitted to
Congress by President Obama in February 2012 includes a provision that would reduce the base exclusivity period for a biologics product from 12 years to seven years. There is no corresponding pending bill designed to amend the ACA to alter the
biologics provisions.






Medicaid and Related Matters.Federal law requires branded pharmaceutical companies
to provide rebates to state Medicaid agencies. The ACA brought about major changes in the Medicaid program. Collectively, the measures (i) increased federal rebates paid by manufacturers on branded drugs within the traditional Medicaid program
from 15.1% to 23.1%, and for generic drugs from 11% to 13% of Average Manufacturer Price (AMP); (ii) expanded Medicaid drug rebates to cover drugs provided through managed Medicaid plans; and (iii) changed the rebate rates for line
extensions or new formulations of solid oral dosage form drugs. Post-implementation of ACA, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) withdrew its former, detailed AMP-calculation rules, and new CMS AMP guidance is still pending
publication (now expected in 2012). The law also creates a federal upper limit under the Medicaid program for generic drugs at 175% of AMP. In addition, the law expanded the types of entities eligible for the “Section 340B discounts” for
outpatient drugs that began in 2010.

The majority of states use preferred drug lists to restrict access to certain medicines
to Medicaid beneficiaries. Restrictions exist for some Pfizer products in certain states. Access in the Medicaid managed care program is typically determined by the health plans providing coverage for Medicaid recipients contracting for the
provision of services in the state. Given states’ current and potential ongoing fiscal crises, a growing number of states are considering a variety of cost-control strategies, including capitated managed care plans that typically contain cost
by restricting access to certain treatments.

The ACA expands Medicaid coverage in 2014. It is expected that 16 million
additional people will be enrolled in Medicaid by 2019.

We also must give discounts or rebates on purchases or reimbursements
of pharmaceutical products by certain other federal and state agencies and programs. See the discussion regarding rebates in theAnalysis of the Consolidated Statement of Income – Revenues – Overviewsection of the MD&A in our
2011 Financial Report and in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements– Note 1G. Significant Accounting Policies –Revenuesin our 2011 Financial Report, which discussions are incorporated by reference.

PDUFA Reauthorization.The Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) was first enacted in 1992 to provide the FDA
with additional resources to speed the review of important new medicines. Prior to PDUFA, inadequate funding of the FDA drug review process led to a backlog of application reviews and lengthy review times. PDUFA revolutionized the review process for
new drugs and biologics without compromising high approval standards for demonstration of product safety, quality and efficacy. PDUFA sunsets every five years and must be reauthorized by Congress. PDUFA IV will expire in September 2012. The proposed
PDUFA V reauthorization is the product of months of stakeholder discussion between the FDA, industry, patient groups and consumers. The PDUFA V agreement focuses on three areas: Modernizing Regulatory Science, Review Process Enhancements, and
Strengthening Post-Market Safety Surveillance, with the goal of supporting agency scientific capabilities and improving process efficiencies. Pfizer supports the PDUFA V reauthorization in order to foster an innovation-supportive regulatory
environment and to ensure that the FDA is properly equipped to evaluate important new medicines in a timely and predictable fashion.

Importation of Drugs.There continue to be legislative proposals to amend U.S. law to allow the importation into the U.S. of prescription drugs from outside the U.S., which can be sold at prices
that are regulated by the governments of various foreign countries. In addition to well-documented safety concerns, such as the increased risk of counterfeit products entering the supply chain, such importation could impact pharmaceutical prices in
the U.S. While the 2003 Medicare Modernization Act (2003 MMA) maintains a prohibition on such imports, it would allow importation from Canada if the Secretary of HHS certifies that such importation is safe and would result in savings to consumers.
Before the 2003 MMA, federal law would have permitted importation of medicines into the U.S. from a considerably larger group of developed countries, provided the Secretary of HHS made the same safety and cost-savings certifications. As part of the
debate on the ACA, two Senate proposals that would have restored the broader number of countries from which importation would be permissible were introduced but were ultimately defeated.






The Secretaries of HHS in the Clinton, George W. Bush, and Obama administrations have all
declined to certify that importation of medicines is safe and saves money. If the Secretary of HHS changes its position, an increase in cross-border trade in medicines subject to foreign price controls in other countries could occur, which could
have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.

In December 2004, HHS and the Department of Commerce issued
reports on drug importation and foreign price controls. The HHS report noted that it would be “extraordinarily difficult to ensure that drugs personally imported by individual consumers” could meet the standards of safety that would
support certifying such importation as safe. While the report also concluded that the U.S. could establish a feasible basis for commercial drug importation, such a change in the law would require “new legal authorities, substantial additional
resources and significant restrictions on the types of drugs that could be imported.” The report also noted that the total savings to be expected from such a commercial importation regime would be relatively small—1% or 2% of total drug
spending in the U.S.

Budget Control Act of 2011

Outside the United States

We encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. In Europe, Canada and some other international markets, governments provide healthcare at low direct cost to consumers and
regulate pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. This international patchwork of price regulation has led to different prices and some third-party trade in our products
between countries.

Europe.The approval of new drugs across the EU may be achieved using the Mutual Recognition
Procedure/Decentralized Procedure or EU Commission/EMA Centralized Procedure. These procedures apply in the EU member states, plus the European Economic Area countries, Norway and Iceland. The use of these procedures generally provides a more rapid
and consistent approval process across the member states than was the case when the approval processes were operating independently within each country.

Since the EU does not have jurisdiction over patient reimbursement or pricing matters in its member states, we continue to work with individual countries on such matters across the region.






The world economy in 2011 faced renewed challenges as a result of recent financial
conditions and, in particular, increased uncertainty around the solvency of governments. As a result, global growth has slowed. One of the consequences of the economic downturn for almost all world economies has been an increase in public debt as a
proportion of gross domestic product arising from increased government spending and reduced tax receipts. For many developed economies, particularly in Europe, this exacerbated existing fiscal imbalances and has created doubt in investment markets
about the sustainability of public debt levels in a number of European countries, further raising the cost of borrowing, with the result that financial support from the EU and the International Monetary Fund has been necessary in the cases of
Greece, Portugal and Ireland. Stringent austerity measures have been implemented in most European countries with the aim of closing the fiscal gap, in particular in Spain and Italy.

Under these macroeconomic conditions, Pfizer continues to face widespread downward pressures on international pricing and
reimbursement, particularly in developed European markets with a large government share of pharmaceutical spending. Specific pricing pressures in 2011 included measures to reduce pharmaceutical prices and expenditure in Italy, Spain, Greece, Ireland
and Portugal.

Formal processes of international reference pricing (IRP) between EU countries add to the regional impact of
price cuts in individual countries. Price variations have also arisen from exchange rate fluctuations between the euro and other European currencies, and these are also exacerbated by international reference pricing systems. The downward pricing
pressure resulting from this dynamic can be expected to intensify as a result of reforms to IRP policies, emergency measures targeting pharmaceuticals in some European countries and ongoing exchange rate turbulence.

On January 26, 2007, the new EU Regulation on Medicines for Pediatric Use became effective. This introduced new obligations on
pharmaceutical companies to conduct research on their medicines for children and, subject to various conditions, offered the possibility of incentives for so doing, including exclusivity extensions. The aim of this regulation is to improve the
health of children in the EU through high quality research, stimulating the development of new medicines, creating infrastructure to enable authorized use and improving the information on medicines for children. A Pediatric Committee (PDCO) was
created within the EMA to provide scientific opinions and input on development plans for medicines for use with children. In line with this regulation, Pfizer is conducting many pediatric research programs for its in-line and development products,
and completed its first EMA-approved pediatric investigation plan (forLipitor) in 2009.

On December 31, 2010,
the EU published new pharmacovigilance legislation which had been adopted by the Council and Parliament of the EU. The legislation is required to be implemented by mid-2012 and entails many new and revised requirements for conducting
pharmacovigilance, as well as the codification of various existing requirements previously set out in guidance. Key changes include the possibility for regulators to require pharmaceutical companies to conduct post-authorization efficacy studies,
both at the time of approval and at any time afterwards in light of scientific developments. There are also additional requirements to include statements in product labeling with regard to adverse drug reaction reporting and additional monitoring of
products. There also is expected to be significantly greater transparency of the safety review process.

The new legislation
forms part of a three-part “pharmaceutical package” to amend the existing EU pharmaceutical legislation. The second part, adopted on May 27, 2011, is a Directive aimed at preventing falsified medicines from entering into the legal
supply chain. Notably, the Directive imposes new obligations on all parties in the distribution chain, including importers, traders, manufacturers, distributors, and any operator who repackages a product. This is required to be implemented by
January 2013. The third part of the package concerns the provision of information on prescription medicines to patients, which has reached a reasonably advanced stage, but has proved controversial to date and the outcome for which is more uncertain.

At the end of the third quarter of 2010, the Commissioner for Industry and Entrepreneurship of the European Commission
announced the launch of a process on corporate responsibility in the pharmaceutical






industry, the impact of which is yet to be determined through ongoing working committees. The process includes three independent platforms: (i) transparency and ethics in the sector;
(ii) access to medicines in Africa; and (iii) access to medicines in Europe in the context of pricing and reimbursement. The platform on access to medicines in Europe will focus on enhancing collaboration among EU member states and
relevant stakeholders, in order to find common non-regulatory approaches to ensure “timely and equitable access to medicines”.

Canada. Health Canada (HC) is the government agency that provides regulatory and marketing approval for drugs and therapeutic products in Canada. The upcoming Legislative and Regulatory
Modernization (LRM) is the most significant drug regulatory system reform in Canada in over 50 years and is expected to overhaul Canada’s Food and Drugs Act and Regulations. The LRM supports a ‘lifecycle’ regulatory approach and is
focused on strengthening evidence-based decision making, good regulatory planning, licensing, post-licensing, accountability, authority and enforcement. Through this framework, HC intends to improve the market authorization process and implement
necessary regulatory frameworks. In October 2010, HC accelerated its modernization efforts. This included the proposed regulatory pathways for Orphan Drugs (harmonized with U.S./EU regulations) and for biosimilars referred to as “Subsequent
Entry Biologics” (SEBs). This would formalize into regulations HC’s Guidance Document, which provided for approval of SEBs in 2009. Furthermore, LRM is to entail increased regulatory oversight throughout the drug lifecycle to continually
assess the benefit-risk balance. Following an extensive technical consultation process, HC intends to propose a first set of regulatory amendments around the third quarter of 2012. The whole LRM process is expected to take place over a period of
three years.

Introductory “non-excessive” prices and price increases are controlled by the federal Patented
Medicines Prices Review Board. However, reimbursement is under provincial jurisdiction. As provinces continue to face budget pressure from growing healthcare expenditures, many provincial governments have developed pricing and purchasing strategies
(including product listing agreements and a pan-Canadian purchasing alliance initiative), to obtain better drug prices. The private sector is also attempting to exert its negotiating power on drug manufacturers. The 2004
Federal-Provincial-Territorial (FPT) Health Accord that sets out the Canada Health Transfers payment to provinces plus commitments on health policy initiatives expires on March 31, 2014. Renegotiation will be influenced by the challenging
fiscal positions of all FPT governments, which could increase hurdles for access to newer innovative therapies.

Canada’s
intellectual property regime for drugs, which provides some level of patent protection and data exclusivity, can be further enhanced to encourage innovation through the Canada/EU Comprehensive Economic & Trade Agreement. The federal
government also has jurisdiction over international trade and therefore over the issue of cross-border trade in pharmaceuticals and internet pharmacies.

Asia.The regulatory environment in Asia presents multiple issues for companies trying to achieve simultaneous global development and registration (i.e., marketing products at the same time as in
the U.S., Europe, Canada and elsewhere). While each country in Asia has its unique regulatory concerns, there are a number of regulatory issues that are common among the majority of countries in Asia. For example, with the exception of Japan, health
authorities in Asia generally require marketing approval by a recognized regulatory authority (e.g., the U.S. FDA) before they begin to conduct their application review process and/or issue their final approval. Proof of reference country approval
is usually satisfied by submitting a Certificate of Pharmaceutical Product, a legal document that is issued by the competent health authority certifying that the company’s product has satisfied its country’s registration requirements and
manufacturing standards. Often, this requirement delays marketing authorization in Asia by 12-15 months following market authorization in the U.S. and Europe.

Another common regulatory issue in Asia is the requirement for local clinical data in the country’s population in order to receive final marketing approval. Each of Japan, China, Korea, Taiwan and
India has regulations in some form that require clinical studies in the country (e.g., China requires a prescribed number of Chinese patients regardless of the product, therapeutic area or disease population). Although some agencies have






shown flexibility based on scientific rationale related to ethnicity assessments, it is not uncommon for companies to be required to duplicate costly clinical trials in Asia pursuant to these
regulations. This can further add to marketing approval delays compared to the U.S. and Europe.

In Japan, the government is
aiming to reduce the drug lag (i.e., drugs are launched in Japan years after the EU and U.S. markets) in a two-pronged approach: reducing regulatory agency review times and establishing a new pilot pricing premium. The pilot pricing premium provides
a financial incentive for drug development in Japan. While economic conditions and government debt levels continue to put pressure on healthcare costs resulting in cost containment (particularly in the off-patent sector) the recent extension of the
pilot pricing premium for innovative products is encouraging.

In Korea, the national health insurance deficit prompted the
government to make significant price cuts in the off-patent sector at the end of 2011. We continue to work with a committee established by the government to improve the pricing system for innovative new drugs.

The controlling regulatory agency in China is the State Food and Drug Administration (SFDA). SFDA’s scope of responsibilities is
similar to that of the FDA or EMA. Two key agencies within SFDA are the Center for Drug Evaluation (CDE) and the National Institute for the Control of Pharmaceutical and Biological Products (NICPBP). The CDE, which is analogous to the FDA’s
Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, is primarily responsible for the technical review of product applications, including clinical trial applications and new drug applications, and drafting technical guidance documents. NICPBP is the quality
testing arm of SFDA, legally responsible for the testing of pharmaceuticals, biologics and medical devices nationwide.

China’s regulatory system is unique in many ways, and its drug development and registration requirements are not always consistent
with international standards. As a result, it is not uncommon to see treatments entering the market in China two to four years after first marketing in the U.S. and Europe.

Intellectual Property. While the global intellectual property environment has improved following WTO-TRIPS, our future business growth depends on further progress in intellectual property
protection. In emerging market countries in particular, governments have used intellectual property policies as a tool for reducing the price of imported medicines, as well as to protect their national pharmaceutical industries. There is
considerable political pressure to weaken existing intellectual property protection and resist implementation of any further protection, which has led to policies such as higher standards and more difficult procedures for patenting biopharmaceutical
inventions, restrictions on patenting certain types of inventions (e.g., new medical treatment methods) and failure to implement effective regulatory data protection. Our industry advocacy efforts focus on seeking a more balanced business
environment for foreign manufacturers.

In China, the intellectual property environment has improved, although effective
enforcement and adequate legal remedies remain areas of concern. The government has taken steps to protect intellectual property rights in conformity with World Trade Organization (WTO) provisions, and several companies, including Pfizer, have
established research and development centers in China due to increased confidence in China’s intellectual property environment. Despite this, China remained on the U.S. Department of Commerce Priority Watch List for 2011. A framework exists for
protecting patents for 20 years, but enforcement mechanisms are often lacking or inconsistent, such as the absence of effective patent linkage mechanisms and preliminary injunctions, impractical evidentiary burdens, and heightened sufficiency
standards used to invalidate patents at the enforcement stage.

Additionally, true regulatory data protection remains elusive
in China. The Center for Drug Evaluation provides protection against reliance on data by generic applicants for a fixed period of time. Following its WTO accession in 2001, China revised its laws to incorporate concepts from the WTO-TRIPS, and
China’s relevant laws establish a six-year period of protection against unfair commercial use of undisclosed test and other data of products containing a new chemical ingredient. However, the current regulations are ambiguous as to how data
protection is implemented in practice in China. For example, certain key concepts such as “new chemical ingredient” and “unfair commercial use” are undefined.






In Brazil and other Latin American countries, backlogs at patent agencies have presented
challenges for the protection of certain products. The lack of regulatory data protection and difficulties in protecting certain types of inventions, such as new medical uses of drug products, may limit the commercial lifespan of some pharmaceutical
products.

In India, limited standards for patentability of pharmaceutical products have made it difficult to protect many of
our inventions. India and other countries such as Israel maintain a system of pre-grant patent oppositions that delay the granting of patents and add an additional challenge in our ability to protect our products through patents.

In Korea, the laws and regulations for the patent-regulatory approval linkage system have now been finalized, and we are waiting for the
effective date of implementation as part of the United States-Korea Free Trade Agreement. The Korean patent-regulatory approval linkage system includes biologics.

Environmental Law Compliance

Most of our
operations are affected by national, state and/or local environmental laws. We have made, and intend to continue to make, necessary expenditures for compliance with applicable laws. We also are cleaning up environmental contamination from past
industrial activity at certain sites. See the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements –Note 17. Commitments and Contingenciesin our 2011 Financial Report. As a result, we incurred capital and operational expenditures in 2011 for
environmental compliance purposes and for the clean-up of certain past industrial activity as follows:



•environment-related capital expenditures—$34 million; and



•other environment-related expenses—$145 million.

While we cannot predict with certainty future capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance, including compliance with pending and potential legislation and potential regulation
related to climate change, we have no reason to believe they will have a material effect on our capital expenditures or competitive position.

We have reviewed the potential for physical risks to our facilities and supply chain that may be exacerbated by climate change and have concluded that, because of our facility locations and our existing
distribution networks, we do not believe these risks are material in the near term.

Tax Matters

The discussion of tax-related matters in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements– Note 5. Taxes on Incomein our 2011
Financial Report, is incorporated by reference.

Employees

In our innovation-intensive business, our employees are vital to our success. We believe we have good relationships with our employees.
As of December 31, 2011, we employed approximately 103,700 people in our operations throughout the world.






