ITEM 1. BUSINESS



General



Pfizer Inc. is a research-based, global biopharmaceutical company. We apply science and our global resources to bring therapies to people that extend and significantly improve their lives through the discovery, development and manufacture of healthcare products. Our global portfolio includes medicines and vaccines, as well as many of the world’s best-known consumer healthcare products. We work across developed and emerging markets to advance wellness, prevention, treatments and cures that challenge the most feared diseases of our time. We collaborate with healthcare providers, governments and local communities to support and expand access to reliable, affordable healthcare around the world. Our revenues are derived from the sale of our products, and, to a much lesser extent, from alliance agreements, under which we co-promote products discovered by other companies (Alliance revenues). The majority of our revenues come from the manufacture and sale of biopharmaceutical products.



The Company was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on June 2, 1942. Unless the context requires otherwise, references to “Pfizer,” “the Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 (2013 Form 10-K) refer to Pfizer Inc. and its subsidiaries. References to developed markets in this 2013 Form 10-K include the United States (U.S.), Western Europe, Japan, Canada, Australia, Scandinavia, South Korea, Finland and New Zealand; and references to emerging markets in this 2013 Form 10-K include the rest of the world, including, among other countries, China, Brazil, Mexico, Russia, Turkey and India.



In July 2011, we announced our decision to explore strategic alternatives for our Animal Health and Nutrition businesses.



On June 24, 2013, we completed the full disposition of our Animal Health business. The full disposition was completed through a series of steps and, as a result, we received cash and were relieved of debt obligations in the aggregate amount of approximately $6.1 billion and received shares of Pfizer common stock valued at approximately $11.4 billion. Prior-period financial information has been restated, as appropriate. For additional information, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 2B. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Collaborative Arrangements and Equity-Method Investments: Divestituresin our 2013 Financial Report (as hereinafter defined), as well asOther Products—Animal Healthbelow.



On November 30, 2012, we completed the sale of our Nutrition business to Nestlé for $11.85 billion in cash. For additional information, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 2B. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Collaborative Arrangements and Equity-Method Investments: Divestituresin our 2013 Financial Report.



On August 1, 2011, we completed the sale of our Capsugel business for approximately $2.4 billion in cash. For additional information, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 2B. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Collaborative Arrangements and Equity-Method Investments: Divestituresin our 2013 Financial Report.



On January 31, 2011, we acquired King Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (King) and, in accordance with our domestic and international reporting periods, our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011 reflect approximately 11 months of King’s U.S. operations and approximately ten months of King’s international operations. For additional information, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 2A. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Collaborative Arrangements and Equity-Method Investments: Acquisitionsin our 2013 Financial Report.



For a further discussion of our strategy and our business development initiatives, see theOverview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook—Our Strategyand—Our Business Development Initiativessections of theManagement’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations(MD&A) in our 2013 Financial Report.



Our businesses are heavily regulated in most of the countries in which we operate. In the U.S., the principal authority regulating our operations is the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA regulates the safety and efficacy of the products we offer and our research, quality, manufacturing processes, product promotion, advertising and product labeling. Similar regulations exist in most other countries, and in many countries the government also regulates our prices. SeeGovernment Regulation and Price Constraintsbelow.












Commercial Operations



Following the full disposition of our Animal Health business on June 24, 2013, we managed our commercial operations through four operating segments—Primary Care; Specialty Care and Oncology; Established Products and Emerging Markets; and Consumer Healthcare. Prior to June 24, 2013, we managed our operations through these four operating segments, as well as our Animal Health operating segment. For additional information about this operating structure, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 18A. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Information: Segment Informationin our 2013 Financial Report andOperating Segmentsbelow.



At the beginning of our fiscal year 2014, we began to manage our commercial operations through a new global commercial structure consisting of three businesses, each of which is led by a single manager—theGlobal Innovative Pharmaceutical business(GIP); theGlobal Vaccines, Oncology and Consumer Healthcare business(VOC); and theGlobal Established Pharmaceutical business(GEP).



Beginning with our first-quarter 2014 financial results, we will report under our new structure and will provide financial transparency into each of these businesses. Results for 2013 and prior periods in this 2013 Form 10-K and in our 2013 Financial Report are reported on the basis under which we managed our businesses in 2013 and do not reflect the 2014 reorganization.



A significant change effected by our new structure is the full integration of emerging markets into each business. Emerging markets are an important component of our strategy for global leadership, and our new structure recognizes that the demographics and rising economic power of the fastest-growing emerging markets are becoming more closely aligned with the profile found within developed markets.



Some additional information about each product grouping follows:



•Global Innovative Pharmaceutical business—GIP comprises medicines within several therapeutic areas that are generally expected to have market exclusivity beyond 2015. These therapeutic areas include immunology and inflammation, cardiovascular/metabolic, neuroscience and pain, rare diseases and women’s/men’s health.



•Global Vaccines, Oncology and Consumer Healthcare business—VOC focuses on the development and commercialization of vaccines and products for oncology and consumer healthcare. Each of the three businesses that comprise this group operates as a separate, global business, with distinct specialization in terms of the science, talent and market approach necessary to deliver value to consumers and patients.



•Global Established Pharmaceutical business—GEP includes the brands that have lost market exclusivity and, generally, the mature, patent-protected products that are expected to lose exclusivity through 2015 in most major markets and, to a much smaller extent, generic pharmaceuticals. Additionally, GEP includes our sterile injectable products and biosimilar development portfolio, as well as current established product collaborations, such as our existing agreements with Mylan Inc. in Japan, Zhejiang Hisun Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. in China and Laboratório Teuto Brasileiro S.A. in Brazil.



We expect that the GIP and VOC biopharmaceutical portfolios of innovative, largely patent-protected, in-line products will be sustained by ongoing internal investments and targeted business development designed to maximize the value of our in-line products and ensure a robust pipeline of highly-differentiated product candidates in areas of unmet medical need. In addition, VOC includes our Consumer Healthcare business, which manufactures and markets several well-known over-the-counter (OTC) brands. The assets managed by these groups are science-driven, highly differentiated and generally require a high-level of engagement with healthcare providers and consumers.



GEP is expected to generate strong consistent cash flow by providing patients around the world with access to effective, lower-cost, high-value treatments. GEP leverages our biologic development, regulatory and manufacturing expertise to advance its biosimilar development portfolio. GEP may also engage in targeted business development to further enable its commercial strategies.



In addition, one of our goals in implementing the new commercial structure is to streamline the critical capabilities needed to effectively demonstrate the value of our medicines to payers, institutions and policy makers. We expect to do this through the Global Health and Value function that is intended to align market access, pricing, health economics, real world data and outcomes research.
















Pfizer Website



This 2013 Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), are available (free of charge) on our website(www.pfizer.com), in text format and, where applicable, in interactive data file format,as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).



Throughout this 2013 Form 10-K, we “incorporate by reference” certain information from other documents filed or to be filed with the SEC, including our Proxy Statement for the 2014 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (2014 Proxy Statement) and the 2013 Financial Report, portions of which are filed as Exhibit 13 to this 2013 Form 10-K, and which also will be contained in Appendix A to our 2014 Proxy Statement (2013 Financial Report). The SEC allows us to disclose important information by referring to it in that manner. Please refer to such information. Our 2013 Annual Report to Shareholders consists of the 2013 Financial Report and the Corporate and Shareholder Information attached to the 2014 Proxy Statement. Our 2013 Financial Report will be available on our website(www.pfizer.com)on or about February 28, 2014. Our 2014 Proxy Statement will be available on our website(www.pfizer.com)on or about March 13, 2014.



Information relating to corporate governance at Pfizer, including our Corporate Governance Principles; Director Qualification Standards; Pfizer Policies on Business Conduct (for all of our employees, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Members of the Board of Directors; information concerning our Directors; ways to communicate by e-mail with our Directors; Board Committees; Committee Charters; the Lead Independent Director Charter; and transactions in Pfizer securities by Directors and Officers; as well as Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer certifications, are available on our website(www.pfizer.com). We will provide any of the foregoing information without charge upon written request to our Corporate Secretary, Pfizer Inc., 235 East 42nd Street, New York, NY 10017-5755. Information relating to shareholder services, including the Computershare Investment Program, book-entry share ownership and direct deposit of dividends, is also available on our website(www.pfizer.com).



The information contained on our website does not constitute a part of this 2013 Form 10-K.





Operating Segments



As discussed above underGeneral—Commercial Operations, following the full disposition of our Animal Health business on June 24, 2013, we managed our operations through four operating segments—Primary Care; Specialty Care and Oncology; Established Products and Emerging Markets; and Consumer Healthcare. Prior to June 24, 2013, we managed our operations through these four operating segments, as well as our Animal Health operating segment. Each operating segment had responsibility for its commercial activities and for certain research and development (R&D) activities related to in-line products and in-process research and development (IPR&D) projects that generally had achieved proof-of-concept.



A description of each of these four operating segments follows:



•Primary Care operating segment—included revenues from prescription pharmaceutical products primarily prescribed by primary-care physicians, and included products in the following therapeutic and disease areas: Alzheimer’s disease, cardiovascular (excluding pulmonary arterial hypertension), erectile dysfunction, genitourinary, major depressive disorder, pain, respiratory and smoking cessation. Examples of products in this segment in 2013 includedCelebrex,Chantix/Champix,Eliquis,Lyrica,Premarin,PristiqandViagra(outside Canada and South Korea). All revenues for such products were allocated to the Primary Care business unit, except those that were generated in emerging markets and those that were managed by the Established Products business unit.



•Specialty Care and Oncology operating segment—was comprised of the Specialty Care business unit and the Oncology business unit.



•Specialty Care—included revenues from prescription pharmaceutical products primarily prescribed by physicians who are specialists, and included products in the following therapeutic and disease areas: anti-infectives, endocrine disorders, hemophilia, inflammation, ophthalmology, pulmonary arterial hypertension, specialty neuroscience and vaccines. Examples of products in this business unit in 2013 includedBeneFIX,Enbrel,Genotropin,Geodon(outside the U.S.), thePrevnarfamily of products,










ReFacto AF,Revatio(outside the U.S.),Tygacil,Vfend(outside the U.S. and South Korea),Vyndaqel,Xalatan(outside the U.S., Canada, South Korea, developed Europe, Australia and New Zealand),Xeljanz,XynthaandZyvox. All revenues for such products were allocated to the Specialty Care business unit, except those that were generated in emerging markets and those that were managed by the Established Products business unit.



•Oncology—included revenues from prescription pharmaceutical products addressing oncology and oncology-related illnesses. The products in this business unit in 2013 includedInlyta,Sutent,Torisel,Xalkori,Mylotarg(in Japan),Bosulif(in the U.S. and European Union (EU)) andAromasin(in Japan and South Korea). All revenues for such products were allocated to the Oncology business unit, except those that were generated in emerging markets and those that were managed by the Established Products business unit.



•Established Products and Emerging Markets operating segment—was comprised of the Established Products business unit and the Emerging Markets business unit.



•Established Products—included revenues from prescription pharmaceutical products that had lost patent protection or marketing exclusivity in certain countries and/or regions. Typically, products were transferred to this business unit in the beginning of the fiscal year following loss of patent protection or marketing exclusivity. However, in certain situations, products were transferred to this business unit at a different point than the beginning of the fiscal year following loss of patent protection or marketing exclusivity in order to maximize their value. This business unit also excluded revenues generated in emerging markets. Examples of products in this business unit in 2013 includedArthrotec,Effexor,Geodon(in the U.S.),Lipitor,Medrol,Norvasc,Protonix,Relpax,Vfend(in the U.S. and South Korea),Xalatan(in the U.S., Canada, South Korea, developed Europe, Australia and New Zealand),Zosyn/TazocinandViagra(in Canada and South Korea).



Beginning in 2012, sales ofLipitorin the U.S., Canada, South Korea and Japan were reported in our Established Products business unit and, beginning in 2013, sales ofLipitorin Australia and most of developed Europe were reported in our Established Products business unit.



•Emerging Markets—included revenues from all prescription pharmaceutical products sold in emerging markets, including Asia (excluding Japan and South Korea), Latin America, the Middle East, Eastern Europe, Africa, Turkey and Central Europe.



•Consumer Healthcare operating segment—includes worldwide revenues from non-prescription products in the following therapeutic categories: dietary supplements, pain management, respiratory and personal care. In 2013, products marketed by Consumer Healthcare includedAdvil,Caltrate,Centrum,ChapStick,Emergen-C,Preparation HandRobitussin.



For a further discussion of these operating segments, including certain costs that were not allocated to our operating segment results, as well as comparative segment information for 2013, 2012 and 2011, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 18. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Information,including the tables therein captionedSelected income statement information, Geographic InformationandSignificant Product Revenuesin our 2013 Financial Report and the table captionedRevenues by Segment and Geographic Areain the MD&A in our 2013 Financial Report, which are incorporated by reference.



As discussed above underGeneral—Commercial Operations,at the beginning of our fiscal year 2014, we began to manage our commercial operations through three businesses, each of which is led by a single manager—theGlobal Innovative Pharmaceutical business; theGlobal Vaccines, Oncology and Consumer Healthcare business; and theGlobal Established Pharmaceutical business. For additional information regarding our new global commercial structure see theOverview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook—Our Strategysection of the MD&A in our 2013 Financial Report andGeneral—Commercial Operationsabove.














Biopharmaceutical Products



In 2013, our biopharmaceutical business was composed of the following five business units: Primary Care, Specialty Care, Oncology, Established Products and Emerging Markets, which are discussed underOperating Segmentsabove. For additional information regarding how our new global commercial structure affects our biopharmaceutical business structure, see theOverview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook—Our Strategysection of the MD&A in our 2013 Financial Report andGeneral—Commercial Operationsabove.

For a discussion of certain of our key biopharmaceutical products, includingLyrica, thePrevnarfamily of products,Enbrel,Celebrex,Lipitor,Viagra,Zyvox,Norvasc,Sutent, and thePremarinfamily of products, see theAnalysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income—Biopharmaceutical—Selected Product Descriptionssection of the MD&A in our 2013 Financial Report.

We have entered into collaboration and/or co-promotion agreements relating to certain biopharmaceutical products, includingAricept,Enbrel(in the U.S. and Canada),SpirivaandRebif, each of which has expired or will expire in various markets over the next several years. For additional information, including a description of these collaboration and co-promotion agreements and their expiration dates, see theAnalysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income—Biopharmaceutical—Selected Product Descriptionsand theOverview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook—Our Operating Environment—Intellectual Property Rights and Collaboration/Licensing Rightssections of the MD&A in our 2013 Financial Report andItem 1A. Risk Factors—Dependence on Key In-Line Productsbelow. In addition,Eliquiswas developed and is being commercialized in collaboration with Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (BMS). For additional information, see theAnalysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income—Biopharmaceutical—Selected Product Descriptionssection of the MD&A in our 2013 Financial Report.



Revenues from biopharmaceutical products contributed approximately93%of our total revenues in2013,94%of our total revenues in2012, and95%of our total revenues in2011.



We recorded direct product sales of more than $1 billion for each of 10 biopharmaceutical products in2013and2012, and each of12biopharmaceutical products in2011. These products represented51%of our revenues from biopharmaceutical products in 2013,50%of our revenues from biopharmaceutical products in 2012 and56%of our revenues from biopharmaceutical products in 2011. SeeItem 1A. Risk Factors—Dependence on Key In-Line Productsbelow.



Worldwide revenues from biopharmaceutical products in2013were$47.9 billion, a decrease of7%compared to2012, reflecting a decrease in operational revenues of4%and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of3%.



Geographically, in the U.S., revenues from biopharmaceutical products decreased6%in2013, compared to2012. In our international markets, revenues from biopharmaceutical products decreased7%in2013, compared to2012, reflecting a decrease in operational revenues of3%and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of4%. During2013, international revenues from biopharmaceutical products represented61%of total revenues from biopharmaceutical products, compared to62%in2012.



For additional information, including a discussion of key operational revenue drivers, see theAnalysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income—Biopharmaceutical Revenuesand —Revenues—Major Biopharmaceutical Productssections of the MD&A in our 2013 Financial Report.





Other Products



Consumer Healthcare



Based on 2013 revenues, our Consumer Healthcare business is the fifth-largest branded multi-national, OTC, healthcare products business in the world and produces two of the ten largest selling consumer healthcare brands (CentrumandAdvil) in the world. Consumer Healthcare revenues totaled$3.3 billionfor 2013, an increase of4%compared to 2012, reflecting operational revenue growth of5%, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of 1%.



The Consumer Healthcare business holds strong positions in various geographic markets, with its highest revenue volume in the U.S., China, Canada, Germany, Italy, Brazil, Colombia, Russia, Australia and France.














Major categories and product lines in our Consumer Healthcare business include:



•Dietary Supplements:Centrumbrands (includingCentrum,Centrum Silver,Centrum Men’sandWomen’s,Centrum Specialist,Centrum Flavor Burst, andCentrum Kids),Caltrate, andEmergen-C;

•Pain Management:Advilbrands (includingAdvil,Advil PM,Advil Liqui-Gels,Advil Film Coated, Children’s Advil,Infants’ AdvilandAdvil Migraine), andThermaCare;

•Respiratory:Robitussin,Advil Cold & Sinus,Advil Congestion Relief, andDimetapp; and

•Personal Care:ChapStickandPreparation H.



In August 2012, we entered into an agreement with AstraZeneca for the global OTC rights forNexium, a leading prescription drug currently approved to treat the symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux disease. Under the terms of the agreement, we acquired the exclusive global rights to marketNexiumfor OTC indications, which are subject to regulatory approval. During 2013, (i) a New Drug Application (NDA) submission forNexiumOTC in the U.S. was accepted for review by the FDA and (ii) the European Commission granted a marketing authorization for an OTC version ofNexium. In February 2012, we completed our acquisition of Alacer, a company that manufactured, marketed and distributedEmergen-C, a line of effervescent, powdered drink mix vitamin supplements. In December 2011, we completed our acquisition of the consumer healthcare business of Ferrosan, a Danish company engaged in the sale of science-based consumer healthcare products, including dietary supplements and lifestyle products, primarily in the Nordic region and the emerging markets of Russia and Central and Eastern Europe. For additional information, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 2A. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Collaborative Arrangements and Equity-Method Investments: Acquisitionsin our 2013 Financial Report and theOverview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook—Our Business Development Initiativessection of the MD&A in our 2013 Financial Report.



For additional information regarding the revenues of our Consumer Healthcare business, see theAnalysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income—Consumer Healthcare Operating Segmentsection of the MD&A in our 2013 Financial Report.



For additional information regarding how our new global commercial structure affects our Consumer Healthcare business, see theOverview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook—Our Strategysection of the MD&A in our 2013 Financial Report andGeneral—Commercial Operationsabove.



Animal Health



On June 24, 2013, we completed the full disposition of our Animal Health business, which was a business that discovered, developed, manufactured and commercialized animal health medicines and vaccines. The full disposition was completed through a series of steps, including the formation of Zoetis Inc. (Zoetis), an initial public offering of an approximate 19.8% interest in Zoetis and an exchange offer for the remaining 80.2% interest. As a result of these transactions, we received cash and were relieved of debt obligations in the aggregate amount of approximately $6.1 billion and received shares of Pfizer common stock valued at approximately $11.4 billion. For additional information, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 2B. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Collaborative Arrangements and Equity-Method Investments: Divestituresin our 2013 Financial Report.





Research and Development



Innovation by our R&D operations is very important to our success. Our goal is to discover, develop and bring to market innovative products that address major unmet medical needs. We spent$6.7 billionin2013,$7.5 billionin2012and$8.7 billionin2011on R&D.



Biopharmaceutical R&D



We conduct research internally and also through contracts with third parties, through collaborations with universities and biotechnology companies and in cooperation with other pharmaceutical firms. We also seek out promising compounds and innovative technologies developed by third parties to incorporate into our discovery and development processes or projects, as well as our product lines, through collaborations, alliance and license agreements, acquisitions and other arrangements.












Drug discovery and development is time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable. According to the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA), out of 5,000-10,000 screened compounds, only 250 enter preclinical testing, five enter human clinical trials and one is approved by the FDA. The process from early discovery or design to development to regulatory approval can take more than 10 years. Drug candidates can fail at any stage of the process, and candidates may not receive regulatory approval even after many years of research.



As of year-end 2013, we had 279 projects in R&D, ranging from discovery through registration, of which 81 programs are in Phase 1 through registration, with the remainder of the projects in pre-clinical development. At year-end 2013, our Phase 3 portfolio contained 20 programs. Development of a single compound is often pursued as part of multiple different programs. While these new candidates may or may not eventually receive regulatory approval, new drug candidates entering clinical development phases are the foundation for future products.



In addition to discovering and developing new products, our research operations seek to add value to our existing products by improving their effectiveness and by discovering new uses or indications for them.



Information concerning several of our drug candidates in development, as well as supplemental filings for existing products, is set forth in theAnalysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income—Product Developments—Biopharmaceuticalsection of the MD&A in our 2013 Financial Report, which is incorporated by reference.



Our competitors also devote substantial funds and resources to R&D. We also compete against numerous small biotechnology companies in developing potential drug candidates. The extent to which our competitors are successful in their research could result in erosion of the sales of our existing products and potential sales of products in development, as well as unanticipated product obsolescence. SeeItem 1A. Risk Factors—Competitive Productsbelow.



We continue to transform our global R&D organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in R&D to achieve a sustainable pipeline that will deliver value in the near term and over time. Our R&D priorities include: delivering a pipeline of differentiated therapies with the greatest scientific and commercial promise, innovating new capabilities that can position Pfizer for long-term leadership, and creating new models for biomedical collaboration that will expedite the pace of innovation and productivity. To that end, our research primarily focuses on five high-priority areas that have a mix of small molecules and large molecules—immunology and inflammation; oncology; cardiovascular and metabolic diseases; neuroscience and pain; and vaccines. Other areas of focus include rare diseases and biosimilars.



For additional information regarding our R&D operations, see theCosts and Expenses—Research and Development (R&D) Expenses—Research and Development Operationssection of the MD&A in our 2013 Financial Report.



International Operations



We have significant operations outside the U.S. In 2013, for developed markets, these operations for pharmaceutical products were managed through the same business units as our U.S. operations (i.e., Primary Care, Specialty Care, Oncology and Established Products) and, for emerging markets, these operations for pharmaceutical products were managed through the Emerging Markets business unit within the Established Products and Emerging Markets operating segment. Our Consumer Healthcare operating segment managed its operations worldwide. For additional information regarding how our new global commercial structure affects our international operations, see theOverview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook—Our Strategysection of the MD&A in our 2013 Financial Report andGeneral—Commercial Operationsabove.



Revenues from operations outside the U.S. of$31.3 billionaccounted for61%of our total revenues in2013. Revenues exceeded $500 million in each of 12, 14 and 16 countries outside the U.S. in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The U.S. is our largest national market, comprising39%of total revenues in 2013 and 2012, and41%of total revenues in 2011. Japan is our second-largest national market, with approximately 10%, 12% and 10% of total revenues in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.



For a geographic breakdown of revenues, see the table captionedGeographic Informationin the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 18. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Informationin our 2013 Financial Report, and the table captionedRevenues by Segment and Geographic Areain the MD&A in our 2013 Financial Report. Those tables are incorporated by reference.



Our international businesses are subject, in varying degrees, to a number of risks inherent in carrying on business in other countries. These include, among other things, currency fluctuations, capital and exchange control regulations, expropriation and other restrictive government actions. SeeItem 1A. Risk Factors—Risks Affecting International Operationsbelow. Our










international businesses are also subject to government-imposed constraints, including laws and regulations on pricing, reimbursement, and access to our products. SeeGovernment Regulation and Price Constraints—Outside the United Statesbelow for a discussion of these matters.



Depending on the direction of change relative to the U.S. dollar, foreign currency values can increase or decrease the reported dollar value of our net assets and results of operations. While we cannot predict with certainty future changes in foreign exchange rates or the effect they will have on us, we attempt to mitigate their impact through operational means and by using various financial instruments, depending upon market conditions. For additional information, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 7E. Financial Instruments: Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activitiesin our 2013 Financial Report, as well as theForward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results—Financial Risk Managementsection of the MD&A in our 2013 Financial Report. Those sections of our 2013 Financial Report are incorporated by reference.





Marketing



In our global biopharmaceutical businesses, we promote our products to healthcare providers and patients. Through our marketing organizations, we explain the approved uses, benefits and risks of our products to healthcare providers, such as doctors, nurse practitioners, physician assistants, pharmacists, and the Managed Care Organizations (MCOs) that provide insurance coverage, such as hospitals, Integrated Delivery Systems (IDS), Pharmacy Benefit Managers (PBMs), Health Plans, employers and government agencies. We also market directly to consumers in the U.S. through direct-to-consumer advertising that communicates the approved uses, benefits and risks of our products while motivating people to have meaningful conversations with their doctors. In addition, we sponsor general advertising to educate the public on disease awareness, prevention and wellness, important public health issues, and our patient assistance programs.



Our prescription pharmaceutical products are sold principally to wholesalers, but we also sell directly to retailers, hospitals, clinics, government agencies and pharmacies, and, in the case ofPrevnar 13in the U.S., we primarily sell directly to individual provider offices. We seek to gain access for our products on healthcare authority and MCO formularies, which are lists of approved medicines available to members of the MCOs. MCOs use various benefit designs, such as tiered co-pays for formulary products, to drive utilization of products in preferred formulary positions. We also work with MCOs to assist them with disease management, patient education and other tools that help their medical treatment routines.



During 2013, Pfizer revenues from our three largest biopharmaceutical wholesalers were as follows:



•McKesson, Inc.—12%of our total revenues (and 30% of our total U.S. revenues);

•Cardinal Health, Inc.—9%of our total revenues (and 22% of our total U.S. revenues); and

•AmerisourceBergen Corporation—8%of our total revenues (and 21% of our total U.S. revenues).



Sales to these wholesalers were concentrated in the biopharmaceutical businesses.



Our global Consumer Healthcare business utilizes its own sales and marketing organizations to promote its products, and occasionally uses distributors in smaller markets. Our Consumer Healthcare business’s advertising and promotions are generally disseminated to consumers through television, print, digital and other media advertising, as well as through in-store promotion. Consumer Healthcare products are sold through a wide variety of channels, including distributors, pharmacies, retail chains and grocery and convenience stores. Our Consumer Healthcare business generates a significant portion of its sales from several large customers, the loss of any one of which could have a material adverse effect on the Consumer Healthcare business.



Patents and Other Intellectual Property Rights



Our products are sold around the world under brand-name, logo and certain product design trademarks that we consider, in the aggregate, to be of material importance to Pfizer. Trademark protection continues in some countries for as long as the mark is used and, in other countries, for as long as it is registered. Registrations generally are for fixed, but renewable, terms.



We own or license a number of U.S. and foreign patents. These patents cover pharmaceutical and other products and their uses, pharmaceutical formulations, product manufacturing processes and intermediate chemical compounds used in manufacturing.












Patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. The actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage and the availability of legal remedies in the country. Further, patent term extension may be available in many major countries to compensate for a regulatory delay in approval of the product. For additional information, seeGovernment Regulation and Price Constraints—Intellectual Propertybelow.



In the aggregate, our patent and related rights are of material importance to our businesses in the U.S. and most other countries. Based on current product sales, and considering the vigorous competition with products sold by others, the patent rights we consider most significant in relation to our business as a whole, together with the year in which the basic product patent expires (including, where applicable, the additional six-month pediatric exclusivity period and/or the granted patent term extension), are those for the medicines set forth in the table below. In some instances, there are later-expiring patents relating to our products directed to particular forms or compositions, to methods of manufacturing, or to use of the drug in the treatment of particular diseases or conditions. However, in some cases, such patents may not protect our drug from generic or, as applicable, biosimilar competition after the expiration of the basic patent.



DrugU.S. Basic Product Patent Expiration YearMajor EU Basic Product Patent Expiration YearJapan Basic Product Patent Expiration YearViagra2012(1)20132013(1)Enbrel(2)N/A20152015Celebrex2014(3)20142019Zyvox201520162019Lyrica20182014(4)2022Bosulif20192019N/A(5)Chantix202020212022Inlyta202020202025Xeljanz2020N/A(6)2025Sutent202120212024Eliquis(7)202320262026Prevnar 13(8)202620262026Xalkori202920252028



(1)In addition to the basic product patent coveringViagra, which expired in 2012, it is covered by a U.S. method-of-treatment patent which, including the six-month pediatric exclusivity period associated withRevatio, which has the same active ingredient asViagra, expires in 2020. However, as a result of a patent litigation settlement, Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. will be allowed to launch a generic version ofViagrain the U.S. in December 2017, or earlier under certain circumstances. The corresponding method-of-treatment patent coveringViagrain Japan expires in May 2014.



(2)Pfizer does not marketEnbrelin the U.S. For additional information, see theOverview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook—Our Operating Environment—Intellectual Property Rights and Collaboration/Licensing Rightssection of the MD&A in our 2013 Financial Report. In other markets, biosimilar competition will depend, to a significant extent, on the timing and implementation of regulations governing the development and approval of biosimilar products.



(3)We obtained a reissue patent in the U.S. on March 5, 2013 covering the approved uses ofCelebrex. The reissue patent expires on December 2, 2015. This patent is presently the subject of litigation between Pfizer and several generic companies.



(4)ForLyrica, regulatory exclusivity in the EU extends until 2014.



(5)Bosulifis not approved in Japan.



(6)Xeljanzis not approved in the EU.



(7)Eliquiswas developed and is being commercialized in collaboration with BMS.












(8)Prevnar 13may eventually face competition in the form of alternative 13-valent and next-generation pneumococcal conjugate vaccines.



We co-promoteAriceptwith Eisai. We lost exclusivity forAricept5mg and 10mg tablets in the U.S. in November 2010, and in the majority of European markets in February 2012 and April 2012. We lost exclusivity for theAricept23mg tablet in the U.S. in July 2013. For additional information, including a description of certain of our other co-promotion agreements and their expiration dates, see theAnalysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income—Biopharmaceutical—Selected Product Descriptionsand theOverview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook—Our Operating Environment—Intellectual Property Rights and Collaboration/Licensing Rightssections of the MD&A in our 2013 Financial Report andItem 1A. Risk Factors—Dependence on Key In-Line Productsbelow.



A number of our current products have lost exclusivity in certain markets in the last few years. For example, in the U.S., we lost exclusivity forGeodonin March 2012,Revatiotablet in September 2012 andRapamunein January 2014. We lost exclusivity forXalatanandXalacomin the majority of European markets in January 2012 and Australia in July 2012. We lost exclusivity in the U.S. forDetrolimmediate release (Detrol IR) in June 2012 andDetrol LAin January 2014.Detrol IRandDetrol LAlost exclusivity in most European markets in September 2012.Viagralost exclusivity in most major EU markets in June 2013. We lost exclusivity forLyricain Canada in February 2013.Lipitorhas lost exclusivity in all major markets and now faces multi-source generic competition in the U.S., Europe, Japan and Australia.



For additional information, including a further discussion of our recent losses of exclusivity and associated revenues in various markets and of our expected losses of exclusivity in 2014, see theOverview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook—Our Operating Environment—Intellectual Property Rights and Collaboration/Licensing Rightssection of the MD&A in our 2013 Financial Report.



Companies have filed applications with the FDA seeking approval of products that we believe infringe our patents covering, among other products,Viagra,Celebrex,Lyrica,Sutent,EpiPen,Pristiq,Toviaz,TygacilandEmbedaextended-release capsules, and our patent forLipitorin China is subject to a pending legal challenge.For additional information, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 17A1. Commitments and Contingencies—Legal Proceedings—Patent Litigationin our 2013 Financial Report.



The expiration of a basic product patent or loss of patent protection resulting from a legal challenge normally results in significant competition from generic products against the originally patented product and can result in a significant reduction in revenues for that product in a very short period of time. In some cases, however, we can continue to obtain commercial benefits from product manufacturing trade secrets; patents on uses for products; patents on processes and intermediates for the economical manufacture of the active ingredients; patents for special formulations of the product or delivery mechanisms; and conversion of the active ingredient to OTC products.



Biotechnology Products



Our biotechnology products, includingBeneFIX,ReFacto,Xyntha,Enbrel(we marketEnbreloutside of the U.S. and Canada) and thePrevnarfamily, may face competition in the future from biosimilars (also referred to as follow-on biologics). Such biosimilars would reference biotechnology products approved under the U.S. Public Health Service Act. Additionally, the FDA has approved a biosimilar recombinant human growth hormone that referenced our biotechnology product,Genotropin,which was approved under the U.S. Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act.



Abbreviated legal pathways for the approval of biosimilars exist in certain international markets and, since the passage of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Heath Care and Education Reconciliation Act (commonly referred to as the Affordable Care Act, or ACA), a framework for such approval exists in the U.S. The regulatory implementation of these ACA provisions is ongoing and expected to take several years. However, the FDA has begun to clarify its expectations for approval via the biosimilar pathway with the issuance of three draft guidance documents in February 2012. Over the next several years, the FDA is expected to finalize the guidance documents released in 2012 and issue new draft guidance on clinical pharmacology for biosimilars. SeeGovernment Regulation and Price Constraints—Biosimilarsbelow for additional information on the ACA’s approval framework for biosimilars.



In Europe, the European Commission has granted marketing authorizations for several biosimilars pursuant to a set of general and product class-specific guidelines for biosimilar approvals issued over the past few years. In 2013, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) approved the first biosimilar of a monoclonal antibody. In Japan, the regulatory authority has










granted marketing authorizations for certain biosimilars, including somatropin (the recombinant human growth hormone in ourGenotropinproduct), pursuant to a guideline for biosimilar approvals issued in 2009.



If competitors are able to obtain marketing approval for biosimilars that reference our biotechnology products, our biotechnology products may become subject to competition from these biosimilars, with attendant competitive pressure, and price reductions could follow. Expiration or successful challenge of applicable patent rights could trigger this competition, assuming any relevant exclusivity period has expired. However, biosimilar manufacturing is complex and biosimilars are not necessarily identical to the reference products. Therefore, at least initially upon approval of a biosimilar competitor, biosimilar competition with respect to biologics may not be as significant as generic competition with respect to small molecule drugs.



As part of our business strategy, we are capitalizing on our expertise in biologics manufacturing, as well as our regulatory and commercial strengths, to develop biosimilar medicines. As such, a better-defined biosimilars approval pathway will assist us in pursuing approval of our own biosimilar products in the U.S. SeeItem 1A. Risk Factors—Biotechnology Productsbelow.



We may face more litigation with respect to the validity and/or scope of patents relating to our biotechnology products with substantial revenue. Likewise, as we enter the biosimilars area and seek to launch products, patents may be asserted against us.



International



One of the main limitations on our operations in some countries outside the U.S. is the lack of effective intellectual property protection for our products. Under international and U.S. free trade agreements in recent years, global protection of intellectual property rights has been improving. The World Trade Organization Agreement on Trade Related Aspects of Intellectual Property (WTO-TRIPs) required participant countries to amend their intellectual property laws to provide patent protection for pharmaceutical products by 2005, with an extension until 2016 for least-developed countries. While we still face enforcement and other intellectual property challenges around the world, a number of countries have made improvements. We have experienced significant growth in our businesses in some of those countries. We include further patent protection improvement among the factors we consider for continued business expansion in other participant countries. For additional information, seeGovernment Regulation and Price Constraints—Intellectual Propertybelow.





Competition



Our businesses are conducted in intensely competitive and often highly regulated markets. Many of our prescription pharmaceutical products face competition in the form of branded or generic drugs that treat similar diseases or indications. The principal forms of competition include efficacy, safety, ease of use, and cost effectiveness. Though the means of competition vary among product categories and business groups, demonstrating the value of our products is a critical factor for success in all of our principal businesses.



Our competitors include other worldwide research-based biopharmaceutical companies, smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus, and generic drug and consumer healthcare manufacturers. We compete with other companies that manufacture and sell products that treat diseases or indications similar to those treated by our major products.



This competition affects our core product business, which is focused on applying innovative science to discover and market products that satisfy unmet medical needs and provide therapeutic improvements. Our emphasis on innovation is underscored by our multi-billion-dollar investment in R&D, as well as our business development transactions, both designed to result in a strong product pipeline. Our investment in research does not stop with drug approval; we continue to invest in further understanding the value of our products for the conditions they treat, as well as potential new applications. We seek to protect the health and well-being of patients by striving to ensure that medically sound knowledge of the benefits and risks of our medicines is understood and communicated to patients, physicians and global health authorities. We also seek to continually enhance the organizational effectiveness of all of our biopharmaceutical functions, including coordinating support for our salespersons’ efforts to accurately and ethically launch and promote our products to our customers.



Operating conditions have become more challenging under the mounting global pressures of competition, industry regulation and cost containment. We continue to take measures to evaluate, adapt and improve our organization and business practices to better meet customer and public needs. We believe that we have taken an industry-leading role in evolving our approaches to U.S. direct-to-consumer advertising; interactions with, and payments to, healthcare professionals; and medical education grants. We also continue to sponsor programs to address patient affordability and access barriers, as we strive to advance fundamental health system change through support for better healthcare solutions.












Our Consumer Healthcare business faces competition from OTC business units in other major pharmaceutical and consumer packaged goods companies, as well as retailers who carry their own private label brands. Our competitive position is affected by several factors, including, among others, the amount and effectiveness of our and our competitors’ promotional resources; customer acceptance; product quality; our and our competitors’ introduction of new products, ingredients, claims, dosage forms, or other forms of innovation; and pricing, regulatory and legislative matters (such as product labeling, patient access and prescription to OTC switches).



Managed Care Organizations



The evolution of managed care in the U.S. has been a major factor in the competitive makeup of the healthcare marketplace. Approximately 262 million people in the U.S. now have some form of health insurance coverage. Due to the expansion of health insurance coverage (seeGovernment Regulation and Price Constraints—In the United Statesbelow), both the marketing of prescription drugs to consumers and the entities that manage this expanded coverage in the U.S. continue to grow in importance.



The influence of MCOs has increased in recent years due to the growing number of patients receiving coverage through MCOs. At the same time, those organizations have been consolidating into fewer, even larger entities. This consolidation enhances both their ability to negotiate, as well as their importance to Pfizer.



The growth of MCOs has increased pressure on drug prices as well as revenues. One objective of MCOs is to contain and, where possible, reduce healthcare expenditures. MCOs typically use formularies (which are lists of approved medicines available to members of the MCOs), clinical protocols (requiring prior authorization for a branded product if a generic product is available or requiring the patient to first fail on one or more generic products before permitting access to a branded medicine), volume purchasing, long-term contracts and their ability to influence market share and volume of prescription drugs to negotiate prices with pharmaceutical providers.



Due to their generally lower cost, generic medicines typically are placed in lowest cost tiers of MCO formularies. The breadth of the products covered by formularies can vary considerably from one MCO to another, and many formularies include alternative and competitive products for treatment of particular medical problems.



Exclusion of a product from a formulary or other MCO-implemented restrictions can significantly impact drug usage in the MCO patient population. Consequently, pharmaceutical companies compete to gain access to formularies for their products. Unique product features, such as greater efficacy, better patient ease of use, or fewer side effects, are generally beneficial to achieving access to formularies. However, lower overall cost of therapy is also an important factor. We have been generally, although not universally, successful in having our major products included on MCO formularies.



MCOs also emphasize primary and preventive care, out-patient treatment and procedures performed at doctors’ offices and clinics as another way to manage costs. Hospitalization and surgery, typically the most expensive forms of treatment, are carefully managed. Since the use of certain drugs can reduce the need for hospitalization, professional therapy, or even surgery, such drugs can become favored first-line treatments for certain diseases.

The ACA has accelerated payment reform by distributing risk across MCOs and other stakeholders in care delivery with the intent of improving quality while reducing costs, which creates pressure on MCOs to tie reimbursement to defined outcomes.

Generic Products



One of the biggest competitive challenges that we face is from generic pharmaceutical manufacturers. Upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for a product, especially a small molecule product, we can lose the major portion of revenues for that product in a very short period of time. Several such competitors make a regular practice of challenging our product patents before their expiration. Unlike us, generic competitors often operate without large R&D expenses, as well as without costs of conveying medical information about products to the medical community. In addition, the FDA approval process exempts generics from costly and time-consuming clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy, allowing generic manufacturers to rely on the safety and efficacy data of the innovator product. Generic products need only demonstrate a level of availability in the body equivalent to that of the innovator product. This means that generic competitors can market a competing version of our product after the expiration or loss of our patent and often charge much less.



In addition, our patent-protected products can face competition in the form of generic versions of competitors’ branded products that lose their market exclusivity.












As noted above, MCOs that focus primarily on the immediate cost of drugs often favor generics over brand-name drugs. Many governments also encourage the use of generics as alternatives to brand-name drugs in their healthcare programs, including Medicaid in the U.S. Laws in the U.S. generally allow, and in some cases require, pharmacists to substitute, for brand-name drugs, generic drugs that have been rated under government procedures to be chemically and therapeutically equivalent to brand-name drugs. The substitution must be made unless the prescribing physician expressly forbids it. In the U.S., Pfizer’s Greenstone subsidiary and Pfizer Injectables sell generic versions of Pfizer’s, as well as certain competitors’, solid oral dose and sterile injectable pharmaceutical products, respectively, upon loss of exclusivity, as appropriate.





Raw Materials



Raw materials essential to our businesses are purchased worldwide in the ordinary course of business from numerous suppliers. In general, these materials are available from multiple sources. No serious shortages or delays of raw materials were encountered in 2013, and none are expected in 2014. We have successfully secured the materials necessary to meet our requirements where there have been short-term imbalances between supply and demand, but generally at higher prices than those historically paid.





Government Regulation and Price Constraints



In the United States



General.Pharmaceutical companies are subject to extensive regulation by national, state and local agencies in the countries in which they do business. Of particular importance in the U.S. is the FDA, which has jurisdiction over our biopharmaceutical products and administers requirements covering the testing, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, advertising and post-marketing surveillance of these products. The FDA also regulates our Consumer Healthcare products. Other federal agencies, including the U.S. Department of Agriculture and the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, also regulate some of our products.



In addition, many of our activities are subject to the jurisdiction of other federal regulatory and enforcement departments and agencies, such as the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Office of the Inspector General (OIG), the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) (which also has the authority to regulate the advertising of consumer healthcare products, including OTC drugs and dietary supplements), the Department of Justice (DOJ) and the SEC. Individual states, acting through their attorneys general, have become active as well, seeking to regulate the marketing of prescription drugs under state consumer protection and false advertising laws.



We are subject to possible administrative and legal proceedings and actions by these various governmental bodies. See the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 17. Commitments and Contingenciesin our 2013 Financial Report. Such actions may involve product seizures and other civil and criminal sanctions.

Healthcare Reform.In March 2010, the ACA was enacted in the U.S. The principal provisions affecting the biopharmaceutical industry provide for the following:

•an increase, from 15.1% to 23.1%, in the minimum rebate on branded prescription drugs sold to Medicaid beneficiaries (effective January 1, 2010);

•extension of Medicaid prescription drug rebates to drugs dispensed to enrollees in certain Medicaid managed care organizations (effective March 23, 2010);

•expansion of the types of institutions eligible for the “Section 340B discounts” for outpatient drugs provided to hospitals serving a disproportionate share of low-income individuals and meeting the qualification criteria under Section 340B of the Public Health Service Act of 1944 (effective January 1, 2010);

•discounts on branded prescription drug sales to Medicare Part D participants who are in the Medicare “coverage gap,” also known as the “doughnut hole” (effective January 1, 2011); and

•a fee payable to the federal government (which is not deductible for U.S. income tax purposes) based on our prior-calendar-year share relative to other companies of branded prescription drug sales to specified government programs (effective January 1, 2011, with the total fee to be paid each year by the pharmaceutical industry increasing annually through 2018).












As of May 2013, the Congressional Budget Office estimates that the ACA will result in the coverage of 25 million previously uninsured individuals by 2017. Effective in 2014, non-Medicare eligible individuals with incomes below 138% of the federal poverty level (FPL) are eligible for Medicaid if they live in one of the 25 states that elected to expand the program using federal funds. The remainder will be covered with private sector coverage, either through their employers, the individual insurance marketplace or new state or federal Health Insurance Exchanges enacted through the ACA (Health Insurance Exchanges). With limited exceptions, individuals who fail to purchase health insurance by March 31, 2014 will pay a penalty. Starting in 2015, employers with 100 or more employees who do not provide affordable and qualifying coverage will also pay a penalty (beginning in 2016, employers with between 50 and 99 employees who do not provide affordable and qualifying coverage will be penalized). Individuals with incomes between 100%-400% of the FPL will be eligible for subsidies to help pay for health insurance coverage in the Health Insurance Exchanges.



The Health Insurance Exchanges were created by the ACA to provide an opportunity for individuals without access to employer or other government sponsored coverage to purchase insurance from private health plans offering coverage compliant with ACA mandated provisions. States could choose to operate the Health Insurance Exchange with a federal grant, or defer operations to the federal government. Regardless of the facilitator, the Health Insurance Exchanges offer similar coverage. Federal and state Health Insurance Exchange websites opened for enrollment on October 1, 2013 and experienced computer access difficulties. The separate website for the small business exchanges (SHOP) was delayed until late 2014 for states utilizing the federal Health Insurance Exchange. Coverage began on January 1, 2014 and enrollment remains open until March 31, 2014.



The ACA specifies certain benefits and services that must be covered for health insurers to qualify to participate in the Health Insurance Exchanges, including prescription drugs. In general, health plans in the Health Insurance Exchange offer benefits that are more restrictive than the typical large employer, but more comprehensive than most catastrophic health insurance plans and some other limited policies available in the individual insurance marketplace. This means that there are high deductibles and co-pays, increased use of co-insurance, fewer medicines on formularies and restricted networks of physicians and hospitals. Expanding insurance coverage is expected to result in a negligible change in overall pharmaceutical industry sales, as the uninsured are principally young and relatively healthy and it is expected that a significant percentage may be covered by Medicaid (under which sales of pharmaceutical products are subject to substantial rebates and, in many states, to formulary restrictions limiting access to brand-name drugs, including ours), and the restrictive benefit designs discourage the use of branded drugs. At the same time, the rebates, discounts, taxes and other costs associated with the ACA are a significant cost to the industry.



The ACA created the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB), a 15-member panel to be appointed by the President. The IPAB is charged with developing proposals to “reduce the per capita rate of growth in Medicare spending” in the event that the actual Medicare per capita growth rate exceeds a specified target. Due to slow growth in healthcare spending that did not exceed the target per capita growth rate, the IPAB will not be required to act until 2016, at the earliest. To date, the IPAB’s members have not been named or appointed.



The ACA also established the Patient Centered Outcomes Research Institute (PCORI), a federally funded, private, non-profit corporation empowered to fund and disseminate comparative effectiveness research (CER) and build infrastructure for improved outcomes analysis. PCORI has no authority to impose formulary changes directly in government-funded health programs. In 2013, PCORI announced that it will issue a new type of funding for pragmatic, head-to-head comparison studies, as well as plans to develop a national clinical research data network. Both developments are expected to increase the availability of medical evidence related to healthcare interventions. Overseeing and managing the PCORI is an advisory board drawn from multiple and varied stakeholder organizations, including the pharmaceutical industry. Pfizer’s Chief Medical Officer currently serves as an industry representative on the advisory board.



Changes in Marketing Activity Disclosure. The ACA expands the government’s investigative and enforcement authority and increases the penalties for fraud and abuse, including amendments to both the False Claims Act and the Anti-Kickback Statute to make it easier to bring suit under these statutes. The ACA also allocates additional resources and tools for the government to police healthcare fraud, with expanded subpoena power for HHS, additional funding to investigate fraud and abuse across the healthcare system, and expanded use of Recovery Audit Contractors for enforcement.



As of August 2013, biopharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers are required to record any transfers of value made to licensed physicians and teaching hospitals and to disclose such data to HHS, with the initial disclosure to HHS due no later than March 31, 2014. In addition to civil penalties for failure to report transfers of value to physicians or teaching hospitals, there will be criminal penalties if a manufacturer intentionally makes false statements or excludes information in such reports. The payment data across biopharmaceutical and medical device companies will be posted by HHS on a publicly available website no later than September 30, 2014. Increased access to such data by fraud and abuse investigators, industry










critics and media will draw attention to our collaborations with reported entities and will importantly provide opportunities to underscore the critical nature of our collaborations for developing new medicines and exchanging scientific information. This national payment transparency effort coupled with industry commitment to uphold voluntary codes of conduct (such as the PhRMACode on Interactions with Healthcare Professionalsand PhRMAGuiding Principles Direct to Consumer Advertisements About Prescription Medicines) and rigorous internal training and compliance efforts will complement existing laws and regulations to help ensure ethical collaboration and truthful product communications.



Medicare.Elderly and disabled beneficiaries have access to the Medicare drug benefit through private plans approved by the federal government. Beneficiaries with low incomes and modest assets are eligible for assistance with Medicare Part D plan premiums and cost sharing. Nationally, the share of such beneficiaries with comprehensive drug coverage increased from 59% in 2005 to approximately 90% in 2011.



The ACA made some important changes to the Medicare drug benefit, including phasing out the Medicare coverage gap by 2020. Prior to the ACA, beneficiaries who reached a certain level of spending on prescription medications (the Medicare Part D coverage gap or “doughnut hole”) had to pay 100% of the cost of their drugs until personal out-of-pocket spending reached a level qualifying them for catastrophic coverage. The Medicare Part D Coverage Gap Discount Program uses public and private funding to relieve the financial burden facing beneficiaries who fall into this coverage gap. Beginning in 2011, branded pharmaceutical companies paid 50% of the cost of the branded drugs in the gap and the government paid 7% of the cost of the generic drugs in the gap. As a result, rather than paying 100% of the total cost of their drugs when they reached the coverage gap, enrollees paid 50% of the total cost of branded drugs and 93% of the total cost of generic drugs. The contribution from the government for generic drugs grew to 14% in 2012, and will grow steadily over time until reaching 75% in 2020. In addition, starting in 2013, the 50% discount from branded pharmaceutical companies was supplemented by a contribution from the government, which will also grow steadily over time until reaching 25% in 2020. That means that by 2020, enrollees will pay only 25% of the cost of their branded and generic drugs in the gap.



Biosimilars.The ACA also created a framework for the approval of biosimilars (also known as follow-on biologics) following the expiration of 12 years of exclusivity for the innovator biologic, with a potential six-month pediatric extension. Under the ACA, biosimilar applications may not be submitted until four years after the approval of the reference, innovator biologic. The FDA is responsible for implementation of the legislation, which will require the FDA to address such key topics as the type and extent of data needed to establish biosimilarity; the data required to achieve interchangeability compared to biosimilarity; the naming convention for biosimilars; the tracking and tracing of adverse events; and the acceptability of data using a non-U.S.-licensed comparator to demonstrate biosimilarity and/or interchangeability with a U.S.-licensed reference product. The FDA has begun to address some of these issues with the February 2012 release of three draft guidance documents. Specifically, the FDA has clarified that biosimilar applicants may use a non-U.S.-licensed comparator in certain studies to support a demonstration of biosimilarity to a U.S.-licensed reference product. Over the next several years, the FDA is expected to finalize the guidance documents released in 2012 and issue new draft guidance on clinical pharmacology for biosimilars.



Medicaid and Related Matters.Federal law requires branded pharmaceutical companies to provide rebates to state Medicaid agencies. The ACA brought about major changes in the Medicaid program. Collectively, the measures (i) increased federal rebates paid by manufacturers on branded drugs within the traditional Medicaid program from 15.1% to 23.1%, and for generic drugs from 11% to 13% of Average Manufacturer Price (AMP); (ii) expanded Medicaid drug rebates to cover drugs provided through managed Medicaid plans; and (iii) changed the rebate rates for line extensions or new formulations of solid oral dosage form drugs. The law also created a federal upper limit under the Medicaid program for generic drugs at 175% of AMP. In addition, the law expanded the types of entities eligible for the “Section 340B discounts” for outpatient drugs that began in 2010. Post-implementation of the ACA, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) withdrew its former, detailed AMP-calculation rules, and, in January 2014, a new rule regarding AMP was released, which revises requirements pertaining to Medicaid reimbursement for covered outpatient drugs.



The majority of states use preferred drug lists to restrict access to certain medicines in Medicaid. Restrictions exist for some Pfizer products in certain states. Access in the Medicaid managed care program is typically determined by the health plans providing coverage for Medicaid recipients contracting for the provision of services in the state. Given certain states’ current and potential ongoing fiscal crises, a growing number of states are considering a variety of cost-control strategies, including capitated managed care plans that typically contain cost by restricting access to certain treatments.



Pfizer must give discounts or rebates on purchases or reimbursements of pharmaceutical products by certain other federal and state agencies and programs. See the discussion regarding rebates in theAnalysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income—Revenues—Overviewsection of the MD&A in our 2013 Financial Report and in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 1G. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies:Revenuesin our 2013 Financial Report, which are incorporated by reference.












PDUFA Reauthorization.The Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) was first enacted in 1992 to provide the FDA with additional resources to speed the review of important new medicines. Prior to PDUFA, inadequate funding of the FDA drug review process led to a backlog of application reviews and lengthy review times. PDUFA revolutionized the review process for new drugs and biologics without compromising high approval standards for demonstration of product safety, quality and efficacy. PDUFA expires every five years and must be reauthorized by Congress. PDUFA IV expired on September 30, 2012, and was renewed as Title I of the FDA Safety and Innovation Act (FDASIA). In addition to PDUFA V, FDASIA included a range of provisions important to the industry, including new user fee requirements for biosimilar products and generics. The PDUFA V reauthorization reflected months of discussion between the FDA, industry and other stakeholders such as patient groups and consumers. The current PDUFA V agreement focuses on improving the efficiency and predictability of the review process, strengthening the agency regulatory science base and enhancing benefit-risk assessment and post-approval safety surveillance.



Budget Control Act of 2011. In August 2011, the federal Budget Control Act of 2011 (the Budget Control Act) was enacted in the U.S. The Budget Control Act includes provisions to raise the U.S. Treasury Department’s borrowing limit, known as the debt ceiling, and provisions to reduce the federal deficit by $2.4 trillion between 2012 and 2021. Deficit-reduction targets included $900 billion of discretionary spending reductions associated with HHS and various agencies charged with national security, but those discretionary spending reductions do not include programs such as Medicare and Medicaid or direct changes to pharmaceutical pricing, rebates or discounts. The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) was responsible for identifying the remaining $1.5 trillion of deficit reductions, which were divided evenly between defense and non-defense spending. Under this OMB review process, Social Security, Medicaid, Veteran Benefits and certain other spending categories were excluded from consideration, but reductions in payments to Medicare providers are allowed, although these reductions are prohibited by law from exceeding a 2% reduction of the originally budgeted amount (until 2021). Additionally, certain payments to Medicare Part D plans, such as low-income subsidy payments, were exempt from reduction. The Budget Control Act spending reductions to date have not had a material adverse impact on our results of operations.



In December 2013, Congress enacted minor amendments to the Budget Control Act, providing for greater discretionary spending in 2014 and 2015 than originally budgeted. The amendments also provide for FDA user fee sequester relief for two years, allowing the FDA to continue to review new products. The new legislation continues to prohibit reductions in payments to Medicare providers from exceeding a 2% reduction of the originally budgeted amount, and extends this prohibition for two years (until 2023). The implications to Pfizer of these changes are expected to be nominal. However, any significant spending reductions affecting Medicare, Medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs that may be implemented, and/or any significant additional taxes or fees that may be imposed on us, as part of any broader deficit-reduction effort or legislative replacement for the Budget Control Act, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.



Sustainable Growth Rate Replacement. The Medicare physician payment formula known as the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) is routinely overridden by Congressional action because it would lead to dramatic decreases in physician payment. Congress issued a bi-partisan proposal to repeal the SGR and replace it with a new payment model. The proposed fee-for-service system would provide a modest annual payment rate increase until 2018, while allowing physicians and healthcare professionals to earn performance-based incentive payments after 2018. This form of SGR replacement is estimated by the Congressional Budget Office to cost the federal government approximately $130 billion over 10 years. The source of those funds has yet to be determined, but could include additional taxes on and/or rebate requirements applicable to the pharmaceutical industry, including Pfizer. Congress is considering a bill and is working to identify the means to pay for it prior to March 31, 2014, when the current SGR will expire.



Federal Debt Ceiling.After the debt ceiling was reached on May 19, 2013 and measures taken by the U.S. Treasury Department to enable the U.S. federal government to continue meeting its financial obligations were nearly exhausted, Congress enacted legislation on October 16, 2013 that suspended the debt ceiling through February 7, 2014 and preserved the ability of the U.S. Treasury Department to use “extraordinary measures” to avoid a default on U.S. federal government debt for a short period of time thereafter. In February 2014, Congress enacted legislation that further suspends the debt ceiling until March 15, 2015, effectively ensuring the U.S. federal government’s ability to satisfy its financial obligations in until that date, including under Medicare, Medicaid and other publicly funded or subsidized health programs that have a direct impact on our results of operations.



Outside the United States



We encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries.












Pricing and Reimbursement. In Europe, Japan, China, Canada and South Korea and some other international markets, governments provide healthcare at low direct cost to consumers and regulate pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. This international patchwork of price regulation has led to different prices and some third-party trade in our products between countries.



The EU does not have jurisdiction over patient reimbursement or pricing matters in its Member States, so we continue to work with individual countries on such matters across the region.





Under these macroeconomic conditions, Pfizer continues to face widespread downward pressures on international pricing and reimbursement, particularly in developed European markets, Japan and in certain emerging markets, all of which have a large government share of pharmaceutical spending and are facing a difficult fiscal environment. Specific pricing pressures in 2013 included measures to reduce pharmaceutical prices and expenditures in Japan, France, Italy, Spain, Greece, Belgium, Ireland and Portugal.



The practice of EU Member States linking their regulated medicine prices to those of other countries, i.e., international reference pricing (IRP), adds to the regional impact of price cuts in individual countries and hinders patient access and innovation. Price variations have also resulted from exchange rate fluctuations between the euro and other European currencies, which are exacerbated by IRP systems. The downward pricing pressure resulting from this dynamic can be expected to continue as a result of reforms to IRP policies, emergency measures targeting pharmaceuticals in some European countries and ongoing exchange rate fluctuations.



In several Latin American markets, Pfizer continues to face revenue pressures due to government policies aimed at health cost containment, including price controls (Venezuela), IRP (Colombia) and pricing reforms (Brazil and Argentina).



In Canada, introductory “non-excessive” prices and price increases are controlled by the federal Patented Medicines Prices Review Board. However, reimbursement is under provincial jurisdiction. As provinces continue to face budget pressure from growing healthcare expenditures, many provincial governments have developed pricing and purchasing strategies (including product listing agreements and a pan-Canadian pricing alliance initiative) to obtain lower drug prices. The private sector is also attempting to exert its negotiating power on drug manufacturers.



In South Korea, the national health insurance deficit prompted the government to make significant price cuts in the off-patent sector, effective April 2012. In September 2013, the government revised its pricing policy again to introduce risk sharing schemes. We continue to work with a committee established by the government to improve the pricing system for innovative new drugs.



Turkey references prices to several European markets at a fixed exchange rate between the euro and the Turkish lira.  Though actual exchange rates have since diverged significantly from that fixed rate, the Turkish government has, to date, not adjusted the exchange rate, which negatively impacts our financial results in Turkey.



European Union



New Drug Approval. The approval of new drugs across the EU may be achieved using the Mutual Recognition Procedure/Decentralized Procedure or EU Commission/EMA Centralized Procedure. These procedures apply in the EU Member States, plus the European Economic Area countries, Norway and Iceland. The use of these procedures generally










provides a more rapid and consistent approval process across the Member States than was the case when the approval processes were operating independently within each country.



EU Regulation on Medicines for Pediatric Use. In January 2007, the EU Regulation on Medicines for Pediatric Use became effective. This introduced obligations on pharmaceutical companies to conduct research on their medicines for children and, subject to various conditions, offered the possibility of incentives for so doing, including exclusivity extensions. A Pediatric Committee was created within the EMA to provide scientific opinions and input on development plans for medicines for use with children. In accordance with this regulation, Pfizer has completed and is conducting pediatric research programs for its in-line and development products and has successfully obtained the exclusivity extension incentive for a number of products.



Pharmacovigilance Legislation. In July 2012, new pharmacovigilance legislation came into force in the EU, which included new and revised requirements that impact Pfizer’s global safety system. Key changes include the establishment of a new Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee within the EMA, with responsibility for reviewing and making recommendations on product safety issues for the EU authorities. It also introduces the possibility for regulators in the EU to require pharmaceutical companies to conduct post-authorization efficacy studies at the time of approval, or, at any time afterwards in light of scientific developments. There are also additional requirements regarding adverse drug reaction reporting and additional monitoring of products. The new legislation also introduces significantly increased transparency into the safety review process.



Falsified Medicines Directive. In 2013, the Falsified Medicines Directive came into force, portions of which have become effective and the remaining portions of which will become effective at various times. The Directive is aimed at preventing falsified medicines from entering into the EU’s legal supply chain. Notably, the Directive imposes new obligations on all parties in the distribution chain, including importers, traders, manufacturers, distributors, and any operator who repackages a product, with key safety features expected to be in place by 2017.



Draft Clinical Trials Regulation.At the end of 2013, the text of a new EU Regulation on Clinical Trials was agreed to in principle and is expected to become law in 2014, and to be implemented in 2016. The new Regulation is aimed at simplifying and harmonizing the governance of clinical trials in the EU, particularly the processes for submission and approval of clinical trial applications, which have been criticized as harming Europe’s competitiveness in clinical R&D of new medicines. In line with the pro-transparency policy of the EU Institutions, the new Regulation will also require public posting of clinical trial results to a significantly greater extent than before.



Clinical Trial Data Sharing.Transparency in the pharmaceutical area is a key theme and priority for the European Commission and the EMA, particularly with regard to clinical trial results and data submitted for marketing authorization in the EU. Recently, the EMA has disclosed significantly more of such data, upon request, than in previous years. In June 2013, the EMA issued a draft policy on the publication and access to clinical trial data for public consultation, which proposes to publish certain clinical trial data, including Clinical Study Reports, on its website. This new policy was originally intended to be effective on January 1, 2014 and apply to Marketing Authorization Applications and variation applications submitted to the EMA after March 2014. However, due to the large number of comments received, the EMA has postponed the effective date and is currently reviewing the draft policy. In July 2013, the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA) and PhRMA introduced theirPrinciples for Responsible Clinical Trial Data Sharing: Our Commitment to Patients and Researchersas an alternative to the EMA’s proposed rules. Under these principles, EFPIA and PhRMA member companies have committed to enhancing public health through responsible sharing of clinical data. Pfizer publicly released its updated clinical trial data sharing policy in December 2013, which meets or exceeds all aspects of these commitments.



Corporate Responsibility in the EU Pharmaceutical Sector. In 2010, the Commissioner for Industry and Entrepreneurship of the European Commission launched a process on corporate responsibility in the pharmaceutical industry. The process, which concluded in October 2013, included three independent platforms: (i) transparency and ethics in the sector; (ii) access to medicines in Africa; and (iii) access to medicines in Europe in the context of pricing and reimbursement. While all platforms have produced reports, concrete recommendations appear vague. The European Commission is currently evaluating how to build on these results and is considering a new industrial policy for the pharmaceutical sector, likely to be launched in the second half of 2014.



Transfers of Value Disclosures (2013). In July 2013, EFPIA released its disclosure code of transfers of value to healthcare professionals and organizations. The code requires all members of EFPIA, including Pfizer, to disclose transfers of value to healthcare professionals and healthcare organizations beginning in 2016, covering the relevant transfers in 2015. Each member










company will be required to document and disclose: (i) the names of healthcare professionals and associations that have received payments or other transfers of value and (ii) the amounts or value transferred, and the type of relationship.



Canada



Health Canada (HC) is the government agency that provides regulatory and marketing approval for drugs and therapeutic products in Canada. In 2012, as part of the Legislative Regulatory Modernization (LRM), HC released the Regulatory Roadmap for Health products and Food (a five-year plan) and, in 2013, a new patient safety legislation that is expected to give HC more authority (equivalent to the FDA and EMA) was introduced to Parliament. The goals of the new framework are: (i) to protectagainst the sale and advertising of unsafe food and health products; (ii) to implement a science-based regulatory system, in which benefits, harms and uncertainties associated with health products are made transparent to the public; and (iii) to ensure that the regulatory system is efficient, sustainable and responsive to the evolution of science, patient and consumer behavior, as well as practices in healthcare.The future regulatory system is expected to be more consumer and patient-centered and focused on evidence. 2014 priorities include orphan drug regulations, plain language labeling and use of foreign regulatory information.



The 2004 Federal Provincial Territorial (FPT) Health Accord that sets out the Canada Health Transfers payment (a budgetary mechanism, that provides for funding to provincial governments by the federal government), plus commitments on health policy initiatives expires on March 31, 2014. In advance of the 2014 expiration of the FPT Health Accord, the federal government announced, in December 2011, a new funding framework that provides for funding growth of 6% annually through 2016-2017, and growth each year thereafter (through 2024) equal to the increase in the nominal gross domestic product (with a floor set at 3%). While this new formula results in financial predictability through 2024, many provinces may face a funding shortfall that could potentially result in, among other things, budget reductions for drug reimbursement and/or additional cost containment measures.



Asia



The regulatory environment in Asia presents multiple challenges for companies trying to achieve simultaneous global development and registration (i.e., marketing products at the same time as in the U.S., Europe, Canada and elsewhere). While each country in Asia has its unique regulatory concerns, there are a number of regulatory issues that are common among the majority of countries in Asia. For example, with the exception of Japan, health authorities in Asia generally require marketing approval by a recognized regulatory authority (e.g., the FDA) before they begin to conduct their application review process and/or issue their final approval. Proof of reference country approval is usually satisfied by submitting a Certificate of Pharmaceutical Product, a legal document that is issued by the competent health authority certifying that the company’s product has satisfied its country’s registration requirements and manufacturing standards. Often, this requirement delays marketing authorization in Asia by 12-15 months following marketing authorization in the U.S. and Europe.



Another common regulatory issue in Asia is the requirement for local clinical data in the country’s population in order to receive final marketing approval. Each of Japan, China, South Korea, Taiwan, India and Vietnam has regulations that in some form require clinical studies in the country (e.g., China requires a prescribed number of Chinese patients regardless of the product, therapeutic area or disease population). Although some agencies have shown flexibility based on scientific rationale related to ethnicity assessments, it is not uncommon for companies to be required to duplicate costly clinical trials in Asia pursuant to these regulations. This can further add to marketing approval delays compared to the U.S. and Europe. Additionally, similar requirements for local clinical data exist outside of Asia in countries such as Mexico and Russia, where we try to ensure their inclusion in global clinical studies, where feasible, or conduct additional studies there, which further delays marketing authorization in those countries.



In Japan, the government has taken measures to reduce the drug lag (i.e., historically, drugs were often launched in Japan years after the EU and U.S. markets) by utilizing a two-pronged approach: (i) reducing regulatory agency review times and (ii) establishing a new pilot pricing premium. The pilot pricing premium provides a financial incentive for drug development in Japan. While economic conditions and government debt levels continue to put pressure on healthcare costs resulting in cost containment (particularly in the off-patent sector), the extension of the pilot pricing premium (until December 2015) for innovative products is encouraging.



The controlling regulatory agency in China is the China Food and Drug Administration (CFDA). CFDA’s scope of responsibilities is similar to that of the FDA and EMA. Two key agencies within CFDA are the Center for Drug Evaluation (CDE) and the National Institutes for Food and Drug Control (NIFDC). The CDE, which is analogous to the FDA’s Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, is primarily responsible for the technical review of product applications, including clinical trial applications and new drug applications, and drafting technical guidance documents. NIFDC is the quality testing arm of CFDA, responsible for the testing of pharmaceuticals, biologics and medical devices nationwide.












China’s regulatory system is unique in many ways, and its drug development and registration requirements are not always consistent with international standards. As a result, it is not uncommon to see treatments entering the market in China two to five years after first marketing in the U.S. and Europe. There are three main contributing factors to this delay: (i) clinical trial authorization approval times that are five to 10 times longer than international standards and add greater than 12 months to development time; (ii) significant local Chinese patient number requirements for biologic products, regardless of product characteristics or disease prevalence; and (iii) with respect to imported vaccines, a reference country approval is required in order to start clinical trials and the regulatory approval process.



Additionally, in 2013, the pharmaceutical industry, including Pfizer, experienced regulatory challenges in China, all of which contributed to delays in market access and/or further resource expenditures, including: (i) stricter Chinese quality standards compared to FDA and EU quality standards; (ii) increased CDE product registration application backlogs (e.g., the CDE initiated its review of a Pfizer product registration application 12 months after submission); and (iii) post-marketing clinical studies.



In India, the federal regulatory authority, the Central Drugs Standard Control Organization (CDSCO), led by the Drugs Controller General India, is responsible for regulation of biopharmaceuticals, including clinical trial authorization. In 2013, based on its evaluation of the CDSCO, the Indian government implemented legislative changes that impacted the conduct and regulatory oversight of clinical trials, which make it more difficult for the pharmaceutical industry, including Pfizer, to conduct clinical research in India. For example, during the first half of 2013, the Supreme Court of India banned all clinical trials for new chemical entities unless approved by the Ministry of Health. Additionally, approval times for product registration have increased in India compared to previous years, primarily due to internal framework changes within CDSCO.



Intellectual Property



While the global intellectual property environment has improved following WTO-TRIPS and bilateral/multilateral trade agreements, our future business growth depends on further progress in intellectual property protection (seePatents and Other Intellectual Property Rightsabove). In emerging market countries in particular, governments have used intellectual property policies as a tool for reducing the price of imported medicines, as well as to protect their national pharmaceutical industries. There is considerable political pressure to weaken existing intellectual property protection and resist implementation of any further protection, which has led to policies such as more restrictive standards and more difficult procedures for patenting biopharmaceutical inventions, restrictions on patenting certain types of inventions (e.g., new medical treatment methods), revocation of patents, issuance of compulsory licenses, weak intellectual property enforcement and failure to implement effective regulatory data protection. Our industry advocacy efforts focus on seeking a more balanced business environment for foreign manufacturers, as well as on underscoring the importance of strong intellectual property systems for local innovative industries.



In December 2012, the EU approved an EU Patent Package, which was agreed to by 25 out of 27 EU Member States (excluding Italy and Spain, which opted out but which are free to opt back in). This will create a Unitary EU patent, i.e., a uniform patent with equal effect that will be granted, transferred, and enforced in a unitary way through participating Member States. Patent grants will continue to be granted through the existing European Patent Office, but a new court system will be set up to enforce such patents and hear revocation actions. The central Division of the new court will be in Paris, although a section based in London will hear chemical and pharmaceutical cases. The new regime reduces the translation requirement, should allow patentees to obtain pan-European injunctions and damages, and should reduce forum-shopping in Europe for patent holders seeking to enforce their patents, as well as generic manufacturers alleging patent invalidity or non-infringement. The EU Patent Package will enter into force after 13 European countries have ratified it.



Canada’s intellectual property regime for drugs provides some level of patent protection and data exclusivity, but is generally perceived to be less predictable than the intellectual property regimes of comparable countries. Through intense negotiations as part of the Canada/EU Comprehensive Economic & Trade Agreement (CETA), the Canadian intellectual property regime looks to potentially be further enhanced by EU demands to align their respective intellectual property regimes. Canada recently joined the ongoing negotiations of the Trans-Pacific Trade Partnership (TPP), and it is expected that the TPP negotiations will further pressure Canada to enhance its intellectual property regime.



In China, the intellectual property environment has improved, although effective enforcement and adequate legal remedies remain areas of concern. The government has taken steps to protect intellectual property rights in conformity with World Trade Organization (WTO) provisions, and several companies, including Pfizer, have established R&D centers in China due to increased confidence in China’s intellectual property environment. Despite this, China remained on the U.S. Department of Commerce Priority Watch List for 2013. Further, the standards for patentability in China remain more restrictive than in










other major markets, including the U.S., Europe and Japan. Also, while a framework exists for protecting patents for 20 years, enforcement mechanisms are often lacking or inconsistent. For example, the absence of effective patent linkage mechanisms and preliminary injunctions, impractical evidentiary burdens, and heightened sufficiency standards have been used to invalidate patents at the enforcement stage.



In Brazil and other Latin American countries, the role of health regulatory authorities in reviewing patents (e.g., ANVISA in Brazil), restrictive patentability rules and backlogs at patent agencies may limit our ability to protect our products through patents. The lack of regulatory data protection and difficulties in protecting certain types of inventions, such as new medical uses of drug products, may limit the commercial lifespan of some pharmaceutical products.



In India, policies favoring compulsory licensing of patents, the increasing tendency of the Indian Patent Office to revoke pharmaceutical patents in opposition proceedings, and restrictive standards for patentability of pharmaceutical products have made it difficult to protect many of our inventions. India maintains a system of pre-grant patent oppositions that delays the granting of patents and adds an additional challenge in our ability to protect our products through patents. Indian law includes special restrictions on the types of pharmaceutical inventions that may be patented which may limit our ability to protect our products. Recent use by the Indian government of compulsory licensing and patent revocation mechanisms heightens the risk of additional patent challenges targeting innovative pharmaceutical products, especially in areas perceived as being important to the public health of the population, such as infectious diseases, cancer and diabetes. In September 2012, Pfizer’s patent coveringSutentwas revoked by the Indian Patent Office and other challenges against Pfizer patents are ongoing.



In South Korea, the laws and regulations for the patent-regulatory approval linkage system were finalized and are in the process of being implemented as part of the United States-Korea Free Trade Agreement in 2012. The Korean patent-regulatory approval linkage system includes biologics.





Environmental Matters



Most of our operations are affected by national, state and/or local environmental laws. We have made, and intend to continue to make, the expenditures necessary for compliance with applicable laws. We also are cleaning up environmental contamination from past industrial activity at certain sites. See the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 17. Commitments and Contingenciesin our 2013 Financial Report. As a result, we incurred capital and operational expenditures in 2013 for environmental compliance purposes and for the clean-up of certain past industrial activity as follows:



•environment-related capital expenditures—$14 million; and

•other environment-related expenses—$147 million.



While capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance, including compliance with potential legislation and potential regulation related to climate change, cannot be predicted with certainty, we have no reason to believe they will have a material effect on our capital expenditures or competitive position.



Climate change presents risks to our operations, including potential physical risks to our facilities and supply chain due to more frequent and severe weather events and water availability. We cannot provide assurance that physical risks to our facilities and supply chain due to climate change will not occur in the future; however, we have reviewed the potential for these risks and have concluded that, because of our facility locations, our existing distribution networks and our controls, we do not believe these risks are material to Pfizer in the near term.





Tax Matters



The discussion of tax-related matters in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 5. Tax Mattersin our 2013 Financial Report, is incorporated by reference.





Employees



In our innovation-intensive business, our employees are vital to our success. We believe we have good relationships with our employees. As of December 31, 2013, we employed approximately 77,700 people in our operations throughout the world.
















Disclosure Pursuant to Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012



Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (ITRSHRA) requires disclosure by public companies of certain transactions involving the Government of Iran, as well as entities and individuals designated under Executive Order 13382 and Executive Order 13224 (the Executive Orders). In some instances, ITRSHRA requires companies to disclose these types of transactions, even if they were permissible under U.S. law or were conducted by a non-U.S. affiliate in accordance with the local law under which such entity operates.



As a global biopharmaceutical company, we conduct business in multiple jurisdictions throughout the world. During 2013, our activities included supplying life-saving medicines and medical products (Pfizer products) for patient and consumer use in Iran and Syria. We ship Pfizer products to Iran and Syria, and conduct related activities, in accordance with licenses issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control and other U.S. and non-U.S. governmental entities, and in line with our corporate policies. We will continue our global activities to improve the health and well-being of patients and consumers in a manner consistent with applicable laws and our corporate policies.



To our knowledge, none of our activities during 2013 is required to be disclosed pursuant to ITRSHRA, with the following possible exceptions: Pursuant to U.S. government authorizations, Pfizer, through a non-U.S. subsidiary, shipped Pfizer products to authorized customers in Iran. In 2013, some of these shipments, which were arranged and effectuated by a third-party logistics company, were sent to Iran on aircraft owned or operated by Iran Air or Aban Air. These air carriers are designated under the Executive Orders. Pfizer neither entered into agreements with these designated air carriers nor made any direct payments to these carriers. Pfizer paid air freight expenses associated with these shipments to the third-party logistics company, in the amount of approximately euro 43,716. We have voluntarily self-disclosed this matter to the U.S. government. We have instructed our third-party logistics companies not to use air carriers designated under the Executive Orders to ship Pfizer products in the future, and we are implementing additional controls to address this issue.














