ITEM 1. BUSINESS



General



Pfizer Inc. is a research-based, global biopharmaceutical company. We apply science and our global resources to bring therapies to people that extend and significantly improve their lives through the discovery, development and manufacture of healthcare products. Our global portfolio includes medicines and vaccines, as well as many of the world’s best-known consumer healthcare products. We work across developed and emerging markets to advance wellness, prevention, treatments and cures that challenge the most feared diseases of our time. We collaborate with healthcare providers, governments and local communities to support and expand access to reliable, affordable healthcare around the world. Our revenues are derived from the sale of our products, and, to a much lesser extent, from alliance agreements, under which we co-promote products discovered by other companies (Alliance revenues). The majority of our revenues come from the manufacture and sale of biopharmaceutical products.



The Company was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on June 2, 1942. Unless the context requires otherwise, references to “Pfizer,” “the Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014 (2014 Form 10-K) refer to Pfizer Inc. and its subsidiaries. References to developed markets in this 2014 Form 10-K include the United States (U.S.), Western Europe, Japan, Canada, Australia, Scandinavia, South Korea, Finland and New Zealand; and references to emerging markets in this 2014 Form 10-K include the rest of the world, including, among other countries, China, Brazil, Mexico, Russia, India and Turkey.



On February 5, 2015, we announced that we have entered into a definitive merger agreement under which we agreed to acquire Hospira, Inc. (Hospira), the world’s leading provider of injectable drugs and infusion technologies and a global leader in biosimilars, for $90 per share in cash, for a total enterprise value of approximately $17 billion. The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals in several jurisdictions and the approval of Hospira’s shareholders, and is expected to close in the second half of 2015.



On June 24, 2013, we completed the full disposition of our Animal Health business. For additional information, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 2D. Acquisitions, Licensing Agreements, Collaborative Arrangements, Divestitures and Equity-Method Investments: Divestituresin our 2014 Financial Report (as defined below).



On November 30, 2012, we completed the sale of our Nutrition business to Nestlé for $11.85 billion in cash. For additional information, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 2D. Acquisitions, Licensing Agreements, Collaborative Arrangements, Divestitures and Equity-Method Investments: Divestituresin our 2014 Financial Report.



For a further discussion of our strategy and our business development initiatives, see theOverview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook—Our Strategyand —Our Business Development Initiativessections in our 2014 Financial Report.



Our businesses are heavily regulated in most of the countries in which we operate. In the U.S., the principal authority regulating our operations is the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA regulates the safety and efficacy of the products we offer and our research, quality, manufacturing processes, product promotion, advertising and product labeling. Similar regulations exist in most other countries, and in many countries the government also regulates our prices. SeeGovernment Regulation and Price Constraintsbelow.





Pfizer Website



This 2014 Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), are available (free of charge) on our website (www.pfizer.com), in text format and, where applicable, in interactive data file format,as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).



Throughout this 2014 Form 10-K, we “incorporate by reference” certain information from other documents filed or to be filed with the SEC, including our Proxy Statement for the 2015 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (2015 Proxy Statement) and the 2014 Financial Report, portions of which are filed as Exhibit 13 to this 2014 Form 10-K, and which also will be contained in Appendix A to our 2015 Proxy Statement (2014 Financial Report). The SEC allows us to disclose important information by










referring to it in that manner. Please refer to such information. Our 2014 Annual Report to Shareholders consists of the 2014 Financial Report and the Corporate and Shareholder Information attached to the 2015 Proxy Statement. Our 2014 Financial Report will be available on our website (www.pfizer.com) on or about February 27, 2015. Our 2015 Proxy Statement will be available on our website (www.pfizer.com) on or about March 12, 2015.



We use our website (www.pfizer.com)as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation Fair Disclosure promulgated by the SEC. These disclosures are included on our website (www.pfizer.com)in the “Investors” or “News” sections. Accordingly, investors should monitor these portions of our website (www.pfizer.com), in addition to following Pfizer’s press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts.



Information relating to corporate governance at Pfizer, including our Corporate Governance Principles; Director Qualification Standards; Pfizer Policies on Business Conduct (for all of our employees, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Members of the Board of Directors; information concerning our Directors; ways to communicate by e-mail with our Directors; Board Committees; Committee Charters; Charter of the Lead Independent Director; and transactions in Pfizer securities by Directors and Officers; as well as Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer certifications, are available on our website (www.pfizer.com). We will provide any of the foregoing information without charge upon written request to our Corporate Secretary, Pfizer Inc., 235 East 42nd Street, New York, NY 10017-5755. Information relating to shareholder services, including the Computershare Investment Program, book-entry share ownership and direct deposit of dividends, is also available on our website (www.pfizer.com).



The information contained on our website does not, and shall not be deemed to, constitute a part of this 2014 Form 10-K. Pfizer’s references to the URLs for websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.





Commercial Operations



At the beginning of our fiscal year 2014, we began managing our commercial operations through a new global commercial structure consisting of two distinct businesses: an Innovative Products business and an Established Products business. The Innovative Products business is composed of two operating segments: the Global Innovative Pharmaceutical segment (GIP) and the Global Vaccines, Oncology and Consumer Healthcare segment (VOC). The Established Products business consists of the Global Established Pharmaceutical segment (GEP). Each operating segment is led by a single manager and has responsibility for its commercial activities and for certain in-process research and development (IPR&D) projects for new investigational products and additional indications for in-line products that generally have achieved proof of concept. Each business has a geographic footprint across developed and emerging markets.



Some additional information about each product grouping follows:



Innovative Products Business:



•Global Innovative Pharmaceutical segment—GIP is focused on developing, registering and commercializing novel, value-creating medicines that significantly improve patients’ lives. These therapeutic areas include inflammation, cardiovascular/metabolic, neuroscience and pain, rare diseases and women’s/men’s health and include leading brands, such asXeljanz,EliquisandLyrica(U.S. and Japan). GIP has a pipeline of medicines in inflammation, cardiovascular/metabolic disease, neuroscience and pain, and rare diseases.



•Global Vaccines, Oncology and Consumer Healthcare segment—VOC focuses on the development and commercialization of vaccines and products for oncology and consumer healthcare. Consumer Healthcare manufactures and markets several well known, over-the-counter (OTC) products. Each of the three businesses in VOC operates as a separate, global business, with distinct specialization in terms of the science and market approach necessary to deliver value to consumers and patients.



Established Products Business:



•Global Established Pharmaceutical segment—GEP includes the brands that have lost market exclusivity and, generally, the mature, patent-protected products that are expected to lose exclusivity through 2015 in most major markets and, to a much smaller extent, generic pharmaceuticals. Additionally, GEP includes our sterile injectable products and biosimilar development portfolio.












We expect that the GIP and VOC biopharmaceutical portfolios of innovative, largely patent-protected, in-line products will be sustained by ongoing investments to develop promising assets and targeted business development in areas of focus to ensure a pipeline of highly-differentiated product candidates in areas of unmet medical need. The assets managed by these groups are science-driven, highly differentiated and generally require a high-level of engagement with healthcare providers and consumers.



GEP is expected to generate strong consistent cash flow by providing patients around the world with access to effective, lower-cost, high-value treatments. GEP leverages our biologic development, regulatory and manufacturing expertise to seek to advance its biosimilar development portfolio. In addition, GEP may also engage in targeted business development to further enable its commercial strategies.



For a further discussion of these operating segments, including prior-period information that has been conformed to the current commercial structure, as well as comparative segment information for 2014, 2013 and 2012, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 18. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Information, including the tables therein captionedSelected Income Statement Information,Geographic InformationandSignificant Product Revenues, the table captionedRevenues by Segment and Geographic Areaand theAnalysis of Operating Segment Informationsection in our 2014 Financial Report, which are incorporated by reference.





Biopharmaceutical Products



In 2014, our biopharmaceutical business was managed through GIP, GEP and the vaccines and oncology businesses of VOC, which are discussed underCommercial Operationsabove.

For a discussion of certain of our key biopharmaceutical products, includingLyrica, thePrevnarfamily of products,Enbrel,Celebrex,Lipitor,Viagra,Zyvox,Sutent,Norvasc,thePremarinfamily of products,EliquisandXeljanz, see theAnalysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income—Biopharmaceutical—Selected Product Descriptionssection in our 2014 Financial Report.

We have entered into collaboration and/or co-promotion agreements relating to certain biopharmaceutical products, includingAricept,Enbrel(in the U.S. and Canada),SpirivaandRebif, each of which has expired or will expire in various markets over the next several years. For additional information, including a description of these collaboration and co-promotion agreements and their expiration dates, see theAnalysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income—Biopharmaceutical—Selected Product Descriptionsand theOverview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook—Our Operating Environment—Industry-Specific Challenges—Intellectual Property Rights and Collaboration/Licensing Rightssections in our 2014 Financial Report andItem 1A. Risk Factors—Dependence on Key In-Line Productsbelow.



In addition,Eliquiswas developed and is being commercialized in collaboration with Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (BMS). For additional information, see theAnalysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income—Biopharmaceutical—Selected Product Descriptionssection in our 2014 Financial Report.



Revenues from biopharmaceutical products contributed approximately92%of our total revenues in2014,93%of our total revenues in2013, and94%of our total revenues in2012.



We recorded direct product sales of more than $1 billion for each of 10 biopharmaceutical products in2014,2013and2012. These products represented54%of our revenues from biopharmaceutical products in 2014,51%of our revenues from biopharmaceutical products in 2013 and50%of our revenues from biopharmaceutical products in 2012. SeeItem 1A. Risk Factors—Dependence on Key In-Line Productsbelow.



Worldwide revenues from biopharmaceutical products in2014were$45.7 billion, a decrease of5%compared to2013, reflecting a decrease in operational revenues of3%and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of2%.



Geographically, in the U.S., revenues from biopharmaceutical products decreased8%in2014, compared to2013. In our international markets, revenues from biopharmaceutical products decreased3%in2014, compared to2013, which primarily reflects the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange. During2014, international revenues from biopharmaceutical products represented62%of total revenues from biopharmaceutical products, compared to61%in2013.



For additional information, including a discussion of key operational revenue drivers, see theAnalysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income—Biopharmaceutical Revenues—Revenues—Major Biopharmaceutical Productsand—Biopharmaceutical—Selected Product Descriptionssections in our 2014 Financial Report.














Consumer Healthcare



Based on 2014 revenues, our Consumer Healthcare business is the fifth-largest branded multi-national, OTC, healthcare products business in the world and produces two of the ten largest selling consumer healthcare brands (CentrumandAdvil) in the world. Consumer Healthcare revenues totaled$3.4 billionfor 2014, an increase of3%compared to 2013, reflecting operational revenue growth of5%, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of2%.



The Consumer Healthcare business holds strong positions in various geographic markets, with its highest revenue volume in the U.S., China, Canada, Germany, Italy and Brazil.



Major categories and product lines in our Consumer Healthcare business include:



•Dietary Supplements:Centrumbrands (includingCentrum,Centrum Silver,Centrum Men’sandWomen’s,Centrum Specialist,Centrum Flavor Burst, andCentrum Kids),Caltrate, andEmergen-C;

•Pain Management:Advilbrands (includingAdvil,Advil PM,Advil Liqui-Gels,Advil Film Coated,Children’s Advil,Infants’ AdvilandAdvil Migraine), andThermaCare;

•Gastrointestinal:Nexium 24HR/Nexium Control;

•Respiratory:Robitussin,Advil Cold & Sinus,Advil Congestion Relief, andDimetapp; and

•Personal Care:ChapStickandPreparation H.



In August 2012, we entered into an agreement with AstraZeneca PLC (AstraZeneca) for the exclusive, global, OTC rights forNexium, a leading prescription drug currently approved to treat the symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux disease. In December 2011, we completed our acquisition of the consumer healthcare business of Ferrosan, a Danish company engaged in the sale of science-based consumer healthcare products, including dietary supplements and lifestyle products, primarily in the Nordic region and the emerging markets of Russia and Central and Eastern Europe. For additional information, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 2A.Acquisitions, Licensing Agreements, Collaborative Arrangements, Divestitures, and Equity-Method Investments: Acquisitionsand —Note 2B. Acquisitions, Licensing Agreements, Collaborative Arrangements, Divestitures, and Equity-Method Investments: Licensing Agreementsin our 2014 Financial Report and theOverview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook—Our Business Development Initiativessection in our 2014 Financial Report.



For additional information regarding the revenues of our Consumer Healthcare business, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 18. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Informationand theAnalysis of Operating Segment Information—Global Vaccines, Oncology and Consumer Healthcare Operating Segmentsection in our 2014 Financial Report.





Research and Development



Innovation by our research and development (R&D) operations is very important to our success. Our goal is to discover, develop and bring to market innovative products that address major unmet medical needs. We spent$8.4 billionin2014,$6.7 billionin2013and$7.5 billionin2012on R&D.



Biopharmaceutical R&D



We conduct research internally and also through contracts with third parties, through collaborations with universities and biotechnology companies and in cooperation with other pharmaceutical firms. We also seek out promising chemical and biological lead molecules and innovative technologies developed by third parties to incorporate into our discovery and development processes or projects, as well as our product lines, through collaborations, alliance and license agreements, acquisitions and other arrangements.



Drug discovery and development is time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable. According to the Pharmaceutical Benchmarking Forum, out of 30 compounds entering preclinical development, only one is approved by a regulatory authority in a major market (U.S., the European Union (EU) or Japan). The process from early discovery or design to development to regulatory approval can take more than 10 years. Drug candidates can fail at any stage of the process, and candidates may not receive regulatory approval even after many years of research.












As of year-end 2014, we had 298 projects in R&D, ranging from discovery through registration, of which 86 programs are in Phase 1 through registration, with the remainder of the projects in pre-clinical development. At year-end 2014, our Phase 3 portfolio contained 23 programs. Development of a single compound is often pursued as part of multiple programs. While these new candidates may or may not eventually receive regulatory approval, new drug candidates entering clinical development phases are the foundation for future products.



In addition to discovering and developing new products, our R&D operations seek to add value to our existing products by improving their effectiveness, enhancing ease of dosing and by discovering new indications for them.



Information concerning several of our drug candidates in development, as well as supplemental filings for existing products, is set forth in theAnalysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income—Product Developments—Biopharmaceuticalsection in our 2014 Financial Report, which is incorporated by reference.



Our competitors also devote substantial funds and resources to R&D. We also compete against numerous small biotechnology companies in developing potential drug candidates. The extent to which our competitors are successful in their research could result in erosion of the sales of our existing products and potential sales of products in development, as well as unanticipated product obsolescence. SeeItem 1A. Risk Factors—Competitive Productsbelow.



We continue to strengthen our global R&D organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in R&D to achieve a sustainable pipeline that will deliver value in the near term and over time. Our R&D priorities include delivering a pipeline of differentiated therapies with the greatest scientific and commercial promise, innovating new capabilities that can position Pfizer for long-term leadership and creating new models for biomedical collaboration that will expedite the pace of innovation and productivity. To that end, our research primarily focuses on six high-priority areas that have a mix of small molecules and large molecules—immunology and inflammation; cardiovascular and metabolic diseases; oncology; vaccines; neuroscience and pain; and rare diseases. Another area of focus is biosimilars.



For additional information regarding our R&D operations, see theOverview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook—Our Strategy—Research OperationsandCosts and Expenses—Research and Development (R&D) Expenses—Description of Research and Development Operationssections in our 2014 Financial Report.





International Operations



We have significant operations outside the U.S. In 2014, for developed and emerging markets, these operations were managed through our three operating segments: GIP, GEP and VOC. A significant change effected by our new structure is the full integration of emerging markets into each business. Emerging markets are an important component of our strategy for global leadership, and our commercial structure recognizes that the demographics and rising economic power of the fastest-growing emerging markets are becoming more closely aligned with the profile found within developed markets. In 2013, our pharmaceutical operations in emerging markets were managed through our former Emerging Markets business unit and our operations in developed markets were managed together with our U.S. operations through our other pharmaceutical business units. Our Consumer Healthcare operations were managed worldwide in 2013. For additional information regarding our operating segments, see theOverview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook—Our Strategysection in our 2014 Financial Report andCommercial Operationsabove.



Revenues from operations outside the U.S. of$30.5 billionaccounted for62%of our total revenues in2014. Revenues exceeded $500 million in each of13, 12 and 14 countries outside the U.S. in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The U.S. is our largest national market, comprising38%of total revenues in 2014 and39%of total revenues in 2013 and 2012. Japan is our second-largest national market, with approximately 9%, 10% and 12% of total revenues in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.



For a geographic breakdown of revenues, see the table captionedGeographic Informationin the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 18. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Informationin our 2014 Financial Report, and the table captionedRevenues by Segment and Geographic Areain our 2014 Financial Report. Those tables are incorporated by reference.



Our international operations are subject, in varying degrees, to a number of risks inherent in carrying on business in other countries. These include, among other things, currency fluctuations, capital and exchange control regulations, expropriation and other restrictive government actions. SeeItem 1A. Risk Factors—Risks Affecting International Operationsbelow. Our international businesses are also subject to government-imposed constraints, including laws and regulations on pricing, reimbursement, and access to our products. SeeGovernment Regulation and Price Constraints—Outside the United Statesbelow for a discussion of these matters.












Depending on the direction of change relative to the U.S. dollar, foreign currency values can increase or decrease the reported dollar value of our net assets and results of operations. While we cannot predict with certainty future changes in foreign exchange rates or the effect they will have on us, we attempt to mitigate their impact through operational means and by using various financial instruments, depending upon market conditions. For additional information, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 7E. Financial Instruments: Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activitiesin our 2014 Financial Report, as well as theForward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results—Financial Risk Managementsection in our 2014 Financial Report. Those sections of our 2014 Financial Report are incorporated by reference.





Marketing



In our global biopharmaceutical businesses, we promote our products to healthcare providers and patients. Through our marketing organizations, we explain the approved uses, benefits and risks of our products to healthcare providers, such as doctors, nurse practitioners, physician assistants, pharmacists, and the Managed Care Organizations (MCOs) that provide insurance coverage, such as hospitals, Integrated Delivery Systems, Pharmacy Benefit Managers (PBMs), Health Plans, employers and government agencies. We also market directly to consumers in the U.S. through direct-to-consumer advertising that communicates the approved uses, benefits and risks of our products while motivating people to have meaningful conversations with their doctors. In addition, we sponsor general advertising to educate the public on disease awareness, prevention and wellness, important public health issues, and our patient assistance programs.



Our prescription pharmaceutical products are sold principally to wholesalers, but we also sell directly to retailers, hospitals, clinics, government agencies and pharmacies, and, in the case ofPrevnar 13in the U.S., we primarily sell directly to individual provider offices, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and wholesalers. We seek to gain access for our products on healthcare authority and MCO formularies, which are lists of approved medicines available to members of the MCOs. MCOs use various benefit designs, such as tiered co-pays for formulary products, to drive utilization of products in preferred formulary positions. We also work with MCOs to assist them with disease management, patient education and other tools that help their medical treatment routines.



During 2014, Pfizer revenues from our three largest biopharmaceutical wholesalers in the U.S. were as follows:



•McKesson, Inc.—13%of our total revenues (and 34% of our total U.S. revenues);

•Cardinal Health, Inc.—10%of our total revenues (and 27% of our total U.S. revenues); and

•AmerisourceBergen Corporation—9%of our total revenues (and 24% of our total U.S. revenues).



Sales to these wholesalers were concentrated in the biopharmaceutical businesses.



Our global Consumer Healthcare business utilizes its own sales and marketing organizations to promote its products, and occasionally uses distributors in smaller markets. Our Consumer Healthcare business’s advertising and promotions are generally disseminated to consumers through television, print, digital and other media advertising, as well as through in-store promotion. Consumer Healthcare products are sold through a wide variety of channels, including distributors, pharmacies, retail chains and grocery and convenience stores. Our Consumer Healthcare business generates a significant portion of its sales from several large customers, the loss of any one of which could have a material adverse effect on the Consumer Healthcare business.





Patents and Other Intellectual Property Rights



Our products are sold around the world under brand-name, logo and certain product design trademarks that we consider, in the aggregate, to be of material importance to Pfizer. Trademark protection continues in some countries for as long as the mark is used and, in other countries, for as long as it is registered. Registrations generally are for fixed, but renewable, terms.



We own or license a number of U.S. and foreign patents. These patents cover pharmaceutical and other products and their uses, pharmaceutical formulations, product manufacturing processes and intermediate chemical compounds used in manufacturing.



Patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. The actual protection afforded by a patent, which can










vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage and the availability of legal remedies in the country. Further, patent term extension may be available in many major countries to compensate for a regulatory delay in approval of the product. For additional information, seeGovernment Regulation and Price Constraints—Intellectual Propertybelow.



In the aggregate, our patent and related rights are of material importance to our businesses in the U.S. and most other countries. Based on current product sales, and considering the vigorous competition with products sold by our competitors, the patent rights we consider most significant in relation to our business as a whole, together with the year in which the basic product patent expires (including, where applicable, the additional six-month pediatric exclusivity period and/or the granted patent term extension), are those for the medicines set forth in the table below. Patent term extensions, supplementary protection certificates and pediatric exclusivity periods are not reflected in the expiration date listed in the table below, unless they have been granted by the issuing authority. In some instances, there are later-expiring patents relating to our products directed to particular forms or compositions, to methods of manufacturing, or to use of the drug in the treatment of particular diseases or conditions. However, in some cases, such patents may not protect our drug from generic or, as applicable, biosimilar competition after the expiration of the basic patent.



DrugU.S. Basic Product Patent Expiration YearMajor EU Basic Product Patent Expiration YearJapan Basic Product Patent Expiration YearViagra2012(1)20132013(1)Enbrel(2)N/A20152015Celebrex2014(3)20142019Zyvox201520162019Lyrica20182014(4)2022Bosulif201920192019Chantix202020212022Inlyta202020252025Xeljanz2020N/A(5)2025Sutent202120212024Eliquis(6)202320262026Ibrance2023N/A(7)N/A(7)Prevnar 13/Prevenar 1320262026(8)2029Xalkori202920272028



(1)In addition to the basic product patent coveringViagra, which expired in 2012,Viagrais covered by a U.S. method-of-treatment patent which, including the six-month pediatric exclusivity period associated withRevatio(which has the same active ingredient asViagra), expires in 2020. However, as a result of a patent litigation settlement, Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. will be allowed to launch a generic version ofViagrain the U.S. in December 2017, or earlier under certain circumstances. The corresponding method-of-treatment patent coveringViagrain Japan expired in May 2014.



(2)Pfizer does not marketEnbrelin the U.S. For additional information, see theOverview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook—Our Operating Environment—Industry-Specific Challenges—Intellectual Property Rights and Collaboration/Licensing Rightssection in our 2014 Financial Report. In other markets, biosimilar competition will depend, to a significant extent, on the timing and implementation of regulations governing the development and approval of biosimilar products.



(3)We obtained a reissue patent in the U.S. in March 2013 covering the approved uses ofCelebrex. The reissue patent expires in December 2015. This patent is presently the subject of litigation between Pfizer and several generic companies. In December 2014, generic versions ofCelebrexbecame available pursuant to settlement agreements licensing the reissue patent to several of the generic manufacturers involved in the ongoing litigation.



(4)ForLyrica, regulatory exclusivity in the EU expired during 2014.



(5)Xeljanzis not approved in the EU.












(6)Eliquiswas developed and is being commercialized in collaboration with BMS.



(7)Ibranceis not approved in the EU or Japan.



(8)The EU patent that covers the combination of the 13 serotype conjugates ofPrevenar13has been revoked following an opposition proceeding. This first instance decision will be appealed. There are other EU patents and pending applications covering the formulation and various aspects of the manufacturing process ofPrevenar13that remain in force.



We co-promoteAriceptwith Eisai.Aricepthas experienced patent-based expirations in many major markets since 2010. For additional information, including a description of certain of our other co-promotion agreements and their expiration dates, see theAnalysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income—Biopharmaceutical—Selected Product Descriptionsand theOverview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook—Our Operating Environment—Industry-Specific Challenges—Intellectual Property Rights and Collaboration/Licensing Rightssections in our 2014 Financial Report andItem 1A. Risk Factors—Dependence on Key In-Line Productsbelow.



A number of our current products have experienced patent-based expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in certain markets in the last few years. For example, in the U.S., we lost exclusivity forGeodonin March 2012,Revatiotablet in September 2012,Rapamunein January 2014,Detrol LAin January 2014 andCelebrexin December 2014. Pursuant to terms of a settlement agreement, certain formulations ofZyvoxbecame subject to generic competition in the U.S. in January 2015. We expect certain other formulations ofZyvoxwill become subject to generic competition in the U.S. in the first half of 2015. In most major European markets, we lost exclusivity forXalatanandXalacomin January 2012,Detrol LAin September 2012,Viagrain June 2013,Insprain March 2014,Lyricain July 2014 andCelebrexin November 2014. We lost exclusivity forLyricain Canada in February 2013.Lipitorhas lost exclusivity in all major markets and now faces multi-source generic competition in the U.S., Europe, Japan and Australia.



For additional information, including a further discussion of our products experiencing, or expected to experience in 2015, patent expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in various markets, see theOverview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook—Our Operating Environment—Industry-Specific Challenges—Intellectual Property Rights and Collaboration/Licensing Rightssection in our 2014 Financial Report.



Companies have filed applications with the FDA seeking approval of products that we believe infringe our patents covering, among other products,Viagra,Celebrex,Sutent,EpiPen,ToviazandTygacilextended-release capsules.For additional information, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 17A1. Commitments and Contingencies—Legal Proceedings—Patent Litigationin our 2014 Financial Report.



The expiration of a basic product patent or loss of patent protection resulting from a legal challenge normally results in significant competition from generic products against the originally patented product and can result in a significant reduction in revenues for that product in a very short period of time. In some cases, however, we can continue to obtain commercial benefits from product manufacturing trade secrets; patents on uses for products; patents on processes and intermediates for the economical manufacture of the active ingredients; patents for special formulations of the product or delivery mechanisms; and conversion of the active ingredient to OTC products.



Biotechnology Products



Our biotechnology products, includingBeneFIX,ReFacto,XynthaandEnbrel(we marketEnbreloutside the U.S. and Canada), may face competition in the future from biosimilars (also referred to as follow-on biologics). In the U.S., such biosimilars would reference biotechnology products approved under the U.S. Public Health Service Act. Additionally, the FDA has approved a follow-on recombinant human growth hormone that referenced our biotechnology product,Genotropin,which was approved under the U.S. Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act.



Abbreviated legal pathways for the approval of biosimilars exist in certain international markets and, since the passage of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Heath Care and Education Reconciliation Act (commonly referred to as the Affordable Care Act, or ACA), a framework for such approval exists in the U.S. The regulatory implementation of these ACA provisions is ongoing and expected to take several years. However, the FDA has begun to clarify its expectations for approval via the biosimilar pathway with the issuance of a number of draft guidance documents. In 2014, the FDA issued draft guidance on clinical pharmacology for biosimilars and reference product exclusivity for biologic products. Over the next several years, the FDA is expected to finalize these guidance documents and issue additional draft and final










guidance documents. The FDA has also begun to accept biosimilar applications for review. SeeGovernment Regulation and Price Constraints—Biosimilarsbelow for additional information on the ACA’s approval framework for biosimilars.



In Europe, the European Commission has granted marketing authorizations for several biosimilars pursuant to a set of general and product class-specific guidelines for biosimilar approvals issued over the past few years. In 2013, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) approved the first biosimilar of a monoclonal antibody. In Japan, the regulatory authority has granted marketing authorizations for certain biosimilars, including the monoclonal antibody infliximab, pursuant to a guideline for biosimilar approvals issued in 2009.



If competitors are able to obtain marketing approval for biosimilars that reference our biotechnology products, our products may become subject to competition from these biosimilars, with attendant competitive pressure, and price reductions could follow. Expiration or successful challenge of applicable patent rights could trigger this competition, assuming any relevant exclusivity period has expired. However, biosimilar manufacturing is complex and biosimilars are not generic versions of the reference products. Therefore, at least initially upon approval of a biosimilar competitor, biosimilar competition with respect to biologics may not be as significant as generic competition with respect to small molecule drugs.



As part of our business strategy, we are capitalizing on our expertise in biologics manufacturing, as well as our regulatory and commercial strengths, to develop biosimilar medicines. As such, a better-defined biosimilars approval pathway will assist us in pursuing approval of our own biosimilar products in the U.S. SeeItem 1A. Risk Factors—Biotechnology Productsbelow.



We may face more litigation with respect to the validity and/or scope of patents relating to our biotechnology products with substantial revenue. Likewise, as we enter the biosimilars area and seek to launch products, patents may be asserted against us.



International



One of the main limitations on our operations in some countries outside the U.S. is the lack of effective intellectual property protection for our products. Under international and U.S. free trade agreements in recent years, global protection of intellectual property rights has been improving. For additional information, seeGovernment Regulation and Price Constraints—Intellectual Propertybelow.





Competition



Our businesses are conducted in intensely competitive and often highly regulated markets. Many of our prescription pharmaceutical products face competition in the form of branded or generic drugs that treat similar diseases or indications. The principal forms of competition include efficacy, safety, ease of use, and cost effectiveness. Though the means of competition vary among product categories and business groups, demonstrating the value of our products is a critical factor for success in all of our principal businesses.



Our competitors include other worldwide research-based biopharmaceutical companies, smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus, generic and biosimilar drug manufacturers and consumer healthcare manufacturers. We compete with other companies that manufacture and sell products that treat diseases or indications similar to those treated by our major products.



This competition affects our core product business, which is focused on applying innovative science to discover and market products that satisfy unmet medical needs and provide therapeutic improvements. Our emphasis on innovation is underscored by our multi-billion-dollar investment in R&D, as well as our business development transactions, both designed to result in a strong product pipeline. Our investment in research does not stop with drug approval; we continue to invest in further understanding the value of our products for the conditions they treat, as well as potential new applications. We seek to protect the health and well-being of patients by striving to ensure that medically sound knowledge of the benefits and risks of our medicines is understood and communicated to patients, physicians and global health authorities. We also seek to continually enhance the organizational effectiveness of all of our biopharmaceutical functions, including coordinating support for our salespersons’ efforts to accurately and ethically launch and promote our products to our customers.



Operating conditions have become more challenging under the mounting global pressures of competition, industry regulation and cost containment. We continue to take measures to evaluate, adapt and improve our organization and business practices to better meet customer and public needs. We believe that we have taken an industry-leading role in evolving our approaches to U.S. direct-to-consumer advertising; interactions with, and payments to, healthcare professionals; and medical










education grants. We also continue to sponsor programs to address patient affordability and access barriers, as we strive to advance fundamental health system change through support for better healthcare solutions.



Our Consumer Healthcare business faces competition from OTC business units in other major pharmaceutical and consumer packaged goods companies, as well as retailers who carry their own private label brands. Our competitive position is affected by several factors, including, among others, the amount and effectiveness of our and our competitors’ promotional resources; customer acceptance; product quality; our and our competitors’ introduction of new products, ingredients, claims, dosage forms, or other forms of innovation; and pricing, regulatory and legislative matters (such as product labeling, patient access and prescription to OTC switches).



Our vaccines business may face competition from the introduction of next generation vaccines. For example, Prevnar 13 may face competition in the form of alternative 13-valent or additional valent next-generation pneumococcal conjugate vaccines prior to the expiration of its patents.

Managed Care Organizations



The evolution of managed care in the U.S. has been a major factor in the competitive makeup of the healthcare marketplace. Approximately 281 million people in the U.S. now have some form of health insurance coverage. Due to the expansion of health insurance coverage (seeGovernment Regulation and Price Constraints—In the United Statesbelow), both the marketing of prescription drugs to consumers and the entities that manage this expanded coverage in the U.S. continue to grow in importance.



The influence of MCOs has increased in recent years due to the growing number of patients receiving coverage through MCOs. At the same time, those organizations have been consolidating into fewer, even larger entities. This consolidation enhances both their ability to negotiate, as well as their importance to Pfizer.



The growth of MCOs has increased pressure on drug prices as well as revenues. One objective of MCOs is to contain and, where possible, reduce healthcare expenditures. MCOs typically negotiate prices with pharmaceutical providers by using formularies (which are lists of approved medicines available to members of the MCOs), clinical protocols (requiring prior authorization for a branded product if a generic product is available or requiring the patient to first fail on one or more generic products before permitting access to a branded medicine), volume purchasing, long-term contracts and their ability to influence volume and market share of prescription drugs. In addition, by placing branded medicines on higher-tier status in their formularies (leading to higher patient co-pays) or non-preferred tier status, MCOs transfer a portion of the cost of the medicine to the patient, resulting in significant out-of-pocket expenses for the patient, especially for chronic treatments. This financial disincentive is a tool for MCOs to manage drug costs and channel patients to medicines preferred by the MCOs.



Due to their generally lower cost, generic medicines typically are placed in lowest cost tiers of MCO formularies. The breadth of the products covered by formularies can vary considerably from one MCO to another, and many formularies include alternative and competitive products for treatment of particular medical problems.



Exclusion of a product from a formulary or other MCO-implemented restrictions can significantly impact drug usage in the MCO patient population. Consequently, pharmaceutical companies compete to gain access to formularies for their products. Unique product features, such as greater efficacy, better patient ease of use, or fewer side effects, are generally beneficial to achieving access to formularies. However, lower overall cost of therapy is also an important factor. We have been generally, although not universally, successful in having our major products included on MCO formularies.



MCOs also emphasize primary and preventive care, out-patient treatment and procedures performed at doctors’ offices and clinics as another way to manage costs. Hospitalization and surgery, typically the most expensive forms of treatment, are carefully managed. Since the use of certain drugs can reduce the need for hospitalization, professional therapy, or even surgery, such drugs can become favored first-line treatments for certain diseases.

The ACA has accelerated payment reform by distributing risk across MCOs and other stakeholders in care delivery with the intent of improving quality while reducing costs, which creates pressure on MCOs to tie reimbursement to defined outcomes.










Generic Products



One of the biggest competitive challenges that we face is from generic pharmaceutical manufacturers. Upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for a product, especially a small molecule product, we can lose the major portion of revenues for that product in a very short period of time. Several such competitors make a regular practice of challenging our product patents before their expiration. Unlike us, generic competitors often operate without large R&D expenses, as well as without costs of conveying medical information about products to the medical community. In addition, the FDA approval process exempts generics from costly and time-consuming clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy, allowing generic manufacturers to rely on the safety and efficacy data of the innovator product. Generic products need only demonstrate a level of availability in the body equivalent to that of the innovator product. This means that generic competitors can market a competing version of our product after the expiration or loss of our patent and often charge much less.



In addition, our patent-protected products can face competition in the form of generic versions of competitors’ branded products that lose their market exclusivity.



As noted above, MCOs that focus primarily on the immediate cost of drugs often favor generics over brand-name drugs. Many governments also encourage the use of generics as alternatives to brand-name drugs in their healthcare programs, including Medicaid in the U.S. Laws in the U.S. generally allow, and in some cases require, pharmacists to substitute, for brand-name drugs, generic drugs that have been rated under government procedures to be chemically and therapeutically equivalent to brand-name drugs. In a small subset of states, prescribing physicians are able to expressly prevent such substitution. In the U.S., Pfizer’s Greenstone subsidiary and Pfizer Injectables sell generic versions of Pfizer’s, as well as certain competitors’, solid oral dose and sterile injectable pharmaceutical products, respectively, upon loss of exclusivity, as appropriate.





Raw Materials



Raw materials essential to our businesses are purchased worldwide in the ordinary course of business from numerous suppliers. In general, these materials are available from multiple sources. No serious shortages or delays of raw materials were encountered in 2014, and none are expected in 2015. We have successfully secured the materials necessary to meet our requirements where there have been short-term imbalances between supply and demand, but generally at higher prices than those historically paid.





Government Regulation and Price Constraints



In the United States



General.Pharmaceutical companies are subject to extensive laws and regulations by national, state and local agencies in the countries in which they do business. Of particular importance in the U.S. is the FDA, which has jurisdiction over our biopharmaceutical products and administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, advertising and post-marketing surveillance of these products. The FDA also regulates our Consumer Healthcare products. Other federal agencies, including the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, also regulate some of our products.



Before any of our biopharmaceutical products may be marketed in the U.S., the FDA needs to approve a New Drug Application or Biologics License Application for that product. The steps required before the FDA will approve an application include multiple stages of clinical trials conducted by the study sponsor, sponsor submission of the application to the FDA for review, the FDA’s review of the data to assess the drug’s safety and effectiveness, and the FDA’s inspection of the facilities where the product will be manufactured.



The marketing practices of all U.S. pharmaceutical companies are subject to federal and state healthcare laws that are intended to protect the integrity of government healthcare programs. The Office of Inspector General (OIG) of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) oversees compliance with applicable federal healthcare laws, including the federal anti-kickback statute, which criminalizes the offering of something of value to induce the recommendation, order or purchase of products reimbursed under a federal healthcare program, and false claim laws. The Federal Trade Commission also has the authority to regulate the advertising of consumer healthcare products, including OTC drugs and dietary supplements. Many of our activities are also subject to the jurisdiction of the SEC. Additionally, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) prohibits U.S. corporations and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business abroad. The scope of the FCPA includes interactions with certain healthcare professionals in many countries. Other countries










have enacted similar anti-corruption laws and/or regulations. Individual states, acting through their attorneys general, have become active as well, seeking to regulate the marketing of prescription drugs under state consumer protection and false advertising laws.



Our business has been and will continue to be subject to these and various other U.S. laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us to administrative and legal proceedings and actions by these various governmental bodies. See the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 17. Commitments and Contingenciesin our 2014 Financial Report. Such actions may involve product seizures and other civil and criminal sanctions.

Healthcare Reform.In March 2010, the ACA was enacted in the U.S. The principal provisions affecting the biopharmaceutical industry provide for the following:

•a minimum rebate of 23.1% on branded prescription drugs sold to Medicaid beneficiaries;

•extension of Medicaid prescription drug rebates to drugs dispensed to enrollees in certain Medicaid managed care organizations;

•discounts on branded prescription drug sales to Medicare Part D participants who are in the Medicare “coverage gap”; and

•a fee payable to the federal government (which is not deductible for U.S. income tax purposes) based on our calendar-year share relative to other companies of branded prescription drug sales to specified government programs (effective January 1, 2011, with the total fee to be paid each year by the pharmaceutical industry increasing annually through 2018).



The ACA included a coverage expansion that took effect in 2014. Health Insurance Exchanges were created by the ACA to provide an opportunity for individuals without access to employer or other government sponsored coverage to purchase insurance from private health plans offering coverage compliant with ACA mandated provisions. States could choose to operate the Health Insurance Exchange with a federal grant, or defer operations to the federal government. Newly eligible patients enrolled either in Medicaid or in a Health Insurance Exchange plan. The Congressional Budget Office estimated that approximately 7 million Americans gained Medicaid coverage, and HHS reported that 6.7 million Americans were ultimately enrolled in Health Insurance Exchange plans in 2014.



The ACA specifies certain benefits and services that must be covered for health insurers to qualify to participate in the Health Insurance Exchanges, including prescription drugs. In general, health plans in the Health Insurance Exchange offer benefits that are more restrictive than the typical large employer, but more comprehensive than most catastrophic health insurance plans and some other limited policies available in the individual insurance marketplace. This means that there are high deductibles and co-pays, increased use of co-insurance, fewer medicines on formularies and restricted networks of physicians and hospitals. Because of these factors, Health Insurance Exchange enrollment has had only a negligible impact on Pfizer’s 2014 revenues.



The coverage expansion included funding for increased Medicaid enrollment. Twenty-seven states and the District of Columbia opted to expand Medicaid eligibility in 2014. Because of the substantial mandatory rebates paid by pharmaceutical companies to the Medicaid program, and the formulary restrictions that limit access to brand name drugs in many states, the Medicaid expansion has also had only a negligible impact on Pfizer’s 2014 revenues.



Changes in Disclosure of Relationships with U.S. Physicians and Teaching Hospitals

. The ACA requires that biopharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers record transfers of value made to licensed U.S. physicians and teaching hospitals and to initially disclose such data to HHS by March 2014. Information provided by companies was aggregated and posted on the Open Payments website in September 2014, which is managed by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, the agency responsible for implementing disclosure provisions of the ACA. In addition to civil penalties for failure to report transfers of value to physicians or teaching hospitals, there will be criminal penalties if a manufacturer intentionally makes false statements or excludes information in such reports. Increased access to such data by fraud and abuse investigators, industry critics and media will likely draw attention to our collaborations with reported entities and will importantly provide opportunities to underscore the critical nature of our collaborations for developing new medicines and exchanging scientific information. This national payment transparency effort, coupled with industry commitment to uphold voluntary codes of conduct (such as the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA)

Code on Interactions with Healthcare Professionals

and PhRMA

Guiding Principles Direct to Consumer Advertisements About Prescription Medicines

) and rigorous internal training and compliance efforts, will complement existing laws and regulations to help ensure ethical collaboration and truthful product communications.












Biosimilars.The ACA also created a framework for the approval of biosimilars (also known as follow-on biologics) following the expiration of 12 years of exclusivity for the innovator biologic, with a potential six-month pediatric extension. Under the ACA, biosimilar applications may not be submitted until four years after the approval of the reference, innovator biologic. The FDA is responsible for implementation of the legislation, which will require the FDA to address such key topics as:



•the type and extent of data needed to establish biosimilarity;



•the data required to achieve interchangeability compared to biosimilarity;



•the naming convention for biosimilars;



•the tracking and tracing of adverse events; and



•the acceptability of data using a non-U.S.-licensed comparator to demonstrate biosimilarity and/or interchangeability with a U.S.-licensed reference product.



In February 2012, the FDA released three draft guidance documents, in which it clarified that biosimilar applicants may use a non-U.S.-licensed comparator in certain studies to demonstrate biosimilarity to a U.S.-licensed reference product. In 2014, the FDA issued draft guidance on clinical pharmacology for biosimilars and reference product exclusivity for biologic products. Over the next several years, the FDA is expected to finalize these guidance documents and issue additional draft and final documents impacting biosimilars. Further clarity may also be provided as the FDA begins to review biosimilar applications, the first four of which were filed by other companies pursuant to the ACA pathway in 2014.



Medicaid and Related Matters.The majority of states use preferred drug lists to restrict access to certain medicines in Medicaid. Restrictions exist for some Pfizer products in certain states. Access in the Medicaid managed care program is typically determined by the health plans providing coverage for Medicaid recipients contracting for the provision of services in the state. Given certain states’ current and potential ongoing fiscal crises, a growing number of states are considering a variety of cost-control strategies, including capitated managed care plans that typically contain cost by restricting access to certain treatments.



Pfizer must give discounts or rebates on purchases or reimbursements of pharmaceutical products by state Medicaid agencies and certain other federal and state agencies and programs. See the discussion regarding rebates in theAnalysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income—Revenues—Overviewsection in our 2014 Financial Report and in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 1G. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies:Revenues andAccounts Receivablein our 2014 Financial Report, which are incorporated by reference.



Sustainable Growth Rate Replacement. The Medicare physician payment formula known as the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) is routinely overridden by Congressional action because it would lead to dramatic decreases in physician payment. The current legislative relief expires in March 2015. Congress issued a bi-partisan proposal to repeal the SGR and replace it with a new payment model. This form of SGR replacement is estimated by the Congressional Budget Office to cost the federal government approximately $144 billion over 10 years. The source of those funds has yet to be determined, but could include additional taxes on and/or rebate requirements applicable to the pharmaceutical industry, including Pfizer.



Outside the United States



We encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries.



Pricing and Reimbursement. In Europe, Japan, China, Canada, South Korea and some other international markets, governments provide healthcare at low direct cost to consumers and regulate pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system, particularly under recent global economic pressures. In particular, the EU does not have jurisdiction over patient reimbursement or pricing matters in its Member States, so we continue to work with individual countries on such matters across the region. This international patchwork of price regulation and differing economic conditions and assessments of value across countries has led to different prices in different countries and some third-party trade in our products between countries.



The practice of many countries linking their regulated medicine prices to those of other countries, i.e., international reference pricing (IRP), adds to the regional impact of price cuts in individual countries and hinders patient access and innovation. Price variations have also resulted from exchange rate fluctuations that are exacerbated by IRP systems. The










downward pricing pressure resulting from this dynamic can be expected to continue as a result of reforms to IRP policies, emergency measures targeting pharmaceuticals in some European countries and ongoing exchange rate fluctuations.

New Drug Approvals and Pharmacovigilance.In the EU, the approval of new drugs may be achieved using the Mutual Recognition Procedure/Decentralized Procedure or EU Commission/EMA Centralized Procedure. These procedures apply in the EU Member States, plus the European Economic Area countries, Norway and Iceland. The use of these procedures generally provides a more rapid and consistent approval process across the Member States than was the case when the approval processes were operating independently within each country.



Health authorities in many middle and lower income countries require marketing approval by a recognized regulatory authority (e.g., similar to the authority of the FDA or the EMA) before they begin to conduct their application review process and/or issue their final approval. Many authorities also require local clinical data in the country’s population in order to receive final marketing approval. These requirements delay marketing authorization in those countries relative to the U.S. and Europe.



China’s regulatory system is unique in many ways, and its drug development and registration requirements are not always consistent with U.S. or other international standards. As a result, it is not uncommon to see treatments entering the market in China two to five years after first marketing in the U.S. and Europe.



In 2012, new pharmacovigilance legislation came into force in the EU. Key changes include the establishment of a new Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee within the EMA, with responsibility for reviewing and making recommendations on product safety issues for the EU authorities. It also introduces the possibility for regulators to require pharmaceutical companies to conduct post-authorization efficacy studies at the time of approval, or at any time afterwards in light of scientific developments. There are also additional requirements regarding adverse drug reaction reporting and additional monitoring of products. Outside developed markets such as the EU and Japan, pharmacovigilance requirements vary and are typically less extensive.



Clinical Trials Regulation. The new EU Regulation on Clinical Trials was published in May 2014, and is expected to come into force, at the earliest, in May 2016. This new regulation is aimed at simplifying and harmonizing the governance of clinical trials in the EU, particularly the processes for submission and approval of clinical trial applications, which have been criticized as harming Europe’s competitiveness in clinical R&D of new medicines. In line with the pro-transparency policy of the EU institutions, the new regulation will also require increased public posting of clinical trial results.



Clinical Trial Data Sharing. In October 2014, the EMA adopted its policy on the publication of clinical data for medicinal products for human use, which became effective on January 1, 2015. Under this policy, the EMA will, for the first time, proactively publish clinical data from application dossiers for new marketing authorizations, subject to limited exceptions for commercially confidential information and the exclusion of any protected personal data. This clinical data can be accessed via the EMA’s website, subject to the acceptance of terms of use, which also includes disclosure that the data will be used only for non-commercial research purposes.



Healthcare Professional Transparency and Disclosures.In 2013, the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA) released its disclosure code of transfers of value to healthcare professionals and organizations. The code requires all members of EFPIA, including Pfizer, to disclose transfers of value to healthcare professionals and healthcare organizations beginning in 2016, covering the relevant transfers in 2015. Each member company will be required to document and disclose: (i) the names of healthcare professionals and associations that have received payments or other transfers of value and (ii) the amounts or value transferred, and the type of relationship.



Intellectual Property



The World Trade Organization Agreement on Trade Related Aspects of Intellectual Property (WTO-TRIPS) required participant countries to amend their intellectual property laws to provide patent protection for pharmaceutical products by 2005, with an extension until 2021 for least-developed countries. While we still face enforcement and other intellectual property challenges around the world, a number of countries have made improvements. We have experienced significant growth in our businesses in some of those countries. We include stronger patent protection among the factors we consider for continued business expansion in other participant countries.



While the global intellectual property environment has improved following WTO-TRIPS and bilateral/multilateral trade agreements, our future business growth depends on further progress in intellectual property protection. In emerging market countries in particular, governments have used intellectual property policies as a tool for reducing the price of imported medicines, as well as to protect their national pharmaceutical industries. There is considerable political pressure to weaken










existing intellectual property protection and resist implementation of any further protection, which has led to policies such as more restrictive standards and more difficult procedures for patenting biopharmaceutical inventions, restrictions on patenting certain types of inventions (e.g., new medical treatment methods), revocation of patents, issuance of compulsory licenses, weak intellectual property enforcement and failure to implement effective regulatory data protection. Our industry advocacy efforts focus on seeking a more balanced business environment for foreign manufacturers, as well as on underscoring the importance of strong intellectual property systems for local innovative industries.



Canada’s intellectual property regime for drugs provides some level of patent protection and data exclusivity (eight years), but it lacks the predictability and stability that comparable countries provide. Through intense negotiations as part of the Canada/EU Comprehensive Economic & Trade Agreement, Canadian authorities committed to introduce a right of appeal, a form of patent term restoration and to elevate the current data protection to a treaty obligation, further aligning its intellectual property regime to the EU. Canada also joined the ongoing negotiations of the Trans-Pacific Trade Partnership (TPP), and the TPP negotiations could further pressure Canada to enhance its intellectual property regime. The patent utility doctrine developed by the Canadian courts remains an important concern which is currently not being addressed by the Canadian government.



In China, the intellectual property environment has improved, although effective enforcement and adequate legal remedies remain areas of concern. The government has taken steps to protect intellectual property rights in conformity with World Trade Organization provisions, and several companies, including Pfizer, have established R&D centers in China due to increased confidence in China’s intellectual property environment. Despite this, China remained on the U.S. Department of Commerce Priority Watch List for 2013. Further, the standards for patentability in China remain more restrictive than in other major markets, including the U.S., Europe and Japan. Also, while a framework exists for protecting patents for 20 years, enforcement mechanisms are often lacking or inconsistent. For example, the absence of effective patent linkage mechanisms and preliminary injunctions, impractical evidentiary burdens, and heightened sufficiency standards have been used to invalidate patents at the enforcement stage.



In Brazil and other Latin American countries, the role of health regulatory authorities in reviewing patents (e.g., National Health Surveillance Agency (ANVISA) in Brazil), restrictive patentability rules and backlogs at patent agencies may limit our ability to protect our products through patents. The lack of regulatory data protection and difficulties in protecting certain types of inventions, such as new medical uses of drug products, may limit the commercial lifespan of some pharmaceutical products.



In India, policies favoring compulsory licensing of patents, the increasing tendency of the Indian Patent Office to revoke pharmaceutical patents in opposition proceedings, and restrictive standards for patentability of pharmaceutical products have made it difficult to protect many of our inventions. India maintains a system of pre-grant patent oppositions that delays the granting of patents and adds an additional challenge in our ability to protect our products through patents. Indian law includes special restrictions on the types of pharmaceutical inventions that may be patented which may limit our ability to protect our products. Recent use by the Indian government of compulsory licensing and patent revocation mechanisms heightens the risk of additional patent challenges targeting innovative pharmaceutical products, especially in areas perceived as being important to the public health of the population, such as infectious diseases, cancer and diabetes. In September 2012, Pfizer’s patent coveringSutentwas revoked by the Indian Patent Office and other challenges against Pfizer patents are ongoing.



In South Korea, the laws and regulations for the patent-regulatory approval linkage system were finalized and are in the process of being implemented as part of the United States-Korea Free Trade Agreement in 2012. The Korean patent-regulatory approval linkage system includes biologics.





Environmental Matters



Most of our operations are affected by national, state and/or local environmental laws. We have made, and intend to continue to make, the expenditures necessary for compliance with applicable laws. We also are cleaning up environmental contamination from past industrial activity at certain sites. See the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 17. Commitments and Contingenciesin our 2014 Financial Report. As a result, we incurred capital and operational expenditures in 2014 for environmental compliance purposes and for the clean-up of certain past industrial activity as follows:



•environment-related capital expenditures—$19 million; and

•other environment-related expenses—$160 million.












While capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance, including compliance with laws related to climate change, cannot be predicted with certainty, we have no reason to believe they will have a material effect on our capital expenditures or competitive position.



Climate change presents risks to our operations, including potential physical risks to our facilities and supply chain due to more frequent and severe weather events and water availability. We cannot provide assurance that physical risks to our facilities and supply chain due to climate change will not occur in the future; however, we have reviewed the potential for these risks and have concluded that, because of our facility locations, our existing distribution networks and our controls, we do not believe these risks are material to Pfizer in the near term.





Tax Matters



The discussion of tax-related matters in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 5. Tax Mattersin our 2014 Financial Report, is incorporated by reference.





Employees



In our innovation-intensive business, our employees are vital to our success. We believe we have good relationships with our employees. As of December 31, 2014, we employed approximately 78,300 people in our operations throughout the world.





Disclosure Pursuant to Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012



Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (ITRSHRA) requires disclosure by public companies of certain transactions involving the Government of Iran, as well as entities and individuals designated under Executive Order 13382 and Executive Order 13224 (the Executive Orders). In some instances, ITRSHRA requires companies to disclose these types of transactions, even if they were permissible under U.S. law or were conducted by a non-U.S. affiliate in accordance with the local law under which such entity operates.



As a global biopharmaceutical company, we conduct business in multiple jurisdictions throughout the world. During 2014, our activities included supplying life-saving medicines, medical products and consumer products (Pfizer products) for patient and consumer use in Iran. We ship Pfizer products to Iran, and conduct related activities, in accordance with licenses issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control and other U.S. and non-U.S. governmental entities, and in line with our corporate policies. We will continue our global activities to improve the health and well-being of patients and consumers in a manner consistent with applicable laws and our corporate policies. To our knowledge, none of our activities during 2014 are required to be disclosed pursuant to ITRSHRA.
















