ITEM 1.BUSINESS



ABOUT PFIZER



Pfizer Inc. is a research-based, global biopharmaceutical company.We apply science and our global resources to bring therapies to people that extend and significantly improve their lives through the discovery, development, manufacture and distribution of healthcare products, including innovative medicines and vaccines. We work across developed and emerging markets to advance wellness, prevention, treatments and cures that challenge the most feared diseases of our time. We collaborate with healthcare providers, governments and local communities to support and expand access to reliable, affordable healthcare around the world. Our revenues are derived from the sale of our products and, to a much lesser extent, from alliance agreements, under which we co-promote products discovered or developed by other companies or us. The majority of our revenues come from the manufacture and sale of biopharmaceutical products. The Company was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on June 2, 1942.



We believe that our medicines provide significant value for both healthcare providers and patients, not only from the improved treatment of diseases but also from a reduction in other healthcare costs, such as emergency room or hospitalization costs, as well as improvements in health, wellness and productivity. We continue to actively engage in dialogues about the value of our medicines and how we can best work with patients, physicians and payers to prevent and treat disease and improve outcomes. We continue to work within the current legal and pricing structures, as well as continue to review our pricing arrangements and contracting methods with payers, to maximize patient access and minimize any adverse impact on our revenues. We remain firmly committed to fulfilling our Company’s purpose:Breakthroughs that change patients’ lives. By doing so, we expect to create value for the patients we serve and for our colleagues and shareholders.



With the formation of the GSK Consumer Healthcare joint venture and the pending combination of Upjohn with Mylan, which are further discussed below, Pfizer is transforming itself into a more focused, global leader in science-based innovative medicines.



We are committed to capitalizing on growth opportunities by advancing our own pipeline and maximizing the value of our in-line products, as well as through various forms of business development, which can include alliances, licenses, joint ventures, collaborations, equity- or debt-based investments, dispositions, mergers and acquisitions. We view our business development activity as an enabler of our strategies, and we seek to generate earnings growth and enhance shareholder value by pursuing a disciplined, strategic and financial approach to evaluating business development opportunities.



Our significant recent business development activities include:



•License Agreement with Akcea Therapeutics, Inc.––In October 2019, we entered into a worldwide exclusive licensing agreement for AKCEA-ANGPTL3-LRx, an investigational antisense therapy being developed to treat patients with certain cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, with Akcea, a majority-owned affiliate of Ionis. The transaction closed in November 2019 and we made an upfront payment of$250 millionto Akcea and Ionis.



•Formation of a New Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture—On July 31, 2019,we completed the transaction in which we and GSK combined our respective consumer healthcare businesses into a new consumer healthcare joint venture that operates globally under the GSK Consumer Healthcare name.The joint venture is a category leader in pain relief, respiratory and vitamins, minerals and supplements, and therapeutic oral health and is the largest global OTC consumer healthcare business.In exchange for contributing our Consumer Healthcare business to the joint venture, we received a32%equity stake in the new company and GSK owns the remaining68%.



•Acquisition of Array BioPharma Inc.—On July 30, 2019, we acquired Array, a commercial stage biopharmaceutical company focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of targeted small molecule medicines to treat cancer and other diseases of high unmet need, for $48 per share in cash. The total fair value of the consideration transferred for Array was approximately $11.2 billion ($10.9 billion, net of cash acquired).



•Agreement to Combine Upjohn with Mylan N.V.—On July 29, 2019, we announced that we entered into a definitive agreement to combine Upjohn with Mylan, creating a new global pharmaceutical company, Viatris. Under the terms of the agreement, which is structured as an all-stock, Reverse Morris Trust transaction, Upjohn is expected to be spun off or split off to Pfizer’s shareholders and, immediately thereafter, combined with Mylan.Pfizer shareholders would own 57% of the combined new company, and former Mylan shareholders would own 43%. The transaction is expected to be tax free to Pfizer and Pfizer shareholders.The transaction is anticipated to close in mid-2020, subject to Mylan shareholder approval and satisfaction of other customary closing conditions, including receipt of regulatory approvals.





Pfizer Inc.2019 Form 10-K1






•Acquisition of Therachon Holding AG—On July 1, 2019, we acquired all the remaining shares of Therachon Holding AG, a privately-held clinical-stage biotechnology company focused on rare diseases, with assets in development for the treatment of achondroplasia, a genetic condition and the most common form of short-limb dwarfism, for $340 million upfront, plus potential milestone payments of up to $470 million, contingent on the achievement of key milestones in the development and commercialization of the lead asset.



For a further discussion of our strategy and our business development initiatives, see theOverview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook—Our Business Development Initiativesand —Our Strategysections and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 2.Acquisitions, Divestitures, Equity-Method Investments and Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Arrangements and Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangementsin our2019Financial Report.



Our businesses are heavily regulated in most of the countries in which we operate. In the U.S., the principal authority regulating our operations is the FDA. The FDA regulates the safety and efficacy of the products we offer and our research, quality, manufacturing processes, product promotion, advertising and product labeling. Similar regulations exist in most other countries, and in many countries the government also regulates our prices. In the EU, the EMA conducts the scientific evaluation, supervision and safety monitoring of our products, and employs a centralized procedure for approval of medicines for the EU and the European Economic Area countries. In China, the NMPA is the primary regulatory authority for approving and supervising medicines. In Japan, the PMDA is involved in a wide range of regulatory activities, including clinical studies, approvals, post-marketing reviews and pharmaceutical safety. Health authorities in many middle and lower income countries require marketing approval by a recognized regulatory authority (i.e., similar to the authority of the FDA or EMA) before they begin to conduct their application review process and/or issue their final approval. For additional information, see theItem 1. Business—Government Regulation and Price Constraintssection in this 2019 Form 10-K.



Some amounts in this2019Form 10-K may not add due to rounding. All percentages have been calculated using unrounded amounts. All trademarks in this2019Form 10-K are the property of their respective owners.



AVAILABLE INFORMATION AND PFIZER WEBSITE



Our website is located atwww.pfizer.com. This2019Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and our Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are, or will be, available (free of charge) on our website, in text format and, where applicable, in interactive data file format,as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file this material with, or furnish it to, the SEC.



Throughout this2019Form 10-K, we “incorporate by reference” certain information from other documents filed or to be filed with the SEC, including our2020Proxy Statement and our2019Financial Report, portions of which are filed as Exhibit 13 to this2019Form 10-K, and which also will be contained in Appendix A to our2020Proxy Statement. The SEC allows us to disclose important information by referring to it in that manner. Please refer to this information. Our2019Annual Report to Shareholders consists of our2019Financial Report and the Corporate and Shareholder Information attached to the2020Proxy Statement. Our2019Financial Report will be available on our website on or about February 27, 2020. Our2020Proxy Statement will be available on our website on or about March 13, 2020.



We may use our website as a means of disclosing material information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation Fair Disclosure promulgated by the SEC. These disclosures are included on our website in the “Investors” or “News” sections. Accordingly, investors should monitor these portions of our website, in addition to following Pfizer’s press releases, SEC filings, public conference calls and webcasts, as well as Pfizer’s social media channels (Pfizer’s Facebook, YouTube and LinkedIn pages and Twitter accounts (@Pfizerand@Pfizer_News)).



Information relating to corporate governance at Pfizer, including our Corporate Governance Principles; Director Qualification Standards; Pfizer Policies on Business Conduct (for all of our employees, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Members of the Board of Directors; information concerning our Directors; ways to communicate by e-mail with our Directors; Board Committees; Committee Charters; Charter of the Lead Independent Director; and transactions in Pfizer securities by Directors and Officers are available on our website. We will provide any of the foregoing information without charge upon written request to our Corporate Secretary, Pfizer Inc., 235 East 42nd Street, New York, NY 10017. We will disclose any future amendments to, or waivers from, provisions of the Pfizer Policies on Business Conduct affecting our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Controller on our website as promptly as practicable, as may be required under applicable SEC and NYSE rules. Information relating to shareholder services, including the Computershare Investment Program, book-entry share ownership and direct deposit of dividends, is also available on our website.



The information contained on our website, our Facebook, YouTube and LinkedIn pages or our Twitter accounts is not incorporated by reference into this2019Form 10-K. Pfizer’s references to the URLs for websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.



Pfizer Inc.2019 Form 10-K2








COMMERCIAL OPERATIONS



At the beginning of our 2019 fiscal year, we began to manage our commercial operations through a new global structure consisting of three businesses—Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group (Biopharma), Upjohn and, through July 31, 2019, Consumer Healthcare, each led by a single manager. We have revised prior-period segment information in our 2019 Form 10-K to reflect the 2019 reorganization. Biopharma and Upjohn are the only reportable segments.



For additional information regarding the 2019 reorganization, as well as our Organizing for Growth initiative, see theOverview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook––Our Strategy––Organizing for Growthsection and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 17. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Informationin our 2019 Financial Report.



On July 31, 2019, Pfizer’s Consumer Healthcare business, an over-the-counter medicines business, was combined with GSK’s consumer healthcare business to form a new consumer healthcare joint venture in which we own a 32% equity stake. For additional information, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements––Note 1A.Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies: Basis of PresentationandNote 2C. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Equity-Method Investments and Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Arrangements and Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements: Equity-Method Investments and Assets and Liabilities Held for Salein our 2019 Financial Report.

Some additional information about our Biopharma and Upjohn business segments follows:PfizerBiopharmaceuticalsGroupBiopharma is a science-based medicines business that includes six business units – Oncology, Inflammation & Immunology, Rare Disease, Hospital, Vaccines and Internal Medicine. The Hospital unit commercializes our global portfolio of sterile injectable and anti-infective medicines and includes Pfizer’s contract manufacturing operation, Pfizer CentreOne. At the beginning of our 2019 fiscal year, we also incorporated our biosimilar portfolio into the Oncology and Inflammation & Immunology business units and certain legacy established products into the Internal Medicine business unit. Each business unit is committed to delivering breakthroughs that change patients’ lives.Upjohn is a global, primarily off-patent branded and generic medicines business, which includes a portfolio of 20 globally recognized solid oral dose brands, as well as a U.S.-based generics platform, Greenstone.Select products include:-Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13- Ibrance-Eliquis-Xeljanz-Enbrel(outside the U.S. and Canada)-Chantix/Champix-Sutent- Xtandi-Vyndaqel/VyndamaxSelect products include:-Lyrica- Lipitor- Norvasc- Celebrex- Viagra-Certain generic medicines

On July 29, 2019, we announced that we entered into a definitive agreement to combine Upjohn with Mylan, creating a new global pharmaceutical company, Viatris. For additional information, see theOverview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook—Our Business Development Initiativesand—Our Strategysections in our 2019 Financial Report.



For a further discussion of these operating segments, see thePfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group (Biopharma)andUpjohnsections in this 2019 Form 10-K, the table captionedRevenues by Operating Segment and Geographyin theAnalysis of the Consolidated Statements of Incomesection andthe Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 17.Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Information, including the tables therein captionedSelected Income Statement Information,Geographic InformationandSignificant Product Revenues, in our2019Financial Report, which are incorporated by reference.



Pfizer Inc.2019 Form 10-K3








PFIZER BIOPHARMACEUTICALS GROUP (BIOPHARMA)



The key therapeutic areas comprising our Biopharma business segment include:

Therapeutic AreaDescriptionKey ProductsInternal MedicineIncludes innovative brands from two therapeutic areas, Cardiovascular Metabolic and Pain, as well as regional brands.Eliquis, Chantix/Champix and Premarin familyOncologyIncludes innovative oncology brands of biologics, small molecules, immunotherapies, and biosimilars across a wide range of cancers.Ibrance, Sutent, Xtandi, Xalkori, Inlyta and Braftovi + MektoviHospitalIncludes our global portfolio of sterile injectable and anti-infective medicines, as well as Pfizer CentreOne, our contract manufacturing and active pharmaceutical ingredient sales operation.Sulperazon, Medrol, Vfend and ZithromaxVaccinesIncludes innovative vaccines brands across all ages—infants, adolescents and adults—in pneumococcal disease, Meningococcal diseaseand tick-borne encephalitis, with a pipeline focus on healthcare-acquired infections and maternal health.Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 (pediatric/adult), FSME-IMMUN, Nimenrix and TrumenbaInflammation and ImmunologyIncludes innovative brands and biosimilars for chronic immune and inflammatory diseases.Xeljanz, Enbrel (outside the U.S. and Canada), Inflectra and EucrisaRare DiseaseIncludes innovative brands for a number of therapeutic areas with rare diseases, including amyloidosis, hemophilia, and endocrine diseases.Vyndaqel/Vyndamax, BeneFIX, Genotropin and Refacto AF/Xyntha



We recorded direct product and/or alliance revenues of more than $1 billion for each of six Biopharma products in2019, seven Biopharma products in2018and six Biopharma products in2017:

Biopharma $1 Billion+ Products201920182017Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13IbranceIbranceIbranceEliquis*Eliquis*Eliquis*XeljanzEnbrelEnbrelEnbrelXeljanzXeljanzChantix/ChampixChantix/ChampixSutentSutent*Eliquisincludes alliance revenues and direct sales in 2019, 2018 and 2017.



For a discussion of certain Biopharma products and additional information regarding collaboration and/or co-promotion agreements involving certain of these Biopharma products, see theItem 1A. Business—Collaboration and Co-Promotion Agreementsand—Patents and Other Intellectual Property Rightssections of this 2019 Form 10-K; for additional information regarding the revenues of our Biopharma business, including revenues by geography and of significant Biopharma products, see theAnalysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income—Revenues—Overview,—Revenues by Operating Segment and Geographyand —Revenues—Selected Product Discussionsections and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 17.Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Informationin our2019Financial Report; and for additional information on the key operational revenue drivers of our Biopharma business, see theAnalysis of Operating Segment Information—Biopharma Operating Segmentsection in our2019Financial Report. For a discussion of the risks associated with our dependence on certain of our major products, see theItem 1A. Risk Factors—Dependence on Key In-Line Productssection in this 2019 Form 10-K.



Pfizer Inc.2019 Form 10-K4








UPJOHN



Upjohn’s products are used to treat non-communicable diseases across a broad range of therapeutic areas, including:



•Cardiovascular (Lipitor, Norvasc and Revatio);

•Pain and neurology (Lyrica and Celebrex);

•Psychiatry (Effexor, Zoloft and Xanax);

•Urology (Viagra); and

•Ophthalmology (Xalatan/Xalacom).



We recorded direct product revenues of more than $1 billion for two Upjohn products in2019, three Upjohn products in2018, and three Upjohn products in2017:

Upjohn $1 Billion+ Products201920182017LyricaLyricaLyricaLipitorLipitorLipitorNorvascViagra



For a discussion of certain Upjohn products and additional information regarding the revenues of our Upjohn business, including revenues by geography and of significant Upjohn products, see theAnalysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income—Revenues—Overview,—Revenues by Operating Segment and Geographyand —Revenues—Selected Product Discussionsections and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 17.Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Informationin our2019Financial Report; and for additional information on the key operational revenue drivers of our Upjohn business, see theAnalysis of Operating Segment Information—Upjohn Operating Segmentsection in our2019Financial Report. For a discussion of the risks associated with our dependence on certain of our major products, see theItem 1A. Risk Factors—Dependence on Key In-Line Productssection in this 2019 Form 10-K.



COLLABORATION AND CO-PROMOTION AGREEMENTS



We are party to collaboration and/or co-promotion agreements relating to certain biopharmaceutical products, including, among others, Eliquis, Xtandi and Bavencio. Revenues from Eliquis (except in certain markets where we have direct sales),Xtandi and Bavencio are included in alliance revenues.



Eliquis has been jointly developed and is commercialized by Pfizer and BMS. Pfizer funds between 50% and 60% of all development costs depending on the study. Profits and losses are shared equally on a global basis, except in certain countries where Pfizer commercializes Eliquis and pays BMS compensation based on a percentage of net sales. We have full commercialization rights in certain smaller markets. BMS supplies the product to us at cost plus a percentage of the net sales to end-customers in these markets. Eliquis is part of the Novel Oral Anticoagulant market; the agents in this class were developed as alternative treatment options to warfarin in appropriate patients.



Xtandi is being developed and commercialized through a collaboration with Astellas. The two companies share equally in the gross profits (losses) related to U.S. net sales of Xtandi. Subject to certain exceptions, Pfizer and Astellas also share equally all Xtandi commercialization costs attributable to the U.S. market. In addition, Pfizer and Astellas share certain development and other collaboration expenses, and Pfizer receives tiered royalties as a percentage of international Xtandi net sales (recorded inOther (income)/deductions––net). Xtandi is an androgen receptor inhibitor that blocks multiple steps in the androgen receptor signaling pathway within tumor cells.



Bavencio (avelumab) is being developed and commercialized in collaboration with Merck KGaA.Both companies jointly fund the majority of development and commercialization costs, and split equally any profits related to net sales generated from selling any products containing avelumab from this collaboration.Bavencio is a human anti-programmed death ligand-1 (PD-L1) antibody.



Pfizer Inc.2019 Form 10-K5








RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT



Innovation is critical to the success of our Company, and drug discovery and development are time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable.Pfizer’s purpose is to deliver breakthroughs that change patients’ lives.R&D is at the heart of fulfilling Pfizer’s purpose as we work to translate advanced science and technologies into the therapies that matter most.

Our R&D Priorities and Strategy



Our R&D priorities include:

•delivering a pipeline of highly differentiated medicines and vaccines where Pfizer has a unique opportunity to bring the most important new therapies to patients in need;

•advancing our capabilities that can position Pfizer for long-term R&D leadership; and

•advancing new models for partnerships with creativity, flexibility and urgency to deliver innovation to patients as quickly as possible.



To that end, our R&D primarily focuses on:

•Oncology;

•Inflammation and Immunology;

•Vaccines;

•Internal Medicine;

•Rare Diseases;and

•Hospital.



While a significant portion of R&D is done internally, we continue to seek out promising chemical and biological lead molecules and innovative technologies developed by third parties to incorporate into our discovery and development processes or projects, as well as our product lines. We do so by entering into collaboration, alliance and license agreements with other companies, as well as leveraging acquisitions and equity- or debt-based investments. These agreements enable us to co-develop, license or acquire promising compounds, technologies and/or capabilities. We also enter into agreements pursuant to which a third party agrees to fund a portion of the development costs of one or more of our pipeline products in exchange for rights to receive potential milestone payments, revenue sharing payments, profit sharing payments and/or royalties. Collaboration, alliance, license and funding agreements and equity- or debt-based investments allow us to share risk and cost. They also enable us to access external scientific and technological expertise, as well as provide us the opportunity to advance our own products and in-licensed or acquired products.



For additional information, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 2.Acquisitions, Divestitures, Equity-Method Investments and Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Arrangements and Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangementsin our2019Financial Report.



Our R&D Operations



We conduct R&D internally and also through contracts with third parties, through collaborations with universities and biotechnology companies and in cooperation with other pharmaceutical firms.In 2019, we continued to strengthen our global R&D organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in R&D to achieve a sustainable pipeline that is positioned to deliver value in the near term and over time.



Our R&D spending is conducted through a number of matrix organizations:

•Research Units within our WRDM organization are generally responsible for research and early-stage development assets for our Biopharma business (assets that have not yet achieved proof-of-concept). Our Research Units are organized by therapeutic area to enhance flexibility, cohesiveness and focus. Because of our structure, we are able to rapidly redeploy resources within a Research Unit between various projects as necessary because in many instances the workforce shares similar skills, expertise and/or focus.

•Our science-based and other platform-services organizations provide technical expertise and other services to the various R&D projects, and are organized into science-based functions (which are part of our WRDM organization), such as Pharmaceutical Sciences, Medicine Design, and non-science-based functions, such as Facilities, Digital and Finance. Within each of these functions, we are able to migrate resources among projects, candidates and/or targets in any therapeutic area and in most phases of development, allowing us to react quickly in response to evolving needs. In addition, the Worldwide Medical and Safety group, within WRDM, ensures that Pfizer provides all stakeholders––including patients, healthcare providers, pharmacists, payers and health authorities––with complete and up-to-date information on the risks and benefits associated with Pfizer products so that they can make appropriate decisions on how and when to use Pfizer’s medicines.

•Our R&D organization within Upjohn supports the off-patent branded and generic established medicines and helps to develop product enhancements, new indications and new market registrations for these medicines.



Pfizer Inc.2019 Form 10-K6






•Our Global Product Development (GPD) organizationis a unified center for clinical development and regulatory activities that is generally responsible for the clinical development strategy and operational execution of clinical trials for both early-stage assets in the WRDM portfolio as well as late-stage assets in the Biopharma portfolio.

We manage R&D operations on a total-company basis through our matrix organizations described above. Specifically, the Portfolio Strategy & Investment committee, comprised of senior executives, is accountable for aligning resources among all of our WRDM, GPD and Biopharma R&D projects and for seeking to ensure optimal capital allocation across the innovative R&D portfolio. We believe that this approach also serves to maximize accountability and flexibility. Our Upjohn R&D organization manages its resources separately from the WRDM and GPD organizations, with operational support from GPD for select clinical development regulatory activities and from WRDM for clinical supply operations and global pharmacovigilance processing.

Generally, we do not disaggregate total R&D expense by development phase or by therapeutic area since, as described above, we do not manage our R&D operations by development phase or by therapeutic area. Further, as we are able to adjust a significant portion of our spending quickly, we believe that any prior-period information about R&D expense by development phase or by therapeutic area would not necessarily be representative of future spending.



For additional information on our R&D operations and expenses, see theCosts and Expenses—Research and Development (R&D) Expensessection in our2019Financial Report.



Our R&D Pipeline and Competition



The discovery and development of safe, effective new products, as well as the development of additional uses for existing products, are necessary for the continued strength of our businesses. Drug candidates can fail at any stage of the process, and candidates may not receive regulatory approval even after many years of research and development. The process from discovery to development to regulatory approval can take more than ten years.



As ofJanuary 28, 2020, we had the following number of projects in various stages of R&D:





Development of a single compound is often pursued as part of multiple programs. While these drug candidates may or may not eventually receive regulatory approval, new drug candidates entering clinical development phases are the foundation for future products. In addition to discovering and developing new products, our R&D efforts seek to add value to our existing products by improving their effectiveness, enhancing ease of dosing and by discovering potential new indications for them.



Information concerning several of our drug candidates in development, as well as supplemental filings for existing products, is set forth in theAnalysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income—Product Developments––Biopharmaceuticalsection in our2019Financial Report, which is incorporated by reference.



Our competitors also devote substantial funds and resources to R&D. We also compete against numerous small biotechnology companies in developing potential drug candidates. The extent to which our competitors are successful in their research could result in erosion of the sales of our existing products and potential sales of products in development, as well as unanticipated product obsolescence. In addition, several of our competitors operate without large R&D expenses and make a regular practice of challenging our product patents before their expiration. For additional information, see theCompetitionandItem 1A. Risk Factors—Competitive Productssections in this 2019 Form 10-K.



Pfizer Inc.2019 Form 10-K7








INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS



We have significant operations outside the U.S. In 2019, operations in developed and emerging markets were managed through our business segments: Biopharma, Upjohn and, through July 31, 2019, Consumer Healthcare. Emerging markets are an important component of our strategy for global leadership, and our commercial structure recognizes that the demographics and rising economic power of the fastest-growing emerging markets are becoming more closely aligned with the profile found within developed markets. Urbanization and the rise of the middle class in emerging markets, particularly in Asia, provide growth opportunities for our medicines.



We sell our products in over 125 countries. Revenues from operations outside the U.S. of$27.9 billionaccounted for54%of our total revenues in2019. Revenues exceeded $500 million in each of eleven countries outside the U.S. in 2019, 2018 and 2017. By total revenues, China and Japan are our two largest national markets outside the U.S. For a geographic breakdown of revenues, see theAnalysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income—Revenues—Overviewand—Revenues by Operating Segment and Geographysections and the table captionedGeographic Informationin the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 17.Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Informationin our2019Financial Report.



Our international operations are subject, in varying degrees, to a number of risks inherent in carrying on business in other countries, including, among other things, currency fluctuations, capital and exchange control regulations and expropriation and other restrictive government actions. See theItem 1A. Risk Factors—International Operationssection in this 2019 Form 10-K. Our international businesses are also subject to government-imposed constraints, including laws and regulations on pricing, reimbursement, and access to our products. See theItem 1. Business—Government Regulation and Price Constraints—Outside the United Statessection in this 2019 Form 10-K for a discussion of these matters.



Depending on the direction of change relative to the U.S. dollar, foreign currency values can increase or decrease the reported dollar value of our net assets and results of operations. While we cannot predict with certainty future changes in foreign exchange rates or the effect they will have on us, we attempt to mitigate their impact through operational means and by using various financial instruments, depending upon market conditions. For additional information, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 7F.Financial Instruments:Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activitiesin our2019Financial Report, which is incorporated by reference, as well asItem 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Financial Risk Managementsectionin this 2019 Form 10-K.



MARKETING



In our global biopharmaceutical businesses, we promote our products to healthcare providers and patients. Through our marketing organizations, we explain the approved uses, benefits and risks of our products to healthcare providers, such as doctors, nurse practitioners, physician assistants and pharmacists; MCOs that provide insurance coverage, such as hospitals, Integrated Delivery Systems, PBMs and health plans; and employers and government agencies who hire MCOs to provide health benefits to their employees. We also market directly to consumers in the U.S. through direct-to-consumer advertising that seeks to communicate the approved uses, benefits and risks of our products while motivating people to have meaningful conversations with their doctors. In addition, we sponsor general advertising to educate the public on disease awareness, prevention and wellness, important public health issues, and our patient assistance programs.



Our prescription pharmaceutical products are sold principally to wholesalers, but we also sell directly to retailers, hospitals, clinics, government agencies and pharmacies, and, in the case of our vaccines products in the U.S., we primarily sell directly to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, wholesalers, individual provider offices, retail pharmacies, and integrated delivery networks. We seek to gain access for our products on healthcare authority and PBM formularies, which are lists of approved medicines available to members of the PBMs. PBMs use various benefit designs, such as tiered co-pays for formulary



Pfizer Inc.2019 Form 10-K8






products, to drive utilization of products in preferred formulary positions. We may also work with payers on disease management programs that help to develop tools and materials to educate patients and physicians on key disease areas.



In2019, our top three biopharmaceutical wholesalers accounted for approximately37%of our total revenues (and approximately79%of our total U.S. revenues).



% of2019Total Revenues and U.S. Revenues from

Major Biopharmaceutical Wholesalers and Other Customers





PATENTS AND OTHER INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS



Our products are sold around the world under brand-name, logo and certain product design trademarks that we consider, in the aggregate, to be of material importance to Pfizer. Trademark protection continues in some countries for as long as the mark is used and, in other countries, for as long as it is registered. Registrations generally are for fixed, but renewable, terms.



We own or license a number of U.S. and foreign patents. These patents cover pharmaceutical and other products and their uses, pharmaceutical formulations, product manufacturing processes and intermediate chemical compounds used in manufacturing.



Patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. The actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage and the availability of legal remedies in the country. Further, patent term extension may be available in many major countries to compensate for a regulatory delay in approval of the product. For additional information, see theItem 1. Business—Government Regulation and Price Constraints—Outside the United States—Intellectual Propertysection in this 2019 Form 10-K.



In various markets, a period of regulatory exclusivity may be provided to certain drugs upon approval. The scope and term of such exclusivity will vary but, in general, the period of regulatory exclusivity will run concurrently with the term of any existing patent rights associated with the drug at the time of approval.



In the aggregate, our patent and related rights are of material importance to our businesses in the U.S. and most other countries. Based on current product sales, and considering the vigorous competition with products sold by our competitors, the patent rights we consider most significant in relation to our business as a whole, together with the year in which the basic product patent expires (including, where applicable, grant of an additional six-month pediatric extension and/or the granted patent term extension in the U.S. and Japan and Supplementary Patent Certificate in Europe), are those for the medicines set forth in the table below. Unless otherwise indicated, the years set forth in the table below pertain to the basic product patent expiration for the respective products. Patent term extensions, supplementary protection certificates and pediatric exclusivity periods are not reflected in the expiration dates listed in the table below, unless they have been granted by the issuing authority. In some instances, there are later-expiring patents relating to our products directed to particular forms or compositions, to methods of manufacturing, or to use of the drug in the treatment of particular diseases or conditions. However, in some cases, such patents may not protect our drug from generic or, as applicable, biosimilar competition after the expiration of the basic patent.



Pfizer Inc.2019 Form 10-K9






DrugU.S. Basic Product Patent Expiration YearMajor EU Basic Product Patent Expiration YearJapan Basic Product Patent Expiration YearLyrica2019(1)2014(2)2022(3)Chantix/Champix202020212022Sutent202120222024Ibrance202320282028Vyndaqel/Vyndamax202420262026Inlyta202520252025Xeljanz20252028(4)2025Prevnar 13/Prevenar 132026__(5)2029Eliquis(6)202620262026Xtandi(7)2027*(7)*(7)Xalkori202920272028Besponsa203020282028(8)Braftovi(9)2031*(9)*(9)Mektovi(9)2031(10)*(9)*(9)Bavencio(11)203320322033

(1)Lyricalost patent protection in the U.S. in June 2019 and multi-source generic competition began in July 2019.

(2)Lyricaregulatory exclusivity in the EU expired in July 2014.

(3)Lyrica is covered by a Japanese method-of-use patent which expires in 2022. The patent is currently subject to an invalidation action.

(4)Xeljanz EU expiry is provided by regulatory exclusivity.

(5)The EU patent that covers the combination of the 13 serotype conjugates of Prevenar13 was revoked following an opposition and has now been withdrawn. There are other EU patents and pending applications covering the formulation, various aspects of the manufacturing process, and the combination of serotype conjugates of Prevenar13 that remain in force.

(6)Eliquis was developed and is being commercialized in collaboration with BMS.

(7)Xtandi is being developed and commercialized in collaboration with Astellas, which has exclusive commercialization rights for Xtandi outside the U.S. Pfizer receives tiered royalties as a percentage of international Xtandi net sales.

(8)BesponsaJapan expiry is provided by regulatory exclusivity.

(9)Pfizer has exclusive rights to Braftovi and Mektovi in the U.S. The Pierre Fabre Group has exclusive rights to commercialize both products in Europe and Ono Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. has exclusive rights to commercialize both products in Japan. Pfizer receives royalties from The Pierre Fabre Group and Ono Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. on sales of Braftovi and Mektovi outside the U.S.

(10)The U.S. expiration date in the table for Mektovi is provided by a method-of-use patent.

(11)Bavencio is being developed and commercialized in collaboration with Merck KGaA.



The loss, expiration or invalidation of intellectual property rights, patent litigation settlements with manufacturers and the expiration of co-promotion and licensing rights can have a significant adverse effect on our revenues. Many of our branded products have multiple patents that expire at varying dates, thereby strengthening our overall patent protection. However, once patent protection has expired or has been lost prior to the expiration date as a result of a legal challenge, we typically lose exclusivity on these products, and generic and biosimilar pharmaceutical manufacturers generally produce identical or highly similar products and sell them for a lower price. The date at which generic or biosimilar competition commences may be different from the date that the patent or regulatory exclusivity expires. However, when generic or biosimilar competition does commence, the resulting price competition can substantially decrease our revenues for the impacted products, often in a very short period of time. In some cases, however, we can continue to obtain commercial benefits from product manufacturing trade secrets; patents on uses for products; patents on processes and intermediates for the economical manufacture of the active ingredients; patents for special formulations of the product or delivery mechanisms; or conversion of the active ingredient to OTC products.



Also, if one of our patents is found to be invalid by judicial, court or administrative proceedings, such as inter partesreview, post-grant review, re-examination or opposition proceedings, before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, the European Patent Office, or other foreign counterparts, generic or competitive products could be introduced into the market resulting in the erosion of sales of our existing products. For example, several of the patents in our pneumococcal vaccine portfolio were challenged in inter partes review and post-grant review proceedings in the U.S. For additional information, see theItem 1A. Risk Factors—Patent Protectionsection in this 2019 Form 10-K.



Companies have filed applications with the FDA seeking approval of product candidates that such companies claim either do not infringe our patents or our patents are invalid; these include candidates that would compete with, among other products, Eliquis, Ibrance and Xeljanz. We will continue to aggressively defend our patent rights whenever we deem appropriate. For additional



Pfizer Inc.2019 Form 10-K10






information, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 16A1.Contingencies and Certain Commitments—Legal Proceedings––Patent Litigationin our2019Financial Report.



Recent Losses and Expected Losses of Product Exclusivity



Certain of our current products have experienced patent-based expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in certain markets in the last few years, and we expect certain products to face significantly increased generic competition over the next few years.For example, as a result of a patent litigation settlement, Teva launched a generic version of Viagra in the U.S. in December 2017. Lyrica lost patent protection in the U.S. in June 2019 and multi-source generic competition began in July 2019. Also, the basic product patent for Chantix in the U.S. will expire in November 2020. See the table above for the basic product patent expiries of our most significant products.



We expect the impact of reduced revenues due to patent expiries will be significant in 2020, then moderating downward to a much lower level from 2021 through 2025.For additional information, see theItem 1A. Risk Factors—Dependence on Key In-Line Productssectionin this 2019 Form 10-K.



The following table provides information about certain products recently experiencing, or expected to experience in2020, patent expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in the U.S., Europe or Japan. Our financial results in2019and our financial guidance for 2020 reflect the impact of the loss of exclusivity of various products discussed below:

(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)Product Revenues in Markets ImpactedProductsKey Dates(a)Markets ImpactedYear Ended December 31,201920182017Viagra(b)June 2013May 2014December 2017Major European marketsJapanU.S.$134$274$850Lyrica(c)July 2014June 2019Major European marketsU.S.2,2083,8523,901Pristiq(d)March 2017U.S.4271133Chantix(e)November 2020U.S.899838742

(a)Unless otherwise noted, “Key Dates” indicate patent-based expiration dates.

(b)As a result of a patent litigation settlement, Teva launched a generic version of Viagra in the U.S. in December 2017.

(c)Lyricalost patent protection in the U.S. in June 2019 and multi-source generic competition began in July 2019.

(d)As a result of a patent litigation settlement with several generic manufacturers, generic versions of Pristiq launched in the U.S. in March 2017.

(e)The basic product patent for Chantix in the U.S. will expire in November 2020, which includes the FDA’s grant of pediatric exclusivity that extended the period of market exclusivity in the U.S. for Chantix for an additional six months from May 2020.



Biologic Products



Our biologic products, including BeneFIX, ReFacto, Xyntha, Bavencio, Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 and Enbrel (we market Enbrel outside the U.S. and Canada), already face, or may face in the future, competition from biosimilars (also referred to as follow-on biologics).In the U.S., such biosimilars would reference our originator biologic products approved under the U.S. Public Health Service Act. Additionally, the FDA has approved a follow-on recombinant human growth hormone that referenced our biotechnology product, Genotropin, that was approved under the FFDCA.



Biosimilars are versions of biologic medicines that have been developed and proven to be highly similar to the original biologic in terms of safety and efficacy and that have no clinically meaningful differences in safety, purity or potency. Biosimilars have the potential to offer high-quality, lower-cost alternatives to biologic medicines. Abbreviated legal pathways for the approval of biosimilars exist in certain international markets and, since the passage of the ACA in 2010, a framework for such approval exists in the U.S. In Europe, the European Commission grants marketing authorizations for biosimilars pursuant to a set of general and product class-specific guidelines for biosimilar approvals.



As part of our business strategy, we are capitalizing on our expertise in biologics manufacturing, as well as our regulatory and commercial strengths, to develop and commercialize biosimilar medicines. Some of the biosimilars that we currently market include Inflectra, Nivestym, Retacrit, Zirabev, Ruxience and Trazimera in the U.S.; Inflectra, Retacrit, Nivestim and Trazimera in the EU; and Ixifi, Trazimera, Zirabev and Ruxience in Japan.See theItem 1A. Risk Factors—Biosimilarssection in this 2019 Form 10-K.





Pfizer Inc.2019 Form 10-K11






We may face litigation with respect to the validity and/or scope of patents relating to our biologic products. Likewise, as we develop, manufacture and seek to launch biosimilars, patents may be asserted against us.



International



One of the main limitations on our operations in some countries outside the U.S. is the lack of effective intellectual property protection for our products. Under international and U.S. free trade agreements in recent years, we have seen some improvement in global protection of intellectual property rights. For additional information, see theItem 1. Business—Government Regulation and Price Constraints—Outside the United States—Intellectual Propertysection in this 2019 Form 10-K.



COMPETITION



Our businesses are conducted in intensely competitive and often highly regulated markets.Many of our prescription pharmaceutical products face competition in the form of branded or generic drugs or biosimilars that treat similar diseases or indications.The principal forms of competition include efficacy, safety, ease of use, and cost effectiveness. Though the means of competition vary among product categories and business groups, demonstrating the value of our products is a critical factor for success in all of our principal businesses.



Our competitors include other worldwide research-based biopharmaceutical companies, smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus and generic and biosimilar drug manufacturers. We compete with other companies that manufacture and sell products that treat diseases or indications similar to those treated by our major products.



This competition affects our core product business, which is focused on applying innovative science to discover and market products that satisfy unmet medical needs and provide therapeutic improvements. Our emphasis on innovation is underscored by our multi-billion-dollar investment in R&D, as well as our business development transactions, both designed to result in a strong product pipeline. Our investment in research does not stop with drug approval; we continue to invest in further demonstrating the value of our products for the conditions they treat, as well as potential new applications. We seek to protect the health and well-being of patients by striving to ensure that medically sound knowledge of the benefits and risks of our medicines is understood and communicated to patients, physicians, payers and global health authorities. We also seek to continually enhance the organizational effectiveness of all of our biopharmaceutical functions, including coordinating support for our efforts to accurately and ethically launch and promote our products to our customers.



Operating conditions have become more challenging under mounting global pressures of competition, industry regulation and cost containment. We continue to take measures to evaluate, adapt and improve our organization and business practices to better meet customer and public needs. We believe that we have taken an industry-leading role in evolving our approaches to U.S. direct-to-consumer advertising, interactions with, and payments to, healthcare professionals, and medical education grants. We also continue to sponsor programs to address patient affordability and access barriers, as we strive to advance fundamental health system change through support for better healthcare solutions.



Our vaccines business may face competition from the introduction of alternative vaccines. For example, Prevnar 13 may face competition in the form of competitor vaccines, including vaccines with additional serotypes or “next-generation” pneumococcal conjugate vaccines prior to or after the expiration of its patents, which may adversely affect our future results.



Our generics and biosimilars businesses compete with branded products from competitors, as well as other generics and biosimilars manufacturers. Globally, Pfizer sells generic versions of Pfizer’s, as well as certain competitors’, solid oral dose and sterile injectable pharmaceutical products. We also sell biosimilars of certain inflammation & immunology and oncology biologic medicines globally. We seek to maximize the opportunity to establish a “first-to-market” or early market position for our generic injectable drugs and biosimilars, as a “first-to-market” position provides customers a lower-cost alternative immediately when available and also may provide us with potentially higher levels of sales and profitability until other generic or biosimilar competitors enter the market.



Managed Care Organizations



The evolution of managed care in the U.S. has been a major factor in the competitive makeup of the healthcare marketplace. Approximately 300 million people in the U.S. now have some form of health insurance coverage. Due to the expansion of health insurance coverage (see theItem 1. Business—Government Regulation and Price Constraints—In the United Statessection in this 2019 Form 10-K), the marketing of prescription drugs to both consumers and the entities that manage this expanded coverage in the U.S. continues to grow in importance.



The influence of MCOs has increased in recent years due to the growing number of patients receiving coverage through MCOs. At the same time, those organizations have been consolidating into fewer, even larger entities. This consolidation enhances both their ability to negotiate, as well as their importance to Pfizer.



The growth of MCOs has increased pressure on drug prices as well as revenues. One objective of MCOs is to contain and, where possible, reduce healthcare expenditures. MCOs typically negotiate prices with pharmaceutical providers by using



Pfizer Inc.2019 Form 10-K12






formularies (which are lists of approved medicines available to members of the MCOs), clinical protocols (requiring prior authorization for a branded product if a generic product is available or requiring the patient to first fail on one or more generic products before permitting access to a branded medicine), volume purchasing, long-term contracts and their ability to influence volume and market share of prescription drugs. In addition, by placing branded medicines on higher-tier status in their formularies (leading to higher patient co-pays) or non-preferred tier status, MCOs transfer a portion of the cost of the medicine to the patient, resulting in significant out-of-pocket expenses for the patient, especially for chronic treatments. This financial disincentive is a tool for MCOs to manage drug costs and channel patients to medicines preferred by the MCOs. MCOs also use additional measures such as new-to-market blocks, exclusion lists, indication-based pricing and “copay accumulator” programs to improve their cost containment efforts. We are closely monitoring these newer approaches and developing appropriate strategies to respond to them.



Due to their generally lower cost, generic medicines typically are placed in lowest cost tiers of MCO formularies. The breadth of the products covered by formularies can vary considerably from one MCO to another, and many formularies include alternative and competitive products for treatment of particular medical problems.



Exclusion of a product from a formulary or other MCO-implemented restrictions can significantly impact drug usage in the MCO patient population and beyond. Consequently, pharmaceutical companies compete to gain access to formularies for their products. Unique product features, such as greater efficacy, better patient ease of use, or fewer side effects, are generally beneficial to achieving access to formularies. However, lower overall cost of therapy is also an important factor. We have been generally, although not universally, successful in having our major products included on MCO formularies. However, increasingly our branded products are being placed on the higher tiers or in a non-preferred status.



MCOs also emphasize primary and preventive care, out-patient treatment and procedures performed at doctors’ offices and clinics as another way to manage costs. Hospitalization and surgery, typically the most expensive forms of treatment, are carefully managed. Since the use of certain drugs can reduce the need for hospitalization, professional therapy, or even surgery, such drugs can become favored first-line treatments for certain diseases.



The ACA has accelerated payment reform by distributing risk across MCOs and other stakeholders in care delivery with the intent of improving quality while reducing costs, which creates pressure on MCOs to tie reimbursement to defined outcomes. For additional information, see theItem 1. Business—Government Regulation and Price Constraints—In the United States—Healthcare Reformsection in this 2019 Form 10-K.



Generic Products



One of the biggest competitive challenges that our branded products face is from generic pharmaceutical manufacturers. Upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for a product, especially a small molecule product, we can lose the major portion of revenues for that product in a very short period of time. Several competitors make a regular practice of challenging our product patents before their expiration. Generic competitors often operate without large R&D expenses, as well as without costs of conveying medical information about products to the medical community. In addition, the FDA approval process exempts generics from costly and time-consuming clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy, allowing generic manufacturers to rely on the safety and efficacy data of the innovator product. Generic competitors can market a competing version of our product after the expiration or loss of our patent and often charge much less. In China, for example, we are expected to face further intensified competition by certain generic manufacturers in 2020, which may result in price cuts and volume loss of some of our products.



In addition, our patent-protected products can face competition in the form of generic versions of competitors’ branded products that lose their market exclusivity.



As noted above, MCOs that focus primarily on the immediate cost of drugs often favor generics over brand-name drugs. Many governments also encourage the use of generics as alternatives to brand-name drugs in their healthcare programs, including Medicaid in the U.S. Laws in the U.S. generally allow, and in some cases require, pharmacists to substitute, for brand-name drugs, generic drugs that have been rated under government procedures to be chemically and therapeutically equivalent to brand-name drugs. In a small subset of states, prescribing physicians are able to expressly prevent such substitution. Favoring generics may reduce sales of our branded products.



RAW MATERIALS



Raw materials essential to our businesses are purchased worldwide in the ordinary course of business from numerous suppliers. In general, these materials are available from multiple sources. In2019, we experienced periodic shortages of select materials due to constrained capacity or operational challenges with the associated suppliers. Supplier management activities are ongoing to work to ensure the necessary supply to meet our requirements for these materials. No significant impact to our operations is anticipated in 2020.



Pfizer Inc.2019 Form 10-K13








GOVERNMENT REGULATION AND PRICE CONSTRAINTS



Pharmaceutical companies are subject to extensive regulation by government authorities in the countries in which they do business. Certain laws and regulations that govern Pfizer’s business are discussed below.



General.Our business has been and will continue to be subject to numerous laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations, including those governing the manufacture and marketing of our products, could subject us to administrative and legal proceedings and actions by various governmental bodies. For additional information on these proceedings and actions, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 16A.Contingencies and Certain Commitments—Legal Proceedingsin our2019Financial Report. Criminal charges, substantial fines and/or civil penalties, warning letters and product recalls or seizures, delays in product approvals, as well as limitations on our ability to conduct business in applicable jurisdictions, could result from such proceedings and actions.



In the United States



Drug Regulation.In the U.S., biopharmaceutical products are subject to extensive pre- and post-market regulation by the FDA, including regulations that govern, among other things, the safety and efficacy of our medicines, clinical trials, advertising and promotion, manufacturing, labeling and record keeping. Our products are also subject to post-market surveillance under the FFDCA and its implementing regulations with respect to drugs, as well as the Public Health Service Act and its implementing regulations with respect to biologics.



Other U.S. federal agencies, including the DEA, also regulate certain of our products. Many of our activities also are subject to the jurisdiction of the SEC.



Biopharmaceutical companies seeking to market a product in the U.S. must first test the product to demonstrate that it is safe and effective for its intended use. If, after evaluation, the FDA determines the product is safe (i.e., its benefits outweigh its known risks) and effective, then the FDA will approve the product for marketing, issuing a New Drug Application or Biologics License Application, as appropriate. Companies seeking to market a generic prescription drug must scientifically demonstrate that the generic drug is bioequivalent to the innovator drug. The Abbreviated New Drug Application, or generic drug application, must show, among other things, that the generic drug is pharmaceutically equivalent to the brand, the manufacturer is capable of making the drug correctly, and the proposed label is the same as that of the innovator/brand drug’s label.



Even after a drug or biologic is approved for marketing, it may still be subject to postmarketing commitments or postmarketing requirements. Postmarketing commitments are studies or clinical trials that the drug or biologic sponsor has agreed to conduct, but are not required by law and/or regulation. Postmarketing requirements include studies and clinical trials that sponsors are required to conduct, by law and/or regulation, as a condition of approval. Postmarketing studies or clinical trials can be required in order to assess a known risk or demonstrate clinical benefit for drugs or biologics approved pursuant to accelerated approval. If a company fails to meet its postmarketing requirements, the FDA may assess a civil monetary penalty, issue a warning letter or deem the drug or biologic misbranded. Once a drug or biologic is approved, the FDA must be notified of any modifications to the product and the FDA may also require a manufacturer to submit additional studies or conduct clinical trials. In addition, we are also required to report adverse events and comply with cGMPs, as well as advertising and promotion regulations. Failure to comply with the FFDCA may subject us to administrative and/or judicial sanctions, including warning letters, product recalls, seizures, delays in product approvals, injunctions, fines, civil penalties and/or criminal prosecution.



Biosimilar Regulation.The ACA created a framework for the approval of biosimilars (also known as follow-on biologics) following the expiration of 12 years of exclusivity for the innovator biologic, with a potential six-month pediatric extension. Under the ACA, biosimilar applications may not be submitted until four years after the approval of the reference innovator biologic.



The FDA is responsible for implementation of the legislation and approval of new biosimilars. Through FDA approvals and the issuance of draft and final guidance, the FDA has addressed a number of issues related to the biosimilars approval pathway, such as the labeling expectations for biosimilars. For example, in 2019, the FDA issued final guidance regarding the standards for demonstrating interchangeability with a U.S.-licensed reference product. In addition, in 2017, the Biosimilar User Fee Act was reauthorized for a five-year period, which led to a significant increase in the FDA’s biosimilar user fee revenues, thereby providing the FDA with additional resources to process biosimilar applications. For example, since the enactment of the newly authorized fee structure, the FDA estimates its revenues from biosimilar user fees generally will exceed $40 million.



Sales and Marketing Laws and Regulations.The marketing practices of U.S. biopharmaceutical companies are generally subject to various federal and state healthcare laws that are intended, among other things, to prevent fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry and to protect the integrity of government healthcare programs. These laws include anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws generally prohibit a biopharmaceutical company from soliciting, offering, receiving, or paying anything of value to generate business, including purchasing or prescribing of a particular product. False claims laws generally prohibit anyone from knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented, any claims for payment for goods (including drugs or biologics) or services to third-party payers (including Medicare and Medicaid) that are false or fraudulent and generally treat claims generated through kickbacks as false or fraudulent. Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal or civil sanctions and/or exclusion from federal healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). The federal government



Pfizer Inc.2019 Form 10-K14






and various states also have enacted laws to regulate the sales and marketing practices of pharmaceutical companies. The laws and regulations generally limit financial interactions between manufacturers and healthcare providers, require disclosure to the federal or state government and the public of such interactions, and/or require the adoption of compliance standards or programs. Many of these laws and regulations contain ambiguous requirements or require administrative guidance for implementation. Individual states, acting through their attorneys general, have become active as well, seeking to regulate the marketing of prescription drugs under state consumer protection and false advertising laws. Given the lack of clarity in laws and their implementation, our activities could be subject to the penalties under the pertinent laws and regulations.



Pricing and Reimbursement.Pricing and reimbursement for our pharmaceutical products depends in part on government regulation. Pfizer must offer discounted pricing or rebates on purchases of pharmaceutical products under various federal and state healthcare programs, such as the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, the “federal ceiling price” drug pricing program, the 340B drug pricing program and the Medicare Part D Program. Pfizer must also report specific prices to government agencies under healthcare programs, such as the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program and Medicare Part B. The calculations necessary to determine the prices reported are complex and the failure to report prices accurately may expose Pfizer to penalties. See the discussion regarding rebates in theAnalysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income—Revenues—Overviewsection and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 1G.Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies:Revenues and Trade Accounts Receivablein our2019Financial Report, which are incorporated by reference.



