ITEM 1. BUSINESS



GENERAL



Pfizer Inc. is a research-based, global biopharmaceutical company. We apply science and our global resources to bring therapies to people that extend and significantly improve their lives through the discovery, development and manufacture of healthcare products. Our global portfolio includes medicines and vaccines, as well as many of the world’s best-known consumer healthcare products. We work across developed and emerging markets to advance wellness, prevention, treatments and cures that challenge the most feared diseases of our time. We collaborate with healthcare providers, governments and local communities to support and expand access to reliable, affordable healthcare around the world. Our revenues are derived from the sale of our products and, to a much lesser extent, from alliance agreements, under which we co-promote products discovered or developed by other companies or us. The majority of our revenues come from the manufacture and sale of biopharmaceutical products. The Company was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on June 2, 1942.



We believe that our medicines provide significant value for both healthcare providers and patients, not only from the improved treatment of diseases but also from a reduction in other healthcare costs, such as emergency room or hospitalization costs, as well as improvements in health, wellness and productivity. We continue to actively engage in dialogues about the value of our medicines and how we can best work with patients, physicians and payers to prevent and treat disease and improve outcomes. We continue to work within the current legal and pricing structures, as well as continue to review our pricing arrangements and contracting methods with payers, to maximize patient access and minimize any adverse impact on our revenues. We remain firmly committed to fulfilling our company’s purpose of innovating to bring therapies to patients that extend and significantly improve their lives. By doing so, we expect to create value for the patients we serve and for our shareholders.



We are committed to capitalizing on growth opportunities by advancing our own pipeline and maximizing the value of our in-line products, as well as through various forms of business development, which can include alliances, licenses, joint ventures, collaborations, equity- or debt-based investments, dispositions, mergers and acquisitions. We view our business development activity as an enabler of our strategies, and we seek to generate earnings growth and enhance shareholder value by pursuing a disciplined, strategic and financial approach to evaluating business development opportunities.



On February 3, 2017, we completed the sale of our global infusion therapy net assets, HIS, to ICU Medical for up to approximately $900 million, composed of cash and contingent cash consideration, ICU Medical common stock and seller financing. HIS includes IV pumps, solutions and devices. Under the terms of the agreement, we received 3.2 million newly issued shares of ICU Medical common stock, which we valued at approximately $430 million (based upon the closing price of ICU Medical common stock on the closing date less a discount for lack of marketability), a promissory note from ICU Medical in the amount of $75 million and net cash of approximately $200 million before customary adjustments for net working capital. In addition, we are entitled to receive a contingent amount of up to an additional $225 million in cash based on ICU Medical’s achievement of certain cumulative performance targets for the combined company through December 31, 2019. After receipt of the ICU Medical shares, we own approximately 16.4% of ICU Medical as of the closing date. We have agreed to certain restrictions on transfer of our ICU Medical shares for 18 months. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 2B. Acquisitions, Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Agreements, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Cost-Method Investment: Assets and Liabilities Held for Salein our 2016 Financial Report.



On December 22, 2016, which falls in the first fiscal quarter of 2017 for our international operations, we acquired the development and commercialization rights to AstraZeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business, primarily outside the U.S., including the commercialization and development rights to the newly approved EU drug Zavicefta™ (ceftazidime-avibactam), the marketed agents Merrem™/Meronem™ (meropenem) and Zinforo™ (ceftaroline fosamil), and the clinical development assets aztreonam-avibactam and ceftaroline fosamil-avibactam. Under the terms of the agreement, we made an upfront payment of approximately $550 million to AstraZeneca upon the close of the transaction and will make a deferred payment of $175 million in January 2019. In addition, AstraZeneca is eligible to receive up to $250 million in milestone payments, up to $600 million in sales-related payments, as well as tiered royalties on sales of Zavicefta™ and aztreonam-avibactam in certain markets.



On September 28, 2016, we acquired Medivation for approximately $14.3 billion in cash ($13.9 billion, net of cash acquired). Medivation is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pfizer. Medivation is a biopharmaceutical company focused on developing and commercializing small molecules for oncology. Medivation’s portfolio includes Xtandi (enzalutamide), an androgen receptor inhibitor that blocks multiple steps in the androgen receptor signaling pathway within tumor cells, and two development-stage oncology assets. Xtandi is being developed and commercialized through a collaboration between Pfizer and Astellas. Astellas has exclusive commercialization rights for Xtandi outside the U.S. For additional information, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 2A. Acquisitions, Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Agreements, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Cost-Method Investment: Acquisitionsin our 2016 Financial Report.



On June 24, 2016, we acquired Anacor for approximately $4.9 billion in cash ($4.5 billion net of cash acquired), plus $698 million debt assumed. Anacor is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pfizer. Anacor is a biopharmaceutical company focused on novel small-molecule therapeutics derived from its boron chemistry platform. Anacor’s crisaborole, a non-steroidal topical PDE-4 inhibitor with anti-inflammatory properties, was approved by the FDA on December 14, 2016 under the trade name,Eucrisa. For additional information, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 2A. Acquisitions, Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Agreements, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Cost-Method Investment: Acquisitionsin our 2016 Financial Report.



On September 3, 2015, we acquired Hospira, a leading provider of sterile injectable drugs and infusion technologies as well as a provider of biosimilars, for approximately$16.1 billionin cash ($15.7 billion, net of cash acquired). The combination of local Pfizer and Hospira entities may be pending in various jurisdictions and integration is subject to completion of various local legal and regulatory steps. For additional information, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 2A.Acquisitions, Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Agreements, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Cost-Method Investment: Acquisitionsin our 2016 Financial Report.



For a further discussion of our strategy and our business development initiatives, see theOverview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook—Our Strategy—Our Business Development Initiativessection in our2016Financial Report.



Our businesses are heavily regulated in most of the countries in which we operate. In the U.S., the principal authority regulating our operations is the FDA. The FDA regulates the safety and efficacy of the products we offer and our research, quality, manufacturing processes, product promotion, advertising and product labeling. Similar regulations exist in most other countries, and in many countries the government also regulates our prices. In the EU, the EMA regulates the scientific evaluation, supervision and safety monitoring of our products, and employs a centralized procedure for approval of drugs for the EU and the European Economic Area countries. In Japan, the PMDA is involved in a wide range of regulatory activities, including clinical studies, approvals, post-marketing reviews and pharmaceutical safety. Health authorities in many middle and lower income countries require marketing approval by a recognized regulatory authority, such as the FDA or EMA, before they begin to conduct their application review process and/or issue their final approval. For additional information, see theGovernment Regulation and Price Constraintssection below.



Note:Some amounts in this 2016 Form 10-K may not add due to rounding. All percentages have been calculated using unrounded amounts.



Pfizer Inc.2016 Form 10-K1








AVAILABLE INFORMATION AND PFIZER WEBSITE



Our website is located atwww.pfizer.com. This2016Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and our Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are available (free of charge) on our website, in text format and, where applicable, in interactive data file format,as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC.



Throughout this2016Form 10-K, we “incorporate by reference” certain information from other documents filed or to be filed with the SEC, including our2017Proxy Statement and the2016Financial Report, portions of which are filed as Exhibit 13 to this2016Form 10-K, and which also will be contained in Appendix A to our2017Proxy Statement. The SEC allows us to disclose important information by referring to it in that manner. Please refer to such information. Our2016Annual Report to Shareholders consists of the 2016 Financial Report and the Corporate and Shareholder Information attached to the2017Proxy Statement. Our2016Financial Report will be available on our website on or about February 23, 2017. Our2017Proxy Statement will be available on our website on or about March 16, 2017.



We may use our website as a means of disclosing material information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation Fair Disclosure promulgated by the SEC. These disclosures are included on our website in the “Investors” or “News” sections. Accordingly, investors should monitor these portions of our website, in addition to following Pfizer’s press releases, SEC filings, public conference calls and webcasts, as well as Pfizer’s social media channels (Pfizer’s Facebook, YouTube and LinkedIn pages and Twitter accounts (@Pfizerand@Pfizer_News)).



Information relating to corporate governance at Pfizer, including our Corporate Governance Principles; Director Qualification Standards; Pfizer Policies on Business Conduct (for all of our employees, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Members of the Board of Directors; information concerning our Directors; ways to communicate by e-mail with our Directors; Board Committees; Committee Charters; Charter of the Lead Independent Director; and transactions in Pfizer securities by Directors and Officers; as well as Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer certifications, are available on our website. We will provide any of the foregoing information without charge upon written request to our Corporate Secretary, Pfizer Inc., 235 East 42nd Street, New York, NY 10017-5755. We will disclose any future amendments to, or waivers from, provisions of the Pfizer Policies on Business Conduct affecting our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Controller on our website as promptly as practicable, as may be required under applicable SEC and NYSE rules. Information relating to shareholder services, including the Computershare Investment Program, book-entry share ownership and direct deposit of dividends, is also available on our website.



The information contained on our website, our Facebook, YouTube and LinkedIn pages or our Twitter accounts does not, and shall not be deemed to, constitute a part of this2016Form 10-K. Pfizer’s references to the URLs for websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.



Pfizer Inc.2016 Form 10-K2








COMMERCIAL OPERATIONS



We manage our commercial operations through two distinct business segments: Pfizer Innovative Health (IH) and Pfizer Essential Health (EH), which was previously known as Established Products. Beginning in the second quarter of 2016, we reorganized our operating segments to reflect that we now manage our innovative pharmaceutical and consumer healthcare operations as one business segment, IH.From the beginning of our fiscal year 2014 until the second quarter of 2016, these operations were managed as two business segments: the Global Innovative Products segment and the Vaccines, Oncology and Consumer Healthcare segment. We have revised prior-period information to reflect the reorganization.The IH and EH operating segments are each led by a single manager. Each operating segment has responsibility for its commercial activities and for certain IPR&D projects for new investigational products and additional indications for in-line products that generally have achieved proof of concept. Each business has a geographic footprint across developed and emerging markets.



Some additional information about our business segments follows:

Pfizer Innovative HealthPfizer Essential HealthIH focuses on developing and commercializing novel, value-creating medicines and vaccines that significantly improve patients’ lives, as well as products for consumer healthcare.Key therapeutic areas include internal medicine, vaccines, oncology, inflammation & immunology, rare diseases and consumer healthcare.EH includes legacy brands that have lost or will soon lose market exclusivity in both developed and emerging markets, branded generics, generic sterile injectable products, biosimilars and, through February 2, 2017, infusion systems. EH also includes an R&D organization, as well as our contract manufacturing business.Leading brands include:-Prevnar 13-Xeljanz-Eliquis-Lyrica(U.S., Japan and certain other markets)-Enbrel(outside the U.S. and Canada)-Viagra(U.S. and Canada)-Ibrance-Xtandi- Several OTC consumer products (e.g.,AdvilandCentrum)Leading brands include:-Lipitor- Premarinfamily- Norvasc- Lyrica(Europe, Russia, Turkey, Israel and Central Asia countries)-Celebrex-Pristiq-Several sterile injectable products



We expect that the IH biopharmaceutical portfolio of innovative, largely patent-protected, in-line and newly launched products will be sustained by ongoing investments to develop promising assets and targeted business development in areas of focus to ensure a pipeline of highly-differentiated product candidates in areas of unmet medical need. The assets managed by IH are science-driven, highly differentiated and generally require a high level of engagement with healthcare providers and consumers.



EH is expected to generate strong consistent cash flow by providing patients around the world with access to effective, lower-cost, high-value treatments. EH leverages our biologic development, regulatory and manufacturing expertise to seek to advance its biosimilar development portfolio. Additionally, EH leverages capabilities in formulation development and manufacturing expertise to help advance its generic sterile injectables portfolio. EH may also engage in targeted business development to further enable its commercial strategies.



For a further discussion of these operating segments, see theInnovative HealthandEssential Healthsections below andthe Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 18. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Information, including the tables therein captionedSelected Income Statement Information,Geographic InformationandSignificant Product Revenues, the table captionedRevenues by Segment and Geographic Areain theAnalysis of the Consolidated Statements of Incomesection, and theAnalysis of Operating Segment Informationsection in our2016Financial Report, which are incorporated by reference.





Pfizer Inc.2016 Form 10-K3








INNOVATIVE HEALTH



We recorded direct product sales of more than $1 billion for each of six IH products in 2016 (Prevnar 13/Prevenar13,Lyrica(outside all of Europe, Russia, Turkey, Israel and Central Asia countries),Enbrel(outside the U.S. and Canada),Ibrance,Viagra(U.S. and Canada)andSutent), and for each of five IH products in 2015 and 2014 (Prevnar 13/Prevenar13, Lyrica(outside all of Europe, Russia, Turkey, Israel and Central Asia countries),Enbrel(outside the U.S. and Canada),Viagra(U.S. and Canada) andSutent). We also recorded more than $1 billion in IH Alliance revenues in 2016 and 2015 (primarilyEliquis). SeeItem 1A. Risk Factors––Dependence on Key In-Line Productsbelow.



Geographic Revenues for Innovative Health*



*Dev Int’l = Developed Markets except U.S.; Em Mkts = Emerging Markets



For additional information regarding the revenues of our IH business, including revenues of major IH products, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements––Note 18. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Informationand theAnalysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income––Revenues––Major Productsand––Revenues––Selected Product Descriptionssections in our 2016 Financial Report; and for additional information on the key operational revenue drivers of our IH business, see theAnalysis of Operating Segment Information––Innovative Health Operating Segmentsection of our 2016 Financial Report.



The key therapeutic areas comprising our IH business segment include:



Internal Medicine



For a discussion of certain of our key Internal Medicine products, includingLyrica(outside all of Europe, Russia, Turkey, Israel and Central Asia countries),Viagra(U.S. and Canada),Chantix/ChampixandEliquis(jointly developed and commercialized with BMS), see theAnalysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income––Revenues––Selected Product Descriptionssection in our 2016 Financial Report.



Vaccines



For a discussion of certain of our key Vaccine products, includingPrevnar 13/Prevenar 13, see theAnalysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income––Revenues––Selected Product Descriptionssection in our 2016 Financial Report.



Oncology



For a discussion of certain of our key Oncology products, includingIbrance, Sutent, Xalkori, InlytaandXtandi(jointly developed and commercialized with Astellas), see theAnalysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income––Revenues––Selected Product Descriptionssection in our 2016 Financial Report.



Inflammation and Immunology



For a discussion of certain of our key Inflammation and Immunology products, includingEnbrel(outside the U.S. and Canada) andXeljanz, see theAnalysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income––Revenues––Selected Product Descriptionssection in our 2016 Financial Report.



Rare Diseases



For a discussion of certain of our key Rare Diseases products, includingBeneFix,Genotropin, andRefacto AF/Xyntha, see theAnalysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income––Revenues––Selected Product Descriptionssection in our 2016 Financial Report.



Consumer Healthcare



According to Euromonitor International’s retail sales data, in2016, Pfizer’s Consumer Healthcare business was the fourth-largest branded multi-national, OTC consumer healthcare business in the world and produced two of the ten largest selling consumer healthcare brands (CentrumandAdvil) in the world.



Major categories and product lines in our Consumer Healthcare business include:



•Dietary Supplements:Centrumbrands (includingCentrum,Centrum Silver,Centrum Men’sandWomen’s,Centrum MultiGummies,Centrum VitaMints,Centrum Specialist,Centrum Flavor BurstandCentrum Kids),CaltrateandEmergen-C;

•Pain Management:Advilbrands (includingAdvil,Advil PM,Advil Liqui-Gels,Advil Film Coated,Advil Menstrual Pain,Children’s Advil,Infants’ AdvilandAdvil Migraine)andThermaCare;

•Gastrointestinal:Nexium 24HR/Nexium ControlandPreparation H; and

•Respiratory and Personal Care:Robitussin,Advil Cold & Sinus,Advil Sinus Congestion & Pain,DimetappandChapStick.



ESSENTIAL HEALTH



We recorded direct product sales of more than $1 billion for each of two EH products in 2016 (Lipitorand thePremarinfamily of products), three EH products in 2015 (Lipitor,Lyrica(Europe, Russia, Turkey, Israel and Central Asia) and thePremarinfamily of products) and six EH products in 2014 (Celebrex,Lipitor,Lyrica(Europe, Russia, Turkey, Israel and Central Asia),Zyvox,Norvascand thePremarinfamily of products). SeeItem 1A. Risk Factors––Dependence on Key In-Line Productsbelow.



Geographic Revenues for Essential Health*



*Dev Int’l = Developed Markets except U.S.; Em Mkts = Emerging Markets





Pfizer Inc.2016 Form 10-K4






For additional information regarding the revenues of our EH business, including revenues of major EH products, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements––Note 18. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Informationand theAnalysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income––Revenues––Major Productsand––Revenues––Selected Product Descriptionssections in our 2016 Financial Report; and for additional information on the key operational revenue drivers of our EH business, see theAnalysis of Operating Segment Information––Essential Health Operating Segmentsection of our 2016 Financial Report.



The product categories in our EH business segment include:



•Global Brands, which includes:

◦Legacy Established Products: includes products that have lost patent protection (excluding Sterile Injectable Pharmaceuticals and Peri-LOE Products); and

◦Peri-LOE Products: includes products that have recently lost or are anticipated to soon lose patent protection. These products primarily includeLyricain certain developed Europe markets,Pristiqglobally,Celebrex,ZyvoxandRevatioin most developed markets,VfendandViagrain certain developed Europe markets and Japan, andInsprain the EU;



•Sterile Injectable Pharmaceuticals: includes generic injectables and proprietary specialty injectables (excluding Peri-LOE Products);



•Infusion Systems(through February 2, 2017): includes Medication Management Systems products composed of infusion pumps and related software and services, as well as intravenous infusion products, including large volume intravenous solutions and their associated administration sets;



•Biosimilars: includesInflectra/Remsima(biosimilar infliximab) in the U.S. and certain international markets,Nivestim(biosimilar filgrastim) in certain European, Asian and Africa/Middle East markets andRetacrit(biosimilar epoetin zeta) in certain European and Africa/Middle East markets; and



•Pfizer CentreOne: includes (i) revenues from legacy Pfizer’s contract manufacturing and active pharmaceutical ingredient sales operation (previously known as Pfizer CentreSource), including revenues related to our manufacturing and supply agreements with Zoetis Inc.; and (ii) revenues from legacy Hospira’s One-2-One sterile injectables contract manufacturing operation.



For a discussion of certain of our key EH products, includingLipitor, thePremarinfamily of products,Norvasc,Lyrica(Europe, Russia, Turkey, Israel and Central Asia),Celebrex,Pristiq,ZyvoxandInflectra, see theAnalysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income––Revenues––Selected Product Descriptionssection in our 2016 Financial Report.



ALLIANCE REVENUES



We are party to collaboration and/or co-promotion agreements relating to certain biopharmaceutical products, including

Eliquis

and

Xtandi.



Eliquis

has been jointly developed and is being commercialized in collaboration with BMS. The two companies share commercialization expenses and profit/losses equally on a global basis. In April 2015, we signed an agreement with BMS to transfer full commercialization rights in certain smaller markets to us, beginning in the third quarter of 2015.

Xtandi

is being developed and commercialized in collaboration with Astellas. The two companies share equally in the gross profits (losses) related to U.S. net sales of

Xtandi

. Subject to certain exceptions, Pfizer and Astellas also share equally all Xtandi commercialization costs attributable to the U.S. market. Pfizer and Astellas also share certain development and other collaboration expenses and Pfizer receives tiered royalties as a percentage of international

Xtandi

net sales (recorded in Other (Income)/Deductions

––

Net). Collaboration rights for

Enbrel

(in the U.S. and Canada),

Spiriva

and

Rebif

have expired. For additional information, including a description of certain of these collaboration and co-promotion agreements and their expiration dates, see the

Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income

––

Revenues

––

Selected Product Descriptions

and the

Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook

––

Our Operating Environment

––

Industry-Specific Challenges

––

Intellectual Property Rights and Collaboration/Licensing Rights

sections in our 2016 Financial Report and

