Item 1.Business

Introduction

Discover Financial Services is a direct banking and payment services company. We are a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of
1956, subject to oversight, regulation and examination by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”). We are also a financial holding company under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act.

We offer credit cards, student loans, personal loans and deposit products through our Discover Bank subsidiary. Although we have historically
offered both federal and private student loans, in 2010 we decided to sell all our remaining federal student loans. We had $48.8 billion in loan receivables and $20.6 billion in deposits issued through direct-to-consumer channels and affinity
relationships at November 30, 2010. We operate the Discover Network, our credit card payments network; the PULSE network (“PULSE”), our automated teller machine (“ATM”), debit and electronic funds transfer network; and
Diners Club International (“Diners Club”), our global payments network.

Acquisition of The Student Loan Corporation

We recently expanded our private student loan business as part of our direct banking strategy. On December 31, 2010, we
acquired The Student Loan Corporation (“SLC”) in a merger transaction for $600 million. We received a purchase price closing adjustment in the form of a cash payment of approximately $234 million from Citibank, N.A. (“Citibank”),
the 80% owner of SLC before the merger, resulting in a net cash outlay of approximately $366 million for the acquisition of SLC. In the transaction, we acquired SLC’s ongoing private student loan business and approximately $4.2 billion of
private student loans and other assets, along with assuming approximately $3.4 billion of SLC’s existing asset-backed securitization debt funding and other liabilities. We acquired the loans and other assets at an 8.5% discount, which will be
applied to balance sheet items through purchase accounting entries. SLC is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of Discover Bank. The acquisition significantly increased the size of our private student loan portfolio, which was $1.0 billion at
November 30, 2010. In addition, the acquisition has provided us with a developed student loan business platform, additional school relationships, experienced personnel and SLC’s website.

Available Information

We
make available free of charge through our internet sitehttp://www.discoverfinancial.com, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed by or on behalf
of directors, executive officers and certain large stockholders, and any amendments to those documents filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These filings will become available as soon as reasonably practicable after
they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).

In addition, the
following information is available on the Investor Relations page of our website: (i) Corporate Governance Policies; (ii) Code of Ethics and Business Conduct; and (iii) charters of the Audit and Risk, Compensation, and Nominating and
Governance Committees of our board of directors. These documents are also available in print without charge to any person who requests them by writing or telephoning our principal executive offices: Discover Financial Services, Office of the
Corporate Secretary, 2500 Lake Cook Road, Riverwoods, Illinois 60015, U.S.A., telephone number (224) 405-0900.

Operating Model

We manage our business activities in two segments: Direct Banking and Payment Services. Our Direct Banking segment includes Discover
card-branded credit cards issued to individuals and small businesses on the Discover Network and other consumer products and services, including personal loans, student loans, prepaid cards and other consumer lending and deposit products offered
through our Discover Bank subsidiary. Our Payment Services segment includes PULSE, Diners Club and our third-party issuing business, which includes credit, debit and prepaid cards issued on the Discover Network by third parties.

We are principally engaged in providing products and services to customers in the United States, although the royalty revenue we receive from
Diners Club licensees is derived from sources outside of the United States. For quantitative information concerning our geographic distribution, see Note 6: Loan Receivables to our consolidated financial statements and for quantitative information
concerning our royalty revenue, see Note 16: Other Income and Other Expense.



-1-




Below are descriptions of the principal products and services of each of our reportable segments. For
additional financial information relating to our business and our operating segments, see Note 24: Segment Disclosures to our consolidated financial statements.

Direct Banking

Credit Cards

We offer credit cards to consumers and small businesses. Our credit card customers are permitted to “revolve” their balances and repay
their obligations over a period of time and at an interest rate set forth in their cardmember agreements, which may be either fixed or variable. The interest that we earn on revolving credit card balances makes up 95% of our total interest income.
We also charge customers other fees, including fees for late payments, balance transfer transactions, cash advance transactions and foreign currency transactions. We also offer various products and services in connection with our credit card
business, such as Payment Protection, Identity Theft Protection, Wallet Protection, Credit ScoreTracker and other fee-based products.

Our credit card customers’ transactions are processed over the Discover Network. Where we have a direct relationship with a merchant, which is
the case with respect to our large merchants representing a majority of Discover card sales volume, we receive discount and fee revenue from merchants. Discount and fee revenue is based on pricing that is set forth in contractual agreements with
each merchant and is based on a number of factors including industry practices, special marketing arrangements, competitive pricing levels and merchant size.

Where we do not have a direct relationship with a merchant, we receive acquirer interchange and assessment fees from the merchant acquirer that settles transactions with the merchant. The amount of this fee is
based on a standardized schedule and can vary based on the type of merchant or type of card (e.g., consumer or business). Most of our cards offer theCashback Bonusrewards program, the costs of which we record as a reduction of discount and
interchange revenue.

The following chart shows the Discover card transaction cycle as processed on the Discover Network:



Student Loans

Our student loans help students and parents finance education costs at select schools with undergraduate, graduate and post-graduate degree
programs. Private student loans are intended to supplement any financial aid that may be available through grants, scholarships or under the federal government’s Direct Lending Program. Historically, we have offered both federal and private
student loans. However, effective July 2010, federal legislation required all federal student loans to be made directly by the federal government and as of November 30, 2010, our remaining federal student loan portfolio was classified as held
for sale.



-2-




In 2011, we will offer Discover Student Loans through Discover Bank, and during a
transition period, CitiAssist®Loans which are originated by Citibank, N.A. (“Citibank”) and subsequently
purchased by Discover Bank. Our private student loans are marketed through colleges and universities, including schools where Discover or Citibank is named a preferred lender. Discover Student Loans and CitiAssist Loans are also marketed online and
through direct mail. In addition, CitiAssist loans are marketed through marketing agreements with Citibank and its affiliates.

Customers can apply for a Discover Student Loan by mail, online or by phone, where we have dedicated staff within our Discover call centers to
service student loans. Customers can apply for a CitiAssist Loan online. As part of the loan approval process, both Discover Student Loans and CitiAssist Loans are certified with the school to confirm enrollment so that loan funds are applied to
educational expenses. To ensure proper use of loan funds, the majority of loan disbursements are made directly to schools. Upon graduation, Discover Student Loan borrowers are generally eligible to receive a Graduation Reward on the date of their
graduation. Students may redeem their Graduation Reward as a credit to the balance of their student loan or as a direct deposit to a bank account.

Personal Loans

Our personal loans are
unsecured loans with fixed interest rates, fixed terms and fixed payments. These loans are primarily intended to help customers consolidate existing debt, although they can be used for other reasons. In addition to the interest earned on the
personal loans, we also earn fees from customers that enroll in our credit protection product. We generally market our personal loan products to our existing credit card customers through direct mail, statement inserts and email. However, we also
market personal loans to non-Discover customers through direct mail. Customers can submit their applications via phone, online or through the mail, and can service their accounts online or by phone.

Deposit Products

We obtain deposits from
consumers directly or through affinity relationships (“direct-to-consumer deposits”) and through third-party securities brokerage firms who offer our deposits to their customers (“brokered deposits”). Our deposit products include
certificates of deposit, money market accounts, online savings accounts and Individual Retirement Account (“IRA”) certificates of deposit.

We market our direct-to-consumer deposit products to our existing customer base and other prospective customers through the use of internet advertising, print materials and affinity arrangements with third parties.
Customers can apply for, fund and service their deposit accounts online or via phone, where we have a dedicated staff within our call centers to service deposit accounts. For more information regarding our deposit business, see
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Funding Sources – Deposits.”

Payment Services

PULSE network

Our PULSE network is one of the nation’s leading ATM/debit networks. PULSE links cardholders of more than 4,400 financial institutions with
ATMs and point-of-sale (“POS”) terminals located throughout the United States. PULSE also provides cash access at over 750,000 ATMs in over 80 countries. PULSE’s primary source of revenue is transaction fees charged for switching and
settling ATM, personal identification number (“PIN”) POS debit and signature debit transactions initiated through the use of debit cards issued by participating financial institutions. In addition, PULSE offers a variety of optional
products and services that produce income for the network, including signature debit processing, prepaid card processing, and connections to other regional and national electronic funds transfer networks.

When a financial institution joins the PULSE network, debit cards issued by that institution can be used at all of the ATMs and PIN POS debit
terminals that participate in the PULSE network, and the PULSE mark can be used on that institution’s debit cards and ATMs. In addition, financial institution participants may sponsor merchants, direct processors and independent sales
organizations to participate in the PULSE PIN POS and ATM debit service. A participating financial institution assumes liability for transactions initiated through the use of debit cards issued by that institution, as well as for ensuring compliance
with PULSE’s operating rules and policies applicable to that institution’s debit cards, ATMs and, if applicable, sponsored merchants, direct processors and independent sales organizations.



-3-




Diners Club

Our Diners Club business maintains an acceptance network in over 185 countries and territories through its relationships with over 80 licensees, which are generally financial institutions. Diners Club itself does
not directly issue credit cards to consumers, but grants its licensees the right to issue Diners Club branded credit cards and/or provide card acceptance services. Our licensees pay us royalties for the right to use the Diners Club brand, which is
our primary source of Diners Club revenues. Diners Club also earns revenue from providing various support services to its licensees, including processing and settlement of cross border transactions. Diners Club also offers licensees a centralized
service center and internet services.

When Diners Club cardholders use their cards outside the host country or territory of the issuing
licensee, transactions are routed and settled over the Diners Club network through its centralized service center. In order to increase merchant acceptance in certain targeted countries and territories, Diners Club is working with merchant acquirers
to offer Diners Club acceptance to their merchants. These acquirers are granted licenses to market the Diners Club brand to existing and new merchants. As we continue to work toward integrating and expanding card acceptance across our networks, we
expect Discover customers to be able to use their cards at an increasing number of merchant and ATM locations that accept Diners Club cards in a growing number of countries around the world, and Diners Club customers with cards issued by licensees
outside of North America to be able to use their cards on the Discover Network in North America and on the PULSE network domestically and internationally.

Third-Party Issuing Business

We have
agreements related to issuing credit, debit and prepaid cards with a number of other financial institutions for issuance of card products on the Discover Network. We refer to these financial institutions as “third-party issuers.” We earn
merchant discount and acquirer interchange revenue, net of issuer interchange paid, plus assessments and fees for processing transactions for third-party issuers of signature cards on the Discover Network.

The following chart shows the third-party issuer transaction cycle:



The discussion below provides additional detail concerning the supporting functions of our two segments. The credit
card, student loan, personal loan and deposit products issued through our Direct Banking segment require significant investments in credit risk management, marketing, customer service and technology, whereas the operation of the Discover Network and
our Payment Services business requires that we invest in technology as well as relationships with issuers, merchants and merchant acquirers.



-4-




Credit Risk Management

Credit risk management is a critical component of our management and growth strategy. Credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising from borrower default when borrowers are unable or unwilling to meet their
financial obligations to us. Our credit risk is generally highly diversified across millions of accounts without significant individual exposures. We manage risk according to customer segments and product types, among other things. See
“– Risk Management” for more information regarding how we define and manage credit and other risks.

Account Acquisition (New
Customers)

We acquire new credit card customers through our marketing efforts, including direct mail, internet, print
advertising, telemarketing and merchant relationships, or through unsolicited individual applications. We also use targeted marketing efforts to prospective student loan and personal loan customers, although student loan customers may also submit
unsolicited individual applications. In all cases, we have a rigorous process for screening applicants.

To identify credit-worthy
prospective customers, our credit risk management team uses proprietary targeting and analytical models and our marketing team matches them with our product offerings. We give consideration to the prospective customer’s financial stability, as
well as ability and willingness to pay. In order to make the best use of our resources used to acquire new accounts, we seek out production efficiencies, conduct creative testing and aim to continuously improve our product offerings and enhance our
targeting and analytical models.

We assess the creditworthiness of each credit card, student loan and personal loan applicant through
our underwriting process. We evaluate prospective customers’ applications using credit information provided by the credit bureaus and other sources. We use credit scoring systems, both externally developed and proprietary, to evaluate customer
and credit bureau data. When appropriate, we also use experienced credit underwriters to supplement our automated decision-making processes.

Upon approval of a customer’s application, we assign a specific annual percentage rate (“APR”) using an analytical pricing strategy that provides competitive pricing for customers and seeks to
maximize revenue on a risk-adjusted basis. For our credit card loans, we also assign a revolving credit line based on risk level and income.

Credit Card Portfolio Management (Existing Customers)

Unlike our installment loan products, which are billed according to an amortization schedule that is fixed at the time of the disbursement of the loan, the revolving nature of our credit card loans requires that we
regularly assess the credit risk exposure of our customers’ accounts. This assessment reflects information relating to the performance of the individual’s Discover account as well as information from credit bureaus relating to the
customer’s broader credit performance. We utilize scoring models (statistical evaluation models) to support the measurement and management of credit risk. At the individual customer level, we use custom risk models together with generic
industry models as an integral part of the credit decision-making process. Depending on the duration of the customer’s account, risk profile and other performance metrics, the account may be subject to a range of account management treatments,
including limits on transaction authorization and increases or decreases in purchase and cash credit limits.

Customer Assistance

We provide our customers with a variety of tools to proactively manage their accounts, including a website dedicated to customer
education and payment reminders through email and mobile text alerts. These tools are designed to limit a customer’s risk of becoming delinquent. However, once a customer’s account becomes delinquent or is at risk of becoming delinquent,
we employ a variety of strategies to assist customers in becoming current on their accounts.

All monthly billing statements of accounts
with past due amounts include a request for payment of such amounts. After the first monthly statement that reflects a past due amount, these accounts also receive a written notice of late fee charges as well as an additional request for payment.
Customer assistance personnel generally initiate contact with customers within 30 days after any portion of their balance becomes past due. The nature and the timing of the initial contact, typically a personal call or letter, are determined by
a review of the customer’s prior account activity and payment habits.

We reevaluate our collection efforts and consider the
implementation of other techniques, including internal collection activities and use of external vendors, as a customer becomes increasingly delinquent. We limit our exposure to



-5-




delinquencies through controls within the authorizations system and criteria based account suspension and revocation. In situations involving customers with financial difficulties, we may enter
into arrangements to extend or otherwise change payment schedules, lower their interest rates and/or waive fees to aid customers in becoming current on their obligations to us.

Marketing

In addition to working with our credit risk management personnel on
account acquisition and portfolio management, our marketing group provides other key functions, including product development, management of ourCashback Bonusand other rewards programs, fee product management, and brand and advertising
management.

Product Development

In order to attract and retain customers and merchants, we continue to develop new products, features, and benefits and market them through a variety of channels, including mail, phone and online. Targeted offers
may include balance transfers, fee products and reinforcement of ourCashback Bonusand other rewards programs. Through the development of a large prospect database, use of credit bureau data and use of a customer contact strategy and
management system, we have been able to improve our modeling and customer engagement capabilities, which helps optimize product, pricing and channel selection.

Rewards/Cashback Bonus

Under ourCashback Bonusprogram, we provide our credit
card customers with up to 1%Cashback Bonus, based upon their spending level and type of purchases. Customers earn 0.25% on their first $3,000 in annual purchases and 1% once their total annual purchases exceed $3,000. Purchases made at
warehouse clubs and discount stores earn a fixedCashback Bonusof 0.25%.

Customers can choose from several card products that
allow them to earn their rewards based on how they want to use credit as set forth below.



•Discover Morecard offers 5%Cashback Bonuson purchases up to a specified amount, subject to certain limitations, in large retail categories such
as gasoline, grocery, restaurants, travel, department stores and home improvement stores, that change throughout the year, and up to 1% unlimitedCashback Bonuson all other purchases.



•Discover Motiva cardprovides customers withCashback Bonusas a reward for making on-time payments and up to 1% unlimitedCashback Bonuson
all other purchases.



•Miles by Discovercustomers receive two miles for every $1 on the first $3,000 in travel and restaurant purchases each year and one mile for every $1 on
all other purchases.



•Escape by Discovercustomers earn two miles for every $1 on all purchases that can be redeemed for travel credits, gift cards, cash or merchandise. This
card has a $60 annual fee.



•Discover Open Road cardcustomers can earn 2%Cashback Bonuson the first $250 in gas and restaurant purchases each billing period and up to 1%Cashback Bonuson all other purchases.



•Discover Business cardoffers 5%Cashback Bonuson the first $2,000 in office supply purchases, 2%Cashback Bonuson the first $2,000 in gas
purchases and up to 1% unlimitedCashback Bonuson all other purchases each year.

Customers who are not
delinquent or otherwise disqualified may redeem theirCashback Bonusstarting at $20 for partner gift cards that turn theirCashback Bonusinto bigger rewards, brand-name merchandise with free shipping, Discover gift cards or a
charitable donation to select charities. For customers who prefer cash,Cashback Bonuscan be redeemed starting at $50 in the form of a statement credit or direct deposit to a bank account in increments of $50.

Miles can be redeemed for travel credits starting at 10,000 miles, merchandise starting at 4,000 miles, partner gift cards starting at 1,000 miles,
Discover gift cards starting at 5,000 miles, cash in the form of statement credits or direct deposit to a bank account starting at 5,000 miles or charitable donations starting at 5,000 miles.



-6-




Fee Products

We market several fee-based products to our customers, including the following:



•Identity Theft Protection.The most comprehensive identity theft monitoring service we offer includes an initial credit report, credit bureau report
monitoring, prompt alerts that help customers spot possible identity theft quickly, identity theft insurance up to $25,000 which may cover certain out of pocket expenses due to identity theft and access to knowledgeable professionals who can provide
information about identity theft issues.



•Payment Protection.This service allows customers to suspend their payments for up to two years, depending on the product, in the event of certain covered
events. Different products cover different events, such as unemployment, disability or other life events. Depending on the product and availability under state laws, outstanding balances up to certain amounts are cancelled in the event of death.



•Wallet Protection.This service offers one-call convenience if the customer’s wallet is lost or stolen, including requesting cancellation and
replacement of the customer’s credit and debit cards, monitoring the customer’s credit bureau reports for 90 days, providing up to $100 to replace the customer’s wallet and, if needed, lending the customer up to $1,000 in emergency
cash.



•Credit ScoreTracker.This product offers customers resources that help them understand and monitor their credit score. Credit ScoreTracker is specifically
designed for score monitoring by alerting customers when their score changes, allowing customers to set a target score and providing resources to help them understand the factors that may be influencing their score.



•Extended Warranties.Discover customers can purchase online service warranties from Square Trade, our extended warranty provider, to protect their
purchases of new electronics and appliances from any retailer as well as certain other purchases.

Brand and Advertising
Management

We maintain a full-service, in-house direct marketing department charged with delivering integrated communications to
foster customer engagement with our products and services in addition to supervising external agencies. Our brand team utilizes consumer insights to define our mass communication strategy, create multi-channel advertising messages and develop
marketing partnerships with sponsorship properties.

Customer Service

Our customers can contact our customer service personnel by calling 1-800-Discover. Credit card customers also can manage their accounts online or
through applications for their iPhone, Android or Blackberry mobile devices. Our internet and mobile solutions offer a range of benefits, including:



•Online account services that allow customers to customize their accounts, choose how and when they pay their bills, create annual account summaries that assist
them with budgeting and taxes, research transaction details, initiate transaction disputes, and chat with or email a customer representative;



•Email and mobile text reminders to help customers avoid fees and track big purchases or returns;



•Money management tools like the Spend Analyzer, Paydown Planner and Purchase Planner;



•Secure online account numbers that let customers shop online without ever revealing their actual account numbers; and



•ShopDiscover, an online portal where customers automatically earn 5–20%Cashback Bonuswhen they shop at well-known online merchants using their
Discover card.

Processing Services

Processing services cover four functional areas: card personalization/embossing, print/mail, remittance processing and document processing. Card personalization/embossing is responsible for the embossing and
mailing of plastic credit cards for new accounts, replacements and reissues, as well as gift cards. Print/mail specializes in statement and letter printing and mailing for merchants and customers. Remittance processing, currently a function
outsourced to a third-party vendor, handles account payments and check processing. Document processing handles hard-copy forms, including product enrollments and new account applications.



-7-




Fraud Prevention

We actively monitor our customers’ accounts to prevent, detect, investigate and resolve fraud. Our fraud prevention processes are designed to protect the security of cards, applications and accounts in a
manner consistent with our customers’ needs to easily acquire and use our products. Prevention systems handle the authorization of application information, verification of customer identity, sales, processing of convenience and balance transfer
checks, and electronic transactions.

Each credit card transaction is subject to screening, authorization and approval through a
proprietary POS decision system. We use a variety of techniques that help identify and halt fraudulent transactions, including adaptive models, rules-based decision-making logic, report analysis, data integrity checks and manual account reviews.
Accounts identified by the fraud detection system are managed by proprietary software that integrates fraud prevention and customer service. Strategies are subject to regular review and enhancement to enable us to respond quickly to changing credit
conditions as well as to protect our customers and our business from emerging fraud activity.

Discover Card Terms and Conditions

The terms and conditions governing our credit card products vary by product and change over time. Each credit card customer enters
into a cardmember agreement governing the terms and conditions of the customer’s account. Discover card’s terms and conditions are generally uniform from state to state. The cardmember agreement permits us, to the extent permitted by law,
to change any term of the cardmember agreement, including any finance charge, rate or fee, or add or delete any term of the cardmember agreement, with notice to the customer as required by law. The customer has the right to opt out of certain
changes of terms and pay their balance off under the unchanged terms. Each cardmember agreement provides that the account can be used for purchases, cash advances and balance transfers. Each Discover card account is assigned a credit limit when the
account is initially opened. Thereafter, individual credit limits may be increased or decreased from time to time, at our discretion, based primarily on our evaluation of the customer’s creditworthiness. We offer various features and services
with the Discover card accounts, including theCashback Bonusreward described under “ – Marketing – Rewards/Cashback Bonus.”

All Discover card accounts generally have the same billing structure, though there are some differences between the consumer and business credit cards. We generally send a monthly billing statement to each customer
who has an outstanding debit or credit balance. Customers also can waive their right to receive a physical copy of their bill, in which case they will receive email notifications of the availability of their billing statement online. Discover card
accounts are grouped into multiple billing cycles for operational purposes. Each billing cycle has a separate billing date, on which we process and bill to customers all activity that occurred in the related accounts during the period of
approximately 28 to 32 days that ends on that date.

Discover card accounts are assessed periodic finance charges using fixed and/or
variable interest rates. Certain account balances, such as balance transfers, may accrue periodic finance charges at lower fixed rates for a specified period of time. Variable rates are indexed to the highest prime rate published inThe Wall
Street Journalon the last business day of the month. Periodic finance charges are calculated using the daily balance (including current transactions) method, which results in daily compounding of periodic finance charges, subject to a grace
period on new purchases. The grace period essentially provides that periodic finance changes are not imposed on new purchases, or any portion of a new purchase, that is paid by the due date on the customer’s current billing statement if the
customer paid the balance on their previous billing statement in full by the due date on that statement. Neither cash advances nor balance transfers are subject to a grace period.

Each customer with an outstanding debit balance in his or her consumer Discover card account must generally make a minimum payment each month. If a
customer exceeds his or her credit limit as of the last day of the billing period, we may include all or a portion of this excess amount in the customer’s minimum monthly payment. A customer may pay the total amount due at any time. We also may
enter into arrangements with delinquent customers to extend or otherwise change payment schedules, and to waive finance charges and/or fees, including re-aging accounts in accordance with regulatory guidance.

In addition to periodic finance charges, we may impose other charges and fees on Discover card accounts, including cash advance transaction fees,
late fees where a customer has not made a minimum payment by the required due date,



-8-




balance transfer fees, foreign currency transaction fees and returned payment fees. We also charge fees for each time we decline to honor a balance transfer check, cash advance check, or other
promotional check due to such reasons as insufficient credit availability, delinquency or default.

The Credit Card Accountability
Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 requires us, beginning February 2011, to periodically review annual percentage rates that were increased on accounts since January 1, 2009.

Terms and conditions may vary for other products, such as the Discover Business card and personal and student loans.

Discover Network Operations

We support our growing base of merchants through a merchant acquiring model that primarily includes direct relationships with large merchants in the
United States and arrangements with merchant acquirers for small- and mid-size merchants. In addition to our U.S.-based merchant acceptance locations, Discover Network cards also are accepted at many locations in Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean, China
and Japan and at a growing number of countries on the Diners Club network, such as Italy, South Korea, South Africa and Brazil.

We
maintain direct relationships with most of our largest merchant accounts which enables us to capitalize on joint marketing programs and opportunities and to retain the entire discount revenue from the merchant. The terms of our direct merchant
relationships are governed by a merchant services agreement. These agreements also are accompanied by additional program documents that further define our network functionality and requirements, including operating regulations, technical
specifications and dispute rules. To enable ongoing improvements in our network’s functionality and in accordance with industry convention, we publish updates to our program documents on a semi-annual basis. Discover card transaction volume was
concentrated among our top 100 merchants in 2010, with our largest merchant accounting for approximately 8% of that transaction volume.

In order to increase merchant acceptance, Discover Network has sold the majority of its small- and mid-size merchant portfolios to third-party
merchant acquirers to allow them to offer a comprehensive payments processing package for small- and mid-size merchants. Merchants also can apply to our merchant acquirer partners directly to accept Discover Network cards through the acquirers’
integrated payments solution. Merchant acquirers provide merchants with consolidated servicing for Discover, Visa and MasterCard transactions, resulting in streamlined statements and customer service for our merchants, and reduced costs for us.
These acquirer partners also perform credit evaluations and screen applications against unacceptable business types and the Office of Foreign Asset Control Specifically Designated Nationals list.

Discover Network operates systems and processes that seek to prevent fraud and ensure compliance with our operating regulations. Our systems
evaluate incoming transaction activity to identify abnormalities that require investigation and fraud mitigation. Designated Discover Network personnel are responsible for validating compliance with our operating regulations and law, including
enforcing our data security standards and our prohibitions against internet gambling and other illegal or otherwise unacceptable activities. Discover Network is a founding and current member of the Payment Card Industry (“PCI”) Security
Standards Council, LLC, and requires merchants and service providers to comply with the PCI Data Security Standard.

Technology

We provide technology systems processing through a combination of owned and hosted data centers. These data centers support our
Discover and PULSE networks and Diners Club processing, provide customers with access to their accounts and manage transaction authorizations, among other functions. Discover Network works with a number of vendors to maintain our connectivity in
support of POS authorizations. This connectivity also enables merchants to receive timely payment for their Discover Network card transactions.

Our approach to technology development and management involves both third-party and in-house resources. We use third-party vendors for basic technology services (e.g., telecommunications, hardware and operating
systems). We subject each vendor to a formal approval process to ensure that the vendor can assist us in maintaining a cost-effective and reliable technology platform. We use our in-house resources to build, maintain and oversee our technology
systems. We believe this approach enhances our operations, improves cost efficiencies and helps distinguish us in the marketplace.



-9-




Seasonality

In our credit card business, we experience fluctuations in transaction volumes and the level of loan receivables as a result of higher seasonal consumer spending and payment patterns around the winter holidays,
summer vacations and back-to-school periods. In our student loan business, our loan disbursements peak at the beginning of a school’s academic semester or quarter. Although there is a seasonal impact to transaction volumes and the level of
student and credit card loan receivables, seasonal trends have not caused significant fluctuations in our results of operations or credit quality metrics between quarterly and annual periods.

Revenues in our Diners Club business are generally higher in the first half of the year as a result of Diners Club’s tiered pricing system
where licensees qualify for lower royalty rate tiers as cumulative volume grows during the course of the year.

Competition

We compete with other credit card issuers and networks on the basis of a number of factors, including brand, reputation, reward
programs, customer service, merchant acceptance, product offerings, incentives, and pricing. As a credit card issuer, we compete for accounts and utilization with cards issued by other financial institutions (including American Express, Bank of
America, Capital One, JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup) and, to a lesser extent, businesses that issue their own private label cards or otherwise extend credit to their customers. In comparison to our largest credit card competitors, our strengths have
included cash rewards, conservative portfolio management and strong customer service. As a student loan issuer, we compete for customers with Sallie Mae, Wells Fargo and JPMorgan Chase, as well as other financial institutions that offer student
loans, on the basis of customer service, pricing and rewards. As a personal loan issuer, we compete for customers primarily with Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase, Capital One and Wells Fargo, generally on the basis of the loan product’s terms.

Although our student and personal loan receivables have increased as a percentage of total loans, our credit card receivables continue
to represent a substantial portion of our receivables. The credit card business is highly competitive. Some of our competitors offer a wider variety of loan products than we do, including automobile and home loans, which may position them better
among customers who prefer to use a single financial institution to meet all of their financial needs. Some of our competitors enjoy lower cost of funds and greater capital resources than we do, and are therefore able to invest more in initiatives
to attract and retain customers, such as advertising, targeted marketing, account acquisitions and pricing competition in interest rates, annual fees, reward programs and low-priced balance transfer programs.

Because most domestically issued credit cards, other than those issued on the American Express network, are issued on the Visa and MasterCard
networks, most other card issuers benefit from the dominant market share of Visa and MasterCard. The former exclusionary rules of Visa and MasterCard limited our ability to attract merchants and credit and debit card issuers, contributing to
Discover not being as widely accepted in the U.S. as Visa and MasterCard. Merchant acceptance of the Discover card, however, has continued to increase and we are making investments to further grow acceptance both domestically and internationally.

In our payment services business, we compete with other networks for volume and to attract third-party issuers to issue credit, debit
and prepaid cards on the Discover, PULSE and Diners Club networks. We generally compete on the basis of customization of services and various pricing strategies, including incentives and rebates. The Diners Club and Discover networks’ primary
competitors are Visa, MasterCard and American Express, and PULSE’s competitors include Visa’s Interlink, STAR, and MasterCard’s Maestro. American Express is a particularly strong competitor to Diners Club as both cards significantly
target international business travelers.

In our direct-to-consumer deposits business, we have acquisition and servicing capabilities
similar to other direct competitors, including Ally Financial, American Express, Capital One Direct, HSBC Direct and ING Direct. We also compete with traditional banks and credit unions that source deposits through branch locations. We seek to
differentiate our deposits product offerings on the basis of brand reputation, convenience, customer service, and value.

For discussion
of the risks we face with respect to competition, see “Risk Factors.”



-10-




Intellectual Property

We use a variety of methods, such as trademarks, patents, copyrights and trade secrets, to protect our intellectual property. We also place appropriate restrictions on our proprietary information to control access
and prevent unauthorized disclosures. Our Discover, PULSE and Diners Club brands are important assets, and we take steps to protect the value of these assets and our reputation.

Employees

As of January 15, 2011, we employed approximately 10,300
individuals.

Risk Management

The understanding, identification and management of risk are important elements to our success. Accordingly, we maintain a comprehensive risk management program to identify, measure, monitor, evaluate, manage, and
report on the principal risks we assume in conducting our activities. These risks include credit, market, liquidity, operational, compliance and legal and strategic risks.

Enterprise Risk Management Principles

Our enterprise risk management philosophy is to
ensure that all relevant risks inherent in our business activities are appropriately identified, measured, monitored, evaluated, managed and reported. Our enterprise risk management philosophy is expressed through five key principles that guide our
approach to risk management: comprehensiveness, accountability, independence, defined risk appetite and strategic limits and transparency.

Comprehensiveness. We seek to maintain a comprehensive framework for managing risk enterprise-wide, including policies, risk management processes, monitoring, and reporting. The framework is designed to be
comprehensive with respect to our reporting segments and its control and support functions, and it extends across all risk types.

Accountability. We structure accountability along the principles of risk management execution, oversight and independent validation. Our
business units hold primary accountability for management of the risks to which their businesses are exposed. The principles apply across all businesses and risk types.

Independence. We maintain independent risk and control functions including Corporate Risk Management, Law and Compliance, and Internal Audit. Our Corporate Risk Officer, who leads our Corporate Risk
Management function, is appointed by our board of directors and is accountable for providing an independent perspective on the risks to which we are exposed; how well management is identifying, assessing and managing risk; and the capabilities we
have in place to manage risk across the enterprise.

Defined Risk Appetite and Strategic Limits. Our board of directors approves
a risk appetite and strategic limit framework, which establishes the acceptable level of risk taking, considering desired financial returns and other objectives. To that end, management sets, maintains and enforces policies, as well as limits and
escalation triggers, that are consistent with the risk appetite and strategic limits approved by our board of directors.

Transparency. Our risk management framework seeks to provide transparency of exposures and outcomes and is core to our risk culture and
operating style. We provide transparency through our risk committee structure, processes for escalating risk incidents and risk reporting at each level, including quarterly reports to our Risk Committee and the Audit and Risk Committee of our board
of directors.

Risk Management Roles and Responsibilities

Responsibility for risk management is held at several different levels, including our board of directors, the Audit and Risk Committee of our board of directors, our Risk Committee, our Chief Executive Officer, our
Executive Committee and our Corporate Risk Officer.

Board of Directors. Our board of directors approves certain risk management
policies and our risk appetite and strategic limit framework. Our board also oversees our strategic plan and appoints our Corporate Risk Officer. In addition, our board receives and reviews Federal Reserve examination reports, as well as information
regarding other examinations and communications from regulators to the extent they relate to risk management matters.



-11-




Audit and Risk Committee of our Board of Directors. The Audit and Risk Committee of our board
of directors reviews reports from management on our enterprise-wide risk management program and reviews with management the framework for assessing and managing our risk exposures and the steps management has taken to monitor and control such risk
exposures. The Committee also reviews reports from management on the status of and changes to risk exposures, policies, procedures and practices.

Risk Committee. Our Risk Committee is a management-level committee, authorized by the Audit and Risk Committee of our board of directors and chaired by our Corporate Risk Officer, that provides a forum for
key members of our executive management team to review and discuss credit, market, liquidity, operational, legal and compliance and strategic risks across the company and for each business unit. Risk Committee membership consists of all members of
the Executive Committee and the Corporate Risk Officer. The Committee regularly reports to the Audit and Risk Committee of our board of directors on risks and risk management. Our Risk Committee has formed a number of committees to assist it in
carrying out its responsibilities. Each committee is guided by a charter that defines the mandates of the committee in further detail. These committees, made up of representatives from senior levels of management, escalate issues to our Risk
Committee as necessary. These risk management committees include the Asset/Liability Management Committee, the Capital Planning Committee, the Counterparty Credit Committee, the Discover Bank Credit Committee, the Discover Bank Pricing Committee,
the Payment Services Steering Committee, the New Initiatives Committee, the Operational Risk Committee and the Privacy and Policy Committee.

Chief Executive Officer. Our Chief Executive Officer is ultimately responsible for our risk management. In that capacity, our Chief Executive Officer establishes our risk management culture, and ensures that
businesses operate in accordance with our risk culture. Our Corporate Risk Officer reports to our Chief Executive Officer.

Senior
Executive Officers. Senior executive officers are responsible for ensuring their respective business units operate within established risk limits. They are also responsible for identifying risks, explicitly considering risk when developing
strategic plans, budgets and new products, and implementing appropriate risk controls when pursuing business strategies and objectives. Senior executive officers also coordinate with Corporate Risk Management to produce relevant, sufficient,
accurate and timely risk reporting that is consistent with the processes and methodology established by Corporate Risk Management. In addition, our senior executive officers are responsible for ensuring that sufficient financial resources and
qualified personnel are deployed to control the risks inherent in the business activity.

Corporate Risk Officer. Our Corporate
Risk Officer chairs our Risk Committee and manages our Corporate Risk Management function. Our Corporate Risk Officer is responsible for establishing and implementing standards for the identification, management, measurement and reporting of risk on
an enterprise-wide basis.

Law and Compliance Department.Our Law and Compliance Department is responsible for establishing and
maintaining a compliance program that includes our compliance risk identification, assessment, policy development, monitoring, testing, training and reporting activities. Through collaboration with business units, our Law and Compliance Department
incorporates a commitment to compliance in our day-to-day activities. The head of Compliance reports to the General Counsel.

Internal Audit Department.Our Internal Audit Department is responsible for performing periodic, independent reviews and testing of
compliance with our risk management policies and standards, performing assessments of the design and operating effectiveness of these policies and standards, and validating that all risk management controls are functioning as intended. The head of
Internal Audit reports to the Audit and Risk Committee of our board of directors.

Risk Appetite and Strategic Limit Structure

Our risk appetite and strategic limit structure establish the amount of risk, on a broad level, that we are willing to accept in pursuit of
shareholder value. It reflects our risk management philosophy, and, in turn influences our culture and operating style. Our determination of risk appetite and strategic limits is directly linked to the strategic planning process and is consistent
with our aspirations and mission statement. Risk appetite expressions and strategic limits are categorized by risk type and cascade through our committees and business units and are incorporated into business decisions, reporting and day-to-day
business discussions.



-12-




Management and the Corporate Risk Management function monitor approved limits and escalation triggers
to ensure that the business is operating within the expressed risk appetite and strategic limits. Risk limits are monitored and reported on to various risk committees and our board of directors, as appropriate. Through ongoing monitoring of risk
exposures, management is able to identify appropriate risk response and mitigation strategies in order to react dynamically to changing conditions.

The expressions of risk appetite and strategic limits also serve as tools to preclude business activities that are inconsistent with our long-term goals. Our risk appetite and strategic limit structure is approved
by our board of directors.

Risk Categories

Our risk management program is organized around six major risk categories: credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, legal and compliance risk and strategic risk. We evaluate the potential impact
of a risk event on the company by assessing financial impact, impact to our reputation, legal and regulatory impact and client/customer impact.

Credit Risk. Credit risk arises from the potential that a borrower or counterparty will fail to perform on an obligation. Our credit risk includes consumer credit risk and counterparty credit risk. Consumer
credit risk is primarily incurred by issuing credit cards and granting student loans and personal loans to consumers. Counterparty credit risk is incurred through a number of activities including settlement, certain marketing programs, treasury and
asset/liability management, network incentive programs, vendor relationships and insurers.

Management of consumer credit risk is the
primary responsibility of the Discover Bank Credit Committee. The responsibilities of the Discover Bank Credit Committee include (i) establishing consumer credit risk philosophy and tolerance; (ii) establishing procedures for implementing
and ensuring compliance with risk identification, measurement, monitoring and management policies and procedures for consumer credit risk management; and (iii) reviewing, on a periodic basis, aggregate risk exposures and efficacy of risk
measurement, monitoring and management policies and procedures within the Credit Risk Management Department.

Counterparty credit risk
is managed through our Counterparty Credit Committee. Our Counterparty Credit Committee’s responsibilities include (i) establishing an enterprise-wide approach to counterparty credit risk management through a program for the
identification, measurement, management and reporting of counterparty credit risks; (ii) providing oversight for controls, limits, thresholds and governance processes related to our ongoing management of counterparty credit risks;
(iii) reviewing the enterprise-wide portfolio of counterparty risks and ensuring those risks remain within tolerances; and (iv) approving acceptance of and limits for counterparties that represent significant exposure to us.

Market Risk. Market risk is the risk to our financial condition resulting from adverse movements in market rates or prices, such as interest
rates, foreign exchange rates, credit spreads or equity prices. We are exposed to various types of market risk, in particular interest rate risk and other risks that arise through the management of our investment portfolio. Market risk exposures are
managed through the Asset/Liability Management Committee. The responsibilities of our Asset/Liability Management Committee include (i) maintaining oversight and responsibility for all risks associated with the asset/liability management process
including risks associated with liquidity and funding, market risk and our investment portfolio; and (ii) recommending limits to be included in the risk appetite and limit structure.

Liquidity Risk. Liquidity risk is the potential that we will be unable to meet our obligations as they come due because of an inability to
obtain adequate funding or liquidate assets without significantly lowering market prices because of inadequate market depth or market disruptions. Liquidity risk exposures are managed through our Asset/Liability Management Committee. The
responsibilities of our Asset/Liability Management Committee are described above.

Operational Risk.Operational risk arises from
the potential that inadequate information systems, operational problems, breaches in internal controls, fraud or external events will result in reputational harm or losses. Operational risk also arises from model risk, which is the potential that we
will incur a financial loss, make incorrect business decisions or cause damage to our reputation as a result of (i) errors in financial and decision model design and development, (ii) misapplication of financial or decision models; and
(iii) errors in the financial and decision model production process. We further differentiate operational risk into the following sub-categories: theft and fraud; employment practices and workplace safety; customer, products and business
practices; technology; physical asset and data security; processing; financial and reporting; and external provider.



-13-




Operational risk exposures are managed through a combination of business line management and
enterprise-wide oversight. Enterprise-wide oversight is provided through our Operational Risk Committee. Responsibilities of our Operational Risk Committee include (i) establishing and communicating operational risk policies, tolerance and
philosophy; (ii) establishing procedures for implementing our operational risk measurement, monitoring and management policies; and (iii) reviewing aggregate risk exposures and efficacy of our risk identification, measurement, monitoring
and management policies and procedures, and related controls within our business units. In addition, model risk is managed through a model governance process and models are subject to independent validation.

Compliance and Legal Risk. Compliance risk is the operational risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, financial loss or damage to reputation
resulting from failure to comply with laws, regulations, rules, other regulatory requirements, or codes of conduct and other standards of self-regulatory organizations applicable to us. Legal risk arises from the potential that unenforceable
contracts, lawsuits or adverse judgments can disrupt or otherwise negatively affect our operations or condition. These risks are inherent in all of our businesses. Both compliance and legal risk are sub-sets of operational risk but are recognized as
a separate and complementary risk category by us given their importance to us and the specific capabilities and resources we deploy to manage these risk types effectively.

Compliance and legal risk exposures are actively and primarily managed by our business units in conjunction with our Law and Compliance Department. Our compliance program governs the management of compliance risk.
Our Risk Committee oversees our compliance and legal risk management. Our Law and Compliance Department provides independent oversight for all of our compliance and legal risk management activities. Our Law and Compliance Department coordinates with
Corporate Risk Management for the management of compliance and legal risks by reporting and escalating material incidents, completing risk and control self-assessments, and monitoring and reporting key risk indicators.

Strategic Risk. Strategic risk can arise from adverse business decisions, improper implementation of decisions, unanticipated economic
events, failure to anticipate and respond to industry changes (including regulatory and legislative changes), failure to create and maintain a competitive business model, and failure to attract and profitably serve customers. Our Executive Committee
actively manages strategic risk through the development, implementation and oversight of our business strategies, including the development of budgets and business plans. Our business units take and are accountable for managing strategic risk in
pursuit of their objectives. Various policies govern the management of our strategic risk. In addition, the assessment of strategic risk is an important consideration of various sub-committees of our Risk Committee. For example, the strategic and
other risks associated with new products or services are reviewed and reported on by our New Initiatives Committee and our Payment Services Steering Committee.

Our Corporate Risk Management function also plays an important role in the management of strategic risk by: (i) overseeing the objective setting and strategic planning processes from a risk perspective, to
gain comfort that strategic risks have been adequately considered in the setting of objectives and development of strategies; (ii) providing an independent risk perspective to the new initiatives process; and (iii) assessing if there is
effective alignment of management’s proposed long-term strategic objectives with the risk appetite and strategic limits approved by our board of directors.

Risk Management Review of Compensation

Our employee compensation program is designed to
appropriately balance risk and reward without encouraging imprudent risk-taking. Our Corporate Risk Officer leads periodic risk assessments of our compensation plans and reports results to the Compensation Committee of our board of directors.

Supervision and Regulation

General

Our operations are subject to
extensive regulation, supervision and examination under U.S. federal, state and foreign laws and regulations. We are a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (“BHC Act”) and a financial holding company under the
Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (“GLBA”), subject to the supervision, examination and regulation of the Federal Reserve Board (“Federal Reserve”).

Permissible activities for a bank holding company include those activities that are so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto such as consumer lending and other activities that have been
approved by the Federal Reserve



-14-




by regulation or order. Certain servicing activities are also permissible for a bank holding company if conducted for or on behalf of the bank holding company or any of its affiliates.
Impermissible activities for bank holding companies include activities that are related to commerce such as retail sales of nonfinancial products.

A financial holding company and the non-bank companies under its control are permitted to engage in activities considered financial in nature; incidental to financial activities; or complementary to financial
activities if the Federal Reserve determines that they pose no risk to the safety or soundness of depository institutions or the financial system in general.

Being a financial holding company under the GLBA requires that the depository institutions that we control meet certain criteria, including capital, management and Community Reinvestment Act requirements. In
addition, under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Reform Act”), we will be required to meet certain capital and management criteria to maintain our status as a financial holding company. If we or our
depository institutions were to fail to continue to meet the criteria for financial holding company status, we could, depending on which requirements we failed to meet, face restrictions on new financial activities or acquisitions and/or be required
to discontinue existing activities that are not generally permissible for bank holding companies.

Federal Reserve regulations and the
Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended by the Reform Act, require that bank holding companies serve as a source of strength to each subsidiary bank and commit resources to support each subsidiary bank. This support may be required at times when a
bank holding company may not be able to provide such support without adversely affecting its ability to meet other obligations.

The
Reform Act, which was enacted in July 2010, addresses risks to the economy and the payments system, especially those posed by large systemically significant financial firms (including bank holding companies with assets of at least $50 billion, which
would include us). The Reform Act could have a significant impact on us by, for example, requiring us to change our business practices, requiring us to establish more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage ratio requirements, limiting our ability
to pursue business opportunities, imposing additional costs on us, or otherwise adversely affecting our businesses. For more information regarding the Reform Act, see“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations – Legislative and Regulatory Developments” and “Risk Factors.”

Banking Subsidiaries

We operate two banking subsidiaries, each of which is in the United States. Discover Bank offers credit card loans, student loans and personal
loans, as well as certificates of deposit, savings accounts and other type of deposit accounts. Discover Bank is chartered and regulated by the Office of the Delaware State Bank Commissioner (the “Delaware Commissioner”), and also
regulated by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”), which insures its deposits and serves as the bank’s federal banking regulator. Our other bank, Bank of New Castle, is chartered and regulated by the Delaware
Commissioner, and also regulated by the FDIC, which insures its deposits.

Dividends

There are various federal and state law limitations on the extent to which Discover Bank can finance or otherwise supply funds to us through
dividends, loans or otherwise. These limitations include minimum regulatory capital requirements, federal and state banking law requirements concerning the payment of dividends out of net profits or surplus, and general federal and state regulatory
oversight to prevent unsafe or unsound practices. In general, federal and applicable state banking laws prohibit, without first obtaining regulatory approval, insured depository institutions, such as Discover Bank, from making dividend distributions
if such distributions are not paid out of available earnings or would cause the institution to fail to meet applicable capital adequacy standards.

Additionally, regulatory guidance requires that we inform and consult with the Federal Reserve before increasing our quarterly dividend or declaring and paying a dividend that could raise safety and soundness
concerns; for example, declaring and paying a dividend that exceeds earnings for the period for which the dividend is paid.

Capital

We, Discover Bank and Bank of New Castle are subject to capital adequacy guidelines adopted by federal banking regulators. For a
further discussion of the capital adequacy guidelines, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of



-15-




Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources.” As a bank holding company, we are required to maintain minimum capital ratios. Currently, we are
required to maintain Tier 1 and total capital equal to at least 4% and 8% of our total risk-weighted assets, respectively. We are also required to maintain a minimum “leverage ratio” (Tier 1 capital to adjusted total assets) of 4% to 5%,
depending upon criteria defined and assessed by the Federal Reserve. At November 30, 2010, Discover Financial Services met all requirements to be deemed “well-capitalized.”

The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision released two consultative documents proposing significant changes to bank capital and leverage
requirements in December 2009, commonly referred to as “Basel III,” and released the Basel III rules text in December 2010. Implementation of Basel III in the U.S. will require U.S. banking regulators to adopt regulations and guidelines,
which may differ in significant ways from the recommendations published by the Basel Committee. It is unclear how U.S. banking regulators will define “well-capitalized” in their implementation of Basel III. For a further discussion of
Basel III, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Legislative and Regulatory Developments – International Initiatives Related to Capital and Liquidity.”

The Reform Act also includes provisions related to increased capital requirements. Such provisions would establish minimum leverage and risk-based
capital requirements on a consolidated basis for all depository institution holding companies and insured depository institutions that cannot be quantitatively less than the strictest requirements in effect for depository institutions as of the date
of enactment of the Reform Act (i.e., July 21, 2010).

We are not able to predict at this time the precise content of capital
guidelines or regulations that may be adopted by regulatory agencies having authority over us and our subsidiaries or the impact that any changes in regulation would have on us. However, we expect that the new standards will generally require us or
our banking subsidiaries to maintain more capital, with common equity as a more predominant component, which could significantly impact our return on equity, financial condition, operations, capital position and ability to pursue business
opportunities.

FDIA

The
Federal Deposit Insurance Act (the “FDIA”) imposes various requirements on insured depository institutions. For example, the FDIA requires, among other things, the federal banking agencies to take “prompt corrective action” in
respect of depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. The FDIA sets forth the following five capital tiers: “well-capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,”
“significantly undercapitalized” and “critically undercapitalized.” A depository institution’s capital tier will depend upon how its capital levels compare with various relevant capital measures and certain other factors
that are established by regulation. At November 30, 2010, Discover Bank and Bank of New Castle met all applicable requirements to be deemed “well-capitalized.” As noted above, Basel III and the Reform Act could alter the capital
adequacy framework for participating banking organizations.

The FDIA also prohibits any depository institution from making any capital
distributions (including payment of a dividend) or paying any management fee to its parent holding company if the depository institution would thereafter be “undercapitalized.” “Undercapitalized” institutions are subject to
growth limitations and are required to submit a capital restoration plan. For a capital restoration plan to be acceptable, among other things, the depository institution’s parent holding company must guarantee that the institution will comply
with such capital restoration plan.

If a depository institution fails to submit an acceptable plan, it is treated as if it is
“significantly undercapitalized.” “Significantly undercapitalized” depository institutions may be subject to a number of requirements and restrictions, including orders to sell sufficient voting stock to become “adequately
capitalized,” requirements to reduce total assets and cessation of receipt of deposits from correspondent banks. “Critically undercapitalized” institutions are subject to the appointment of a receiver or conservator.

Each of our banking subsidiaries may also be held liable by the FDIC for any loss incurred, or reasonably expected to be incurred, due to the
default of the other U.S. banking subsidiary and for any assistance provided by the FDIC to the other U.S. banking subsidiary that is in danger of default.

The FDIA prohibits a bank from accepting brokered deposits or offering interest rates on any deposits significantly higher than the prevailing rate in its normal market area or nationally (depending upon where the
deposits are solicited),



-16-




unless (1) it is well-capitalized or (2) it is adequately capitalized and receives a waiver from the FDIC. A bank that is adequately capitalized and that accepts brokered deposits under
a waiver from the FDIC may not pay an interest rate on any deposit in excess of 75 basis points over certain prevailing market rates. There are no such restrictions under the FDIA on a bank that is well-capitalized. As of November 30, 2010,
Discover Bank and Bank of New Castle each met the FDIC’s definition of a well-capitalized institution for purposes of accepting brokered deposits. An inability to accept brokered deposits in the future could materially adversely impact our
funding costs and liquidity. For more information, see “Risk Factors –An inability to accept or maintain deposits in the future could materially adversely affect our liquidity position and our ability to fund our business.“

The Reform Act requires that the FDIC conduct a study on, among other things, (i) the potential impact on the Deposit Insurance
Fund of revising the definitions of brokered deposits and core deposits to better distinguish between them and (ii) an assessment of the differences between core deposits and brokered deposits and their role in the economy and banking sector of
the United States and report on the results of the study, including any legislative recommendations, to address concerns arising in connection with the definitions of core deposits and brokered deposits. We are not able to predict at this time
whether any regulations would be revised as a result of such study or the impact that any changes in regulation would have on us.

The
FDIA also affords FDIC-insured depository institutions, such as Discover Bank and Bank of New Castle, the ability to “export” favorable interest rates permitted under the laws of the state where the bank is located. Discover Bank and Bank
of New Castle are both located in Delaware and, therefore, charge interest on loans to out-of-state borrowers at rates permitted under Delaware law, regardless of the usury limitations imposed by the state laws of the borrower’s residence.
Delaware law does not limit the amount of interest that may be charged on loans of the type offered by Discover Bank or Bank of New Castle. This flexibility facilitates the current nationwide lending activities of Discover Bank and Bank of New
Castle.

Investment in Discover

Because Discover Bank and Bank of New Castle are each insured depository institutions, and we are a bank holding company, certain acquisitions of our voting stock may be subject to regulatory approval or notice
under U.S. Federal or Delaware law. Investors are responsible for ensuring that they do not, directly or indirectly, acquire shares of our stock in excess of the amount which can be acquired without regulatory approval under the Change in Bank
Control Act, the BHCA and the Delaware Change in Bank Control provisions, which prohibit any person or company from acquiring control of us without, in most cases, the prior written approval of each of the FDIC, the Federal Reserve and the Delaware
Commissioner.

Consumer Lending Regulation

The relationship between us and our U.S. customers is regulated extensively under federal and state consumer protection laws. Federal laws include the Truth in Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the
Fair Credit Reporting Act and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. Moreover, our U.S. banking subsidiaries are subject to the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, which protects persons called to active military service and their dependents from undue hardship
resulting from their military service. The Servicemembers Civil Relief Act applies to all debts incurred prior to the commencement of active duty (including credit card and other open-end debt) and limits the amount of interest, including service
and renewal charges and any other fees or charges (other than bona fide insurance) that is related to the obligation or liability. These and other federal laws, among other things, require disclosures of the cost of credit, provide substantive
consumer rights, prohibit discrimination in credit transactions, regulate the use of credit report information, provide financial privacy protections, require safe and sound banking operations and prohibit unfair and deceptive trade practices.
State, and in some cases local, laws also may regulate in these areas as well as the areas of collection practices and provide other additional consumer protections.

Violations of applicable consumer protection laws can result in significant potential liability in litigation by customers, including civil money penalties, actual damages, restitution and attorneys’ fees.
Federal banking regulators, as well as state attorneys general and other state and local consumer protection agencies, also may seek to enforce consumer protection requirements and obtain these and other remedies.

The Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 (the “CARD Act”) was enacted in May 2009. The CARD Act made
numerous changes to the Truth in Lending Act, affecting the marketing, underwriting, pricing, billing



-17-




and other aspects of the consumer credit card business. Several provisions of the CARD Act became effective in August 2009, but most of the requirements became effective in February 2010 and in
August 2010. For more information, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Legislative and Regulatory Developments” and “Risk Factors –The Credit Card
Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 restricts our business practices and negatively impacts our results of operations.“

The Reform Act established the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (the “BCFP”) within the Federal Reserve, which will regulate consumer credit. On July 21, 2011, many consumer financial
protection functions currently assigned to the federal banking and other designated agencies will shift to the BCFP. The BCFP will have broad rulemaking authority over providers of credit, savings and payment services and products. The BCFP will be
directed to prevent “unfair, deceptive or abusive practices” and ensure that all consumers have access to markets for consumer financial products and services, and that such markets are fair, transparent and competitive. The BCFP will have
rulemaking and interpretive authority under existing and future consumer financial services laws and broad supervisory, examination and enforcement authority over large providers of consumer financial products and services, such as us. State
officials will be authorized to enforce consumer protection rules issued by the BCFP. For more information, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Legislative and Regulatory
Developments” and “Risk Factors –The new Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection may increase our compliance costs and have a significant impact on our business.“

Electronic Funds Networks; Data Privacy

We operate the Discover and PULSE networks,
which deliver switching and settlement services to financial institutions and other program participants for a variety of ATM, POS and other electronic banking transactions. These operations are regulated by certain state and federal banking,
privacy and data security laws. Moreover, the Discover and PULSE networks are subject to examination under the oversight of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, an interagency body composed of the federal bank and thrift
regulators, and the National Credit Union Association. In addition, as our payments business has expanded globally through Diners Club, we are subject to government regulation in countries in which our networks operate or our cards are used, either
directly or indirectly through regulation affecting Diners Club network licensees. Changes in existing federal, state or international regulation could increase the cost or risk of providing network services, change the competitive environment, or
otherwise materially adversely affect our operations. The legal environment regarding privacy and data security is particularly dynamic, and any disclosure of confidential customer information could have a material adverse impact on our business,
including loss of consumer confidence.



Recent legislative and regulatory reforms related to the debit card market may have a significant impact on our PULSE network business and may result in
decreases in our PULSE network volume and revenue.”

Money Laundering & Terrorist Financing Prevention Program

We maintain an enterprise-wide program designed to comply fully with all applicable anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism
laws and regulations, including the Bank Secrecy Act and the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001. This program includes policies, procedures, training and other internal controls designed to mitigate the risk of money laundering or terrorist financing posed by
our products, services, customers and geographic locale. These controls include procedures and



-18-




processes to detect and report suspicious transactions, perform customer due diligence, and meet all recordkeeping and reporting requirements related to particular transactions involving currency
or monetary instruments. The program is coordinated by a compliance officer and undergoes an annual, independent audit to assess its effectiveness.

Sanctions Programs

We have a program
designed to comply with applicable economic and trade sanctions programs, including those administered and enforced by the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control. These sanctions are usually targeted against foreign
countries, terrorists, international narcotics traffickers and those believed to be involved in the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. These regulations generally require either the blocking of accounts or other property of specified
individuals, entities or individuals, but they may also require the rejection of certain transactions involving specified individuals, entities or individuals. We maintain policies, procedures and other internal controls designed to comply with
these sanctions programs.



-19-




Executive Officers of the Registrant

Set forth below is information concerning our executive officers, each of whom is a member of our Executive Committee.



NameAgePositionDavid W. Nelms49Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerRoger C. Hochschild46President and Chief Operating OfficerRoy A.
Guthrie(1)57Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerKathryn McNamara Corley50Executive Vice President, General Counsel and SecretaryCarlos Minetti48Executive Vice President, President – Consumer Banking and OperationsDiane E. Offereins53Executive Vice President, President – Payment ServicesJames V. Panzarino58Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Risk OfficerGlenn Schneider49Senior Vice President and Chief Information OfficerHarit Talwar50Executive Vice President, President – U.S. Cards

(1)On October 6, 2010, Roy A. Guthrie announced his intent to retire in the summer of 2011.

David W. Nelmshas served as our Chairman since January 2009 and our Chief Executive Officer since 2004, and was also our Chairman from 2004
until our spin-off from Morgan Stanley in 2007. He was our President and Chief Operating Officer from 1998 to 2004. Prior to joining us, Mr. Nelms worked at MBNA America Bank from 1990 to 1998, most recently as a Vice Chairman. Mr. Nelms
holds a Bachelor’s of Science degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Florida and an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School.

Roger C. Hochschildhas served as President and Chief Operating Officer since 2004, and was Executive Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer from 1998 to 2001. From 2001 to 2004, Mr. Hochschild was
Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative and Chief Strategic Officer of our former parent Morgan Stanley. Mr. Hochschild holds a Bachelor’s degree in Economics from Georgetown University and an M.B.A. from the Amos Tuck School at
Dartmouth College.

Roy A. Guthriehas served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since 2005. Prior to
joining us, Mr. Guthrie was President, Chief Executive Officer of CitiFinancial International, LTD, a Consumer Finance Business of Citigroup, from 2000 to 2004. In addition Mr. Guthrie served on Citigroup’s Management Committee during
this period of time. Mr. Guthrie served as Chief Financial Officer of Associates First Capital Corporation from 1996 to 2000, while it was a public company and served as a member of its board from 1998 to 2000. Mr. Guthrie holds a
Bachelor’s degree in Economics from Hanover College and an M.B.A. from Drake University.

Kathryn McNamara Corleyhas served
as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since February 2008. Prior thereto, she had served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since 1999. Prior to becoming General Counsel, Ms. Corley was Managing
Director for our former parent Morgan Stanley’s global government and regulatory relations. Ms. Corley holds a Bachelor’s degree in Political Science from the University of Southern California and a J.D. from George Mason University
School of Law.

Carlos Minettihas served as Executive Vice President, President – Consumer Banking and Operations since
April 2010. Prior thereto, he had been Executive Vice President, Cardmember Services and Consumer Banking and since September 2006, Executive Vice President, Cardmember Services and Risk Management. Prior to joining us as Executive Vice President,
Cardmember Services in January 2001, Mr. Minetti worked in card operations and risk management for American Express from 1987 to 2000, most recently as Senior Vice President. Mr. Minetti holds a Bachelor’s of Science degree in
Industrial Engineering from Texas A & M University and an M.B.A. from the University of Chicago.

Diane E. Offereinshas
served as Executive Vice President, President – Payment Services since April 2010. Prior thereto, she had been Executive Vice President, Payment Services since December 2008 and Executive Vice President and



-20-




Chief Technology Officer since 1998. In addition, she was appointed to oversee the PULSE network in 2006. From 1993 to 1998, Ms. Offereins was at MBNA America Bank, most recently as Senior
Executive Vice President. Ms. Offereins holds a Bachelor of Business Administration degree in Accounting from Loyola University.

James V. Panzarinohas served as Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Risk Officer since December 2009. Prior thereto, he had been
Senior Vice President and Chief Credit Risk Officer from 2006 to 2009, and Senior Vice President, Cardmember Assistance from 2003 to 2006. Prior to joining us, Mr. Panzarino was Vice President of External Collections and Recovery at American
Express from 1998 to 2002. Mr. Panzarino holds a Bachelor’s degree in Business Management and Communication from Adelphi University.

Glenn Schneiderhas served as Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer since December 2008, and was appointed to our Executive Committee in December 2009. From 2003 to 2008, he was Senior Vice
President, Application Development, and from 1998 to 2003, he served as Vice President, Marketing Applications. Mr. Schneider joined us in 1993. He holds a bachelor’s degree in Economics/Computer Science and a minor in Statistics from
Northern Illinois University.

Harit Talwarhas served as Executive Vice President, President – U.S. Cards since April 2010.
Prior thereto, he had been Executive Vice President, Card Programs and Chief Marketing Officer since December 2008 and Executive Vice President, Discover Network since December 2003. From 2000 to 2003, Mr. Talwar was Managing Director for our
international business. Mr. Talwar held a number of positions at Citigroup from 1985 to 2000, most recently Country Head, Consumer Banking Division, Poland. Mr. Talwar holds a B.A. Hons degree in Economics from Delhi University in India
and received his M.B.A. from the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad.



-21-




