Item 1.Business

Introduction

Discover Financial Services is a leading credit card issuer in the United States and an electronic payment services company. In March 2009, we became a
bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 and a financial holding company under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act in connection with our participation in the U.S. Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”). Therefore,
we are now subject to oversight, regulation and examination by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”).

We offer credit cards, personal and student loans, and deposit products. At November 30, 2009, we had $50.9 billion in managed receivables and $12.6 billion in deposits issued through direct-to-consumer
channels and affinity relationships. We operate the Discover Network, our credit card payments network; the PULSE Network (“PULSE”), our automated teller machine (“ATM”), debit and electronic funds transfer network; and Diners
Club International (“Diners Club”), our global payments network. As we continue to work toward achieving card acceptance across our networks, we expect Discover customers to be able to use their cards at merchant and ATM locations that
accept Diners Club cards in a growing number of countries around the world and Diners Club customers to be able to use their cards on the Discover Network in North America and on the PULSE Network domestically and internationally.

Our business segments are Direct Banking, formerly referred to as U.S. Card, and Payment Services, formerly referred to as Third-Party Payments. We
have changed the names of our segments to better reflect the nature of the products and services included in our segments. The composition of each segment, however, has not changed. Our Direct Banking segment includes our credit cards issued to
individuals and small businesses on the Discover Network, our other consumer lending products and our deposit products. Our Payment Services segment includes PULSE, Diners Club and our third-party issuing business, which includes credit, debit and
prepaid cards issued on the Discover Network by third parties.

Available Information

We are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended (the “Exchange Act”), with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). You may read and copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington,
DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an internet website athttp://www.sec.gov, from which interested persons can
electronically access our SEC filings.

We make available free of charge through our internet sitehttp://www.discover.com, our
annual reports on Form 10-K; quarterly reports on Form 10-Q; current reports on Form 8-K; proxy statements; Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed by or on behalf of directors, executive officers and certain large stockholders; and any amendments to those documents
filed or furnished pursuant to the Exchange Act. These filings will become available as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC.

In addition, the following information is available on the Investor Relations page of our website: (i) Corporate Governance Policies;
(ii) Code of Ethics and Business Conduct; and (iii) the charters of the Audit and Risk, Compensation, and Nominating and Governance Committees of our board of directors. These documents will also be available in print without charge to any
person who requests them by writing or telephoning our principal executive offices: Discover Financial Services, Office of the Corporate Secretary, 2500 Lake Cook Road, Riverwoods, Illinois 60015, U.S.A., telephone number (224) 405-0900.

Operating Model

We manage our business activities in two segments: Direct Banking, formerly referred to as U.S. Card, and Payment Services, formerly referred to as Third-Party Payments. For additional financial information relating to our business and our
operating segments, see Note 25: Segment Disclosures to our consolidated financial statements. We are principally engaged in providing products and services to customers in the United States, although the royalty revenue we receive from Diners Club
licensees is derived from sources outside of the United States. For quantitative information concerning



-1-




our geographic distribution, see Note 5: Loan Receivables to our consolidated financial statements and for quantitative information concerning our royalty revenue, see Note 18: Other Income and
Other Expense.

Below are descriptions of the principal products and services of each of our reportable segments.

Direct Banking

Our Direct Banking
segment, formerly referred to as our U.S. Card segment, includes Discover card-branded credit cards issued to individuals and small businesses on the Discover Network and other consumer products and services, including personal loans, student loans,
prepaid cards and other consumer lending and deposit products offered through our Discover Bank subsidiary.

Credit Cards

We offer credit cards to consumers and small businesses. Our credit card customers are permitted to “revolve” their balances and repay their
obligations over a period of time and at an interest rate set forth in their cardmember agreements, which may be either fixed or variable. The interest that we earn on revolving balances is our primary source of revenue. We also charge customers
other fees, including fees for late payments, balance transfer transactions, cash advance transactions and foreign currency transactions. We also offer various products and services in connection with our credit card business, such as Payment
Protection, Identity Theft Protection, Wallet Protection, Credit ScoreTracker and other fee-based products. Payment protection services are also available to our personal loan customers.

Our credit card customers’ transactions are processed over the Discover Network. Where we have a direct relationship with a merchant, which is
the case with respect to our large merchants representing a majority of Discover card sales volume, we receive discount and fee revenue from merchants. Discount and fee revenue is based on pricing that varies due to a number of factors including
industry practices, special marketing arrangements, competitive pricing levels and merchant size.

Where we do not have a direct
relationship with a merchant, we receive acquirer interchange and assessment fees from the merchant acquirer that settles transactions with the merchant. The amount of this fee is based on a standardized schedule and can vary based on the type of
merchant or type of card (e.g., consumer or business). Most of our cards offer theCashback Bonusrewards program, the costs of which we record as a reduction of discount and interchange revenue.

The following chart shows the Discover card transaction cycle as processed on the Discover Network:





-2-




Installment Loans

In addition to credit cards, we offer installment loans, including personal loans and student loans. We have grown our installment loans significantly, from $1.4 billion at November 30, 2008 to $3.4 billion at
November 30, 2009. We offer our installment loans to new and existing customers online, by phone and by mail.

Our personal loans
are unsecured loans with fixed interest rates, fixed terms and fixed payments, and are primarily intended to help customers consolidate existing debt, although they can be used for any reason. In addition to the interest earned on our personal
loans, we also earn loan origination fees on some of our personal loans and fees from customers that enroll in our payment protection product. We generally market our personal loan products to our credit card customers, although we also market
personal loans more broadly. Our student loans include federal and private loans that help students and parents finance the costs of attending post-secondary educational institutions. Our federal student loans are available to cover education costs
at schools that participate in the U.S. government’s Federal Family Education Loan Program (“FFELP”), and are 97% guaranteed by the federal government. Our private student loans are available to cover education costs at select schools
offering undergraduate and graduate degree programs and are available to students with or without a cosigner. All of our private student loans are certified by schools as part of the approval process to prevent over-borrowing and are disbursed
through schools to ensure proper use of loan funds.

Deposit Products

We offer deposit products, including certificates of deposit, money market accounts, online savings accounts and Individual Retirement Account
(“IRA”) certificates of deposit, to customers through two channels: (i) directly through direct mail, internet origination and affinity relationships (“direct-to-consumer deposits”); and (ii) indirectly through
contractual arrangements with brokerage firms (“brokered deposits”).

In 2009, we significantly increased our
direct-to-consumer deposits to $12.6 billion at November 30, 2009, up from $6.2 billion at November 30, 2008, and we expect to continue to grow our use of this deposit channel in 2010. We maintain a dedicated deposit products call center
and an internet site to allow prospective and existing customers to apply for, fund and service their accounts. We market our deposit products to our credit card customers and also use industry rate comparison web sites, paid search campaigns, print
advertising and affinity arrangements to offer our deposit products to prospective customers. As of November 30, 2009, 41% of our direct-to-consumer deposit account holders were also credit card customers. For more information regarding our
deposit business, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Funding Sources – Deposits.”

Payment Services

Our Payment Services
segment, formerly referred to as our Third-Party Payments segment, includes PULSE, our ATM, debit and electronic funds transfer network; Diners Club, our global payments network; and our third-party issuing business, which includes credit, debit and
prepaid cards issued on the Discover Network by third parties.

PULSE Network

The PULSE Network is one of the nation’s leading ATM/debit networks. PULSE links cardholders of more than 4,400 financial institutions with ATMs
and point-of-sale (“POS”) terminals located throughout the United States. Beginning in 2009, PULSE also provides cash access at an increasing number of ATMs in over 30 countries. PULSE’s primary source of revenue is transaction fees
charged for switching and settling ATM, personal identification number (“PIN”) POS debit and signature debit transactions initiated through the use of debit cards issued by participating financial institutions. In addition, PULSE offers a
variety of optional products and services that produce income for the network, including signature debit processing, prepaid card processing, and connections to other regional and national electronic funds transfer networks.

When a financial institution joins the PULSE Network, debit cards issued by that institution can be used at all of the ATMs and PIN POS debit
terminals that participate in the PULSE Network domestically, and the PULSE mark can be used on that institution’s debit cards and ATMs. In addition, financial institution participants may sponsor merchants, direct processors and independent
sales organizations to participate in the PULSE PIN POS and ATM debit service. A participating financial institution assumes liability for transactions initiated through the use of debit cards issued by that institution, as well as for ensuring
compliance with PULSE’s operating rules and policies applicable to that institution’s debit cards, ATMs and, if applicable, sponsored merchants, direct processors and independent sales organizations.



-3-




Diners Club

Our Diners Club business maintains an acceptance network in over 185 countries and territories through its relationships with 79 licensees, which are generally financial institutions. Diners Club itself does not
directly issue credit cards to consumers, but grants its licensees the right to issue Diners Club branded credit cards and/or provide card acceptance services. Our licensees pay us royalties for the right to use the Diners Club brand, which is our
primary source of Diners Club revenues. Diners Club also earns revenue from providing various support services to its licensees, including processing and settlement of cross border transactions. Diners Club also offers licensees a centralized
service center and internet services.

When Diners Club cardholders use their cards outside their host country or territory,
transactions are routed and settled over Diners Club’s network through its centralized service center. In order to increase merchant acceptance in certain targeted countries and territories, Diners Club is working with merchant acquirers to
offer Diners Club acceptance to their merchants. These acquirers are granted licenses to market the Diners Club brand to existing and new merchants. As we continue to work toward achieving card acceptance across our networks, we expect Discover
customers to be able to use their cards at merchant and ATM locations that accept Diners Club cards in a growing number of countries around the world, and Diners Club customers to be able to use their cards on the Discover Network in North America
and on the PULSE Network domestically and internationally.

Third-Party Issuing Business

We have agreements related to issuing credit, debit and prepaid cards with a number of other financial institutions for issuance of card products on
the Discover Network. We refer to these financial institutions as “third-party issuers.” We earn merchant discount and acquirer interchange revenue, net of issuer interchange paid, plus assessments and fees for processing transactions for
third-party issuers of signature cards on the Discover Network.

The following chart shows the third-party issuer transaction cycle:



The discussion below provides additional detail around the supporting functions of our two segments. The
consumer lending, deposit and other consumer products issued through our Direct Banking segment, formerly referred to as our U.S. Card segment, require significant investments in credit risk management, marketing, and customer assistance and



-4-




customer service, whereas the operation of the Discover Network and our Payment Services business requires that we invest in technology as well as relationships with issuers, merchants and
merchant acquirers.

Credit Risk Management – Lending Products

Credit risk management is a critical and fully integrated component of our management and growth strategy. Credit risk refers to the risk of loss
arising from borrower default when borrowers are unable or unwilling to meet their financial obligations to us. Our credit risk is generally highly diversified across millions of accounts without significant individual exposures. Accordingly,
we manage risk on a portfolio basis. See “– Risk Management” for more information regarding how we define and manage credit and other risks.

New Customers (Account Acquisition)

We acquire new customers either through targeted marketing efforts or through
unsolicited individual applications. In either case, we have a rigorous process for screening applicants. In terms of identifying potential customers, our credit risk management team uses proprietary targeting and analytical models to identify
credit-worthy prospects and our marketing team matches them with our product offerings. We give consideration to the prospective customer’s financial stability, as well as ability and willingness to pay. We employ multiple acquisition channels,
including direct mail, internet, print advertising and telemarketing. Direct mail has historically accounted for the greatest proportion of our new consumer accounts, representing more than half of all new accounts acquired in 2009. In order to make
the best use of our human and monetary resources used to acquire new accounts, we seek out production efficiencies, conduct creative testing and aim to continuously improve our product offerings and enhance our targeting and analytical models.

We assess the creditworthiness of each applicant through our underwriting process. We evaluate prospective customers’ applications
using credit information provided by the credit bureaus and other sources. We use credit scoring systems, both externally developed and proprietary, to evaluate customer and credit bureau data. We use experienced credit underwriters to supplement
our automated decision-making processes. Approximately 20% of all credit card applications are subject to manual review that covers the areas of key customer data verification, fraud prevention and approval of credit lines.

Upon approval of a customer’s application, we assign a credit line based on risk level, income and expected card usage, and assign specific
annual percentage rates (“APRs”) and terms for different customers and products. In determining the APR, we use an analytical pricing strategy that provides competitive pricing for customers and seeks to maximize revenue on a risk-adjusted
basis.

Existing Customers (Portfolio Management)

Proactive management of a customer’s account is a critical part of credit risk management, and all accounts are subject to ongoing credit assessment. This assessment reflects information relating to the
performance of the individual’s Discover account as well as information from credit bureaus relating to the customer’s broader credit performance. We utilize scoring models (statistical evaluation models) to support the measurement and
management of credit risk. At the individual customer level, we use custom risk models together with generic industry models as an integral part of the credit decision-making process.

Depending on the duration of the customer’s account, risk profile and other performance metrics, the account may be subject to a range of account
management treatments, including eligibility for marketing initiatives, limits on transaction authorization, and increases or decreases in purchase and cash credit limits.

Marketing

In addition to working with our credit risk management personnel on
account acquisition and portfolio management, our marketing group provides other key functions, including product development, pricing strategy, customer management, management of ourCashback Bonusand other rewards programs, fee product
management, website management and brand and advertising management.

Product Development and Customer Management

In order to attract and retain customers and merchants, we continue to develop new products, features, and benefits and market them through a variety
of channels, including mail, phone and online. Targeted offers may include balance transfers, fee products and reinforcement of ourCashback Bonusrewards program. Through the development of a large



-5-




prospect database, use of credit bureau data and use of a customer contact strategy and management system, we have been able to improve our modeling and customer engagement capabilities, which
help us offer the right products and pricing at the right time and through the right channels.

Rewards/Cashback Bonus

Under ourCashback Bonusrewards program, we provide customers with up to 1%Cashback Bonus, based upon their spending level and type of
purchases. Customers earn 0.25% on their first $3,000 in annual purchases and 1% once their total annual purchases exceed $3,000. Purchases made at warehouse clubs and discount stores earn a fixedCashback Bonusreward of 0.25%.

Customers can choose from several card products that allow them to earn their cash rewards faster based on how they want to use credit as set forth
below.



•Discover Morecard offers 5%Cashback Bonuson purchases up to a specified amount, subject to certain limitations, in large retail categories such
as gasoline, grocery, restaurants, travel, department stores and home improvement stores, that change throughout the year, and up to 1%Cashback Bonuson all other purchases.



•Discover Motiva cardprovides customers with a full month’s interest as a reward each time they make six consecutive on-time payments.



•Miles by Discover cardcustomers receive two miles for every $1 on the first $3,000 in travel and restaurant purchases each year and one mile for every $1
on all other purchases.



•Escape by Discover cardcustomers earn two miles for every $1 on all purchases that can be redeemed for travel credits, gift cards or cash. This card has
a $60 annual fee.



•Discover Open Road cardcustomers can earn 2%Cashback Bonuson the first $250 in gas and restaurant purchases each billing period and up to 1%Cashback Bonuson all other purchases.



•Discover Business cardoffers 5%Cashback Bonuson the first $2,000 in office supply purchases, 2%Cashback Bonuson the first $2,000 in gas
purchases and up to 1%Cashback Bonuson all other purchases each year.

Customers who are not delinquent or
otherwise disqualified may redeemCashback Bonusrewards at any time starting at $20 for Discover gift cards, partner gift cards or charitable donations to select charities. Customers also have the option to choose to redeem theirCashback
Bonusawards for a statement credit or direct deposit to a bank account starting at and in increments of $50. Customers have the opportunity to increase their reward, up to double the reward amount, when they redeem for a brand name gift card
from over 100 merchant partners.

Fee Products

We market several fee-based products to our customers, including the following:



•Identity Theft Protection.The most comprehensive identity theft monitoring service we offer includes an initial credit report, credit bureau report
monitoring, prompt alerts that help customers spot possible identity theft quickly, and access to knowledgeable professionals who can provide information about identity theft issues or credit reports.



•Payment Protection.This service allows customers to suspend their payments for up to one or two years, depending on the product, in the event of certain
covered events. Different products cover different events, such as unemployment, disability or other life events. Depending on the product and state laws, outstanding balances up to certain amounts are cancelled in the event of death.



•Wallet Protection.This service offers one-call convenience if the customer’s wallet is lost or stolen, including requesting cancellation and
replacement of the customer’s credit and debit cards, monitoring the customer’s credit bureau reports for 90 days, providing up to $100 to replace the customer’s wallet and, if needed, lending the customer up to $1,000 in emergency
cash.



•Credit ScoreTracker.This product offers customers resources that help them understand and monitor their credit score. Credit ScoreTracker is specifically
designed for score monitoring by alerting customers when their score changes, allowing customers to set a target score and providing resources to help them understand the factors that may be influencing their score.



-6-




Credit Card Customer Website

Credit card customers can register their accounts online athttp://www.discover.com, which offers a range of benefits and control features that
allow them to customize their accounts to meet their own preferences and needs. Key offerings include:



•Online account services that allow customers to customize their accounts, choose how and when they pay their bills, create annual account summaries that assist
them with budgeting and taxes, research transaction details and initiate transaction disputes;



•Email reminders to help customers avoid fees and track big purchases or returns;



•Money management tools like the Spend Analyzer, Paydown Planner and Purchase Planner;



•Secure online account numbers that let customers shop online without ever revealing their actual account numbers;



•A listing of third-party providers offering customers auto, homeowner’s and term life insurance as well as home warranty plans; and



•ShopDiscover, an online portal where customers automatically earn 5–20%Cashback Bonuswhen they shop at well-known online merchants using their
Discover card.

Brand and Advertising Management

We maintain a full-service, in-house direct marketing department charged with delivering integrated communications to foster customer engagement with
our products and services in addition to supervising external agencies. Our brand team utilizes consumer insights to define our mass communication strategy, which informs our advertising decisions.

Customer Assistance and Customer Service

We maintain dedicated customer service centers and provide such services to our customers as monitoring and authorizing transactions and assisting delinquent customers in becoming current.

Authorizations

Each transaction is
subject to screening and approval through a proprietary POS decision system. This system utilizes rules-based decision-making logic, statistical models and data integrity checks to manage fraud and credit risks. Strategies are subject to regular
review and enhancement to enable us to respond quickly to changing credit conditions as well as to protect our customers and our business from emerging fraud activity.

Fraud Prevention

We actively monitor customer accounts to prevent, detect, investigate
and resolve fraud. Our fraud prevention processes are designed to protect the security of cards, applications and accounts in a manner consistent with our customers’ needs to easily acquire and use our products. Prevention systems handle the
authorization of application information, verification of customer identity, sales, processing of convenience and balance transfer checks, and electronic transactions.

Our fraud detection program utilizes a variety of systems and techniques to identify and halt fraudulent transactions, including neural network and pattern recognition technology, rules-based decision-making logic,
report analysis and manual account reviews. Accounts identified by the fraud detection system are managed by proprietary software that integrates effective fraud prevention with customer centric service.

Proactive Account Management

We use a
variety of collection and recovery strategies, with overdue delinquent accounts scored and segmented to tailor the collection approach. We employ call campaigns, payment email reminders, flexible payment plans and a collections website designed to
educate customers and assist them with their payment needs.

All monthly billing statements of accounts with past due amounts include a
request for payment of such amounts. These accounts also receive a written notice of late fee charges, as well as an additional request for payment, after the first monthly statement that reflects a past due amount. Collection personnel generally
initiate contact with customers within 30 days after any portion of their balance becomes past due. The nature and the timing of the initial contact, typically a personal call or letter, are determined by a review of the customer’s prior
account activity and payment habits. For higher



-7-




risk accounts, as determined by statistically derived predictive models, telephone contacts may begin as soon as the account becomes past due. Lower risk customers are typically contacted by
letter and further collection efforts are determined by behavioral scoring, financial exposure and the lateness of the payment.

We
reevaluate our collection efforts and consider the implementation of other techniques, including internal collection activities, use of collections agencies and legal action, as a customer becomes increasingly delinquent. The timing and choice of
channel utilized are subject to a recovery optimization strategy that encompasses factors such as cost and duration against expected recovery effectiveness. We limit our exposure to delinquencies through controls within the authorizations system and
criteria based account suspension and revocation. In situations involving customers with financial difficulties, we may enter into arrangements to extend or otherwise change payment schedules, lower their interest rates and/or waive fees to aid
customers in becoming current on their obligations to us. These arrangements are designed to help bring accounts out of delinquency or overlimit exposure.

Credit card loans are charged off at the end of the month during which an account becomes 180 days contractually past due. The only exceptions are bankrupt accounts, deceased customers, accounts on payment
hardship or settlement programs, and fraudulent transactions, which are charged off earlier.

Customer Service

We currently manage over 80 million annual inbound customer service requests through calls placed to 1-800-Discover and inquiries through
self-service channels such as chat, e-mail and interactive voice response. For calls placed to 1-800-Discover, we seek to answer calls within 60 seconds or less and to provide “one-call resolution.”

We perform the functions required to service and operate customers’ credit accounts, application processing, new account fulfillment, transaction
authorization and processing, customer billing, payment processing, customer service and collection of delinquent accounts. We also work closely with some external vendors to solicit new account applications and to cross sell products. We believe
that close management of these functions reduces our customer attrition and is cost-effective.

Designed around customer and account
manager needs, our technology and systems enable our account managers to quickly access information in a manner that supports accurate and timely resolution of inquiries. We develop and maintain our infrastructure solutions with the flexibility to
adapt quickly to meet customer expectations and needs. In addition to our systems, we invest in our people, providing them with the training and work environment that facilitates their ability to build strong customer relationships.

Processing Services

Our processing
services cover four functional areas: card personalization/embossing, print/mail, remittance processing and document processing. Card personalization/embossing is responsible for the embossing and mailing of plastic credit cards for new accounts,
replacements and reissues, as well as gift cards. Print/mail specializes in statement and letter printing and mailing for merchants and customers. Remittance processing, currently a function outsourced to a third-party vendor, handles account
payments and check processing. Document processing handles hard-copy forms, including product enrollments and new account applications.

Discover Card Terms and Conditions

The terms and conditions governing our credit card products vary by product
and change over time. Each credit card customer enters into a cardmember agreement governing the terms and conditions of the customer’s account. Discover card’s terms and conditions are generally uniform from state to state. The cardmember
agreement permits us, to the extent permitted by law, to change any term of the cardmember agreement, including any finance charge, rate or fee, or add or delete any term of the cardmember agreement, with notice to the customer as required by law.
The customer has the right to opt out of certain changes of terms and pay their balance off under the unchanged terms. Each cardmember agreement provides that the account can be used for purchases, cash advances and balance transfers. Each Discover
card account is assigned a credit limit when the account is initially opened. Thereafter, individual credit limits may be increased or decreased from time to time, at our discretion, based primarily on our evaluation of the customer’s
creditworthiness. We offer various features and services with the Discover card accounts, including theCashback Bonusreward described under “– Marketing – Rewards/Cashback Bonus.”



-8-




All Discover card accounts generally have the same billing structure, though there are some
differences between the consumer and business credit cards, as noted below. We generally send a monthly billing statement to each customer who has an outstanding debit or credit balance. Customers also can waive their right to receive a physical
copy of their bill, in which case they will receive email notifications of the availability of their billing statement online. Discover card accounts are grouped into multiple billing cycles for operational purposes. Each billing cycle has a
separate billing date, on which we process and bill to customers all activity that occurred in the related accounts during the period of approximately 28 to 32 days that ends on that date.

Discover card accounts are assessed periodic finance charges using fixed and/or variable interest rates. Neither cash advances nor balance transfers
are subject to a grace period. Periodic finance charges on purchases are calculated on a daily basis, subject to a grace period on new purchases that essentially provides that periodic finance changes are not imposed on new purchases, or any portion
of a new purchase, that is paid by the due date on the customer’s current billing statement if the customer paid the balance on their previous billing statement in full by the due date on that statement. Certain account balances, such as
balance transfers, may accrue periodic finance charges at lower fixed rates for a specified period of time. Variable rates are indexed to the highest prime rate published inThe Wall Street Journalon the last business day of the month.

Each customer with an outstanding debit balance in his or her consumer Discover card account must generally make a minimum payment each
month. If a customer exceeds his or her credit limit as of the last day of the billing period, we may include all or a portion of this excess amount in the customer’s minimum monthly payment. From time to time, we have offered and may continue
to offer eligible customers the opportunity not to make the minimum monthly payment, while continuing to accrue periodic finance charges, without being considered past due. A customer may pay the total amount due at any time. We also may enter into
arrangements with delinquent customers to extend or otherwise change payment schedules, and to waive finance charges, fees and/or principal due, including re-aging accounts in accordance with regulatory guidance. Our income may be reduced during any
period in which we offer customers the opportunity not to make the minimum monthly payment or to extend or change payment schedules.

In
addition to periodic finance charges, we may impose other charges and fees on Discover card accounts, including cash advance transaction fees, late fees where a customer has not made a minimum payment by the required due date, balance transfer fees,
foreign currency transaction fees and returned payment fees. We also charge fees for each time we decline to honor a balance transfer check, cash advance check, or other promotional check due to such reasons as insufficient credit availability,
delinquency or default.

We use the average daily balance method for determining periodic finance charges for Discover card accounts.
The average daily balance method means that, subject to the grace period for new purchases, we impose periodic finance charges on the average daily balance of a customer’s card account for the current billing cycle.

Terms and conditions may vary for other products, such as the Discover Business card.

Discover Network Operations

We support our growing base of merchants through a
merchant acquiring model that includes direct relationships with large merchants in the United States and arrangements with merchant acquirers for small- and mid-size merchants. In addition to our U.S.-based merchant acceptance locations, Discover
Network cards are also accepted at many locations in Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean, China and Japan.

We have chosen to retain direct
relationships with most of our largest merchant accounts because many prefer dealing with us directly, we are able to retain the entire discount revenue from the merchant, and we are able to capitalize on joint marketing programs and opportunities.
Competitor networks and credit card issuers typically do not enjoy direct relationships with merchants. The terms of our direct merchant relationships are governed by a merchant services agreement. These agreements also are accompanied by additional
program documents that further define our network functionality and requirements, including operating regulations, technical specifications and dispute rules. To enable ongoing improvements in our network’s functionality and in accordance with
industry convention, we publish updates to our program documents on a semi-annual basis.



-9-




In order to increase merchant acceptance, Discover Network has sold the majority of its small- and
mid-size merchant portfolios to third-party merchant acquirers to allow them to offer a comprehensive payments processing package for small- and mid-size merchants. Merchants can also apply to our merchant acquirer partners directly to accept
Discover Network cards through the acquirers’ integrated payments solution. Merchant acquirers provide merchants with consolidated servicing for Discover, Visa and MasterCard transactions, resulting in streamlined statements and customer
service for our merchants, and reduced costs for us. These acquirer partners also perform credit evaluations and screen applications against unacceptable business types and the Office of Foreign Asset Control Specifically Designated Nationals list.

Discover Network operates systems and processes that seek to prevent fraud and ensure compliance with our operating regulations. Our
systems evaluate incoming merchant sales activity to identify abnormalities that require investigation prior to the initiation of settlement. Designated Discover Network personnel are responsible for validating compliance with our operating
regulations and law, including enforcing our data security standards and our prohibitions against internet gambling and other illegal or otherwise unacceptable activities. Discover Network is a founding and current member of the Payment Card
Industry (“PCI”) Security Standards Council, LLC, and requires merchants and service providers to comply with the PCI Data Security Standard.

Technology

We provide technology systems processing through a combination of owned and hosted data centers. These
data centers support our Discover and PULSE Networks and Diners Club processing, provide customers with access to their accounts and manage transaction authorizations, among other functions. Discover Network works with a number of vendors to
maintain our connectivity, which that enables continuous support of POS authorizations. This connectivity also enables merchants to receive timely payment for their Discover Network card transactions.

Our approach to technology development and management involves both third-party and in-house resources. We use third-party vendors for basic
technology services (e.g., telecommunications, hardware and operating systems). We subject each vendor to a formal selection process to ensure that the vendor can assist us in maintaining a cost-effective and reliable technology platform. This
approach enables us to focus our in-house resources on building proprietary systems (e.g., for customer and merchant settlement, authorizations and customer relationship management) that we believe enhance our operations, improve cost efficiencies
and help distinguish us in the marketplace.

Seasonality

Although we experience fluctuations in our sales and transaction volumes related to seasonal changes in consumer spending patterns, our results of
operations are not significantly impacted by seasonality.

Competition

We compete with other consumer lenders and networks on the basis of a number of factors, including brand, reputation, reward programs, customer
service, merchant acceptance, product offerings, incentives, and pricing. As a credit card issuer, we compete for accounts and utilization with cards issued by other financial institutions (including American Express, Bank of America, Capital One,
JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup) and, to a lesser extent, businesses that issue their own private label cards or otherwise extend credit to their customers. In comparison to our largest competitors, our strengths have included cash rewards,
conservative portfolio management and strong customer service.

We have increasingly offered our customers other lending products,
including personal and student loans, although our credit card receivables continue to represent substantially all of our managed receivables (93% and 97% at November 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively). Some of our competitors offer a wider
variety of loan products than we do, including automobile and home loans, which may position them better among customers who prefer to use a single financial institution to meet all of their financial needs. There has been a trend toward
consolidation among credit card issuers, leading to greater concentration of resources. Some of our competitors enjoy greater capital resources than we do, and are therefore able to invest more in initiatives to attract and retain customers, such as
advertising, targeted marketing, account acquisitions and pricing competition in interest rates, annual fees, reward programs and low-priced balance transfer programs.

Because most domestically issued credit cards, other than those issued on the American Express network, are issued on the Visa and MasterCard networks, most other card issuers benefit from the dominant marketing
position and pricing



-10-




power of Visa and MasterCard. The former exclusionary rules of Visa and MasterCard limited our ability to attract merchants and credit and debit card issuers, contributing to Discover not being
as widely accepted in the U.S. as Visa and MasterCard. Merchant acceptance of the Discover card, however, has increased recently and we are making investments to further grow acceptance both domestically and internationally.

In our payment services business, we compete with other networks for volume and to attract third-party issuers to issue credit, debit and prepaid
cards on the Discover, PULSE and Diners Club networks. We generally compete on the basis of customer service and pricing, including the incentives and rebates we offer to our third-party issuers. Diners Club’s and Discover Network’s
primary competitors are Visa, MasterCard and American Express, and PULSE Network’s competitors include Visa’s Interlink, STAR, and MasterCard’s Maestro. American Express is a particularly strong competitor to Diners Club as both cards
significantly target international business travelers.

In our deposits business, we compete with other deposit-taking organizations
such as banks and credit unions that source deposits through electronic and internet delivery channels or through branch locations. We compete in the deposit markets on the basis of pricing, reputation and convenience. We seek to obtain the deposits
of new customers as well as existing Discover credit card customers by offering attractive rates and marketing our name brand.

For
discussion of the risks we face with respect to competition, see “Risk Factors.”

Intellectual Property

We use a variety of methods, such as trademarks, patents, copyrights and trade secrets, to protect our intellectual property. We also place appropriate
restrictions on our proprietary information to control access and prevent unauthorized disclosures. Our Discover, PULSE and Diners Club brands are important assets, and we take steps to protect the value of these assets and our reputation.

Employees

As of
January 15, 2010, we employed approximately 10,500 individuals.

Risk Management

The understanding, identification and management of risk are important elements to our success. Accordingly, we maintain a comprehensive risk
management program to identify, measure, monitor, evaluate, manage, and report on the principal risks we assume in conducting our activities. These risks include credit, market, liquidity, operational, compliance and legal and strategic risks.

Enterprise Risk Management Principles

Our enterprise risk management philosophy is to ensure that all relevant risks inherent in our business activities are appropriately identified, measured, monitored, evaluated, managed and reported. Our enterprise
risk management philosophy is expressed through five key principles that guide our approach to risk management: comprehensiveness, independence, accountability, defined risk appetite and transparency.

Comprehensiveness. We seek to maintain a comprehensive framework for managing risk enterprise-wide, including policies, risk management
processes, monitoring, and reporting. The framework is designed to be comprehensive with respect to our reporting segments and its control and support functions, and it extends across all risk types.

Accountability. We structure accountability along the principles of risk management execution, oversight and independent validation. Our
business units hold primary accountability for management of the risks to which their businesses are exposed. The principles apply across all businesses and risk types.

Independence. We maintain independent risk and control functions including Corporate Risk Management, Law and Compliance, and Internal Audit. Our Corporate Risk Officer, who leads our Corporate Risk
Management function, is appointed by our board of directors and is accountable for providing an independent perspective on the risks to which we are exposed; how well management is identifying, assessing and managing risk; and the capabilities we
have in place to manage risk across the enterprise.



-11-




Defined Risk Appetite and Strategic Limits. Our board of directors approves a risk appetite and
strategic limit framework, which establishes the acceptable level of risk taking, considering desired financial returns and other objectives. To that end, management sets, maintains and enforces policies, as well as limits and escalation triggers,
that are consistent with the risk appetite and strategic limits approved by our board of directors.

Transparency. Our risk
management framework seeks to provide transparency of exposures and outcomes and is core to our risk culture and operating style. We provide transparency through our risk committee structure, processes for escalating risk incidents and risk
reporting at each level, including quarterly reports to our Risk Committee and the Audit and Risk Committee of our board of directors.

Risk
Management Roles and Responsibilities

Responsibility for risk management is held at several different levels, including our
board of directors, the Audit and Risk Committee of our board of directors, our Risk Committee, our Chief Executive Officer, our Executive Committee and our Corporate Risk Officer.

Board of Directors. Our board of directors approves certain risk management policies and our risk appetite and strategic limit framework. Our
board also oversees our strategic plan and appoints our Corporate Risk Officer. In addition, our board receives and reviews Federal Reserve examination reports, as well as information regarding other examinations and communications from regulators
to the extent they relate to risk management matters.

Audit and Risk Committee of our Board of Directors. The Audit and Risk
Committee of our board of directors reviews reports from management on our enterprise-wide risk management program and reviews with management the framework for assessing and managing our risk exposures and the steps management has taken to monitor
and control such risk exposures. The Committee also reviews reports from management on the status of and changes to risk exposures, policies, procedures and practices.

Risk Committee. Our Risk Committee is a management-level committee, authorized by the Audit and Risk Committee of our board of directors and chaired by our Corporate Risk Officer, that provides a forum for
key members of our executive management team to review and discuss credit, market, liquidity, operational, legal and compliance and strategic risks across the company and for each business unit. Risk Committee membership consists of all members of
the Executive Committee and the Corporate Risk Officer. The Committee regularly reports to the Audit and Risk Committee of our board of directors on risks and risk management. Our Risk Committee has formed a number of committees to assist it in
carrying out its responsibilities. Each committee is guided by a charter that defines the mandates of the committee in further detail. These committees, made up of representatives from senior levels of management, generally at the director level and
above, escalate issues to our Risk Committee as necessary. These risk management committees include the Asset/Liability Management Committee, the Capital Planning Committee, the Counterparty Credit Committee, the Discover Bank Credit Committee, the
Discover Bank Pricing Committee, the Network Steering Committee, the New Initiatives Committee, the Operational Risk Committee and the Privacy and Policy Committee.

Chief Executive Officer. Our Chief Executive Officer is ultimately responsible for our risk management. In that capacity, our Chief Executive Officer establishes our risk management culture, and ensures that
businesses operate in accordance with our risk culture. Our Corporate Risk Officer reports to our Chief Executive Officer.

Senior
Executive Officers. Senior executive officers are responsible for ensuring their respective business units operate within established risk limits. They are also responsible for identifying risks, explicitly considering risk when developing
strategic plans, budgets and new products, and implementing appropriate risk controls when pursuing business strategies and objectives. Senior executive officers also coordinate with Corporate Risk Management to produce relevant, sufficient,
accurate and timely risk reporting that is consistent with the processes and methodology established by Corporate Risk Management. In addition, our senior executive officers are responsible for ensuring that sufficient financial resources and
qualified personnel are deployed to control the risks inherent in the business activity.

Corporate Risk Officer. Our Corporate
Risk Officer chairs our Risk Committee and manages our Corporate Risk Management function. Our Corporate Risk Officer is responsible for establishing and implementing standards for the identification, management, measurement and reporting of risk on
an enterprise-wide basis.



-12-




Law and Compliance Department.Our Law and Compliance Department is responsible for
establishing and maintaining a compliance program that includes our compliance risk identification, assessment, policy development, monitoring, testing, training and reporting activities. Through collaboration with business units, our Law and
Compliance Department incorporates a commitment to compliance in our day-to-day activities. The head of Compliance reports to the General Counsel.

Internal Audit Department.Our Internal Audit Department is responsible for performing periodic, independent reviews and testing of compliance with our risk management policies and standards, performing
assessments of the design and operating effectiveness of these policies and standards, and validating that all risk management controls are functioning as intended. The head of Internal Audit reports to the Audit and Risk Committee of our board of
directors.

Risk Appetite and Strategic Limit Structure

Our risk appetite and strategic limit structure establish the amount of risk, on a broad level, that we are willing to accept in pursuit of shareholder value. It reflects our risk management philosophy, and, in
turn influences our culture and operating style. Our determination of risk appetite and strategic limits is directly linked to the strategic planning process and is consistent with our aspirations and mission statement. Risk appetite expressions and
strategic limits are categorized by risk type and cascade through our committees and business units and are incorporated into business decisions, reporting and day-to-day business discussions.

Management and the Corporate Risk Management function monitor approved limits and escalation triggers to ensure that the business is operating within
the expressed risk appetite and strategic limits. Risk limits are monitored and reported on to various risk committees and our board of directors, as appropriate. Through ongoing monitoring of risk exposures, management is able to identify
appropriate risk response and mitigation strategies in order to react dynamically to changing conditions.

The expressions of risk
appetite and strategic limits also serve as tools to preclude business activities that are inconsistent with our long-term goals. Our risk appetite and strategic limit structure is approved by our board of directors.

Risk Management Review of Compensation

In compliance with requirements of the CPP, our Corporate Risk Officer reviewed and discussed compensation arrangements with the Compensation Committee of our board of directors to ensure that these arrangements would not incent employees
to take unnecessary or excessive risks that would threaten the value of the company or encourage the manipulation of reported earnings of the company to enhance the compensation of any employee.

Risk Categories

Our risk management
program is organized around six major risk categories: credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, legal and compliance risk and strategic risk. We evaluate the potential impact of a risk event on the company by assessing financial
impact, impact to our reputation, legal and regulatory impact and client/customer impact.

Credit Risk. Credit risk arises from
the potential that a borrower or counterparty will fail to perform on an obligation. Our credit risk includes consumer credit risk and counterparty credit risk. Consumer credit risk is primarily incurred by issuing credit cards and granting student
loans and personal loans to consumers. Counterparty credit risk is incurred through a number of activities including settlement, certain marketing programs, treasury and asset/liability management, network incentive programs, vendor relationships
and insurers.

Management of consumer credit risk is the primary responsibility of the Discover Bank Credit Committee. The
responsibilities of the Discover Bank Credit Committee include (i) establishing consumer credit risk philosophy and tolerance; (ii) establishing procedures for implementing and ensuring compliance with risk identification, measurement,
monitoring and management policies and procedures for consumer credit risk management; and (iii) reviewing, on a periodic basis, aggregate risk exposures and efficacy of risk measurement, monitoring and management policies and procedures within
the Credit Risk Management Department.



-13-




Counterparty credit risk is managed through our Counterparty Credit Committee. Our Counterparty Credit
Committee’s responsibilities include (i) establishing an enterprise-wide approach to counterparty credit risk management through a program for the identification, measurement, management and reporting of counterparty credit risks;
(ii) providing oversight for controls, limits, thresholds and governance processes related to our ongoing management of counterparty credit risks; (iii) reviewing the enterprise-wide portfolio of counterparty risks and ensuring those risks
remain within tolerances; and (iv) approving acceptance of and limits for counterparties that represent significant exposure to us.

Market Risk. Market risk is the risk to our financial condition resulting from adverse movements in market rates or prices, such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, credit spreads or equity prices. We are exposed to various
types of market risk, in particular interest rate risk and other risks that arise through the management of our investment portfolio. Market risk exposures are managed through the Asset/Liability Management Committee. The responsibilities of our
Asset/Liability Management Committee include (i) maintaining oversight and responsibility for all risks associated with the Asset/Liability Management process including risks associated with liquidity and funding, market risk and our investment
portfolio; and (ii) recommending limits to be included in the risk appetite and limit structure.

Liquidity Risk.Liquidity risk is the potential that we will be unable to meet our obligations as they come due because of an inability to obtain adequate funding or liquidate assets without significantly lowering market prices because of inadequate market
depth or market disruptions. Liquidity risk exposures are managed through our Asset/Liability Management Committee. The responsibilities of our Asset/Liability Management Committee include (i) providing oversight and approval for liquidity risk
and funding management strategies implemented by Corporate Treasury and ensuring that these strategies are consistent with our overall asset/liability management strategy, risk appetite and strategic limits; and (ii) reviewing and approving
limits for managing liquidity and funding.

Operational Risk.Operational risk arises from the potential that inadequate
information systems, operational problems, breaches in internal controls, fraud or external events will result in reputational harm or losses. Model risk, which is a part of operational risk, arises in our businesses and encompasses various
operational risk sub-categories. We further differentiate operational risk into the following sub-categories: theft and fraud; employment practices and workplace safety; customer, products and business practices; technology; physical asset and data
security; processing; financial and reporting; and external provider.

Operational risk exposures are managed through a
combination of business line management and enterprise-wide oversight. Enterprise-wide oversight is provided through our Operational Risk Committee. Responsibilities of our Operational Risk Committee include (i) establishing and communicating
operational risk policies, tolerance and philosophy; (ii) establishing procedures for implementing our operational risk measurement, monitoring and management policies; and (iii) reviewing aggregate risk exposures and efficacy of our risk
identification, measurement, monitoring and management policies and procedures, and related controls within our business units.

Compliance and Legal Risk.Compliance risk is the operational risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, financial loss or damage to reputation resulting from failure to comply with laws, regulations, rules, other regulatory
requirements, or codes of conduct and other standards of self-regulatory organizations applicable to us. Legal risk arises from the potential that unenforceable contracts, lawsuits or adverse judgments can disrupt or otherwise negatively affect our
operations or condition. These risks are inherent in all of our businesses. Both compliance and legal risk are sub-sets of operational risk but are recognized as a separate and complementary risk category by us given their importance to us and the
specific capabilities and resources we deploy to manage these risk types effectively.

Compliance and legal risk exposures are actively
and primarily managed by our business units in conjunction with our Law and Compliance Department. Our compliance program governs the management of compliance risk. Our Risk Committee oversees our compliance and legal risk management. Our Law and
Compliance Department provides independent oversight for all of our compliance and legal risk management activities. Our Law and Compliance Department coordinates with Corporate Risk Management for the management of compliance and legal risks by
reporting and escalating material incidents, completing risk and control self-assessments, and monitoring and reporting key risk indicators.



-14-




Strategic Risk.Strategic risk can arise from adverse business decisions, improper
implementation of decisions, unanticipated economic events, failure to anticipate and respond to industry changes (including regulatory and legislative changes), failure to create and maintain a competitive business model, and failure to attract and
profitably serve customers. Our Executive Committee actively manages strategic risk through the development, implementation and oversight of our business strategies, including the development of budgets and business plans. Our business units take
and are accountable for managing strategic risk in pursuit of their objectives. Various policies govern the management of our strategic risk. In addition, the assessment of strategic risk is an important consideration of various sub-committees of
our Risk Committee. For example, the strategic and other risks associated with new products or services are reviewed and reported on by our New Initiatives Committee and our Network Steering Committee.

Our Corporate Risk Management function also plays an important role in the management of strategic risk by: (i) overseeing the objective setting
and strategic planning processes from a risk perspective, to gain comfort that strategic risks have been adequately considered in the setting of objectives and development of strategies; (ii) providing an independent risk perspective to the new
initiatives process; and (iii) assessing if there is effective alignment of management’s proposed long-term strategic objectives with the risk appetite and strategic limits approved by our board of directors.

Supervision and Regulation

General

Our operations are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination under U.S. federal, state and foreign laws and
regulations. On March 13, 2009, we became a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (“BHC Act”) and a financial holding company under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (“GLBA”), subject to the supervision,
examination and regulation of the Federal Reserve Board (“Federal Reserve”).

Permissible activities for a bank holding
company include those activities that are so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto such as consumer lending and other activities that have been approved by the Federal Reserve by regulation or order. Certain servicing
activities are also permissible for a bank holding company if conducted for or on behalf of the bank holding company or any of its affiliates. Impermissible activities for bank holding companies include activities that are related to commerce such
as retail sales of nonfinancial products.

We elected to become a “financial holding company” under GLBA at the time that we
became a bank holding company. The GLBA removed many of the restrictions on the activities of bank holding companies that become financial holding companies. A financial holding company, and the non-bank companies under its control, is permitted to
engage in activities considered financial in nature; incidental to financial activities; or complementary to financial activities if the Federal Reserve determines that they pose no risk to the safety or soundness of depository institutions or the
financial system in general.

Our election to become a financial holding company under the GLBA certifies that the depository
institutions that we control meet certain criteria, including capital, management and Community Reinvestment Act requirements. If we were to fail to continue to meet the criteria for financial holding company status, we could, depending on which
requirements we failed to meet, face restrictions on new financial activities or acquisitions and/or be required to discontinue existing activities that are not generally permissible for bank holding companies.

Federal Reserve regulations require that bank holding companies serve as a source of strength to each subsidiary bank and commit resources to support
each subsidiary bank. This support may be required at times when a bank holding company may not be able to provide such support without adversely affecting its ability to meet other obligations.

In addition, as a participant in the CPP, we are subject to specific restrictions under the terms of the CPP, including limits on our ability to pay
dividends (quarterly dividends on our common stock are limited to $0.06 per share or less) and repurchase our capital stock, limits on executive compensation, and increased oversight by the U.S. Treasury, regulators and Congress under the Emergency
Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, as amended (“EESA”). For details regarding these restrictions, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Legislative and Regulatory
Developments” and “– Liquidity and Capital Resources – U.S. Treasury Capital Purchase Program.”



-15-




Banking Subsidiaries

We operate two banking subsidiaries, each of which is in the United States. Discover Bank offers credit card loans, student loans and personal loans, as well as checking accounts, certificates of deposit and money
market accounts. It does not offer commercial loans other than business credit cards. Discover Bank is chartered and regulated by the Office of the Delaware State Bank Commissioner (the “Delaware Commissioner”) and the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”), which insures its deposits and serves as the bank’s federal banking regulator. Our other bank, Bank of New Castle, is chartered and regulated by the Delaware Commissioner and the FDIC, which also
insures its deposits.

Dividends

There are various federal and state law limitations on the extent to which Discover Bank can finance or otherwise supply funds to us through dividends, loans or otherwise. These limitations include minimum regulatory capital requirements,
federal and state banking law requirements concerning the payment of dividends out of net profits or surplus, and general federal and state regulatory oversight to prevent unsafe or unsound practices. In general, federal and applicable state banking
laws prohibit, without first obtaining regulatory approval, insured depository institutions, such as Discover Bank, from making dividend distributions if such distributions are not paid out of available earnings or would cause the institution to
fail to meet applicable capital adequacy standards.

Capital

We, Discover Bank and Bank of New Castle are subject to capital adequacy guidelines adopted by federal banking regulators. For a further discussion of the capital adequacy guidelines, see “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources.” As a bank holding company, we are required to maintain minimum capital ratios. Currently, we are required to maintain Tier 1 and
total capital equal to at least 4% and 8% of our total risk-weighted assets, respectively. We are also required to maintain a minimum “leverage ratio” (Tier 1 capital to adjusted total assets) of 4% to 5%, depending upon criteria defined
and assessed by the Federal Reserve. At November 30, 2009, Discover Financial Services met all requirements to be deemed “well-capitalized.”

FDIA

The Federal Deposit Insurance Act (the “FDIA”) imposes various requirements on insured depository
institutions. For example, the FDIA requires, among other things, the federal banking agencies to take “prompt corrective action” in respect of depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. The FDIA sets forth the
following five capital tiers: “well-capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” and “critically undercapitalized.” A depository institution’s
capital tier will depend upon how its capital levels compare with various relevant capital measures and certain other factors that are established by regulation. At November 30, 2009, Discover Bank and Bank of New Castle met all applicable
requirements to be deemed “well-capitalized.” Recent regulations proposed by the U.S. bank regulators, referred to as the Basel II proposal, could alter the capital adequacy framework for participating banking organizations. We will
continue to closely monitor developments on these matters and assess their impact on us and our banking subsidiaries.

The FDIA also
prohibits any depository institution from making any capital distributions (including payment of a dividend) or paying any management fee to its parent holding company if the depository institution would thereafter be “undercapitalized.”
“Undercapitalized” institutions are subject to growth limitations and are required to submit a capital restoration plan. For a capital restoration plan to be acceptable, among other things, the depository institution’s parent holding
company must guarantee that the institution will comply with such capital restoration plan.

If a depository institution fails to submit
an acceptable plan, it is treated as if it is “significantly undercapitalized.” “Significantly undercapitalized” depository institutions may be subject to a number of requirements and restrictions, including orders to sell
sufficient voting stock to become “adequately capitalized,” requirements to reduce total assets and cessation of receipt of deposits from correspondent banks. “Critically undercapitalized” institutions are subject to the
appointment of a receiver or conservator.

Each of our banking subsidiaries may also be held liable by the FDIC for any loss incurred,
or reasonably expected to be incurred, due to the default of the other U.S. banking subsidiary and for any assistance provided by the FDIC to the other U.S. banking subsidiary that is in danger of default.

The FDIA prohibits a bank from accepting brokered deposits or offering interest rates on any deposits significantly higher than the prevailing rate in
its normal market area or nationally (depending upon where the deposits are solicited),



-16-




unless (1) it is well-capitalized or (2) it is adequately capitalized and receives a waiver from the FDIC. A bank that is adequately capitalized and that accepts brokered deposits under
a waiver from the FDIC may not pay an interest rate on any deposit in excess of 75 basis points over certain prevailing market rates. There are no such restrictions on a bank that is well-capitalized. As of November 30, 2009, Discover Bank and
Bank of New Castle each met the FDIC’s definition of a well-capitalized institution for purposes of accepting brokered deposits. An inability to accept brokered deposits in the future could materially adversely impact our funding costs and
liquidity. For more information, see “Risk Factors –An inability to accept or maintain deposits in the future could materially adversely affect our liquidity position and our ability to fund our business.”

The FDIA also affords FDIC-insured depository institutions, such as Discover Bank and Bank of New Castle, the ability to “export” favorable
interest rates permitted under the laws of the state where the bank is located. Discover Bank and Bank of New Castle are both located in Delaware and, therefore, charge interest on loans to out-of-state borrowers at rates permitted under Delaware
law, regardless of the usury limitations imposed by the state laws of the borrower’s residence. Delaware law does not limit the amount of interest that may be charged on loans of the type offered by Discover Bank or Bank of New Castle. This
flexibility facilitates the current nationwide lending activities of Discover Bank and Bank of New Castle.

Investment in Discover

Because Discover Bank and Bank of New Castle are each insured depository institutions, and we are a bank holding company,
certain acquisitions of our voting stock may be subject to regulatory approval or notice under U.S. Federal or Delaware law. Investors are responsible for ensuring that they do not, directly or indirectly, acquire shares of our stock in excess of
the amount which can be acquired without regulatory approval under the Change in Bank Control Act, the BHCA and the Delaware Change in Bank Control provisions, which prohibit any person or company from acquiring control of us without, in most cases,
the prior written approval of each of the FDIC, the Federal Reserve and the Delaware Commissioner.

Consumer Lending Regulation

The relationship between us and our U.S. customers is regulated extensively under federal and state consumer protection laws. Federal laws include
the Truth in Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. Moreover, our U.S. banking subsidiaries are subject to the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, which protects persons called to
active military service and their dependents from undue hardship resulting from their military service. The Servicemembers Civil Relief Act applies to all debts incurred prior to the commencement of active duty (including credit card and other
open-end debt) and limits the amount of interest, including service and renewal charges and any other fees or charges (other than bona fide insurance) that is related to the obligation or liability. These and other federal laws, among other
things, require disclosures of the cost of credit, provide substantive consumer rights, prohibit discrimination in credit transactions, regulate the use of credit report information, provide financial privacy protections, require safe and sound
banking operations and prohibit unfair and deceptive trade practices. State, and in some cases local, laws also may regulate in these areas as well as collection practices and other additional consumer protections.

Violations of applicable consumer protection laws can result in significant potential liability in litigation by customers, including civil money
penalties, actual damages, restitution and attorneys’ fees. Federal banking regulators, as well as state attorneys general and other state and local consumer protection agencies, also may seek to enforce consumer protection requirements and
obtain these and other remedies.

The Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 (the “CARD Act”)
was enacted in May 2009. The CARD Act makes numerous changes to the Truth in Lending Act, affecting the marketing, underwriting, pricing, billing and other aspects of the consumer credit card business. Several provisions of the CARD Act became
effective in August 2009, but most of the requirements will become effective in February 2010 and others will become effective in August 2010. Legislation has been proposed to accelerate the effective date of all of the CARD Act provisions effective
as soon as the legislation is enacted, but prospects for enactment are uncertain. For more information, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Legislative and Regulatory
Developments” and “Risk Factors –The Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 will significantly impact our business practices and our results of operations.”



-17-




The financial services industry, in general, is heavily regulated. Proposals for legislation further
regulating the financial services industry are continually being introduced in the U.S. Congress and in state legislatures. Congress is considering extensive changes to the laws regulating financial services firms, including bills that address risks
to the economy and the payments system through a variety of measures. Legislation approved in the House in December 2009, and a similar measure under consideration in the Senate, propose a new independent Consumer Financial Protection Agency
(“CFPA”) that would regulate consumer financial services and products, including credit, savings and payment products. For further information regarding proposed reforms affecting the financial services industry and other recent
legislative and regulatory developments that may impact our business, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Legislative and Regulatory Developments” and “Risk Factors
–Laws, regulations, and supervisory guidance and practices, or the application thereof, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.”

Electronic Funds Networks; Data Privacy

We operate the Discover and PULSE Networks, which deliver switching and settlement services to financial institutions and other program participants for a variety of ATM, POS and other electronic banking transactions. These operations are
regulated by certain state and federal banking, privacy and data security laws. Moreover, the Discover and PULSE Networks are subject to examination under the oversight of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, an interagency body
composed of the federal bank and thrift regulators, and the National Credit Union Association. In addition, as our payments business has expanded globally through Diners Club, we are subject to government regulation in countries in which our
networks operate or our cards are used, either directly or indirectly through regulation affecting Diners Club network licensees. Changes in existing federal, state or international regulation could increase the cost or risk of providing network
services, change the competitive environment, or otherwise materially adversely affect our operations. The legal environment regarding privacy and data security is particularly dynamic, and any disclosure of confidential customer information could
have a material adverse impact on our business, including loss of consumer confidence.

Money Laundering & Terrorist Financing Prevention
Program

We maintain a coordinated, enterprise-wide program designed to comply fully with all applicable anti-money laundering
and anti-terrorism laws and regulations, including the Bank Secrecy Act and the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001. This program includes policies, procedures and other internal controls designed to mitigate the risk of money laundering or terrorist financing
posed by our products, services, customers and geographic locale. These controls include procedures and processes to detect and report suspicious transactions, perform customer due diligence, and meet all recordkeeping and reporting requirements
related to particular transactions involving currency or monetary instruments. Directors and all impacted officers and employees are provided periodic training as to the program. The program is coordinated by a compliance officer and undergoes an
annual, independent audit to assess its effectiveness.

Sanctions Programs

We have a program designed to comply with all applicable economic and trade sanctions programs, including those administered and enforced by the U.S.
Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control. These sanctions are usually targeted against foreign countries, terrorists, international narcotics traffickers and those believed to be involved in the proliferation of weapons of
mass destruction. These regulations generally require either the blocking of accounts or other property of specified individuals, entities or individuals, but they may also require the rejection of certain transactions involving specified
individuals, entities or individuals. We maintain adequate policies, procedures and other internal controls designed to comply with these sanctions programs.



-18-




Executive Officers of the Registrant

Set forth below is information concerning our executive officers, each of whom is a member of our Executive Committee.



NameAgePositionDavid W. Nelms48Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerRoger C. Hochschild45President and Chief Operating OfficerRoy A. Guthrie56Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and TreasurerKathryn McNamara Corley49Executive Vice President, General Counsel and SecretaryCarlos Minetti47Executive Vice President, Cardmember Services and Consumer BankingDiane E. Offereins52Executive Vice President, Payment ServicesJames V. Panzarino57Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Risk OfficerGlenn Schneider48Senior Vice President and Chief Information OfficerHarit Talwar49Executive Vice President, Card Programs and Chief Marketing Officer

David W. Nelmshas served as our Chairman since January 2009 and our Chief Executive
Officer since 2004, and was also our Chairman from 2004 until our spin-off from Morgan Stanley in 2007. He was our President and Chief Operating Officer from 1998 to 2004. Prior to joining us, Mr. Nelms worked at MBNA America Bank from 1990 to
1998, most recently as a Vice Chairman. Mr. Nelms holds a Bachelor’s of Science degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Florida and an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School.

Roger C. Hochschildhas served as President and Chief Operating Officer since 2004, and was Executive Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer
from 1998 to 2001. From 2001 to 2004, Mr. Hochschild was Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative and Chief Strategic Officer of our former parent Morgan Stanley. Mr. Hochschild holds a Bachelor’s degree in Economics from
Georgetown University and an M.B.A. from the Amos Tuck School at Dartmouth College.

Roy A. Guthriehas served as Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer since 2005 and as Treasurer since January 2009. Prior to joining us, Mr. Guthrie was President, Chief Executive Officer of CitiFinancial International, LTD, a Consumer Finance Business of Citigroup, from
2000 to 2004. In addition Mr. Guthrie served on Citigroup’s Management Committee during this period of time. Mr. Guthrie served as Chief Financial Officer of Associates First Capital Corporation from 1996 to 2000, while it was a
public company and served as a member of its board from 1998 to 2000. Mr. Guthrie holds a Bachelor’s degree in Economics from Hanover College and an M.B.A. from Drake University.

Kathryn McNamara Corleyhas served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since February 2008. Prior thereto, she had
served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since 1999. Prior to becoming General Counsel, Ms. Corley was Managing Director for our former parent Morgan Stanley’s global government and regulatory relations.
Ms. Corley holds a Bachelor’s degree in Political Science from the University of Southern California and a J.D. from George Mason University School of Law.

Carlos Minettihas served as Executive Vice President, Cardmember Services and Consumer Banking since September 2006. Prior thereto, he had been Executive Vice President, Cardmember Services since January
2001 and Executive Vice President, Cardmember Services and Risk Management since January 2003. Prior to joining us, Mr. Minetti worked in card operations and risk management for American Express from 1987 to 2000, most recently as Senior Vice
President. Mr. Minetti holds a Bachelor’s of Science degree in Industrial Engineering from Texas A & M University and an M.B.A. from the University of Chicago.

Diane E. Offereinshas served as Executive Vice President, Payment Services since December 2008. Prior thereto, she had been Executive Vice
President and Chief Technology Officer since 1998. In addition, she was appointed to oversee the PULSE Network in 2006. From 1993 to 1998, Ms. Offereins was at MBNA America Bank, most recently as Senior Executive Vice President.
Ms. Offereins holds a Bachelor of Business Administration degree in Accounting from Loyola University.



-19-




James V. Panzarinohas served as Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Risk Officer since
December 2009. Prior thereto, he had been Senior Vice President and Chief Credit Risk Officer from 2006 to 2009, and Senior Vice President, Cardmember Assistance from 2003 to 2006. Prior to joining us, Mr. Panzarino was Vice President of
External Collections and Recovery at American Express from 1998 to 2002. Mr. Panzarino holds a Bachelor’s degree in Business Management and Communication from Adelphi University.

Glenn Schneiderhas served as Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer since December 2008, and was appointed to our Executive
Committee in December 2009. From 2003 to 2008, he was Senior Vice President, Application Development, and from 1998 to 2003, he served as Vice President, Marketing Applications. Mr. Schneider joined us in 1993. He holds a bachelor’s degree
in Economics/Computer Science and a minor in Statistics from Northern Illinois University.

Harit Talwarhas served as Executive
Vice President, Card Programs and Chief Marketing Officer since December 2008. Prior thereto, he had been Executive Vice President, Discover Network since December 2003. From 2000 to 2003, Mr. Talwar was Managing Director for our international
business. Mr. Talwar held a number of positions at Citigroup from 1985 to 2000, most recently Country Head, Consumer Banking Division, Poland. Mr. Talwar holds a B.A. Hons degree in Economics from Delhi University in India and received his
M.B.A. from the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad.



-20-




