Item 1.Business

Overview

MasterCard is a
leading global payments company that provides a critical economic link among financial institutions, businesses, merchants, cardholders and governments worldwide, enabling them to use electronic forms of payment instead of cash and checks. We
provide a variety of services in support of the credit, debit, prepaid and related payment programs of approximately 22,000 financial institutions and other entities that are our customers. We primarily:



•offer a wide range of payment solutions, which enable our customers to develop and implement credit, debit, prepaid and related payment programs for
their customers (which include cardholders, businesses and government entities),



•manage a family of well-known, widely accepted payment card brands, including MasterCard®, Maestro®and Cirrus®, which we license to our customers for use in their payment programs,



•process payment transactions over the MasterCard Worldwide Network,



•provide support services to our customers and, depending upon the service, merchants and other clients, and



•as part of managing our brands and our franchise, establish and enforce a common set of standards for adherence by our customers for the efficient and
secure use of our payment card network.

MasterCard generates revenue by charging fees to our customers for providing
transaction processing and other payment-related services and by assessing our customers based primarily on the dollar volume of activity, or gross dollar volume (“GDV”), on the cards that carry our brands.

A typical transaction processed over our network involves four parties in addition to us: the cardholder, the merchant, the issuer (the
cardholder’s financial institution) and the acquirer (the merchant’s financial institution). Consequently, the payment network we operate supports what is often referred to as a “four-party” payment system. Our customers are
financial institutions and other entities that act as issuers and acquirers. Using our transaction processing services, issuers and acquirers facilitate payment transactions between cardholders and merchants throughout the world, providing merchants
with an efficient and secure means of receiving payment, and consumers and businesses with a convenient, quick and secure payment method that is accepted worldwide. We guarantee the settlement of many of these transactions among our customers to
ensure the integrity of our payment network. In addition, we undertake a variety of marketing activities designed to maintain and enhance the value of our brands. However, cardholder and merchant transaction relationships are managed principally by
our customers. We do not issue cards, extend credit to cardholders, determine the interest rates (if applicable) or other fees charged to cardholders by issuers, or establish the “merchant discount” charged by acquirers in connection with
the acceptance of cards that carry our brands.

Our business has a global reach and has continued to experience growth. In
2010, we processed 23.1 billion transactions, a 2.9% increase over the number of transactions processed in 2009. GDV on cards carrying the MasterCard brand as reported by our customers was approximately $2.7 trillion in 2010, a 10.7% increase in
U.S. dollar terms and a 9.1% increase in local currency terms over the GDV reported in 2009.







We believe the trend within the global payments industry from paper-based forms of payment,
such as cash and checks, toward electronic forms of payment, such as payment card transactions, creates significant opportunities for the growth of our business over the longer term. Our focus is on continuing to:



•grow our offerings by extending our strength in our core businesses globally, including credit, debit, prepaid and processing payment transactions over
the MasterCard Worldwide Network,



•diversify our business by seeking new areas of growth in markets around the world, expanding points of acceptance for our brands in new geographies,
seeking to maintain unsurpassed acceptance, and working with new business partners such as merchants, government agencies and telecommunications companies, and



•build new businesses through continued strategic efforts with respect to innovative payment methods such as electronic commerce (e-Commerce) and mobile
capabilities.

MasterCard Incorporated was incorporated as a Delaware stock corporation in May 2001. We conduct our business principally through
MasterCard Incorporated’s principal operating subsidiary, MasterCard International Incorporated (“MasterCard International”), a Delaware non-stock (or membership) corporation that was formed in November 1966. Our customers are
generally either principal members of MasterCard International, which participate directly in MasterCard International’s business, or affiliate members of MasterCard International, which participate indirectly in MasterCard International’s
business through principal members. In May 2006, we completed a plan for a new ownership and governance structure for MasterCard Incorporated (including an initial public offering of a new class of common stock (the “IPO”)) which included
the appointment of a new Board of Directors comprised of a majority of directors who are independent from our customers. For more information about our capital structure, voting rights of our Class A common stock (our voting stock) and Class B
common stock (our non-voting stock) and conversions of shares of our Class B common stock into shares of our voting Class A common stock, see Note 17 (Stockholders’ Equity) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II,
Item 8.

Our Industry

We operate in the global payments industry, which consists of all forms of payment including:



•Paper—cash, personal checks, money orders, official checks, travelers cheques and other paper-based means of transferring value;



•Cards—credit cards, charge cards, debit cards (including Automated Teller Machine (“ATM”) cards), prepaid cards and other types of
cards; and







•Emerging and Other Forms of Payment—wire transfers, electronic benefits transfers, bill payments, Automated Clearing House payments, e-Commerce
payments and payments using mobile devices, among others.

The most common card-based forms of payment are
general purpose cards, which are payment cards carrying logos that permit widespread usage of the cards within countries, regions or around the world. General purpose cards have different attributes depending on the type of accounts to which they
are linked:



•credit or charge cards typically access a credit account that either requires payment of the full balance within a specified period (a charge card) or
that permits the cardholder to carry a balance in a revolving credit account (a credit card);



•debit cards typically access a checking, demand deposit or other current account maintained by the cardholder; and



•prepaid cards typically access previously funded monetary value.

Generally, card-based forms of payment involve two types of transactions (depending on the type of card being used): transactions that
typically require the cardholder’s signature, which are referred to as “offline” transactions; and transactions that require the cardholder to use a personal identification number (“PIN”) for verification, which are
typically referred to as “online” transactions. Some purchase transactions outside of the United States, such as those made using cards equipped with a chip, can be PIN-authenticated but are considered offline transactions. In addition,
some payment cards are equipped with an RFID (radio frequency identification) microchip, which provides an advanced authentication technique, and technology which allows contactless payments requiring neither signature nor PIN under established
transaction amounts. Many merchants no longer require a signature for low value purchases, and there is no PIN or signature on e-Commerce or other card-not-present transactions. Such transactions are still considered, however, to be offline
transactions.

The primary general purpose card brands include MasterCard, Visa®, American Express®, JCB®, Diners Club®and Discover®. Historically, these brands—including MasterCard—were principally associated with credit or charge cards in the United States and other major markets around
the world. Today, debit and prepaid cards with MasterCard’s brands (as well as the brands of Visa and others) are issued as well.

Debit cards may be further categorized into several sub-segments:



•Signature-based debit cards are cards for which the primary means of cardholder validation at the point of sale is for the cardholder to sign a sales
receipt (other than circumstances where an actual signature is not necessary).



•PIN-based debit cards are cards with which cardholders generally enter a PIN at a point-of-sale terminal for validation.



•Cash access cards are cards which permit cardholders to obtain cash principally at ATMs by entering a PIN.

Regional and domestic/local PIN-based debit brands are the primary brands in many countries. In these markets, issuers have historically
relied on the Maestro and Cirrus brands (and other brands) to enable cross-border transactions, which typically constitute a small portion of the overall number of transactions.

In addition to general purpose cards, private label cards comprise a portion of all card-based forms of payment. Typically, private label
cards are credit cards issued by, or on behalf of, a merchant (such as a department store or gasoline retailer) and can be used only at the issuing merchant’s locations.







Payment Services and Solutions

We provide transaction processing and other payment-related services as well as a wide range of payment solutions to enable our customers
to design, package and implement products and programs targeted to the specific needs of their customers (which include cardholders, businesses and governments). We work with customers to provide customized solutions, as well as more general
solutions. Our payment solutions are built upon our expertise in payment programs, product development, payment processing technology, consulting and information services and marketing.We also manage and promote our brands for the benefit of
all customers through brand advertising, promotional and interactive programs and sponsorship initiatives.

Transaction
Processing on the MasterCard Worldwide Network

Introduction.We operate the MasterCard
Worldwide Network, our proprietary, global payments network that links issuers and acquirers around the globe to facilitate the processing of transactions and, through them, permits MasterCard cardholders to use their cards at millions of merchants
worldwide. We process transactions through our network for financial institutions and other entities that are our customers, in more than 150 currencies in more than 210 countries and territories.

Typical Transaction.    A typical transaction processed over the MasterCard Worldwide Network involves four
participants in addition to us: cardholder, merchant, issuer (the cardholder’s financial institution) and acquirer (the merchant’s financial institution). The following diagram depicts a typical point-of-sale card transaction:



In a typical transaction, a cardholder (A) purchases goods or services from a merchant (B) using
a card or other payment device. After the transaction is authorized by the issuer (D) using our network, the issuer pays the acquirer (C) an amount equal to the value of the transaction, minus the interchange fee (described below),
and posts the transaction to the cardholder’s account. The acquirer pays the amount of the purchase, net of a discount, to the merchant (referred to as the “merchant discount”). The merchant discount, among other things,
takes into consideration the amount of the interchange fee. Our standards generally guarantee the payment of transactions using MasterCard-branded cards and certain transactions using Cirrus and Maestro-branded cards between issuers and
acquirers.

Interchange Fees.The interchange fee is equal to the difference between the amount
of the payment transaction (the transaction amount) and the amount the issuer pays the acquirer (the settlement amount). Interchange fees represent a sharing of a portion of payment system costs among the customers participating in our four-party
payment card system. As such, interchange fees are a key factor in balancing the costs consumers pay and the costs merchants pay. We do not earn revenues from interchange fees. Generally, interchange fees are collected from acquirers
and paid to issuers (or netted by issuers against amounts paid to acquirers) to reimburse the issuers for a portion of the costs incurred by them in providing services that benefit all participants in the system, including acquirers and
merchants. In some circumstances, such as cash withdrawal transactions, this







situation is reversed and interchange fees are paid by issuers to acquirers. We establish default interchange fees that apply when there are no other established settlement terms in place
between an issuer and an acquirer. We administer the collection and remittance of interchange fees through the settlement process. Interchange fees can be a significant component of the merchant discount, and therefore of the costs that
merchants pay to accept payment cards. These fees are currently subject to regulatory, legislative and/or legal challenges in a number of jurisdictions. We are devoting substantial management and financial resources to the defense of
interchange fees and to the other legal and regulatory challenges we face. See “Risk Factors—Legal and Regulatory Risks” in Part I, Item 1A.

Merchant Discount.The merchant discount is established by the acquirer to cover its costs and profit margin of participating in the four-party system. The discount
takes into consideration the amount of the interchange fee which the acquirer generally pays to the issuer, and the balance of the discount either consists of fees established by the acquirer and paid by the merchant for certain of the
acquirer’s services to the merchant (which are retained by the acquirer) or reflects the costs of such services.

Additional Fees and Economic Considerations.Acquirers may charge merchants processing and related fees in
addition to the merchant discount. Issuers may also charge cardholders fees for the transaction, including, for example, fees for extending revolving credit. As described below, we charge issuers and acquirers transaction-based and related
fees for the transaction processing and related services we provide them.

In a four-party payment system, the economics of a
payment transaction relative to MasterCard vary widely depending on such factors as whether the transaction is domestic (and, if it is domestic, the country in which it takes place) or cross-border, whether it is a point-of-sale purchase transaction
or cash withdrawal, and whether the transaction is processed over our network or a third-party network or is handled solely by a financial institution that is both the acquirer for the merchant and the issuer to the cardholder (an “on-us”
transaction).

MasterCard Worldwide Network Architecture and Operations.    We
believe the architecture of the MasterCard Worldwide Network is unique, featuring a globally integrated structure that provides scalability for our customers and enables them to expand into regional and global markets. Our network also features an
intelligent architecture that enables it to adapt to the needs of each transaction by blending two distinct processing structures—distributed (peer-to-peer) and centralized (hub-and-spoke). Transactions that require fast, reliable processing,
such as those submitted using a MasterCard PayPass®-enabled device in a tollway, use the network’s
distributed processing structure, ensuring they are processed close to where the transaction occurred. Transactions that require value-added processing, such as real-time access to transaction data for fraud scoring or rewards at the point-of-sale,
or customization of transaction data for unique consumer-spending controls, use the network’s centralized processing structure, ensuring advanced processing services are applied to the transaction.

The network typically operates at under 80% capacity and can handle more than 160 million transactions per hour with an average
network response time of 130 milliseconds. The network can also substantially scale capacity to meet demand. Our transaction processing services are available 24 hours per day, every day of the year. Our global payment network provides multiple
levels of back-up protection and related continuity procedures in the event of an outage should the issuer, acquirer or payment network experience a service interruption. To date, we have consistently maintained availability of our global processing
systems more than 99.9% of the time.

Processing Capabilities.



•Transaction Switching—Authorization, Clearing and Settlement.MasterCard provides transaction switching
(authorization, clearing and settlement) through the MasterCard Worldwide Network.



¡Authorization.    Authorization refers to the process by which a transaction is approved by the issuer or, in certain
circumstances such as when the issuer’s systems are unavailable or cannot be contacted, by MasterCard or others on behalf of the issuer in accordance with either the issuer’s instructions or applicable rules. For offline transactions (as
well as online transactions in Europe), the Dual Message System (which sends authorization and clearing messages separately) provides for







the transmission of authorization requests and results among issuers, acquirers and other transaction processors or networks. For online transactions (other than transactions in Europe), the
Single Message System (which sends authorization and clearing messages together) switches financial messages and provides transaction and settlement reporting. Our standards, which may vary across regions, establish the circumstances under which
merchants and acquirers must seek authorization of transactions.



¡Clearing.    Clearing refers to the exchange of financial transaction information between issuers and acquirers after a
transaction has been completed. MasterCard clears transactions among customers through our central and regional processing systems. Offline transactions using our branded cards are generally cleared via centralized processing through the Global
Clearing Management System and the related information is typically routed among customers via the MasterCard Worldwide Network. For online transactions, the Single Message System performs clearing between customers and other debit transaction
processing networks. MasterCard clearing services can be managed with minimal system development, which has enabled us to accelerate our customers’ ability to develop customized programs and services.



¡Settlement.    Once transactions have been authorized and cleared, MasterCard helps to settle the transactions by
facilitating the exchange of funds between parties. Once clearing is completed, a daily reconciliation is provided to each customer involved in settlement, detailing the net amounts by clearing cycle and a final settlement position. The actual
exchange of funds takes place between a clearing bank, designated by the customer and approved by MasterCard, and a settlement bank chosen by MasterCard. Customer settlement occurs in U.S. dollars or in a limited number of other currencies in
accordance with our established rules.





•



Cross-Border and Domestic Processing.



•Extended Processing Capabilities.In addition to transaction switching, MasterCard continually evaluates and invests in
ways to strategically extend our processing capabilities in the payment value chain by seeking to provide our customers with an expanded suite of payment processing solutions that meet the unique processing needs of their markets. Examples include:



¡MasterCard Integrated Processing Solutions™ (IPS).MasterCard Integrated Processing Solutions (“IPS”) is a
debit and prepaid issuer processing platform designed to provide medium to large global







issuing customers with a complete processing solution to help create differentiated products and services and allow quick deployment of payments portfolios across banking channels. Through a
single processing platform, IPS can, among other things, authorize debit and prepaid transactions, assist issuers in managing risk using fraud detection tools, manage an issuer’s card base, and manage and monitor an issuer’s ATMs. The
proprietary MasterCard Total Portfolio Viewer™ provides a user-friendly customer interface to IPS, delivering aggregate cardholder intelligence across accounts and product lines to provide our customers with a view of information that can help
them customize their products and programs. We continue to develop opportunities to further enhance our IPS offerings and global presence.



¡Internet Payment Gateways.    MasterCard provides e-Commerce processing solutions through internet payment gateways, which
are interfaces between the merchant and its acquirer as a transaction moves to a payments network. Our gateways include our MasterCard Internet Gateway Service (MiGS), which provides gateway infrastructure in Asia Pacific, and DataCash, a European
payment service provider which MasterCard acquired in October 2010. DataCash offers a single interface that provides e-Commerce merchants with the ability to process secure payments across the world, and develops and provides outsourced electronic
payments solutions, fraud prevention, alternative payment options, and other solutions.



¡Strategic Alliances.    We have invested in strategic alliances to pursue opportunities in prepaid and acquirer and
third-party processing both through joint ventures and minority investments. These alliances include: (1) Prepay Solutions, a joint venture with Edenred (previously named Accor Services) which supports prepaid processing in Europe,
(2) Strategic Payment Services, which provides acquirer processing in Asia Pacific, (3) ElectraCard Services, which provides third-party processing services and software, as well as switching solutions, in Asia Pacific, the Middle East and
Africa and (4) Trevica, which provides third-party issuer processing services in Poland and other central and eastern European markets.

MasterCard Programs and Solutions

Our principal payment programs
and solutions, which are facilitated through our brands, include consumer credit and charge, debit and prepaid programs, commercial payment solutions and emerging payments solutions. Our issuer customers determine the competitive features for the
cards issued under our programs, including interest rates and fees. We determine other aspects of our card programs—such as required services and the marketing strategy—in order to ensure consistency in connection with these programs.

Consumer Credit and Charge.MasterCard offers a number of consumer credit and charge programs
that are designed to meet the needs of our customers. For the year ended December 31, 2010, our consumer credit and charge programs generated approximately $1.6 trillion in GDV globally, representing 57% of our total GDV for this period. As of
December 31, 2010, the MasterCard brand mark appeared on approximately 648 million consumer credit and charge cards worldwide, representing a 2.4% decline from December 31, 2009.



•United States.    We offer customized programs to customers in the United States to address specific consumer segments. Our
consumer credit programs include Standard (general purpose cards targeted to consumers with basic credit card needs), Gold and Platinum (cards featuring higher credit lines and spending limits and a varying level of enhanced services) and World and
World Elite MasterCard®(cards offered to affluent consumers which feature a wider range of enhanced services).



•Regions Outside of the United States.MasterCard makes available to customers outside of the United States a variety of
consumer card programs in selected markets throughout the world. Examples of such programs include MasterCard Electronic™ cards (which offer additional control and risk management features designed to curb fraud and control exposure in high
risk markets) and cards targeted to affluent consumers (such as Platinum MasterCard®and MasterCard Black™
cards in Latin America, World and World Signia MasterCard®cards in Europe, World and World Elite MasterCard®cards in Canada and Platinum and World MasterCard®cards in Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa (“APMEA”)).







•General Services.All MasterCard credit cards include services, such as lost/stolen card reporting, emergency card
replacement and emergency cash advance, which are generally arranged by MasterCard and are provided through third-party service providers.

Consumer Debit.MasterCard supports a range of payment solutions that allow our
customers to provide consumers with convenient access to funds on deposit in demand deposit and other accounts. Our debit and deposit access programs may be branded with the MasterCard, Maestro and/or Cirrus logos, and can be used to obtain cash in
bank branches or at ATMs. In addition, MasterCard and Maestro-branded debit cards may be used to make purchases or obtain cash back at the point of sale. Debit programs we offer include Maestro and Gold Maestro, as well as Standard, Gold, Platinum,
Premium and World Debit MasterCard®programs.



•MasterCard-branded Debit Card.MasterCard-branded debit programs issue cards which include functionality for signature
authenticated transactions, as well as PIN-based functionality, giving consumers a choice at the point of sale. For the year ended December 31, 2010, our MasterCard-branded debit programs generated approximately $957 billion in GDV globally,
representing 35% of our total GDV for this period. As of December 31, 2010, the MasterCard brand mark appeared on approximately 297 million debit cards worldwide, representing 15.8% growth from December 31, 2009. MasterCard-branded
debit card programs are offered in the United States, and are also increasingly being introduced in Europe, Asia Pacific and Latin America as a complement to existing Maestro-branded debit programs.



•Maestro-branded Debit Card.Maestro is our global PIN-based debit program, and is the only PIN-based solution that
operates globally. As of December 31, 2010, the Maestro brand mark appeared on approximately 666 million cards worldwide, representing 2.2% growth from December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2010, Maestro was accepted for
purchases at more than 13.1 million merchant locations globally. Our Maestro brand has a leading position among PIN-based debit brands in many markets throughout the world, particularly in Europe. The strong presence of Maestro in Europe
positions us well as the SEPA initiative creates a more open and competitive payment market in many European countries that had been previously mandated to process domestic debit transactions with domestic processors. The global acceptance of
Maestro contributes to the growth of our debit business and adds value to the services that we provide to our customers.



•MasterCard Global ATM Solutions.Cirrus is our primary global cash access brand. Any debit, credit or ATM-accessible
prepaid card bearing the MasterCard, Maestro or Cirrus logos had access to cash and account information at approximately 1.8 million participating ATMs around the world as of December 31, 2010. MasterCard Global ATM Solutions provides
domestic (in-country) and cross-border access to cards allowing for varied types of transactions, including cash withdrawal (deposit accounts), cash advance (credit accounts), cash drawdown (prepaid accounts), balance inquiries, account transfers
and deposits at ATMs that participate in the MasterCard Worldwide Network.

Prepaid.Prepaid programs involve a balance that is funded with monetary value prior to use. Holders access
funds via a traditional magnetic stripe or chip-enabled payment card which may leverage the PayPass functionality or other payment devices, such as mobile devices. MasterCard customers may implement prepaid payment programs using any of our brands.
MasterCard provides processing services (including transaction switching) in support of either magnetic stripe or chip-enabled prepaid card programs. MasterCard has capabilities to provide and customize programs to meet unique commercial and
consumer needs in all prepaid segments, including programs such as gift, employee benefit, general purpose, payroll, travel, incentive and government disbursement programs. In particular, our strategy focuses on three categories:



•public sector, which includes programs targeted to achieve cost savings and efficiencies by moving traditional paper disbursement methods to electronic
solutions in government programs such as Social Security payments, unemployment compensation and others;



•corporate, which includes programs targeted to achieve cost savings and efficiencies by moving traditional paper disbursement methods to electronic
solutions in business applications such as payroll, health savings accounts and others; and







•consumer reloadable, which includes programs to address the payment needs of individuals without formal banking relationships, individuals who are not
traditional users of credit or debit cards or individuals who want to compartmentalize funds for security or convenience purposes, such as travel.

On December 9, 2010, MasterCard announced its intention to acquire the prepaid card program management operations of Travelex Holdings Ltd. during the first half of 2011. MasterCard will acquire the
Travelex operations that manage and deliver consumer and corporate prepaid travel cards to business partners around the world, including financial institutions, retailers, travel agents and foreign exchange bureaus. The acquisition of these
operations from Travelex is an expansion for MasterCard into program management services. Combined with MasterCard’s existing processing assets (such as IPS) and other strategic alliances, the asset will augment and support partners and issuers
of prepaid cards around the world, with a focus outside of the United States. The acquisition is intended to enable MasterCard to offer end-to-end prepaid solutions encompassing branded switching, issuing processing and program management services,
initially focused on the travel sector.

Commercial Payment
Solutions.

®

®

®

®

Emerging Payments
Solutions.MasterCard focuses on innovation to enhance our current programs and extend our products and services to new customers and into new geographies. Our focus includes:



•E-Commerce.    E-Commerce involves the secure purchase and sale of goods over the Internet. Our initiatives focus on:



¡the development of e-Commerce capability through internet payment gateways (including DataCash, which was acquired in October 2010, and MiGS) to
support growth in the e-Commerce area,



¡the development of programs and services intended to drive GDV and improve the consumer experience (such as MasterCard Marketplace™, an
internet-based program which provides eligible MasterCard cardholders with individually tailored discount offers), and



¡the development of tools to help customers prevent fraud over the Internet.



•Mobile.    MasterCard works with customers and leading technology companies to develop products and solutions in the area of
mobile commerce and wireless payments. These initiatives generally focus on:



¡contactless payment solutions (including MasterCard PayPass), which utilize radio frequency technology to securely transmit payment details wirelessly
through payment devices (including Mobile PayPass tags that adhere to the back of a mobile device, as well as other devices described below under “Acceptance Initiatives”) to contactless-enabled payment card terminals for processing
through the MasterCard Worldwide Network,







¡mobile payments gateways (such as the MasterCard Mobile Payments Gateway introduced by MasterCard in Brazil in 2009), which are turnkey mobile payment
processing platforms that facilitate transaction routing and prepaid processing for mobile-initiated transactions, and



¡person-to-person transfers (including MasterCard’s money transfer solution, MasterCard
MoneySend®) on behalf of MasterCard’s customers using various channels, including mobile devices.



•Value-Added Services.    MasterCard develops services designed to support and enhance its products and solutions. MasterCard
inControl®is an innovative platform featuring an array of advanced authorization, transaction routing and alert
controls that uses the functionality of the MasterCard Worldwide Network and is designed to assist financial institutions in creating new and enhanced payment offerings. MasterCard offers several fraud detection and prevention solutions, including
MasterCard Expert Monitoring System™ (“EMS”), a comprehensive suite of services designed to help its customers detect and prevent fraudulent activity.



•MasterCard Labs.    MasterCard Labs is a global innovation group created in 2010 and dedicated to developing new innovative
products and solutions for MasterCard, our customers and our cardholders. MasterCard Labs enables us to take a portfolio approach to research and development by incubating new product concepts, building prototypes and running pilots. MasterCard Labs
is designed for a rapid evaluation process, through which innovations either rapidly advance into MasterCard’s new product process or are quickly disregarded.



•Smart Card and Other Development.    MasterCard continues to pursue smart card development, which enables MasterCard to work
with our customers to help them replace traditional payment cards relying solely on magnetic stripe technology with chip-enabled payment cards that offer additional point-of-sale functionality and the ability to provide value-added services to the
cardholder. We are also involved in a number of organizations that facilitate the development and use of smart cards globally. This includes a smart cards standards organization with other participants in the industry that maintains standards and
specifications designed to ensure interoperability and acceptance of chip-based payment applications on a worldwide basis. MasterCard is also working to develop standards and programs that will allow consumers to conduct their financial transactions
using a variety of new point-of-interaction devices.

Acceptance Initiatives

Overview.We estimate that, as of December 31, 2010, cards carrying the MasterCard
brand were accepted at 31.7 million acceptance locations worldwide, including 1.8 million ATMs and 0.6 million other locations where cash may be obtained. Information on ATM and manual cash access locations is reported by our
customers and is partly based on publicly-available reports of payment industry associations, government agencies and independent market analysts. Cards bearing the Maestro brand mark are accepted at many of these same locations.

Initiatives.We seek to maintain unsurpassed acceptance of MasterCard-branded programs by focusing on three
core initiatives. First, we seek to increase the categories of merchants that accept cards carrying our brands. In addition to our focus on expanding acceptance in e-Commerce and mobile commerce environments, we are also focused on using the
functionality of the MasterCard Worldwide Network to expand acceptance in quick service businesses (such as fast food restaurants), transportation (such as commuter train systems, buses and taxis), and public sector payments (such as those involving
taxes, fees, fines and tolls), among other categories. Second, we seek to increase the number of payment channels in which MasterCard programs are accepted, such as by introducing MasterCard acceptance in connection with bill payment applications.
We are working with customers to encourage consumers to make bill payments in a variety of categories—including rent, utilities and insurance—with their MasterCard-branded cards. Third, we seek to increase usage of our programs at selected







merchants by sponsoring a wide range of promotional programs on a global basis. We also enter into arrangements with selected merchants under which these merchants receive performance incentives
for the increased use of MasterCard-branded programs or indicating a preference for MasterCard-branded programs when accepting payments from consumers.

Contactless Payment Solutions.    Our acceptance initiatives include MasterCard PayPass, a “contactless” payment solution that utilizes wireless technology to enable
consumers simply to tap their payment card or other payment device, such as a phone, key fob, wristband or Mobile PayPass tag that adheres to the back of a mobile device on a PayPass-enabled terminal to complete a transaction. Our PayPass program
primarily targets low value purchases and is designed to help our customers further expand their businesses by capturing a portion of transactions that were previously cash-based, resulting in increased card activity. PayPass reduces transaction
times, which appeals to merchants in quick service businesses (i.e., ballparks, fast food restaurants and gas stations) and allows us to expand the number of locations that accept our cards. We have also developed an innovative transit platform
solution to address the needs of various transit acceptance environments and cardholders. PayPass programs expanded in 2010 to include customers and merchants in 36 countries as of December 31, 2010, an increase from 33 countries as of
December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 88 million PayPass cards and devices were issued globally with acceptance at approximately 276,000 merchant locations worldwide.

Additional Services.In addition, we provide research, marketing support and financial assistance to our
customers and their marketing partners in connection with the launch and marketing of co-branded and affinity card programs. Co-branded cards are payment cards bearing the logos or other insignia of an issuer and a marketing partner, such as an
airline or retail merchant. Affinity cards are similar to co-branded cards except that the issuer’s marketing partner is typically a charitable, educational or other non-profit organization.

Merchants.

Customer Relationship Management

We are committed to providing our
customers with coordinated services in a manner that allows us to take advantage of our expertise in payment programs, product development, technology, operations, processing, consulting and information services and marketing. We manage our
relationships with our customers on a global and regional basis to ensure that their priorities are consistently identified and incorporated into our product, brand, processing, technology and related strategies.







We enter into business agreements pursuant to which we offer customers financial incentives
and other support benefits to issue and promote our branded cards and other payment programs. Financial incentives may be based on GDV or other performance-based criteria, such as issuance of new cards, launch of new programs or execution of
marketing initiatives. We believe that our business agreements with customers have contributed to our volume and revenue growth in recent years. In addition, we have standard licensing arrangements with all of our customers that permit them to use
our trademarks and subject them to the standards governing our payment programs.

MasterCard Advisors

MasterCard Advisors is our global professional services group which is focused exclusively on the payments industry.
It differentiates us from our competitors by providing our customers and other clients with services through three business lines: Consulting Services, Information Services, and Managed Services. Consulting Services delivers professional
problem-solving skills with payments expertise to address the challenges and opportunities of customers with respect to their payments business. Information Services provides a suite of data analytics and products to a diversified customer base,
enabling them to make better business decisions. Managed Services provides executional and turnkey solutions via data-driven acquisition and customer management services. MasterCard Advisors charges customers and other clients fees for its
professional services or may offer these services as incentives under business agreements with certain customers.

Marketing

We manage and promote our brands through brand advertising, promotional and interactive programs and sponsorship initiatives. Our brand is supported by our corporate vision statement—The Heart of
Commerce®, which represents our strategic vision of advancing commerce globally. Our corporate brand, MasterCard
Worldwide®, is consistent with our role as franchisor, processor and advisor. Our marketing activities combine
advertising, sponsorships, promotions, customer marketing, interactive media and public relations as part of an integrated program designed to increase consumer awareness of the MasterCard brand and usage of MasterCard cards. We also seek to tailor
our global marketing messages by customizing them in individual countries, while maintaining a common global theme. Our initiatives are designed to build the value of the MasterCard brand and drive shareholder value.

Our advertising plays an important role in building brand visibility, usage and overall card preference among
cardholders globally. Our award-winning “Priceless®” advertising campaign has run in 52 languages in
112 countries worldwide. The “Priceless” campaign promotes MasterCard usage benefits and acceptance that permit cardholders to pay for what they need, when they need it as well as marketing MasterCard credit, debit, prepaid and commercial
products and solutions. It also provides MasterCard with a consistent, recognizable message that supports our brand positioning. We continue to support our brand by utilizing digital channels to allow us to engage more directly with our stakeholders
and allow consumers and customers to engage directly in brand programs, promotions and merchant offers, as well as provide relevant information on MasterCard products, services and tools. MasterCard has also introduced global and regional specific
smart phone applications, including MasterCard’s ATM Hunter®, Priceless Picks®and MasterCard Marketplace Overwhelming Offers, that provide consumers with on-the-go utility. MasterCard intends to
continue to use digital channels and a variety of social media efforts to develop preference and usage with consumers and more effectively partner with customers and merchants to help them drive their respective businesses.

We also seek to deliver value to our customers through sponsorship of a variety of sporting and entertainment properties. Our presence in
sports aligns with consumer segments important to MasterCard and our customers. Our worldwide partnerships in golf and rugby with the PGA TOUR, PGA European Tour, 2010 Ryder Cup and Rugby World Cup 2011 are intended to help create business building
opportunities among a more affluent demographic. We have a long-standing relationship with international soccer and have continued this







relationship by sponsoring premiere events, including the Union of European Football Associations Champions League in Europe and the Copa America 2011 tournament in Argentina, as well as two
leading Argentinean club teams. MasterCard is also the exclusive payments sponsor to Major League Baseball and a number of its professional teams. We also sponsor individual teams in the National Football League and National Hockey League, as well
as a leading cricket team in the Indian Premier League. In China, MasterCard sponsors the Beijing Wukesong Culture and Sports Arena, one of the prominent Olympic stadiums, which was recently renamed the MasterCard Center. In addition to our sports
portfolio, we align ourselves with diverse properties aimed at multiple target audiences, including a fashion platform in our Asia Pacific region, with the intention of raising our brand awareness with affluent consumers. We target a broad audience
by providing access to music artists and live performances through well-known entertainment properties such as The GRAMMY
Awards®, Jazz at Lincoln Center in New York, the Brit Awards and partnerships with Cirque du Soleil in Russia.
MasterCard is the official payment services partner of the Walt Disney Company in Europe, including with respect to Disney stores, motion pictures and Disneyland Paris.

MasterCard Revenue Sources

MasterCard generates revenues by
charging fees to our customers for providing transaction processing and other payment-related services and assessing our customers based on GDV on the cards that carry our brands. Accordingly, our revenues are impacted both by the number of
transactions that we process and by the use of cards carrying our brands. Our net revenues are classified into the following five categories:



•Domestic assessments:Domestic assessments are fees charged to issuers and acquirers based primarily on the volume of
activity on cards that carry our brands where the merchant country and the cardholder country are the same.



•Cross-border volume fees:Cross-border volume fees are charged to issuers and acquirers based on the volume of activity
on cards that carry our brands where the merchant country and cardholder country are different.



•Transaction processing fees:Transaction processing fees are charged for both domestic and cross-border transactions and
are primarily based on the number of transactions.



•Other revenues:Other revenues for other payment-related services include fees associated with fraud products and
services, cardholder service fees, consulting and research fees, compliance and penalty fees, account and transaction enhancement services, holograms and publications.



•Rebates and incentives (contra-revenue):Rebates and incentives are provided to certain MasterCard customers and are
recorded as contra-revenue in the same period that performance occurs.

Our pricing is complex and is
dependent on the nature of the volumes, types of transactions and other products and services we offer to our customers. A combination of the following factors determines the pricing:



•Domestic or cross-border



•Signature-based or PIN-based



•Tiered pricing, with rates decreasing as customers meet incremental volume/transaction hurdles



•Geographic region or country



•Retail purchase or cash withdrawal

Cross-border transactions generate greater revenue than do domestic transactions. We review our pricing and implement pricing changes on an ongoing basis and expect pricing to continue to be a component
of revenue growth in the future. In addition, standard pricing varies among our regional businesses, and such pricing can be customized further for our customers through incentive and rebate agreements. Revenues from processing cross-border
transactions fluctuate with cross-border activities. See “Risk Factors—Business Risks—A decline in cross-border travel could adversely affect our revenues and profitability, as a significant portion of our revenue is generated from
cross-border transactions” in Part I, Item 1A.







In 2010, net revenues from our five largest customers accounted for approximately $1.5
billion, or 28% of our total revenue. No single customer generated greater than 10% of total revenue.

See
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Revenues” in Part II, Item 7 for more detail.

GDV and Processed Transactions

The tables below provide some
information regarding two key drivers of our revenue: (1) GDV, which forms the basis of volume-based revenues, and (2) processed transactions.

GDV.The GDV table below provides information regarding the GDV for all MasterCard-branded cards (excluding Cirrus and Maestro) and for both MasterCard credit and charge card programs and
MasterCard debit programs in the United States and in all of our other regions for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. Growth rates are provided on both a U.S. dollar and local currency basis for the periods indicated. GDV represents
the aggregate dollar amount of purchases made and cash disbursements obtained with MasterCard-branded cards and includes the impact of balance transfers and convenience checks.



Year endedDecember 31, 2010Year-over-year growthU.S. $LocalCurrency2Year endedDecember 31, 2009(in billions, except percentages)MasterCard Branded GDV1All MasterCard Branded ProgramsAsia/Pacific/Middle East/Africa$61927.3%18.8%$486Canada10714.9%4.2%93Europe80910.8%13.5%730Latin America22123.1%17.4%179United States972(0.3)%(0.3)%975Worldwide$2,72710.7%9.1%$2,463All MasterCard Credit and Charge ProgramsUnited States$515(2.0)%(2.0)%$526Worldwide less United States1,25512.9%10.0%1,112Worldwide$1,7708.1%6.2%$1,637All MasterCard Debit ProgramsUnited States$4571.7%1.7%$450Worldwide less United States50032.8%30.4%377Worldwide$95715.9%14.9%$826



*Note that figures in the above table may not sum due to rounding.

1GDV generated by Maestro and Cirrus cards is not included. The data for GDV is provided by MasterCard customers and includes information with respect
to MasterCard-branded transactions that are not processed by MasterCard and for which MasterCard does not earn significant revenues. All data is subject to revision and amendment by MasterCard’s customers subsequent to the date of its release,
which revisions and amendments may be material.

2Local currency growth eliminates the impact of currency fluctuations and represents local market performance.







Processed Transactions.The processed transaction table below
provides information regarding all transactions processed by MasterCard, regardless of brand, for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009



Year endedDecember 31, 2010Year-over- 
yeargrowthYear endedDecember 31, 2009(in millions, except percentages)Processed transactions123,0522.9%22,401



1Data represents all transactions processed by MasterCard, including PIN-based online debit transactions, regardless of brand. The numbers were updated
in 2009 to exclude a small number of certain processed transactions initiated with cards that do not bear our brands. All prior period data has been revised to be consistent with this revised methodology. Revenue was not impacted by these changes.

Membership Standards

We establish and enforce our standards surrounding membership in MasterCard International and the use and acceptance of cards carrying our brands.

Rulemaking and Enforcement

Membership in MasterCard International and its affiliates is generally open to financial institutions and other entities that are our customers. Applicants for membership must generally meet specified
membership eligibility requirements.

In general, MasterCard grants licenses by territory to applicants able to perform all
obligations required of members. Licenses provide members with certain rights, including access to the network and usage of our brands. Anti-money laundering due diligence reviews and customer risk management reviews are conducted on all new members
prior to admission, as well as on existing members. All applicants and members must meet the requirements of MasterCard’s anti-money laundering program, and MasterCard can block authorization of transactions and ultimately terminate membership
for non-compliance with the program. As a condition of our licenses, members agree to comply with our standards, which include our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, policies, rules and operating regulations and procedures. MasterCard
International and certain of its affiliates are the governing bodies that establish and enforce our standards, which relate to such matters as membership eligibility and financial soundness criteria; the standards, design and features of cards and
card programs; the use of MasterCard trademarks; merchant acquiring activities (including acceptance standards applicable to merchants); and guaranteed settlement and member failures. To help ensure that members conform to the standards, we review
card programs proposed by members.

Customer Risk Management

As a guarantor of certain card obligations of principal members, we are exposed to member credit risk arising from the potential financial
failure of any of our approximately 2,500 principal members of MasterCard, Maestro and Cirrus, and approximately 3,400 affiliate debit licensees. Our estimated gross settlement risk exposure for MasterCard-branded transactions, which is calculated
using the average daily card charges made during the quarter multiplied by the estimated number of days to settle, was approximately $28.5 billion as of December 31, 2010. Principal members participate directly in MasterCard programs and are
responsible for the settlement and other activities of their sponsored affiliate members (approximately 19,400).

To minimize
the contingent risk to MasterCard of a failure, we monitor the financial health of, economic and political operating environments of, and compliance with our standards by, our principal members, affiliate debit licensees and other entities to which
we grant licenses. If the financial condition of a member or the state of the economy in which it operates indicates that it may not be able to satisfy its obligations to us or to other







Payment System Integrity

The integrity of our payment system can be affected by fraudulent activity and illegal uses of cards and our system. Fraud is most often committed in connection with lost, stolen or counterfeit cards or
stolen account information, often resulting from security breaches of third party systems that inappropriately store cardholder account data. See “Risk Factors—Business Risks—Account data breaches involving card data stored by us or
third parties could adversely affect our reputation and revenue” in Part I, Item 1A. Fraud is also more likely to occur in transactions where the card is not present, such as e-Commerce, mail order and telephone order transactions.
Security and cardholder authentication for these remote channels are particularly critical issues facing our customers and merchants who engage in these forms of commerce, where a signed cardholder sales receipt or the presence of the card or
merchant agent is unavailable.

We monitor areas of risk exposure and enforce our standards to combat
fraudulent activity. We also operate several compliance programs to help ensure that the integrity of our payment system is maintained by our customers and their agents. Key compliance programs include merchant audits (for high fraud, excessive
chargebacks and processing of illegal transactions) and security compliance (including our MasterCard Site Data Protection
Service®, which assists customers and merchants in protecting commercial sites from hacker intrusions and
subsequent account data compromises) by requiring proper adherence to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards (PCI DDS). Our customers are also required to report instances of fraud to us in a timely manner so we can monitor trends and
initiate action where appropriate.

Our customers generally are responsible for fraud losses associated
with the cards they issue and the merchants from which they acquire transactions. However, we have implemented a series of programs and systems to aid them in detecting and preventing the fraudulent use of MasterCard cards. We provide education
programs and various risk management tools to help prevent fraud, including MasterCard SecureCode®, a global
Internet authentication solution that permits cardholders to authenticate themselves to their issuer using a unique, personal code, and our Site Data Protection program. We also provide fraud detection and prevention solutions, including EMS and
DataCash fraud prevention tools.







Enterprise Risk Management

MasterCard faces a number of risks in operating its business (for a description of material risks, see “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A). Managing risk is an integral component of our
business activities and the degree to which we manage risk is vital to our financial condition and profitability. We have an Enterprise Risk Management (“ERM”) program which is integrated with the business and designed to ensure
appropriate and comprehensive oversight and management of risk. The ERM program leverages our business processes to, among other things, ensure: allocation of resources to appropriately address risk; establishment of clear accountability for risk
management; and provision of transparency of risks to senior management, the Board of Directors and appropriate Board committees. Our ERM program seeks to accomplish these goals by: identifying, prioritizing and monitoring key risks; providing an
independent view of our risk profile; and strengthening business operations by integrating ERM principles and continuing to create a risk aware culture within MasterCard. MasterCard’s integrated risk management structure balances risk and
return by having business units and central functions (such as finance and law) identify, own and manage risks, our executive officers set policy and accountability and the Board and committees provide oversight of the process.

Intellectual Property

We own a number of valuable trademarks that are essential to our business, including MasterCard®, Maestro®and Cirrus®, through one or more affiliates. We also own numerous other trademarks covering various brands, programs and
services offered by MasterCard to support our payment programs. Trademark and service mark registrations are generally valid indefinitely as long as they are used and/or properly maintained. Through license agreements with our customers, we
authorize the use of our trademarks in connection with our customers’ card issuing and merchant acquiring businesses. In addition, we own a number of patents and patent applications relating to payments solutions, transaction processing, smart
cards, contactless, mobile, electronic commerce, security systems and other matters, some of which may be important to our business operations. Patents are of varying duration dcpending on the jurisdiction and filing date, and will typically expire
at the end of their natural term.

Competition

General.MasterCard programs compete against all forms of payment, including paper-based transactions (principally cash and checks); card-based payment systems, including
credit, charge, debit, prepaid, private-label and other types of general purpose and limited use cards; and electronic transactions such as wire transfers and Automated Clearing House payments. As a result of a global trend, electronic forms of
payment such as payment cards are increasingly displacing paper forms of payment, and card brands such as MasterCard, Visa, American Express and Discover are benefiting from this displacement. However, cash and checks still capture the largest
overall percentage of worldwide payment volume.

Payment Card, Processing and Alternative Competitors.



•General Purpose Payment Card Industry.Within the general purpose payment card industry, we face substantial and
increasingly intense competition worldwide from systems such as Visa (including Plus®, Electron and Interlink),
American Express and Discover, among others. Within the global general purpose card industry, Visa has significantly greater volume than we do. Outside of the United States, some of our competitors such as JCB in Japan and China Union Pay®have leading positions in their domestic markets. Regulation can also play a role in determining competitive market
advantages for competitors. For example, China Union Pay is the sole domestic processor designated by the Chinese government and operates the sole national cross-bank bankcard information switch network in China due to local regulation. Some
governments, such as India and Russia, are promoting local networks for domestic processing and there are similar developments in other countries. See “Risk Factors—Legal and Regulatory Risks—Government actions may prevent us from
competing effectively against providers of domestic payments services in certain countries, which could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues ” in Part I, Item 1A.







•Particular Segments.We face competition with respect to particular segments of the payment card industry, including:



¡Debit.In the debit card sector, we also encounter substantial and increasingly intense competition from ATM and
point-of-sale debit networks in various countries, such as Interlink™, Plus and Visa Electron (owned by Visa Inc.),
Star®(owned by First Data Corporation), NYCE®(owned by FIS), and Pulse™ (owned by Discover), in the United States; Interac in Canada; EFTPOS in Australia; and Bankserv in South Africa. In addition, in many
countries outside of the United States, local debit brands serve as the main brands while our brands are used mostly to enable cross-border transactions, which typically represent a small portion of overall transaction volume.



¡PIN-Based Debit Transactions.In the United States, some of our competitors process a greater number of online, PIN-based
debit transactions at the point of sale than we do. In addition, our business and revenues could be impacted adversely by the tendency among U.S. merchants to migrate from offline, signature-based debit transactions to online, PIN-based debit
transactions because we generally earn less revenue from the latter types of transactions. This tendency may be accelerated as a result of the Federal Reserve’s implementation of rules associated with the Wall Street Reform and Consumer
Protection Act (as defined and described below under “Government Regulation”). In addition, online, PIN-based transactions are more likely to be processed by other domestic ATM/debit point-of-sale networks rather than by us. See “Risk
Factors—Business Risks—If we are unable to grow our debit business, particularly in the United States, we may fail to maintain and increase our revenue growth” in Part I, Item 1A.



¡Private-Label.Private-label cards, which can generally be used to make purchases solely at the sponsoring retail store,
gasoline retailer or other types of merchants, also serve as another form of competition.



•End-to-End Payment Networks.Our competitors include operators of proprietary end-to-end payment networks that have
direct acquiring relationships with merchants and direct issuing relationships with cardholders, such as American Express and Discover. These competitors have certain advantages that we do not enjoy. Among other things, these competitors do not
require formal interchange fees to balance payment system costs among issuers and acquirers, because they typically have direct relationships with both merchants and cardholders. Interchange fees, which are a characteristic of four-party payments
systems such as ours, are subject to increased regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide. See “Risk Factors—Legal and Regulatory Risks—Interchange fees and related practices have been receiving significant and increasingly intense
legal, regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide, and the resulting decisions, regulations and legislation may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business, financial condition and
results of operations” in Part I, Item 1A. To date, operators of end-to-end payment networks have generally avoided the same regulatory and legislative scrutiny and litigation challenges we face because they do not utilize formal
interchange fees. Accordingly, these operators may enjoy a competitive advantage over four-party payments systems.



•Competition for Customer Business.    We compete intensely with other card networks, principally Visa, for the loyalty of
our customers. Globally, financial institutions typically issue both MasterCard and Visa-branded payment cards, and we compete with Visa for business on the basis of individual card portfolios or programs. Some of our customers also do business with
American Express or Discover in the United States, and a number of our large customers now issue American Express and/or Discover-branded cards.We also compete for new business partners with whom we seek to work, such as merchants,
government agencies and telecommunication companies. See “Risk Factors—Business Risks—Our operating results may suffer because of substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the global payments industry” in Part
I, Item 1A. Our ability to compete in the global payments industry for customer business can be affected by the outcome of litigation, regulatory proceedings and legislative activity. For example, in July 2010, the United States enacted into
law the







Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act”), which requires the Board of Governors of the United States Federal
Reserve System to issue regulations prohibiting arrangements under which a debit card can be processed only by one network (or only by a group of affiliated networks). The Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act also prohibits any
restrictions on a merchant’s ability to route a transaction over any one of the networks that could process the transaction.These events have resulted in challenges, as well as potential opportunities to compete for business in this
area.



•Transaction Processors.    We face competition from transaction processors throughout the world, such as First Data
Corporation and Total System Services, Inc., some of which are seeking to enhance their networks that link issuers directly with point-of-sale devices for payment card transaction authorization and processing services. Certain of these transaction
processors could potentially displace MasterCard as the provider of these payment processing services.



•New Entrants and Alternative Payment Systems.    We also compete against relatively new entrants and alternative payment
providers, such as PayPal®(a business segment of eBay), which have developed payment systems in e-Commerce and
across mobile devices. While PayPal is an established and important player in Internet payments, this is an increasingly competitive area, as evidenced by the proliferation of new online competitors. Among other services, these competitors provide
Internet payment services that can be used to buy and sell goods online, and services that support payments to and from deposit accounts or proprietary accounts for Internet, mobile commerce and other applications. A number of these new entrants
rely principally on the Internet and potential wireless communication networks to support their services, and may enjoy lower costs than we do. The payment card industry is also facing changes in services and technology related to mobile payments
and emerging competition from mobile operators and handset manufacturers. Micro-payments on social networks such as
Facebook®are relatively small today but have the potential to grow rapidly, representing the potential for
competition from a new payment form.

Financial Institution Customers.



•Pricing.We face increasingly intense competitive pressure on the prices we charge our customers. We seek to enter into
business agreements with customers through which we offer incentives and other support to issue and promote our cards. In order to stay competitive, we may have to increase the amount of rebates and incentives we provide to our customers and
merchants, as we have in the last several years. See “Risk Factors—Business Risks—We face increasingly intense competitive pressure on the prices we charge our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our revenue and
profitability” in Part I, Item 1A.





•



Banking Industry Consolidation.







Competitive Position.We believe that the principal factors
influencing our competitive position in the global payments industry are:



•pricing;



•customer relationships;



•the impact of existing and future litigation, legislation and government regulation;



•the impact of globalization and consolidation of financial institutions and merchants;



•the acceptance base, reputation and brand recognition of payment cards;



•the success and scope of marketing and promotional campaigns;



•the quality, security and integrity of transaction processing;



•the relative value of services and products offered;



•new market entrants; and



•the ability to develop and implement competitive new card programs, systems and technologies in both physical and virtual environments.

Government Regulation

General.Government regulation impacts key aspects of our business. We are subject to regulations that affect the payment industry in the many countries in which our cards
are used. Regulation of the payments industry has increased significantly in the last several years, including in the United States. Regulators in several countries outside of the United States have also become increasingly interested in payment
issues, a number of which have launched official proceedings related to payment industry issues. See “Risk Factors—Legal and Regulatory Risks” in Part I, Item 1A.

Interchange Fees.Interchange fees associated with four-party payment systems like ours are being reviewed
or challenged in various jurisdictions. Such challenges include regulatory proceedings in the European Union (by the European Commission, as well as by individual European Union member states) and elsewhere. Interchange fees have also become the
subject of legislative action. In particular, the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act enacted into law in July 2010 provides for, among other things, the regulation of debit and prepaid “interchange transaction fees” directly
and through an implementing rulemaking process undertaken by the Board of Governors of the United States Federal Reserve System. See “Risk Factors—Legal and Regulatory Risks—Interchange fees and related practices have been receiving
significant and increasingly intense legal, regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide, and the resulting decisions, regulations and legislation may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall
business, financial condition and results of operations” and “The Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act may have a material, adverse effect on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business, financial
condition and results of operations” in Part I, Item 1A and in Note 22 (Legal and Regulatory Proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8.

Data Protection and Information Security.Aspects of our operations or business are subject to privacy
regulation in the United States, the European Union and elsewhere, as well as regulations imposed by the U.S. Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”). For example, in the United States, we and our customers are
respectively subject to Federal Trade Commission and federal banking agency information safeguarding requirements under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. The Federal Trade Commission’s information safeguarding rules require us to develop, implement
and maintain a written, comprehensive information security program containing safeguards that are appropriate for our size and complexity, the nature and scope of our activities, and the sensitivity of any customer information at issue. Our
customers in the United States are subject to similar requirements under the guidelines issued by the federal banking agencies. As part of their compliance with the requirements, each of our U.S. customers is expected to have a program in place for
responding to unauthorized access to, or use of, customer information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to customers.







Anti-Money Laundering and Anti-Terrorism.MasterCard and other participants in the payment
industry are also subject to the regulatory requirements of Section 352 of the USA PATRIOT Act, which applies to certain types of financial institutions, including operators of credit card systems. Section 352 of the USA PATRIOT Act
requires MasterCard to maintain a comprehensive anti-money laundering program and imposes similar requirements on some of our customers. Our anti-money laundering program must be reasonably designed to prevent our system from being used to
facilitate money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities. The program must, at a minimum, include the designation of a compliance officer, provide for the training of appropriate personnel regarding anti-money laundering
responsibilities, as well as incorporate policies, procedures, and controls to mitigate money laundering risks, and be independently audited.

Financial Industry Regulation.    MasterCard customers are subject to numerous regulations
applicable to banks and other financial institutions in the United States and elsewhere, and as a consequence MasterCard is impacted by such regulations. Certain of our operations are periodically reviewed by the U.S. Federal Financial Institutions
Examination Council (“FFIEC”) under its authority to examine financial institutions’ technology







service providers. Examinations by the FFIEC cover areas such as data integrity and data security. In recent years, the U.S. federal banking regulators have adopted a series of regulatory
measures affecting credit card payment terms and requiring more conservative accounting, greater risk management and in some cases higher capital requirements for bank credit card activities, particularly in the case of banks that focus on subprime
cardholders. In addition, MasterCard Europe operates a retail payment system in Europe and is subject to oversight by the National Bank of Belgium pursuant to standards published by the European Central Bank that are principally targeted at managing
financial, legal and operations risk.

Issuer Practice Legislation and Regulation.The Board of Governors of the United States Federal Reserve System is continuing the process of issuing regulations to implement
the Credit CARD Act, which was signed into law in May 2009. The Credit CARD Act, and its implementing regulations, are having a significant impact on the disclosures made by our customers and on our customers’ account terms and business
practices. The Credit CARD Act, and its implementing regulations, are making it more difficult for credit card issuers to price credit cards for future credit risk and will have a significant effect on the pricing, credit allocation, and business
models of most major credit card issuers. The new law could reduce credit availability, or increase the cost of credit to cardholders, possibly affecting MasterCard transaction volume and revenues.

The Credit CARD Act also includes provisions that impose limits and restrictions on certain prepaid card products, including on fees. The
Board of Governors of the United States Federal Reserve System has issued implementing regulations with respect to these provisions. The statutory provisions and implementing regulations may diminish the attractiveness of these products to our
customers and may consequently adversely affect transaction volumes and revenues.

The Board of Governors of the United States
Federal Reserve System has also recently adopted regulations regulating overdraft fees imposed in connection with ATM and debit card transactions. These regulations will have the effect of significantly reducing overdraft fees our customers may
charge in connection with debit card programs. This may diminish the attractiveness of debit card programs to our customers and may adversely affect transaction volumes and revenues.

Regulation of Internet Transactions.    In October 2006, the U.S. Congress enacted legislation requiring the
coding and blocking of payments for certain types of Internet gambling transactions. The legislation applies to payment system participants, including MasterCard and our U.S. customers, and is implemented through a federal regulation. Compliance was
required no later than June 1, 2010, although Congress may consider additional legislation to legalize and regulate Internet gambling. The federal regulation requires us and our customers to implement compliance programs that would increase our
costs and/or could decrease our







transaction volumes. In addition, the U.S. Congress continues its consideration of regulatory initiatives in the areas of Internet prescription drug purchases, copyright and trademark
infringement, and privacy, among others, that could impose additional compliance burdens on us and/or our customers. Some U.S. states are considering a variety of similar legislation. If implemented, these initiatives could require us or our
customers to monitor, filter, restrict, or otherwise oversee various categories of payment card transactions, thereby increasing our costs or decreasing our transaction volumes. Various regulatory agencies also continue to examine a wide variety of
issues, including identity theft, account management guidelines, privacy, disclosure rules, security and marketing that would impact our customers directly. These new requirements and developments may affect our customers’ ability to extend
credit through the use of payment cards, which could decrease our transaction volumes. In some circumstances, new regulations could have the effect of limiting our customers’ ability to offer new types of payment programs or restricting their
ability to offer our existing programs such as prepaid cards, which could materially and adversely reduce our revenue and revenue growth.

Seasonality

See
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Seasonality” in Part II, Item 7 for a discussion of the impact of seasonality on our business.

Financial Information About Geographic Areas

See Note 25 (Segment Reporting) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 for certain geographic financial information.

Employees

As of
December 31, 2010, we employed approximately 5,600 persons, of which approximately 2,200 were employed outside of the United States. We consider our relationship with employees to be good.

Website and SEC Reports

The Company’s internet address is www.mastercard.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports
on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are available, without charge, for review on our investor relations page, accessible through our corporate website, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Report.

