Item 1.Business

Overview

MasterCard is a leading global payment solutions company that provides a variety of services in support of the credit,
debit and related payment programs of approximately 23,000 financial institutions and other entities that are our customers. Through our three-tiered business model as franchisor, processor and advisor, we develop and market payment solutions,
process payment transactions, and provide support services to our customers and, depending upon the service, to merchants and other clients. We manage a family of well-known, widely accepted payment card brands, including MasterCard®, MasterCard Electronic™, Maestro®and Cirrus®, which we license
to our customers. As part of managing these brands, we also establish and enforce rules and standards surrounding the use of our payment card network. MasterCard generates revenue by charging fees to our customers for providing transaction
processing and other payment-related services and assessing our customers based on the dollar volume of activity on the cards that carry our brands.

A typical transaction processed over our network involves four parties in addition to us: the cardholder, the merchant, the issuer (the cardholder’s bank) and the acquirer (the merchant’s bank).
Consequently, the payment network we operate supports what is often referred to as a “four-party” payment system. Our customers are the financial institutions and other entities that act as issuers and acquirers. Using our transaction
processing services, issuers and acquirers facilitate payment transactions between cardholders and merchants throughout the world, providing merchants with an efficient and secure means of receiving payment, and consumers and businesses with a
convenient, quick and secure payment method that is accepted worldwide. We guarantee the settlement of many of these transactions among our customers to ensure the integrity of our payment network. In addition, we undertake a variety of marketing
activities designed to maintain and enhance the value of our brands. However, cardholder and merchant transaction relationships are managed principally by our customers.







Accordingly, we do not issue cards, extend credit to cardholders, determine the interest rates (if applicable) or other fees charged to cardholders by issuers, or establish the merchant discount
charged by acquirers in connection with the acceptance of cards that carry our brands.

Our business has a global reach and
has continued to experience growth. In 2009, we processed 22.4 billion transactions, a 6.9% increase over the number of transactions processed in 2008. Gross dollar volume (“GDV”) on cards carrying the MasterCard brand as reported by our
customers was approximately $2.5 trillion in 2009, a 3.3% decrease in U.S. dollar terms and a 1.4% increase in local currency terms over the GDV reported in 2008.

We believe the trend within the global payments industry from paper-based forms of payment, such as cash and checks, toward electronic forms of payment, such as payment card transactions, creates
significant opportunities for the growth of our business over the longer term. Our strategy is to continue to grow by further penetrating our existing customer base and by expanding our role in targeted geographies and higher growth segments of the
global payments industry (such as premium/affluent, quick-service/low value, commercial/small business, debit, prepaid and issuer and acquirer processor services), pursuing domestic processing opportunities throughout the world, enhancing our
merchant relationships, expanding points of acceptance for our brands, seeking to maintain unsurpassed acceptance and continuing to invest in our brands. We also intend to pursue incremental payment processing opportunities throughout the world. We
are committed to providing our customers with coordinated services through integrated and dedicated account teams in a manner that allows us to capitalize on our expertise in payment programs, marketing, product development, technology, processing
and consulting and information services for these customers. By investing in strong customer relationships over the long term, we believe that we can increase our volume of business with customers over time.

MasterCard Incorporated was incorporated as a Delaware
stock corporation in May 2001. We conduct our business principally through MasterCard Incorporated’s principal operating subsidiary, MasterCard International Incorporated (“MasterCard International”), a Delaware non-stock (or
membership) corporation that was formed in November 1966. Our customers are generally either principal members of MasterCard International, which participate directly in MasterCard International’s business, or affiliate members of MasterCard
International, which participate indirectly in MasterCard International’s business through a principal member. In May 2006, we completed a plan for a new ownership and governance structure for MasterCard Incorporated (including an initial
public offering of a new class of common stock (the “IPO”)), which we refer to as the “ownership and governance transactions” and which included the appointment of a new Board of Directors comprised of a majority of directors who
are independent from our customers. For more information about our capital structure, voting rights of our common stock, repurchases of our Class A common stock and conversions of shares of our Class B common stock into shares of our voting
Class A common stock, see Note 16 (Stockholders’ Equity) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8.







Our Industry

We operate in the global payments industry, which consists of all forms of payment including:



•Paper—cash, personal checks, money orders, official checks, travelers checks and other paper-based means of transferring value;



•Cards—credit cards, charge cards, debit cards (including Automated Teller Machine (“ATM”) cards), pre-paid cards and other types of
cards; and



•Emerging and Other Forms of Payment—wire transfers, electronic benefits transfers, bill payments, Automated Clearing House payments and payments
using mobile devices, among others.

The most common card-based forms of payment are general purpose cards,
which are payment cards carrying logos that permit widespread usage of the cards within countries, regions or around the world. General purpose cards have different attributes depending on the type of accounts to which they are linked:



•“pay later” cards, such as credit or charge cards, typically access a credit account that either requires payment of the full balance within
a specified period (a charge card) or that permits the cardholder to carry a balance in a revolving credit account (a credit card);



•“pay now” cards, such as debit cards, typically access a demand deposit or current account maintained by the cardholder; and



•“pay before” cards, such as prepaid or electronic purse cards, typically access a pool of value previously funded.

Generally, card-based forms of payment involve two types of transactions (depending on the type of card
being used): transactions that typically require the cardholder’s signature, which are referred to as offline transactions; and transactions that require the cardholder to use a personal identification number (“PIN”) for verification,
which are typically referred to as online transactions. Some purchase transactions outside of the United States, such as those made using cards equipped with a chip, can be PIN-authenticated but are considered offline transactions. In addition, some
payment cards are equipped with an RFID (radio frequency identification) microchip, which provides an advanced authentication technique, and technology which allows contactless payments requiring neither signature nor PIN. Many merchants no longer
require a signature for low value purchases, and there is no PIN or signature on Internet or other card-not-present transactions. Such transactions are still considered, however, to be offline transactions.

The primary general purpose card brands include MasterCard, Visa®, American Express®, JCB®, Diners Club®and Discover®. Historically,
these brands—including MasterCard—were principally associated with “pay later” (credit or charge) cards in the United States and other major markets around the world. Today, MasterCard (as well as Visa and others) may issue cards
in the “pay now” and “pay before” categories as well.

“Pay Now” cards may be further
categorized into several sub-segments:



•Signature-based debit cards are cards for which the primary means of cardholder validation at the point of sale is for the cardholder to sign a sales
receipt (other than circumstances where an actual signature is not necessary). MasterCard and Visa-branded cards constitute the majority of signature-based debit cards.



•PIN-based debit cards are cards with which cardholders generally enter a PIN at a point-of-sale terminal for validation. PIN-based debit card brands
include our Maestro brand and Visa’s brands. The MasterCard brand also functions as a PIN-based debit brand in the United States.



•Cash access cards are cards which permit cardholders to obtain cash principally at ATMs by entering a PIN. The primary global cash access card brands
are our Cirrus brand and Visa’s Plus®brand.







Regional and domestic/local PIN-based debit brands are the primary brands in many countries.
In these markets, issuers have historically relied on the Maestro and Cirrus brands (and other brands) to enable cross-border transactions, which typically constitute a small portion of the overall number of transactions.

In addition to general purpose cards, private label cards comprise a portion of all card-based forms of payment. Typically, private label
cards are “pay later” cards issued by, or on behalf of, a merchant (such as a department store or gasoline retailer) and can be used only at the issuing merchant’s locations.

Payment Services and Solutions

We provide transaction processing and other payment-related services to our customers. We also offer a wide range of payment solutions to enable our customers to design, package and implement programs targeted to the specific needs of their
customers (which include cardholders and commercial clients). We deploy customer relationship management teams to our customers to provide them with customized solutions built upon our expertise in payment programs, marketing, product development,
payment processing technology and consulting and information services. We also manage and promote our brands for the benefit of all customers through brand advertising, promotional and interactive programs and sponsorship initiatives.

We generate revenues from the fees we charge our customers for providing transaction processing and other payment-related services. We also
earn revenues by charging our customers assessments based on the GDV of activity on the cards that carry our brands. Accordingly, our revenues are impacted by the number of transactions that we process and by the use of cards carrying our brands.

Transaction Processing

Introduction.We operate the MasterCard Worldwide Network, which links issuers and acquirers around the globe for transaction processing services and, through them, permits
MasterCard cardholders to use their cards at millions of merchants worldwide. A typical transaction processed over our network involves four participants in addition to us: cardholder, merchant, issuer (the cardholder’s bank) and acquirer (the
merchant’s bank). The following diagram depicts a typical point-of-sale card transaction.



In a typical transaction, a cardholder (A) purchases goods or services from a merchant (B) using
a card. After the transaction is authorized by the issuer (D) using our network, the acquirer (C) pays the amount of the purchase, net of a discount, to the merchant. This discount, which we refer to as the merchant discount, takes into
consideration the amount of the interchange fee described below. The issuer pays the acquirer an amount equal to the value of the transaction minus any interchange fee and posts the transaction to the cardholder’s account. Our rules generally
guarantee the payment of transactions using MasterCard-branded cards and certain transactions using Cirrus and Maestro-branded cards between issuers and acquirers.







In this four-party payment system, the economics of a payment transaction relative to
MasterCard vary widely depending on such factors as whether the transaction is domestic (and, if it is domestic, the country in which it takes place) or cross-border, whether it is a point-of-sale purchase transaction or cash withdrawal, and whether
the transaction is processed over our network or a third party network or is handled solely by a financial institution that is both the acquirer for the merchant and the issuer to the cardholder (an “on-us” transaction).

A significant portion of the merchant discount is generally paid from the acquirer to the issuer (or netted by the issuer against amounts
paid to the acquirer) in the form of an interchange fee. The balance of the merchant discount is retained by the acquirer to cover its costs and profit margin. Acquirers may charge merchants processing and related fees in addition to the merchant
discount. Issuers may also charge cardholders fees for the transaction, including, for example, fees for extending revolving credit. As described below, we charge issuers and acquirers transaction-based and related fees and assessments for the
services we provide them.

Interchange fees represent a sharing of a portion of payment system costs among our customers
participating in four-party payment card systems. Generally, interchange fees are collected from acquirers and passed to issuers (or netted by issuers against amounts paid to acquirers) to reimburse the issuers for a portion of the costs incurred by
them in providing services that benefit all participants in the system, including acquirers and merchants. In some circumstances, such as cash withdrawal transactions, this situation is reversed and interchange fees are paid by issuers. We establish
default interchange fees that apply when there are no other established settlement terms in place between an issuer and an acquirer. We administer the collection and remittance of interchange fees through the settlement process; however, we do not
earn revenues from them. As noted above, interchange fees are a significant component of the costs that merchants pay to accept payment cards and are currently subject to regulatory, legislative and/or legal challenges in a number of jurisdictions.
We are devoting substantial management and financial resources to the defense of interchange fees and to the other legal and regulatory challenges we face. See “Risk Factors—Legal and Regulatory Risks” in Part I, Item 1A.

MasterCard Worldwide Network.    We facilitate the processing of transactions through the
MasterCard Worldwide Network, our proprietary, global payment network. Our transaction processing capabilities include our core processing—specifically, transaction switching (authorization, clearing and settlement)—as well as many
value-added payment processing services that extend our capabilities beyond switching in the payment value chain.

The MasterCard Worldwide Network is managed principally through our Global Technology and Operations headquarters in O’Fallon, Missouri. We process transactions through our network for approximately 23,000 financial institutions and
other entities that are our customers through more than 150 currencies in more than 210 countries and territories. We believe the architecture of our network is unique, featuring a globally integrated structure which provides scalability for our
customers and enables them to expand into regional and global markets. Our network also features an intelligent architecture which enables it to adapt to the needs of each transaction by blending two distinct processing structures—distributed
(peer-to-peer) and centralized (hub-and-spoke). Transactions that require fast, reliable processing, such as those submitted using a MasterCard PayPass®-enabled device in a tollway, use the network’s distributed processing structure, ensuring they are processed close to where the transaction occurred.
Transactions that require value-added processing, such as real-time access to transaction data for fraud scoring or rewards at the point of sale, or customization of transaction data for unique consumer spending controls, use the network’s
centralized processing structure, ensuring advanced processing services are applied to the transaction.

Typically operating
at about 80% capacity, our network can handle more than 140 million transactions per hour with an average network response time of 140 milliseconds, and can substantially scale capacity to meet demand. Our transaction processing services are
available 24 hours per day, every day of the year. Our global payment network provides multiple levels of back-up protection and related continuity procedures in the event of an outage should the issuer, acquirer or payment network experience a
service interruption. To date, we have consistently maintained availability of our global processing systems in more than 99.9% of the time.







Core Processing Capabilities.



•Transaction Switching—Authorization, Clearing and Settlement.MasterCard provides transaction switching
(authorization, clearing and settlement) through the MasterCard Worldwide Network.



•Authorization.    Authorization refers to the process by which a transaction is approved by the issuer or, in certain
circumstances such as when the issuer’s systems are unavailable or cannot be contacted, by MasterCard or others on behalf of the issuer in accordance with either the issuer’s instructions or applicable rules. For credit and offline debit
transactions, the Dual Message System provides for the transmission of authorization requests and results among issuers, acquirers and other transaction processors or networks. For online debit transactions, the Single Message System switches
financial messages and provides transaction and settlement reporting. Our rules, which may vary across regions, establish the circumstances under which merchants and acquirers must seek authorization of transactions.



•Clearing.    Clearing refers to the exchange of financial transaction information between issuers and acquirers after a
transaction has been completed. MasterCard clears transactions among customers through our central and regional processing systems. Credit and offline debit transactions using our branded cards are generally cleared via centralized processing
through the Global Clearing Management System and the related information is typically routed among customers via the MasterCard Worldwide Network. For online debit transactions, the Single Message System performs clearing between customers and
other debit transaction processing networks. MasterCard clearing services can be managed with minimal system development, which has enabled us to accelerate our customers’ ability to develop customized programs and services.



•Settlement.    Once transactions have been authorized and cleared, MasterCard helps to settle the transactions by
facilitating the exchange of funds between parties. Once clearing is completed, a daily reconciliation is provided to each customer involved in settlement, detailing the net amounts by clearing cycle and a final settlement position. The actual
exchange of funds takes place between a clearing bank, designated by the customer and approved by MasterCard, and a settlement bank chosen by MasterCard. Customer settlement occurs in U.S. dollars or in a limited number of other currencies in
accordance with our established rules.



•Cross-Border and Domestic Processing.The MasterCard Worldwide Network provides our customers with a flexible structure
that enables them to provide processing across regions and for domestic markets. The network processes transactions throughout the world on our branded cards where the merchant country and cardholder country are different (cross-border
transactions). MasterCard also provides domestic transaction processing services to customers in every region of the world, which allow customers to facilitate payment transactions between cardholders and merchants throughout a particular country.
Outside of the United States and a select number of other countries, however, most intra-country (as opposed to cross-border), domestic transaction activity conducted with our branded payment cards is authorized, cleared and/or settled by our
customers or other processors without the involvement of the MasterCard Worldwide Network. We continue to invest in our network and build relationships to expand opportunities for domestic transaction processing. In particular, the Single European
Payment Area (“SEPA”) initiative creates a more open and competitive market in many European countries that were previously mandated to process domestic debit transactions with domestic processors. As a result, in addition to cross-border
transactions, MasterCard now processes some domestic debit card services in nearly every SEPA country.







Expanded Processing Capabilities.In addition to transaction
switching, we continually invest in ways to strategically expand our processing capabilities in the payment value chain. Whether leveraging our own advanced processing expertise or forging strategic partnerships, we seek to provide our customers
with an expanded suite of payment processing solutions that meet the unique processing needs of their market. Examples include:



•MasterCard Integrated Processing Solutions™ (IPS).In April 2008, we introduced MasterCard Integrated Processing
Solutions (“IPS”), a MasterCard-engineered issuer processing platform. IPS is designed to provide medium to large global issuing customers with a complete processing solution to help create differentiated products and services and allow
quick deployment of payments portfolios across banking channels. Through a single processing platform, IPS can, among other things, authorize debit and prepaid transactions, assist issuers in managing risk using fraud detection tools, manage the
issuer’s card base, and manage and monitor the issuer’s ATMs. The proprietary MasterCard Portfolio Viewer provides a user-friendly customer interface to IPS, delivering aggregate cardholder intelligence across accounts and product lines to
provide our customers with a view of information that can help them customize their products and programs. We continue to develop opportunities to further enhance our IPS offerings and global presence.



•Mobile Payments Gateway.In November 2009, MasterCard introduced the Mobile Payments Gateway in Brazil. Mobile Payments
Gateway will be a turnkey mobile payment processing platform that facilitates transaction routing and prepaid processing for mobile-initiated transactions.



•Strategic Alliances.    We have invested in strategic alliances to pursue opportunities in prepaid and acquirer processing.
Such alliances include Prepay Solutions, a joint venture with Accor Services which supports prepaid processing in Europe, and Strategic Payment Services, which provides acquirer processing in Asia Pacific. We will continue to evaluate additional
opportunities to expand our capabilities through these types of strategic alliances.







GDV and Processed Transactions

The tables below provide some information regarding two key drivers of our revenue: (1) GDV, which forms the basis of volume-based
revenues, and (2) processed transactions.

GDV.The GDV table below provides information
regarding the GDV for all MasterCard-branded cards (excluding Cirrus and Maestro) and for both MasterCard credit and charge card programs and MasterCard debit programs in the United States and in all of our other regions for the years ended
December 31, 2009 and 2008. Growth rates are provided on both a U.S. dollar and local currency basis for the periods indicated. GDV represents the aggregate dollar amount of purchases made and cash disbursements obtained with MasterCard-branded
cards and includes the impact of balance transfers and convenience checks.



Year endedDecember 31, 2009Year-over-year growthU.S. $LocalCurrency2Year endedDecember 31, 2008(In billions, except percentages)MasterCard Branded GDV1All MasterCard Branded ProgramsAsia/Pacific/Middle East/Africa$48414.6%17.9%$422Canada93(8.8)(2.7)102Europe725(6.5)3.8775Latin America177(3.8)9.5184United States976(7.4)(7.4)1,054Worldwide$2,454(3.3)%1.4%$2,537All MasterCard Credit and Charge ProgramsUnited States$525(16.8)%(16.8)%$631Worldwide less United States1,115(4.5)3.51,167Worldwide$1,640(8.8)%(4.0)%$1,799All MasterCard Debit ProgramsUnited States$4506.5%6.5%$423Worldwide less United States36415.426.2316Worldwide$81410.3%14.5%$738



*Note that figures in the above table may not sum due to rounding.

1GDV generated by Maestro and Cirrus cards is not included. The data for GDV is provided by MasterCard customers and includes information with respect
to MasterCard-branded transactions that are not processed by MasterCard and for which MasterCard does not earn significant revenues. All data is subject to revision and amendment by MasterCard’s customers subsequent to the date of its release,
which revisions and amendments may be material.

2Local currency growth eliminates the impact of currency fluctuations and represents local market performance.







Processed Transactions.The processed transaction table below
provides information regarding all transactions processed by MasterCard, regardless of brand, for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008



Year endedDecember 31, 2009Year-over-yeargrowthYear endedDecember 31, 2008(In millions, except percentages)Processed transactions122,4106.9%20,954



1Data represents all transactions processed by MasterCard, including PIN-based online debit transactions, regardless of brand. The numbers were updated
in 2009 to exclude a small number of certain processed transactions initiated with cards that do not bear our brands. All prior period data has been revised to be consistent with this revised methodology. Revenue was not impacted by these changes.

MasterCard Programs

MasterCard offers a wide range of payment solutions to enable our customers to design, package and implement programs targeted to the
specific needs of their customers (which include cardholders and commercial clients). Our principal payment programs, which are facilitated through our brands, include consumer credit, debit and prepaid programs, commercial payment solutions and
emerging technologies. Our issuer customers determine the competitive features for the cards issued under our programs, including interest rates and fees. We determine other aspects of our card programs—such as required services and marketing
strategy—in order to ensure consistency in connection with these programs.

Consumer Credit and Charge
Programs.MasterCard offers a number of consumer credit and charge (“pay later”) programs that are designed to meet the needs of our customers. For the year ended December 31, 2009, our consumer credit and
charge programs generated approximately $1.4 trillion in GDV globally, representing 59% of our total GDV for such year. As of December 31, 2009, the MasterCard brand mark appeared on approximately 675 million consumer credit and charge
cards worldwide, representing a 6.7% decline from December 31, 2008.



•United States.    We offer customized programs to customers in the United States to address specific consumer segments. Our
consumer credit programs include Standard (general purpose cards targeted to consumers with basic credit card needs), Gold and Platinum (cards featuring higher credit lines and spending limits and a varying amount of enhancement services) and World
and World Elite MasterCard®(cards offered to affluent consumers which feature no required preset spending limit
and a revolving option).



•Regions Outside of the United States.In addition to programs offered in the United States, MasterCard makes available to
customers outside of the United States a variety of consumer card programs in selected markets throughout the world. Examples of such programs include MasterCard Electronic cards (which offer additional control and risk management features designed
to curb fraud and control exposure in high risk markets) and cards targeted at affluent consumers (such as the MasterCard Black™ card in Latin America, World and World Signia MasterCard®cards in Europe and World and Titanium MasterCard™ cards in Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa (APMEA).



•General Services.All MasterCard credit cards include additional services, such as lost/stolen card reporting, emergency
card replacement and emergency cash advance, which are generally arranged by MasterCard and are provided through third-party service providers.

Consumer Debit Programs.MasterCard supports a range of payment solutions that allow our customers to provide consumers with convenient access to funds on deposit in demand
deposit and other accounts. Our deposit access (“pay now”) programs may be branded with the MasterCard, Maestro and/or Cirrus logo types, and can be







used to obtain cash in bank branches or at ATMs. In addition, MasterCard and Maestro-branded debit cards may be used to make purchases at the point of sale. Debit products we offer include
Maestro and Gold Maestro, as well as Standard, Gold, Platinum, Premium and World Debit MasterCard products.



•MasterCard-branded Debit Card Programs.For the year ended December 31, 2009, our MasterCard-branded debit programs
generated approximately $814 billion in GDV globally, representing 33% of our total GDV for such year. As of December 31, 2009, the MasterCard brand mark appeared on approximately 262 million debit cards worldwide, representing 17.0%
growth from December 31, 2008. MasterCard-branded debit programs issue cards which include functionality for both signature and PIN authenticated transactions, giving consumers a choice at the point of sale. MasterCard-branded debit card
programs are offered in the United States, and are also increasingly being introduced in Europe, Asia Pacific and Latin America as a complement to existing Maestro-branded debit programs.



•Maestro-branded Debit Card Programs.Maestro is our global online debit program. As of December 31, 2009, the
Maestro brand mark appeared on approximately 659 million cards worldwide, representing 2.0% growth from December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2009, Maestro was accepted for purchases at more than 12.1 million merchant locations
globally. Our Maestro brand has a leading position among online debit brands in many markets throughout the world, particularly in Europe. The strong presence of Maestro in Europe positions us well as the SEPA initiative creates a more open and
competitive payment market in many European countries that were previously mandated to process domestic debit transactions with domestic processors. The global acceptance of Maestro contributes to the growth of our debit business and adds value to
the services that we provide to our customers.



•MasterCard Global ATM Solutions.Any debit, credit or ATM accessible prepaid card bearing the MasterCard, Maestro or
Cirrus logos had access to cash and account information at approximately 1.7 million participating ATMs around the world as of December 31, 2009. MasterCard Global ATM Solutions provides domestic (in-country) and cross-border access to
cards allowing for varied types of transactions, including cash withdrawal (deposit accounts), cash advance (credit accounts), cash drawdown (prepaid accounts), balance inquiries, account transfers and deposits at ATMs in the MasterCard Worldwide
Network.

Prepaid Programs.Prepaid (“pay before”) programs involve
a balance that is funded with monetary value prior to use. Holders access funds via a traditional magnetic stripe or chip-enabled payment card. MasterCard customers may implement prepaid payment programs using any of our brands. MasterCard provides
processing services (including transaction switching) in support of either magnetic stripe or chip-enabled prepaid card programs. MasterCard has capabilities to provide and customize programs to meet unique commercial and consumer needs in all
prepaid segments, including programs such as gift, employee benefit, general purpose, payroll, travel, incentive and government disbursement programs. In particular, our strategy focuses on the top three spend categories: public sector, corporate
(programs targeted to achieve to achieve cost savings and efficiencies by moving traditional paper disbursement methods to electronic solutions) and consumer reloadable (programs designed to provide access to underserved individuals who are not
traditional users of credit or debit cards).

Commercial Payment
Solutions.MasterCard offers commercial payment solutions that help large corporations, mid-sized companies, small businesses and public sector organizations to streamline their payment processes, manage information and
reduce administrative costs. In the year ended December 31, 2009, our commercial credit and charge programs generated approximately $192 billion in GDV globally, representing approximately 8% of our total GDV for this period. As of
December 31, 2009, the MasterCard-branded mark appeared on approximately 29 million commercial credit and charge cards worldwide, representing a 6.2% decline from December 31, 2008. We offer various corporate payment products,
including corporate cards, corporate premium cards, corporate purchasing cards and fleet cards (as well as the MasterCard Corporate Multi Card®, which combines the functionality of one or more of these cards) that allow corporations to manage travel and entertainment expenses and provide corporations with
additional transactional detail. We also offer public







sector entities a variety of payment programs that are similar to the travel, purchasing, fleet and Multi Card programs offered to corporations. The MasterCard BusinessCard®, the Debit MasterCard BusinessCard™, the World MasterCard for Business™ and the World Elite MasterCard for
Business®are targeted at the small-business segment, offering business owners the ability to gain access to
working capital, to extend payments and to separate business expenses from personal expenses. MasterCard also has developed programs that aim to facilitate paperless end-to-end corporate purchasing for organizations ranging from small businesses to
large corporations. Such programs include the MasterCard Payment Gateway®(processing payments between buyers,
sellers and financial institutions), MasterCard ExpenSys®(expense reporting), MasterCard Smart Data (management
reporting) and MasterCard Travel Dashboard®(travel and expenses reporting), as well as tools to facilitate
integration into enterprise planning systems.

Emerging Technologies.



In addition, in December 2008, MasterCard acquired Orbiscom Ltd., a leading payments solutions software provider for financial institutions. The acquisition builds on the existing partnership between
MasterCard and Orbiscom that created MasterCard inControl™, an innovative platform featuring an array of advanced authorization, transaction routing and alert controls designed to assist financial institutions in creating new and enhanced
payment offerings.

Customer Relationship Management

We are committed to providing our customers with coordinated services through integrated, dedicated account teams in a manner that allows us
to take advantage of our expertise in payment programs, marketing, product development, technology, processing and consulting and information services. We have implemented an internal process to manage our relationships with our customers on a
global and regional basis to ensure that their priorities are consistently identified and incorporated into our product, brand, processing, technology and related strategies.

We enter into business agreements pursuant to which we offer customers financial incentives and other support benefits to issue and promote
our branded cards. Financial incentives may be based on GDV or other performance-based criteria, such as issuance of new cards, launch of new programs or execution of marketing initiatives. We believe that our business agreements with customers have
contributed to our strong volume and revenue growth in recent years. In addition, we have standard licensing arrangements with all of our customers that permit them to use our trademarks and subject them to the rules governing our payment programs.







Our MasterCard Advisors group serves to help differentiate us from our competitors by
providing customers with a wide range of consulting and information services designed to help them improve the performance of their payments businesses. Services include strategic consulting and strategy development, information and analytics,
marketing management, and risk and operations management advice. MasterCard Advisors charges our customers and other clients fees for its professional services or may offer these services as an incentive under business agreements with certain
customers.

Marketing

We manage and promote our brands through brand advertising, promotional and interactive programs and sponsorship initiatives. Our corporate brand, MasterCard Worldwide, reflects our three-tiered business
model as franchisor, processor and advisor. Our brand is supported by our corporate vision statement—The Heart of Commerce™, which represents our strategic vision of advancing commerce globally. Our marketing activities combine
advertising, sponsorships, promotions, customer marketing, interactive media and public relations as part of an integrated program designed to increase consumer awareness of MasterCard and usage of MasterCard cards. We also seek to tailor our global
marketing messages by customizing them in individual countries, while maintaining a common global theme. Our initiatives are designed to build the value of the MasterCard brand and drive shareholder value.

Our advertising plays an important role in building brand visibility, usage and loyalty among cardholders globally. Our
award-winning “Priceless®” advertising campaign has run in 51 languages in 110 countries. The
“Priceless” campaign promotes MasterCard acceptance and usage benefits that permit cardholders to pay for what they need, when they need it as well as marketing MasterCard credit, debit, prepaid and commercial products and solutions. It
also provides MasterCard with a consistent, recognizable message that supports our brand positioning. We continue to support our brand by utilizing digital channels to allow us to engage more directly with our stakeholders and allow consumers and
customers to engage directly in brand programs, promotions and merchant offers, as well as provide relevant information on MasterCard products, services and tools. MasterCard has also introduced global and regional specific smart phone applications
that provide consumers with on-the-go utility. MasterCard intends to continue to use digital channels to develop preference and usage with consumers and more effectively partner with customers and merchants to help them drive their respective
businesses.

We also seek to deliver value to our customers through sponsorship of a variety of sporting and entertainment
properties. Our presence in sports aligns with consumer segments important to MasterCard and our customers. Our worldwide partnerships in golf and rugby with the PGA TOUR, PGA European Tour, 2010 Ryder Cup and Rugby World Cup 2011 are intended to
help create business building opportunities among a more affluent demographic. We have a long-standing relationship with international soccer and have continued this relationship by sponsoring premiere events, including the Union of European
Football Associations Champions League in Europe, as well as two leading Argentinean club teams. MasterCard is also the exclusive payments sponsor to Major League Baseball and a number of its professional teams. We also sponsor individual teams in
the National Football League and National Hockey League, as well as a leading cricket team in the Indian Premier League. In addition to our sports portfolio, we align ourselves with diverse properties aimed at multiple target audiences, including a
fashion platform in our Asia Pacific region, with the intention of raising our brand awareness with affluent consumers. We also target a broad audience by providing access to music artists and live performances through well-known entertainment
properties such as The GRAMMY Awards, Jazz at Lincoln Center in New York, the Brit Awards and a partnership with Cirque du Soleil in Russia.

Acceptance Initiatives

Overview.We estimate that, as of December 31, 2009, cards carrying the MasterCard brand were accepted at 29.9 million acceptance locations, including 1.7 million ATMs and 0.6 million other
locations where cash may be obtained. Information on ATM and manual cash access locations is reported by our customers and is partly







based on publicly-available reports of payment industry associations, government agencies and independent market analysts in Canada and the United States. Cards bearing the Maestro brand mark are
accepted at many of these same locations.

Initiatives.We seek to maintain unsurpassed
acceptance of MasterCard-branded programs by focusing on three core initiatives. First, we seek to increase the categories of merchants that accept cards carrying our brands. We are focused on expanding acceptance in electronic and mobile commerce
environments, quick service businesses (such as fast food restaurants), transportation, and public sector payments (such as those involving taxes, fees, fines and tolls), among other categories. Second, we seek to increase the number of payment
channels in which MasterCard programs are accepted, such as by introducing MasterCard acceptance in connection with bill payment applications. We are working with customers to encourage consumers to make bill payments in a variety of
categories—including rent, utilities and insurance—with their MasterCard-branded cards. Third, we seek to increase usage of our programs at selected merchants by sponsoring a wide range of promotional programs on a global basis. We also
enter into arrangements with selected merchants under which these merchants receive performance incentives for the increased use of MasterCard-branded programs or indicate a preference for MasterCard-branded programs when accepting payments from
consumers.

Contactless Payment Solutions.    Our acceptance initiatives include MasterCard
PayPass, a “contactless” payment solution that enables consumers simply to tap or wave their payment card or other payment device, such as a phone, key fob or wristband, on a specially-equipped terminal to complete a transaction. PayPass
utilizes radio frequency technology to securely transmit payment details wirelessly to the payment card terminals for processing through our network. Our PayPass program targets low value purchases and is designed to help our customers further
expand their businesses by capturing a portion of transactions that were previously cash-based, resulting in increased card activity. PayPass also reduces transaction times, which appeals to merchants in quick service businesses and allows us to
expand the number of locations that accept our cards. PayPass programs expanded in 2009 to include customers and merchants in 33 countries as of December 31, 2009, an increase from 28 countries as of December 31, 2008. As of
December 31, 2009, more than 70 million PayPass cards and devices were issued globally with acceptance at approximately 200,000 merchant locations worldwide.

Additional Services.In addition, we provide research, marketing support and financial assistance to our customers and their marketing partners in connection with the launch
and marketing of co-branded and affinity card programs. Co-branded cards are payment cards bearing the logos or other insignia of an issuer and a marketing partner, such as an airline or retail merchant. Affinity cards are similar to co-branded
cards except that the issuer’s marketing partner is typically a charity, educational or other non-profit organization.

Merchants.







which brings together merchants, acquirers, issuers and processors twice a year to examine payments innovation at the point of interaction, and to seek to enhance the experience for merchants and
consumers at the point of sale or in an online shopping environment for a retail sales transaction. We also continue to develop our acquirer and merchant sales teams around the world. Moreover, we have recently introduced a suite of information
products, data analytics and marketing services which can help merchants understand specific activity in their industry, evaluate their sales performance against competitors and focus direct marketing efforts to target desirable prospects and hard
to reach segments.

MasterCard Revenue Sources

MasterCard processes transactions denominated in more than 150 currencies through our global system, providing cardholders with the ability
to utilize, and merchants to accept, MasterCard cards across multiple country borders. For example, we may process a transaction in a merchant’s local currency; however the charge for the transaction would appear on the cardholder’s
statement in the cardholder’s home currency. We process most of the cross-border transactions using MasterCard, Maestro and Cirrus-branded cards and process the majority of MasterCard-branded domestic transactions in the United States, United
Kingdom, Canada, Brazil and Australia.

MasterCard generates revenues by charging fees to our customers for providing
transaction processing and other payment-related services and assessing our customers based on the dollar volume of activity on the cards that carry our brands. Our net revenues are classified into the following five categories:



•Domestic assessments:Domestic assessments are fees charged to issuers and acquirers based primarily on the volume of
activity on MasterCard and Maestro-branded cards where the merchant country and the cardholder country are the same. A portion of these assessments is estimated based on aggregate transaction information collected from our systems and projected
customer performance and are calculated by converting the aggregate volume of usage (purchases, cash disbursements, balance transfers and convenience checks) from local currency to the billing currency and then multiplying by the specific price. In
addition, domestic assessments include items such as card assessments, which are fees charged on the number of cards issued or assessments for specific purposes, such as acceptance development or market development programs. Acceptance development
fees are charged primarily to U.S. issuers based on components of volume, and support our focus on developing merchant relationships and promoting acceptance at the point of sale.



•Cross-border volume fees:Cross-border volume fees are charged to issuers and acquirers based on the volume of activity
on MasterCard and Maestro-branded cards where the merchant country and cardholder country are different. Cross-border volume fees are calculated by converting the aggregate volume of usage (purchases and cash disbursements) from local currency to
the billing currency and then multiplying by the specific price. Cross-border volume fees also include fees, charged to issuers, for performing currency conversion services.



•Transaction processing fees:Transaction processing fees are charged for both domestic and cross-border transactions and
are primarily based on the number of transactions. These fees are calculated by multiplying the number and type of transactions by the specific price for each service. Transaction processing fees include charges for transaction switching
(authorization, clearing and settlement) and connectivity.



•Other revenues:Other revenues for other payment-related services are primarily dependent on the nature of the products
or services provided to our customers but are also impacted by other factors, such as contractual agreements. Examples of other revenues are fees associated with fraud products and services, cardholder service fees, consulting and research fees,
compliance and penalty fees, account and transaction enhancement services, holograms and publications.







Rebates and incentives (contra-revenue):Rebates and
incentives are provided to certain MasterCard customers and are recorded as contra-revenue in the same period that performance occurs. Performance periods vary depending on the type of rebate or incentive, including commitments to the agreement
term, hurdles for volumes, transactions or issuance of new cards and the launch of new programs or the execution of marketing programs. Rebates and incentives are calculated based on estimated performance, the timing of new and renewed agreements
and the terms of the related business agreements.

Our pricing is complex and is dependent on the nature of the volumes, types
of transactions and other products and services we offer to our customers. A combination of the following factors determines the pricing:



•Domestic or cross-border



•Signature-based or PIN-based



•Tiered pricing, with rates decreasing as customers meet incremental volume/transaction hurdles



•Geographic region or country



•Retail purchase or cash withdrawal

Cross-border transactions generate greater revenue than do domestic transactions. We review our pricing and implement pricing changes on an ongoing basis and expect pricing to continue to be a component
of revenue growth in the future. In addition, standard pricing varies among our regional businesses, and such pricing can be customized further for our customers through incentive and rebate agreements. Revenues from processing cross-border
transactions fluctuate with cross-border activities. See “Risk Factors—Business Risks—A decline in cross-border travel could adversely affect our revenues and profitability, as a significant portion of our revenue is generated from
cross-border transactions” in Part I, Item 1A.

In 2009, net revenues from our five largest customers accounted for
approximately $1.4 billion, or 28% of our total revenue. No single customer generated 10% of total revenue.

Membership Standards

We establish and enforce rules and standards surrounding membership in MasterCard International and the use and acceptance
of cards carrying our brands.

Rulemaking and Enforcement

Membership in MasterCard International and its affiliates is generally open to financial institutions and other entities that are our
customers. Applicants for membership must generally meet specified membership eligibility requirements.

In general,
MasterCard grants licenses by territory to applicants able to perform all obligations required of members. Licenses provide members with certain rights, including access to the network and usage of our brands. Anti-money laundering due diligence
reviews and customer risk management reviews are conducted on all new members prior to admission, as well as on existing members. All applicants and members must meet the requirements of MasterCard’s anti-money laundering program, and
MasterCard can block authorization of transactions and ultimately terminate membership for non-compliance with the program. As a condition of our licenses, members agree to comply with our bylaws, policies, rules and operating regulations and
procedures (the “Standards”). MasterCard International and certain of its affiliates are the governing bodies that establish and enforce the Standards, which relate to such matters as membership eligibility and financial soundness
criteria; the standards, design and features of cards and card programs; the use of MasterCard trademarks; merchant acquiring activities (including acceptance standards applicable to merchants); and guaranteed settlement and member failures. To help
ensure that members conform to the Standards, we review card programs proposed by members.







Customer Risk Management

As a guarantor of certain card obligations of principal members, we are exposed to member credit risk arising from the potential financial
failure of any of our approximately 2,400 principal members of MasterCard, Maestro and Cirrus, and approximately 3,500 affiliate debit licensees. Our estimated gross settlement risk exposure for MasterCard-branded transactions, which is calculated
using the average daily card charges made during the quarter multiplied by the estimated number of days to settle, was approximately $26.4 billion as of December 31, 2009. Principal members participate directly in MasterCard programs and are
responsible for the settlement and other activities of their sponsored affiliate members (approximately 20,400).

Payment
System Integrity

The integrity of our payment system can be affected by fraudulent activity and illegal uses of our
system. Fraud is most often committed in connection with lost, stolen or counterfeit cards or stolen account information, often resulting from security breaches of third party systems that inappropriately store cardholder account data. See
“Risk Factors—Business Risks—Account data breaches involving card data stored by us or third parties could adversely affect our reputation and revenue” in Part I, Item 1A. Fraud is also more likely to occur in transactions
where the card is not present, such as electronic commerce, mail order and telephone order transactions. Security and cardholder authentication for these remote channels are particularly critical issues facing our customers and merchants who engage
in these forms of commerce, where a signed cardholder sales receipt or the presence of the card or merchant agent is unavailable.

We monitor areas of risk exposure and enforce our rules and standards to combat fraudulent activity. We also operate several compliance programs to ensure that the integrity of our payment system is maintained by our customers and their
agents. Key compliance programs include merchant audits (for high fraud, excessive chargebacks and processing of illegal transactions) and security compliance (including our Site Data Protection Program, which assists customers and merchants in
protecting commercial sites from hacker intrusions and







subsequent account data compromises by requiring proper adherence to the Payment Card Industry (PCI) data security standards). Our customers are also required to report instances of fraud to us
in a timely manner so we can monitor trends and initiate action where appropriate.

Our customers are
responsible for fraud losses associated with both the cards they issue and their merchants from whom they acquire transactions. However, we have implemented a series of programs and systems to aid them in detecting and preventing the fraudulent use
of MasterCard cards. We provide education programs and various risk management tools to help prevent fraud, including MasterCard SecureCode®, a global Internet authentication solution that permits cardholders to authenticate themselves to their issuer using a unique, personal code, and our Site Data
Protection program. In addition, we offer several fraud detection and prevention solutions, including our Expert Monitoring Solutions, a comprehensive suite of services designed to help our customers detect and prevent fraudulent activity.
Generally, we charge our customers fees for these antifraud programs and services.

Enterprise Risk Management

MasterCard faces a number of risks in operating its business. For a description of material risks, see “Risk Factors” in Part I,
Item 1A. Managing risk is an integral component of our business activities and the degree to which we manage risk is vital to our financial condition and profitability.

We have an Enterprise Risk Management (“ERM”) program which is integrated with the business and designed to ensure appropriate and
comprehensive oversight and management of risk. The ERM program leverages our business processes to, among other things, ensure: allocation of resources to appropriately address risk; establishment of clear accountability for risk management; and
provision of transparency of risks to senior management, the Board of Directors and appropriate Board committees. Our ERM program seeks to accomplish these goals by: monitoring key risks; providing an independent view of our risk profile; and
strengthening business operations by integrating ERM principles and creating a more risk aware culture within MasterCard. MasterCard’s integrated risk management structure balances risk and return by having business units own and manage risk,
centralized functions (such as finance and law) provide expertise and have responsibility for key risks, our executive officers set policy and accountability and the Board and committees provide oversight of the process.

Intellectual Property

We own a number of valuable trademarks that are essential to our business, including MasterCard®, Maestro®and Cirrus®, through one or more affiliates. We also own numerous other trademarks covering various brands, programs and
services offered by MasterCard to support our payment programs. Through license agreements with our customers, we authorize the use of our trademarks in connection with our customers’ card issuing and merchant acquiring businesses. In addition,
we own a number of patents and patent applications relating to payments solutions, transaction processing, smart cards, contactless, mobile, electronic commerce, security systems and other matters, some of which may be important to our business
operations.

Competition

General.MasterCard programs compete against all forms of payment, including paper-based transactions (principally cash and checks), card-based payment systems, including
credit, charge, debit, prepaid, private-label and other types of general purpose and limited use cards, and electronic transactions such as wire transfers and Automated Clearing House payments. As a result of a global trend, electronic forms of
payment such as payment cards are increasingly displacing paper forms of payment, and card brands such as MasterCard, Visa, American Express and Discover are benefiting from this displacement. However, cash and checks still capture the largest
overall percentage of worldwide payment volume.







Payment Card, Processing and Alternative Competitors.



•General Purpose Payment Card Industry.Within the general purpose payment card industry, we face substantial and
increasingly intense competition worldwide from systems such as Visa (including Plus, Electron and Interlink), American Express and Discover, among others. Within the global general purpose card industry, Visa has significantly greater volume than
we do. Outside of the United States, some of our competitors such as JCB in Japan and China Union Pay®have
leading positions in their domestic markets. Regulation can also play a role in determining competitive market advantages for competitors. For example, China Union Pay is the sole domestic processor designated by the Chinese government and operates
the sole national cross-bank bankcard information switch network in China due to local regulation. Some governments, such as South Africa and India, are promoting their domestic schemes (Bankserv and India Pay, respectively) and other countries are
proposing similar legislation. See “Risk Factors—Legal and Regulatory Risks—Government actions could curtail our ability to compete effectively against providers of domestic payments services in certain countries, which could
adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues” in Part I, Item 1A.



•Particular Segments.We face competition with respect to particular segments of the payment card industry, including:



•Debit.In the debit card sector, we also encounter substantial and increasingly intense competition from ATM and
point-of-sale debit networks in various countries, such as Interlink™, Plus and Visa Electron (owned by Visa Inc.), Star®(owned by First Data Corporation), NYCE®(owned by FIS), and Pulse™(owned by Discover), in the United States, Interac in Canada and Bankserv in South Africa. In addition, in many countries outside the United States, local debit brands serve as the main brands while our brands are used mostly to enable cross-border
transactions, which typically represent a small portion of overall transaction volume.



•PIN-Based Debit Transactions.In the United States, some of our competitors process a greater number of online, PIN-based
debit transactions at the point of sale than we do. In addition, our business and revenues could be impacted adversely by the tendency among U.S. merchants to migrate from offline, signature-based debit transactions to online, PIN-based debit
transactions because we generally earn less revenue from the latter types of transactions. In addition, online, PIN-based transactions are more likely to be processed by other domestic ATM/debit point-of-sale networks rather than by us. See
“Risk Factors—Business Risks—If we are unable to grow our debit business, particularly in the United States, we may fail to maintain and increase our revenue growth” in Part I, Item 1A.



•Private-Label.Private-label cards, which can generally be used to make purchases solely at the sponsoring retail store,
gasoline retailer or another merchant, also serve as another form of competition.



•End-to-End Payment Networks.Our competitors include operators of proprietary end-to-end payment networks that have
direct acquiring relationships with merchants and direct issuing relationships with cardholders, such as American Express and Discover. These competitors have certain advantages that we do not enjoy. Among other things, these competitors do not
require formal interchange fees to balance payment system costs among issuers and acquirers, because they typically have direct relationships with both merchants and cardholders. Interchange fees, which are a characteristic of four-party payments
systems such as ours, are subject to increased regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide. See “Risk Factors—Legal and Regulatory Risks—Interchange fees are subject to increasingly intense legal, regulatory and legislative scrutiny
worldwide, which may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business, financial condition and results of operations” in Part I, Item 1A. To date, operators of end-to-end payment
networks have generally avoided the same regulatory and legislative scrutiny and litigation challenges we face because they do not utilize formal interchange fees. Accordingly, these operators may enjoy a competitive advantage over four-party
payments systems.







•Ownership Structures.The ownership structures and regulatory designations of our competitors may provide those
competitors with certain advantages with respect to MasterCard. For example, American Express and Discover have become bank holding companies. While bank holding companies are subject to numerous regulatory requirements, in the past year, they also
became eligible to request an investment from the U.S. government under the Treasury Department’s Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”) and may be eligible to participate in other similar government programs (such as the Term
Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (“TALF”)). MasterCard is not a bank holding company and is not eligible to receive such an investment. A TARP or similar investment could strengthen these MasterCard competitors. Bank holding companies
also may have a competitive advantage over MasterCard by using their deposits as an available source of low-cost funding.



•Other Four-Party Systems.    We compete intensely with other card networks, principally Visa, for the loyalty of our
customers. In most countries, including the United States, financial institutions typically issue both MasterCard and Visa-branded payment cards. As a result of this structure, known as “duality,” we compete with Visa for business on the
basis of individual card portfolios or programs. As to debit cards in the United States, Visa’s historical debit exclusivity rule had meant that card issuers could issue either MasterCard or Visa debit cards, but not both. As a result of the
litigation with the U.S. Department of Justice, however, Visa’s debit exclusivity rule is no longer enforceable, and related litigation has been settled. See Note 21 (Legal and Regulatory Proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements
included in Part II, Item 8. These events have resulted in the potential for duality for debit cards, likely creating more opportunities to compete with Visa for business in this area.



•Transaction Processors.    We also face competition from transaction processors throughout the world, such as First Data
Corporation and Total System Services, Inc., some of which are seeking to enhance their networks that link issuers directly with point-of-sale devices for payment card transaction authorization and processing services. Certain of these transaction
processors could potentially displace MasterCard as the provider of these payment processing services.



•New Entrants and Alternative Payment Systems.    We also compete against relatively new entrants, such as PayPal (a business
segment of eBay), which have developed alternative payment systems and payments in electronic commerce and across mobile devices. While PayPal remains the leader in online payments, this is an increasingly competitive area, as evidenced by the
proliferation of new online competitors. Among other services, these competitors provide Internet payment services that can be used to buy and sell goods online, and services that support payments to and from deposit accounts or proprietary accounts
for Internet, mobile commerce and other applications. A number of these new entrants rely principally on the Internet and potential wireless communication networks to support their services, and may enjoy lower costs than we do. In mobile commerce,
we also face competition from established mobile network operators. Whereas the MasterCard approach to mobile commerce centers on the use of the consumer’s payment account as established by their card issuer, network operators may apply mobile
consumer payments directly to the customer’s monthly bill or prepaid mobile account.

Litigation
Outcomes.    Ongoing litigation has affected, and may continue to affect, our ability to compete in the global payments industry. For example, under the settlement agreement in the U.S. merchant lawsuit in 2003, U.S.
merchants now have the right to reject MasterCard-branded debit cards issued in the United States while still accepting other MasterCard-branded cards, which may adversely affect our ability to maintain and grow our debit business in the United
States. In addition, as a result of the court’s decision in our litigation with the U.S. Department of Justice concerning our former U.S. Competitive Programs Policy (“CPP”), our customers may now do business with American Express or
Discover in the United States, which could adversely affect our business. In recent years, these competitors have started working with issuing and acquiring financial institutions, and thereby replicating certain aspects of end-to-end payment
networks. A number of our large customers, including Bank of America, Citibank, Barclays, HSBC, USAA and GE Money now issue American Express and/or Discover-branded cards. See “Risk Factors—Business Risks—Our operating results may
suffer because of substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the global payments industry” in Part I, Item 1A.







Finally, suits against us have been filed in several state and federal courts because of our currency conversion practices. Although we have settled these matters, the settlements are still
subject to appeal and could be overturned. We cannot predict what the final outcome will be of our various litigations and other regulatory proceedings. For a description of these and other matters, see Note 21 (Legal and Regulatory Proceedings) to
the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8.

Customers.



•Pricing.We face increasingly intense competitive pressure on the prices we charge our customers. In order to stay
competitive, we may have to increase the amount of rebates and incentives we provide to our customers and merchants, as we have in the last several years. We seek to enter into business agreements with customers through which we offer incentives and
other support to issue and promote our cards. However, our customers can terminate their business agreements with us in a variety of circumstances. See “Risk Factors—Business Risks—We face increasingly intense competitive pressure on
the prices we charge our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability” in Part I, Item 1A.





•



Banking Industry Consolidation.

Competitive
Position.We believe that the principal factors affecting our competitive position in the global payments industry are:



•pricing;



•customer relationships;



•the impact of existing and future litigation, legislation and government regulation;



•the impact of globalization and consolidation of financial institutions and merchants;



•the acceptance base, reputation and brand recognition of payment cards;



•the success and scope of marketing and promotional campaigns;



•the quality, security and integrity of transaction processing;



•the relative value of services and products offered;



•regulation and local laws;







•the impact of consolidation in the banking industry;



•new market entrants; and



•the ability to develop and implement competitive new card programs, systems and technologies in both physical and virtual environments.

Government Regulation

General.Government regulation impacts key aspects of our business. We are subject to regulations that affect the payment industry in the many countries in which our cards
are used. Regulation of the payments industry has increased significantly in the last several years. In particular, interchange fees associated with four-party payment systems like ours are being reviewed or challenged in various jurisdictions,
including in the European Union and Hungary (discussed below).

Furthermore, MasterCard customers are subject to numerous
regulations applicable to banks and other financial institutions in the United States and elsewhere, and as a consequence MasterCard is impacted by such regulations. Certain of our operations are periodically reviewed by the U.S. Federal Financial
Institutions Examination Council (“FFIEC”) under its authority to examine financial institutions’ technology service providers. Examinations by the FFIEC cover areas such as data integrity and data security. In recent years, the U.S.
federal banking regulators have adopted a series of regulatory measures affecting credit card payment terms and requiring more conservative accounting, greater risk management and in some cases higher capital requirements for bank credit card
activities, particularly in the case of banks that focus on subprime cardholders. In addition, MasterCard Europe operates a retail payment system in Europe and is subject to oversight by the National Bank of Belgium pursuant to standards published
by the European Central Bank that are principally targeted at managing financial, legal and operations risk.

In addition,
aspects of our operations or business are subject to privacy regulation in the United States, the European Union and elsewhere, as well as regulations imposed by the U.S. Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”). For
example, in the United States, we and our customers are respectively subject to Federal Trade Commission and federal banking agency information safeguarding requirements under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. The Federal Trade Commission’s
information safeguarding rules require us to develop, implement and maintain a written, comprehensive information security program containing safeguards that are appropriate for our size and complexity, the nature and scope of our activities, and
the sensitivity of any customer information at issue. Our customers in the United States are subject to similar requirements under the guidelines issued by the federal banking agencies. As part of their compliance with the requirements, each of our
U.S. customers is expected to have a program in place for responding to unauthorized access to, or use of, customer information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to customers.

Interchange.Interchange fees associated with four-party payment systems like ours are being reviewed or
challenged in various jurisdictions. Such challenges include regulatory proceedings in the European Union (by the European Commission, as well as such European Union member states as Hungary) and elsewhere, and regulatory inquiries in the United
States and other jurisdictions. Interchange fees have also become the topic of increased legislative interest. For example, in the United States, legislation has been introduced seeking to regulate interchange by allowing merchants to collectively
seek to lower their payment card acceptance costs. See “Risk Factors—Legal and Regulatory Risks—Interchange fees are subject to increasingly intense legal, regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide, which may have a material
adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business, financial condition and results of operations” in Part I, Item 1A and in Note 21 (Legal and Regulatory Proceedings) to the consolidated financial
statements included in Part II, Item 8.

Data Protection and Information Security.In the
United States, during the past several years, a number of bills have been considered by Congress and there have been several congressional hearings to address information safeguarding and data breach issues. Congress continues to consider these
issues, which could result







Anti-Money Laundering.MasterCard and other participants in the payment industry are also subject to the regulatory requirements of Section 352 of the USA PATRIOT Act,
which applies to certain types of financial institutions, including operators of credit card systems. Section 352 of the USA PATRIOT Act requires MasterCard to maintain a comprehensive anti-money laundering program and imposes similar
requirements on some of our customers. Our anti-money laundering program must be reasonably designed to prevent our system from being used to facilitate money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities. The program must, at a minimum,
include the designation of a compliance officer, provide for the training of appropriate personnel regarding anti-money laundering responsibilities, as well as incorporate policies, procedures, and controls to mitigate money laundering risks, and be
independently audited.

OFAC and Related Regulations

Issuer Practice Legislation and Regulation.The Board of Governors of the United States Federal Reserve System
is in the process of implementing the Credit CARD Act, which was signed into law in May 2009. The Credit CARD Act will have a significant impact on the disclosures made by our customers and on our customers’ account terms and business
practices. The Credit CARD Act, and its implementing regulations, will make it more difficult for credit card issuers to price credit cards for future credit risk and will have a significant effect on the pricing, credit allocation, and business
models of most major credit card issuers. The new law could reduce credit availability, or increase the cost of credit to cardholders, possibly affecting MasterCard transaction volume and revenues.







The Credit CARD Act also includes provisions that impose limits and restrictions on certain
prepaid (or “pay before”) card products, including on fees. The Board of Governors of the United States Federal Reserve System has proposed implementing regulations with respect to these provisions. The statutory provisions and
implementing regulations may diminish the attractiveness of these products to our customers and may consequently adversely affect transaction volumes and revenues.

The Board of Governors of the United States Federal Reserve System has also recently adopted regulations regulating overdraft fees imposed in connection with ATM and debit card transactions. These
regulations will have the effect of significantly reducing overdraft fees our customers may charge in connection with debit card programs. This may diminish the attractiveness of debit card programs to our customers and may adversely affect
transaction volumes and revenues.

Financial Industry Regulation

Regulation of
Internet Transactions







Outside of the United States.Regulators in several countries
outside of the United States have become increasingly interested in payment issues beyond interchange fees, some of which have launched official proceedings into payment industry issues. See “Risk Factors—Legal and Regulatory Risks”
in Part I, Item 1A.

Seasonality

See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Seasonality” in Part II, Item 7 for a discussion of the impact of seasonality on our
business.

Financial Information About Geographic Areas

See Note 24 (Segment Reporting) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 for certain geographic financial information.

Employees

As of
December 31, 2009, we employed approximately 5,100 persons, of which approximately 1,800 were employed outside of the United States. We consider our relationship with employees to be good.

Website and SEC Reports

The Company’s internet address is www.mastercard.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are available, without charge, for review on our website
as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Report.

