ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS

The reader should carefully consider the following risk factors and the other information contained within this document. The risks set forth below are those that management believes are most likely to have a material adverse effect on us. We may also be subject to other risks or uncertainties not presently known to us. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and prospects.

Risks Specific to the Pending Acquisition

We cannot predict when or if the pending Acquisition will close.The acquisition of the 58% equity interest and 50% voting interest of MillerCoors that we do not already own and theMillerbrand portfolio outside of the U.S. and Puerto Rico is contingent upon a number of conditions beyond our control, including the closing of the ABI-SABMiller Transaction. The closing of the ABI-SABMiller Transaction is subject to conditions beyond our control, including, among other things, receipt of international and U.S. regulatory approvals. The Acquisition will also require us to obtain regulatory approvals in the U.S. and









certain other jurisdictions. We are, therefore, unable to accurately predict when or if the pending Acquisition will close. If we are unable to close the Acquisition for any reason, we will not realize the potential benefits of the Acquisition, which may have a material adverse effect on our business prospects.

We may not be able to realize anticipated cost synergies from the pending Acquisition.The success of the pending Acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize anticipated cost synergies. Our success in realizing these cost synergies, and the timing of this realization, depends on the successful integration of our business and operations with the acquired business and operations. Even if we are able to integrate the acquired businesses and operations successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of the cost synergies of the pending Acquisition that we currently expect within the anticipated time frame or at all.



The pending Acquisition will subject us to significant additional liabilities and other risks.Following the pending Acquisition, we will be subject to substantially all the liabilities of MillerCoors, including, among others, significant pension liabilities. We will also be subject to the risks of the U.S. beer market to a much greater extent, and a significant majority of our overall business will be in mature, low growth beer markets, such as the U.S., Canada and the U.K. The pending Acquisition and subsequent integration process will be complex, costly, time-consuming and divert management’s time and attention, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



We may be unable to obtain the regulatory approvals required to complete the pending Acquisition or, in order to do so, we may be required to satisfy material conditions or comply with material restrictions.In addition to the international and U.S. regulatory approvals needed to close the ABI-SABMiller Transaction, the consummation of the pending Acquisition is also subject to review and approval by regulatory authorities, including by the United States Department of Justice. We can provide no assurance that all required regulatory approvals will be obtained in order to consummate the pending Acquisition. We have agreed to take all actions necessary, and assist and cooperate in doing all things necessary, to avoid or eliminate any legal impediments to the pending Acquisition, including divesting of up to $4 billion in assets. There can be no assurance as to the cost, scope or impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects of the actions that may be required to obtain regulatory approvals. Any such divestitures or other actions could have a material adverse effect on the business of both us and MillerCoors and substantially diminish the synergies and other advantages which we expect from the pending Acquisition. In addition, we may not be able to affect any divestitures at an acceptable price or at all.



The pending Acquisition will impact our financial position.We will need to raise significant capital to fund the pending Acquisition and such capital may not be available to us on acceptable terms. We expect to incur a substantial amount of additional indebtedness in connection with the pending Acquisition in addition to our Class B common stock offering completed in February 2016. If we are unable to raise significant additional capital on acceptable terms we may need to rely on our bridge loan agreement, which may result in substantially higher borrowing costs and a shorter maturity than those from other anticipated financing alternatives. In addition, ratings agencies may downgrade our credit ratings below their current investment grade levels as the results of additional indebtedness related to the pending Acquisition. A ratings downgrade could increase our costs of borrowing and harm our ability to finance the pending Acquisition on acceptable terms or refinance our debt in the future.



As a result of the need to raise significant financing to fund the pending Acquisition, we currently intend to hold per share dividends constant and have suspended both our dividend target of 18% to 22% of trailing annualized EBITDA and our share repurchase program. We also intend to use cash from operations to fund the Acquisition and service and reduce our debt level, which will reduce funds available for other operational or strategic needs and may increase our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions.



The incurrence of future indebtedness to fund the pending Acquisition may subject us to additional financial and operating restrictions.Future indebtedness may subject us to additional financial and operating covenants, which may limit our flexibility in responding to our business needs. If we are not able to maintain compliance with stated financial covenants or if we breach other covenants in any debt agreement, we could be in default under such agreement. Such a default may allow our creditors to accelerate the related indebtedness and may result in the acceleration of any other indebtedness to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies.



Our overall leverage and terms of our financing could, among other things:



•limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions;



•make it more difficult to satisfy our obligations under the terms of our indebtedness;



•limit our ability to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all;











•limit our flexibility to plan for and adjust to changing business and market conditions and increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;



•require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to make interest and principal payments on our debt, thereby limiting the availability of our cash flow to fund future acquisitions, working capital, business activities, and other general corporate requirements; and



•limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, to fund growth or for general corporate purposes, even when necessary to maintain adequate liquidity, particularly if any ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating organizations were revised downward.



We face numerous risks associated with the pending Acquisition and integration of the Miller brand portfolio outside the U.S. and Puerto Rico.The pending acquisition of theMillerbrand portfolio outside of the U.S. and Puerto Rico may subject us to unknown expenses and liabilities due to our limited due diligence of the business, including among other things, the absence of historical financial statements for this part of the business. The success of our acquisition of theMillerbrand portfolio outside of the U.S. and Puerto Rico will depend, in part, on our ability to realize all or some of the anticipated synergies and other benefits from integrating its business with our existing businesses and operations. The integration process may be complex, costly and time-consuming as theMillerbrand portfolio assets are in over 50 foreign countries. The difficulties of integrating the operations include, among others:





•failure to implement our business plan for the combined business;



•unanticipated issues in integrating manufacturing, logistics, information, communications and other systems;



•possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, contracts, procedures and policies;



•impacts of change in control provisions in contracts and agreements;



•failure to retain key customers and suppliers;



•unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations;



•failure to recruit and retain key employees to operate the combined business;



•inherent operating risks in the business;



•unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities;



•unfamiliarity with operating in many of the countries in which the internationalMillerbrand portfolio operates;



•reliance on a competitor, ABI, to provide transition services for this business;



•failure to develop sustainable routes to market upon the expiration of ABI’s transition services;



•difficulty in fully separating theMillerbrand portfolio from SABMiller’s current brand portfolio; and



•inability to perform satisfactory due diligence on the business prior to closing of the Acquisition.



We may not be able to maintain the levels of revenue, earnings or operating efficiency that each of the Company and the international

Miller

brand portfolio had achieved or might achieve separately. Although we have a downward purchase price adjustment if the unaudited U.S. GAAP EBITDA for the international

Miller

brand portfolio for the four quarters prior to closing is below $70 million, such adjustment may not be adequate to protect us from the future harm of acquiring an underperforming or declining brand portfolio. In addition, we may not accomplish the integration of the international

Miller

brand portfolio smoothly, successfully or within the anticipated costs or timeframe. Moreover, the markets in which the international

Miller

brand portfolio operates may not experience the growth rates expected and any economic downturn affecting those markets could negatively impact the international

Miller

brand portfolio. These markets are in differing stages of development and may experience more volatility than expected or face more operating risks than in the more mature markets in which we have historically operated. If we experience difficulties with the integration process or if the international

Miller

brand portfolio or the markets in which it operates deteriorate, the potential cost savings, growth opportunities and other synergies of the acquisition of the

Miller

brand portfolio outside the U.S. and Puerto Rico may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. In such case, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be negatively impacted.



If we are unable to consummate the pending Acquisition, our stock price may be adversely affected and our financial condition may materially suffer.If the pending Acquisition is not completed for any reason, the trading price of our Class A









common stock or Class B common stock may decline to the extent that the market price of our Class A common stock or Class B common stock reflects positive market assumptions that the pending Acquisition will be completed and the related benefits will be realized. In addition, if the Acquisition is not completed our financial condition could materially suffer, including:



•subject to certain reimbursement rights under the Purchase Agreement, the incurrence of significant costs related to the Acquisition without the associated benefits of completing the Acquisition, such as legal, accounting, filing, financial advisory, bridge and term loan financing and integration costs that have already been incurred or will continue up to the closing of the Acquisition. The amount of such operating expenses, fees and capital expenditures we incur in connection with the Acquisition will be based on a variety of factors but may be material;



•increased dividend costs as a result additional capital stock issued without the associated benefits of completing the pending Acquisition;



•if we complete a financing of debt securities prior to closing the pending Acquisition, the incurrence of significant interest expense and potential redemption premiums with respect to such debt securities without the associated benefits of completing the pending Acquisition; and



•potential disruption to our business and distraction of our workforce and management team.



We will incur substantial transaction fees and costs in connection with the pending Acquisition.We expect to incur a significant amount of non-recurring expenses in connection with the pending Acquisition, including legal, accounting, financial advisory and other expenses. Subject to certain reimbursement rights under the Purchase Agreement, many of these expenses are payable by us whether or not the pending Acquisition is completed. Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred following consummation of the pending Acquisition in the course of the integration of our businesses with that of MillerCoors and the internationalMillerbrand portfolio. We cannot be certain that the elimination of duplicative costs or the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses will offset the transaction and integration costs in the near term, or at all.



The pending Acquisition will significantly increase our goodwill and other intangible assets.We have a significant amount, and following the pending Acquisition will have an additional amount, of goodwill and other intangible assets on our consolidated financial statements that are subject to impairment based upon future adverse changes in our business or prospects. The impairment of any goodwill and other intangible assets may have a negative impact on our consolidated results of operations.

Risks Specific to Our Company

The global beer industry is constantly evolving, and our position within the global beer industry and our markets in which we operate may fundamentally change. If we do not successfully transform along with the evolving industry and market dynamics, then the result could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.









Competition in our markets could require us to reduce prices or increase capital and other expenditures or cause us to lose sales volume, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.

In most of our markets, our primary competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, production and distribution resources than we do, and are more diverse in terms of their geographies and brand portfolios. In all of the markets in which we operate, aggressive marketing strategies, such as reduced pricing, brand positioning, and increased capital investments by these competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. In addition, continuing consolidation among major global brewers may lead to stronger or new competitors, loss of partner brands, negative impacts on our distributor networks and predatory marketing and pricing tactics by competitors. Further, distributor consolidation could reduce our ability to promote our brands in the market in a manner that enhances rather than diminishes their value, as well as reducing our ability to manage our pricing effectively. These factors could result in lower margins or loss of market share, due to increased pressures for reduced pricing or difficulties in increasing prices while remaining competitive within our markets, as well as the need for increased capital investment, marketing and other expenditures. Moreover, several of our major markets are mature, so growth opportunities may be more limited to us than to our competitors. The above risk, if realized, could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.

Our success as an enterprise depends largely on the success of relatively few products in several mature markets specific to the beer industry; if consumer preferences shift away from our products or consumption of our products decline, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected.

Our

Coors Light

and

Molson Canadian

brands in Canada,

Coors Light

and

Miller Lite

brands in the U.S., and

Carling, Staropramen, Jelen, Ozujsko

and

Coors Light

brands in Europe represented half of each respective segment's sales volumes in


. Additionally, several of our brands represent a significant share of their respective market, therefore volatility in these markets could disproportionately impact the performance of these brands. Consequently, any material shift in consumer preferences away from these brands, or from the categories in which they compete, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Consumer preferences and tastes may shift away from our brands or beer generally due to, among others, changing taste preferences, demographics, downturn in economic conditions or perceived value, as well as changes in consumers' perception of our brands due to negative publicity, regulatory actions or litigation. Additionally, in some of our major markets, specifically Canada and the U.S., there has been a recent shift in consumer preferences within the total beer market away from premium brands to "craft beer" produced by small, regional microbreweries, as well as a shift within the total alcohol beverage market from beer to wine and spirits. Moreover, several of our major markets are mature and we have significant share, therefore small movements in consumer preference can disproportionately impact our results. As a result, a shift in consumer preferences away from our products or beer could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.

Continued weak, or further weakening of, economic conditions in the markets in which we do business could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.Beer consumption in many of our markets is closely tied to general economic conditions and a significant portion of our portfolio consists of premium and above premium brands. Difficult macroeconomic conditions in our markets, such as decreases in per capita income and level of disposable income driven by increases to inflation, income taxes, the cost of living, unemployment levels, political or economic instability or other country specific factors could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products. For example, we have continued to experience economic pressures in certain European markets through 2015, resulting in an increased consumer trend toward value brands within the impacted markets. This trend, along with other contributing factors, negatively impacted sales, as well as impairments of certain European brands, includingJelen,which were recorded in the third quarter of 2015. A continuation of this trend or further deterioration of the current economic conditions could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.

We may incur impairments of the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets.

In connection with various business combinations, we have historically allocated material amounts of the related purchase prices to goodwill and other intangible assets that are considered to have indefinite useful lives. These assets are tested for impairment at least annually, using estimates and assumptions affected by factors such as economic and industry conditions and changes in operating performance. Additionally, in conjunction with the brand impairment tests, we also reassess each brand's indefinite-life classification. Potential resulting charges from an impairment of goodwill or brand intangible, as well as reclassification of an indefinite-lived to a definite-lived brand intangible, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For example, the results of our interim brand impairment review completed in the third quarter of 2015, indicated that the fair value of certain European indefinite-lived brand intangible assets were below their respective carrying values. As a result, we recorded an aggregate impairment charge of

$275.0 million

recorded within special items in our consolidated statements of operations during the third quarter of 2015. Additionally, during this review, we also reassessed each brand's indefinite-life classification and determined that these impaired brands have characteristics that have evolved which now indicate a definite-life is more appropriate. These brands have therefore been reclassified as definite-lived intangible assets to be amortized over useful lives ranging from 30 to 50 years.









Our most recent impairment analysis, conducted as of

October 1, 2015

, the first day of our fiscal fourth quarter, indicated that while our Canada reporting unit improved from the prior year, our Europe reporting unit declined and was determined to be at risk of failing step one of the goodwill impairment test. Specifically, the fair value of the Europe and Canada reporting units were estimated at approximately

9%

and

20%

in excess of their carrying values, respectively. Additionally, the fair value of the Molson core brands in Canada, were also at risk of failing the quantitative analysis of the indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment test as of

October 1, 2015

. The Europe reporting unit, and

Molson

core brands in Canada, are therefore at risk of a future impairment in the event of significant unfavorable changes in the forecasted cash flows (including prolonged, or further weakening of, adverse economic conditions or significant unfavorable changes in tax, environmental or other regulations, including interpretations thereof), terminal growth rates, market transaction multiples and/or weighted-average cost of capital utilized in the discounted cash flow analysis. Although the fair value in excess the of carrying value has increased for the Canada reporting unit from the October 1, 2014 testing date, the fair value is sensitive to potential unfavorable changes in forecasted cash flows, macroeconomic conditions, market multiples or discount rates that could have an adverse impact. Any future impairment of the Europe or Canada reporting units or

Molson

or other brands, or reclassification of indefinite-lived brands to definite-lived, may result in material charges that could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Additionally, the testing of our goodwill for impairment is predicated upon our determination of our reporting units. Any change to the conclusion of our reporting units or the aggregation of components within our reporting units could result in a different outcome to our annual impairment test. See Part II—Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Critical Accounting Estimates and Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,

Note 11, "Goodwill and Intangible Assets"

of the Notes for additional information related to the results of our annual impairment testing.

Termination of one or more manufacturer/distribution agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.We manufacture and/or distribute products of other beverage companies through various joint venture, licensing, distribution, contract brewing or other similar arrangements. The loss of one or more of these arrangements, as a result of industry consolidation or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. For example, our 2015 Europe results were adversely impacted by the termination of our brewing and kegging agreement with Heineken under which we produced and packaged theFoster’sandKronenbourgbrands in the U.K. Additionally, Canada volumes were also adversely impacted by the termination of our license agreement with Miller Brewing Company (“Miller”) in 2015. Further, subsequent to ABI's acquisition of Grupo Modelo in 2013, we entered into an agreement to accelerate the termination of our MMI joint venture that imported, distributed and marketed the Modelo beer brand portfolio across all Canadian provinces and territories, which resulted in an adverse impact on our 2015 and 2014 Canadian volumes upon final termination in the first quarter of 2014.

Changes in various supply chain standards or agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.Our business includes various joint venture and industry agreements which standardize parts of the supply chain system. An example includes our warehousing and customer delivery systems organized under joint venture agreements with other brewers. Any negative change in these agreements or material terms within these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.

We rely on a small number of suppliers to obtain the packaging materials we need to operate our business. The inability to obtain materials could unfavorably affect our ability to produce our products.We purchase certain types of packaging materials including aluminum cans and bottles, glass bottles and paperboard from a small number of suppliers. Consolidation of packaging materials suppliers has reduced local supply alternatives and increased risks of supply disruptions. The inability of any of these suppliers to meet our production requirements without sufficient time to develop an alternative source could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.

Risks associated with operating our joint ventures may materially adversely affect our business and financial results.

We have entered into several joint ventures, including our MillerCoors joint venture in the United States and Puerto Rico with SABMiller. We may enter into additional joint ventures in the future. Our joint venture partners may at any time have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our goals or with the goals of the joint venture. In addition, we compete against our joint venture partners in certain of our other markets. Disagreements with our business partners may impede our ability to maximize the benefits of our partnerships. Our joint venture arrangements may require us, among other matters, to pay certain costs or to make certain capital investments or to seek our joint venture partner's consent to take certain actions. In addition, our joint venture partners may be unable or unwilling to meet their economic or other obligations under the operative documents, and we may be required to either fulfill those obligations alone to ensure the ongoing success of a joint venture or to dissolve and liquidate a joint venture. For example, we terminated our MMI joint venture that imported, distributed and marketed the Modelo beer brand portfolio across all Canadian provinces and territories, which, since termination in the first quarter of 2014, has had an adverse effect on our Canadian volumes and financial results. The above risk, if realized, could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.









Our operations in developing and emerging markets expose us to additional risks which could harm our business and financial results.We expect our operations in developing and emerging markets to become more significant to our operating results as we continue to further expand internationally including in connection with our proposed acquisition of theMillerbrand portfolio outside the U.S. and Puerto Rico. In certain of these markets, we have limited operating experience and may not succeed. In addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our operations in these markets expose us to additional risks, including: changes in local political, economic, social and labor conditions; restrictions on foreign ownership and investments; repatriation of cash earned in countries outside the U.S.; import and export requirements; increased costs to ensure compliance with complex foreign laws and regulations; currency exchange rate fluctuations; a less developed and less certain legal and regulatory environment, which among other things can create uncertainty with regard to liability issues; longer payment cycles, increased credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; and other challenges caused by distance, language, and cultural differences.

In addition, as a global company, we are subject to foreign and U.S. laws and regulations designed to combat governmental corruption, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries and a materially negative effect on our brands and our operating results. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these foreign and U.S. laws and regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act, there can be no assurance that our employees, business partners or agents will not violate our policies.

Changes to the regulation of the distribution systems for our products could adversely affect our business and financial results.

Changes in tax, environmental or other regulations or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade and other regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.









Our consolidated financial statements are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, most significantly the Canadian dollar and the European operating currencies such as, but not limited to, Euro, British Pound, Czech Koruna, Croatian Kuna, Serbian Dinar, New Romanian Leu, Bulgarian Lev and Hungarian Forint.

Our operations face significant exposure to changes in commodity prices, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results.We use a large volume of agricultural and other raw materials, some of which are purchased through supply contracts with third parties, to produce our products, including barley, malted barley, hops, corn, other various starches, water and packaging materials, including aluminum cans and bottles, glass and polyethylene terephthalate (“PET”) containers, as well as, cardboard and other paper products. We also use a significant amount of diesel fuel, natural gas and electricity in our operations. The supply and price of these raw materials and commodities can be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including market demand, alternative sources for suppliers, global geopolitical events (especially as to their impact on crude oil prices and the resulting impact on diesel fuel prices), frosts, droughts and other weather conditions, economic factors affecting growth decisions, inflation, plant diseases and theft. To the extent any of the foregoing factors affect the prices of ingredients or packaging or our hedging arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge changes in commodity price risks and we are not able to pass these increased costs along to customers, our financial results could be materially adversely impacted.

Climate change and water availability may negatively affect our business and financial results.

Loss or closure of a major brewery or other key facility, due to unforeseen or catastrophic events or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.

Our business and financial results could be materially adversely impacted by physical risks such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, other natural disasters or catastrophic events that damage or destroy one of our breweries or key facilities or the key facilities of our significant suppliers. Additionally, certain catastrophes are not covered by our general insurance policies, which could result in significant unrecoverable losses. In addition, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted by under-investment in physical assets or production capacity, including contract brewing and effect on priority of our brands if production capacity is limited. Further, significant excess capacity at any of our breweries as a result of increased efficiencies in our supply chain process or continued volume declines, could result in under-utilization of our assets, which could lead to excess overhead expenses or additional costs incurred associated with the closure of one or more of our facilities. For example, as part of a strategic review of our supply chain network, certain breweries and bottling lines were closed during 2015 in which we incurred costs during the year and for which we may incur additional costs during 2016. There may be further brewery closures as part of our ongoing assessment to ensure that our supply chain capacity is aligned with the needs of the business.









Failure to successfully identify, complete or integrate attractive acquisitions and joint ventures into our existing operations could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results.

Poor investment performance of pension plan holdings and other factors impacting pension plan costs could unfavorably affect our business, liquidity and our financial results.

Our costs of providing defined benefit pension plans are dependent upon a number of factors, such as the rates of return on the plans' assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, exchange rate fluctuations, future government regulation, global equity prices, and our required and/or voluntary contributions to the plans. While we comply with the minimum funding requirements, we have certain qualified pension plans with obligations which exceed the value of the plans' assets. These funding requirements may also require contributions even when there is no reported deficit. Without sustained growth in the pension investments over time to increase the value of the plans' assets, and depending upon the other factors as listed above, we could be required to fund the plans with significant amounts of cash. Such cash funding obligations (or the timing of such contributions) could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, credit rating and cost of borrowing, financial position and/or results of operations. For example, following the completion of the triennial review of the U.K. pension plan with the plan's trustees in 2014, we made a GBP

150 million

contribution to our U.K. pension plan in January 2015, based on the underfunded status of the plan and the evaluation of the plan's performance and long-term obligations.

Failure to comply with our debt covenants or a deterioration in our credit rating could have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain future financing at competitive rates and/or our ability to refinance our existing indebtedness.Under the terms of each of our debt facilities, we must comply with certain restrictions. These include restrictions on priority indebtedness (certain threshold percentages of secured consolidated net tangible assets), leverage thresholds, liens, and restrictions on certain types of sale lease-back transactions and transfers of assets. Failure to comply with these restrictions or maintain our credit rating may result in issues with our current financing structure and potential future financing requirements. A deterioration in our credit rating could also affect our ability to obtain future financing or refinance our current debt, as well as increase our borrowing rates, which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results.

We depend on key personnel, the loss of whom would harm our business.The loss of the services and expertise of any key employee could harm our business. Our future success depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain qualified personnel on a timely basis. Turnover of senior management can adversely impact our stock price, our results of operations and our client relationships and may make recruiting for future management positions more difficult. In addition, we must successfully integrate any new management personnel that we hire within our organization, or who join our organization as a result of an acquisition, in order to achieve our operating objectives, and changes in other key management positions may temporarily affect our financial performance and results of operations as new management becomes familiar with our business.

Due to a high concentration of workers represented by unions or trade councils in Canada, Europe, and at MillerCoors in the U.S., we could be significantly affected by labor strikes, work stoppages or other employee-related issues.Approximately 59%, 31% and 36% of our Canadian, MillerCoors and European workforces, respectively, are represented by trade unions. Stringent labor laws in the U.K. expose us to a greater risk of loss should we experience labor disruptions in that market. A labor strike, work stoppage or other employee-related issue could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.

The success of our business relies heavily on brand image, reputation, product quality and protection of intellectual property.It is important that we maintain and increase the image and reputation of our existing products. Concerns about product quality, even when unsubstantiated, could be harmful to our image and reputation of our products. Deterioration to our brand equity may be difficult to combat or reverse and could have a material effect on our business and financial results. In









addition, because our brands carry family names, personal activities by certain members of the Molson or Coors families that harm their public image or reputation could have an adverse effect on our brands. Further, the success of our Company is dependent on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, including trademarks, patents, domain names, trade secrets and know-how.We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights will be sufficient or that third parties will not infringe upon or misappropriate these rights. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.

Because of our reliance on third-party service providers and internal and outsourced systems for our information technology and certain other administrative functions, we could experience a disruption to our business.

If the Pentland Trust and the Coors Trust do not agree on a matter submitted to stockholders or if a super-majority of our board of directors do not agree on certain actions, generally the matter will not be approved, even if beneficial to us or favored by other stockholders or a majority of our board of directors.

Pentland Securities (1981) Inc. (the "Pentland Trust") (a company controlled by the Molson family and related parties) and the Adolph Coors, Jr. Trust (the "Coors Trust"), which together control more than 90% of our Class A common stock and Class A exchangeable shares, have a voting trust agreement through which they have combined their voting power over the shares of our Class A common stock and the Class A exchangeable shares that they own. In the event that these two stockholders do not agree to vote in favor of a matter submitted to a stockholder vote (other than the election of directors), the voting trustees are required to vote all of the Class A common stock and Class A exchangeable shares deposited in the voting trust against the matter. There is no other mechanism in the voting trust agreement to resolve a potential deadlock between these stockholders. Therefore, if either the Pentland Trust or the Coors Trust is unwilling to vote in favor of a proposal that is subject to a stockholder vote, we would be unable to implement the proposal even if our board of directors, management or other stockholders believe the proposal is beneficial to us. Similarly, our bylaws require the authorization of a super-majority (two-thirds) of the board of directors to take certain transformational actions. Thus, it is possible that the Company will not be authorized to take action even if it is supported by a simple majority of the board of directors.

The interests of the controlling stockholders may differ from those of other stockholders and could prevent the Company from making certain decisions or taking certain actions that would be in the best interest of the other stockholders.Our Class B common stock has fewer voting rights than our Class A common stock and holders of our Class A common stock have the ability to effectively control or have a significant influence over certain company actions requiring stockholder approval, which could have a material adverse effect on Class B stockholders. See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,Note 8, "Stockholders' Equity"of the Notes for additional information regarding voting rights of Class A and Class B stockholders.

Risks Specific to the Canada Segment

Government mandated changes to the retail distribution model resulting from new regulations may have a material adverse effect on our Canada business.Beer sales are highly regulated by the Canadian government. For example, in Ontario, off-premise beer may only be purchased at retail outlets operated by BRI, government-regulated retail outlets operated by the Liquor Control Board of Ontario ("LCBO"), or approved agents of the LCBO.In April 2014, the Ontario Premier's









Advisory Council on Government Assets (the "Council") began a review that included evaluating the beer retailing and distribution system in Ontario, for which BRI is the primary beer retail and distribution channel. In April 2015, as a result of this review and our negotiations with the Council, we, along with the other owners of BRI, agreed, in principle and subject to entry into definitive binding documents, to enter into a new beer framework agreement (the "New Framework") with the Province of Ontario. The associated Master Framework Agreement was subsequently executed by all parties on September 22, 2015, and became effective as of January 1, 2016.Additionally, as a result of the above review, certain other legal matters could arise that could have a negative impact on our business, such as the litigation related to our ownership of BRI discussed in Part I—Item 3. Legal Proceedings. If the implementation of the provisions under the New Framework differ from our current expectations, it could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.

We may experience adverse effects on our Canada business and financial results due to declines in the overall Canadian beer industry, continued price discounting, increased cost of goods sold and higher taxes.If the Canadian beer market continues to decline, the impact to our financial results could be exacerbated due to our significant share of the overall market. Additionally, continuation, acceleration or the increase of price discounting, in Ontario, Québec, Alberta or other provinces, as well as increases in our cost of goods sold, could adversely impact our business. Further, changes in the Canadian tax legislation, such as the recent increase in beer excise taxes and the implementation of equalization and standardization of excise tax regulations in Quebec, could decrease our net sales. Moreover, the future success and earnings growth of the Canada business depends, in part, on our ability to efficiently conduct our operations. Failure to generate significant cost savings and margin improvement through our ongoing initiatives could adversely affect our profitability.

In the event that we are required to move away from the industry standard returnable bottle we use today, we may incur unexpected losses.Along with ABI and other brewers in Canada, we currently use an industry standard returnable bottle which represents approximately37%of total volume sales (excluding imports) in Canada. Changes to the Industry Standard Bottle Agreement could impact our use of the industry standard returnable bottle. If we cease to use the industry standard returnable bottle, our current bottle inventory and a portion of our bottle packaging equipment could become obsolete and could result in a material write-off of these assets.

Risks Specific to the United States Segment and MillerCoors

We do not fully control the operations and administration of MillerCoors, which represents our interests in the U.S. beer business.

Pending our proposed Acquisition of 100% of MillerCoors, we jointly control MillerCoors with SABMiller and hold a 42% economic interest in the joint venture. While we direct the MillerCoors business through our equal representation on its board of directors (along with SABMiller) and otherwise impact its business activities through our ongoing communication and oversight, MillerCoors’ management is responsible for the day-to-day operation of the business. As a result, we do not have full control over MillerCoors’ activities. Our results of operations are dependent upon the efforts of MillerCoors' management, our ability to govern the joint venture effectively with SABMiller and factors beyond our control that may affect SABMiller. For example, the loss of the services and expertise of any key MillerCoors employee could harm our business. Additionally, our disclosure controls and procedures with respect to MillerCoors are necessarily substantially more limited than those we maintain with respect to our consolidated subsidiaries. Certain rights of first refusal apply to any assignment of the joint venture interests. Any transfer of ownership interest could have a significant effect on our results of operations and financial position, as well as our ongoing internal and external business relationships. See risk factors related to the pending Acquisition of MillerCoors above.

MillerCoors is highly dependent on independent distributors in the United States to sell its products, with no assurance that these distributors will effectively sell its and our products.MillerCoors sells all of its products and many of our non-U.S. products in the United States to distributors for resale to retail outlets and the regulatory environment of many states makes it very difficult to change distributors. Consequently, if MillerCoors is not allowed or is unable to replace unproductive or inefficient distributors, its business, financial position and results of operation may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.

Risks Specific to the Europe Segment

Economic trends and intense competition in European markets could unfavorably affect our profitability.Our European businesses have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and general economic and political conditions, as well as a continued weakening of their respective currencies versus the U.S. dollar. Our interim brand impairment review completed in the third quarter of 2015, indicated that the fair value of certain European indefinite-lived brand intangible assets were below their respective carrying values and we therefore recorded an aggregate impairment charge of$275.0 million. Additionally, during this review, we also reassessed each brand's indefinite-life classification and determined that these impaired brands have characteristics that have evolved which now indicate a definite-life is more appropriate. These brands have therefore been reclassified as definite-lived intangible assets to be amortized over useful lives ranging from 30 to 50 years. The decline in fair value of these brands was due, in part, to key changes to our









underlying assumptions supporting the value of the brands. Specific changes include underperformance through the 2015 peak season driving a downward shift in management's forecasts, along with challenging macroeconomic and competitive conditions that we no longer expect to subside in the near term. Additionally, we face intense competition in certain of our European markets, particularly with respect to price, which could lead to reduced sales or profitability. In particular, the on-going focus by large competitors in Europe to drive increased market share through aggressive pricing strategies could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. In addition, in recent years, beer volume sales in Europe have been shifting from pubs and restaurants (on-premise) to retail stores (off-premise), for the industry in general. Margins on sales to off-premise customers tend to be lower than margins on sales to on-premise customers, and, as a result, continuation or acceleration of these trends would further adversely affect our profitability.

In the event that a significant pub chain declared bankruptcy, or experience similar financial difficulties, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected.We extend credit to pub chains in the U.K., and in some cases the amounts are significant. Business at on-premise outlets has decreased since late 2008 as a result of a continued challenging economic environment in the U.K. While the economic environment in the U.K. has seen an upturn in 2015, some pub chains may continue to face increasing financial difficulty, if economic conditions do not stabilize. In the event that one or more significant pub chains were to be unable to pay amounts owed to us as a result of bankruptcy or similar financial difficulties, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected.

Risks Specific to the Molson Coors International Segment

An inability to expand our operations in emerging markets could adversely affect our growth prospects.Our ability to grow our MCI segment in emerging markets depends on social, economic and political conditions in those markets, on our ability to create effective product distribution networks and consumer brand awareness in new markets and in many cases our ability to find appropriate local partners. Due to product price, local regulatory changes, local competition from competitors that are larger and have more resources than we do and cultural differences, or absence of effective routes to market, there is no assurance that our products will be accepted in any particular emerging market. If we are unable to expand our businesses in emerging markets, our growth prospects could be adversely affected.

Risks Specific to Our Discontinued Operations

Indemnities provided to the purchaser of 83% of the Cervejarias Kaiser Brasil S.A. ("Kaiser") business in Brazil could result in future cash outflows and statement of operations charges.In 2006, we sold our 83% ownership interest in Kaiser to FEMSA Cerveza S.A. de C.V. ("FEMSA"). The terms of the sale agreement require us to indemnify FEMSA for exposures related to certain tax, civil and labor contingencies and certain purchased tax credits. The ultimate resolution of these claims is not under our control. These indemnity obligations are recorded as liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets, however, we could incur future statement of operations charges as facts further develop resulting in changes to our estimates or changes in our assessment of probability of loss on these items as well as due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Due to the uncertainty involved in the ultimate outcome and timing of these contingencies, significant adjustments to the carrying value of our indemnity liabilities and corresponding statement of operations charges/credits could result in the future.



