ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

General

Founded in 1952 and incorporated in 1957, Bio-Rad Laboratories, Inc. (referred to in this report as “Bio-Rad,” “we,” “us,” and “our”) was initially engaged in the development and produc­tion of specialty chemicals used in biochemical, pharmaceutical and other life science research applications.  In 1967, we entered the field of clinical diagnostics with the development of our first test kit based on separation techniques and materials developed for life science research.  We expanded into the field of analytical and measuring instrument systems through internal research and development efforts and acquisitions in the late 1970's and 1980's.  In 1999, we acquired the stock of Pasteur Sanofi Diagnostics and the rights to certain ancillary assets.  This strengthened our position in the HIV and infectious disease testing market.  In 2000 and 2004, we divested our semiconductor, optoelectronic metrology and confocal microsc
opy product lines.  During 2007, we acquired DiaMed Holding AG, enhancing our position in the immunohematology market.

As we broadened our product lines, we also expanded our geographical market.  We have distribution channels in over thirty countries outside the United States through subsidiaries whose focus is customer service and product distribution.

Bio-Rad manufactures and supplies the life science research, healthcare, analytical chemistry and other markets with a broad range of products and systems used to separate complex chemical and biological materials and to identify, analyze and purify their components.

Description of Business

Business Segments

Today, Bio-Rad operates in two industry segments designated as Life Science and Clinical Diagnostics.  Both segments operate worldwide.  For a description of business and financial information on industry and geographic segments, see Note 13 on pages 62 through 65 of Item 8.

Life Science Segment

Life science is the study of the characteristics, behavior, and structure of living organisms and their component systems.  Life science researchers use a variety of products and systems including reagents, instruments, software and apparatus, to advance the study of life processes, drug discovery, biotechnology and food pathogen testing, primarily within a laboratory setting.

We focus on selected segments of the life science market which we estimate to be approximately $5 billion.  The primary technological applications that we supply to these segments consist of electrophoresis, image analysis, molecular detection, chromatography, gene transfer, sample preparation and amplification. The primary end-users in our sectors of the market are universities and medical schools, industrial research organizations, government agencies, pharmaceutical manufacturers, biotechnology researchers and food testing laboratories.

Clinical Diagnostics Segment

We estimate the worldwide clinical diagnostics segment in which we participate to be approximately $10 billion.  The market encompasses a broad array of technologies incorporated into a variety of products used to detect, identify, monitor and quantify substances in patient and donor blood or other bodily fluids and tissues.  The vast majority of these tests are performed "in vitro" (outside the body).  The information generated by these tests helps physicians diagnose disease and guide patient therapy and treatment, all of which helps improve patient care.  It is estimated that diagnostic testing influences 70% or more

of patient care decisions made by doctors while comprising less than

two

percent of total healthcare costs.


The market is split into several sub segments consisting of clinical chemistry, immunoassay, microbiology, hematology, molecular, coagulation, blood banking and blood typing.  Bio-Rad has significant positions in blood virus testing (blood banking and immunoassay); immunohematology (blood typing); hemoglobin A1c testing for diabetes monitoring (clinical chemistry and immunoassay); autoimmune disease testing (immunoassay); and quality control (crossing all sub segments).

Consumers of clinical diagnostic products are hospital laboratories, reference laboratories, physician office laboratories, government agencies, and diagnostic manufacturers.  Purchasing decisions are normally based on improving the healthcare of patients, improving laboratory efficiency, and reducing overall costs.  Bio-Rad's products and services generally meet or exceed these criteria leading to strong customer loyalty and recurring revenue exceeding 70% of our total clinical diagnostics sales.

Raw Materials and Components

We utilize a wide variety of chemicals, biological materials, electronic components, machined metal parts, optical parts, minicomputers and peripheral devices.  Most of these materials and components are available from numerous sources and we have not experienced difficulty in securing adequate supplies.

Patents and Trademarks

We own numerous U.S. and international patents and patent licenses.  We believe, however, that our ability to develop and manufacture our products depends primarily on our knowledge, technology and special skills.  We pay royalties on the sales of certain products under several patent license agreements.  We view these patents and license agreements as valuable assets.

Seasonal Operations and Backlog

Our business is not inherently seasonal.  However, the European custom of concentrating vacation during the summer months usually tempers third quarter sales volume and operating income.

For the most part, we operate in markets characterized by short lead times and the absence of significant backlogs.  Management has concluded that backlog information is not material to our business as a whole.

Sales and Marketing

Each of Bio-Rad's segments maintains a sales force to sell its products on a direct basis.  Each sales force is technically trained in the disciplines associated with its products.  Sales are also generated through direct mail advertising, exhibits at trade shows and technical meetings, telemarketing, e-commerce and by extensive advertising in technical and trade publications.  Sales and marketing efforts are augmented by technical service departments that assist customers in effective product utilization and in new product applications.  We also produce and distribute technical literature and hold seminars for customers on the use of our products.

Our customer base is broad and diversified.  In 2009, no single customer accounted for more than two percent of our total net sales.  Our sales are affected by certain external factors.  For example, a number of our customers, particularly in the Life Science segment, are substantially dependent on government grants and research contracts for their funding.  A significant reduction of government funding would have a detrimental effect on the results of this segment.

Most of our international sales are generated by our wholly-owned subsidiaries and their branch offices.  Certain of these subsidiaries also have manufacturing facilities.  Bio-Rad’s international operations are subject to certain risks common to foreign operations in general, such as changes in governmental regulations, import restrictions and foreign exchange fluctuations.  However, our international operations are principally in developed nations, which we regard as presenting no significantly greater risks to our operations than are present in the United States.


Competition

The markets served by our product groups are highly competitive.  Our competitors range in size from start-ups to large multinational corporations with significant resources and reach.  Reliable independent information on sales and market share of products produced by our competitors is not generally available. We believe, however, based on our own estimates, no one company is so dominant that it prevents other companies, including Bio-Rad, from competing effectively.  We compete mainly in market segments where our products and technology offer customers specific advantages over the competition.  We tend to avoid head to head competition against entrenched competitors with me-too products.

Because of the breadth of its product lines, the Life Science segment does not face the same competitors for all of its products.  Competitors in this market include GE Biosciences, Life Technologies, Millipore and Thermo Fisher Scientific.  We compete primarily based on meeting performance specifications.

Major competitors in clinical diagnostics include Roche, Abbott Laboratories (Diagnostic Division), Siemens Medical Diagnostics Solutions (formerly Dade-Behring, Diagnostics Products Corporation, and Bayer Diagnostics), Beckman Coulter, Becton-Dickinson, bioMérieux, Johnson & Johnson (Ortho Clinical Diagnostics), Tosoh, Immucor, Cepheid, and DiaSorin.

Product Research and Development

We conduct extensive product research and development activities in all areas of our business, employing approximately 780 people

worldwide in these activities.  Research and development have played a major role in Bio-Rad's growth and are expected to continue to do so in the future.  Our research teams are continuously developing new products and new applications for existing products.  In our development and testing of new products and applications, we consult with scientific and medical professionals at universities, hospitals and medical schools, and in the industry.  Excluding purchased in-process research and development expense, we spent approximately $163.6 million, $159.5 million, and $140.5 million on research and development activities during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Regulatory Matters

The manufacturing, marketing and labeling of certain of our products (primarily diagnostic products) are subject to regulation in the United States by the Center for Devices and Radiological Health of the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and in other jurisdictions by state and foreign government authorities.  FDA regulations require that some new products have pre-marketing approval by the FDA and require certain products to be manufactured in accordance with “good manufacturing practices,” to be extensively tested and to be properly labeled to disclose test results and performance claims and limitations.

As a multinational manufacturer and distributor of sophisticated instrumentation equipment, we must meet a wide array of electromagnetic compatibility and safety compliance requirements to satisfy regulations in the United States, the European Community and other jurisdictions.  These requirements relating to testing and trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary widely among countries.

Our operations are subject to federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations that govern such activities as transportation of goods, emissions to air and discharges to water, as well as handling and disposal practices for solid, hazardous and medical wastes.  In addition to environmental laws that regulate our operations, we are also subject to environmental laws and regulations that create liabilities and clean-up responsibility for spills, disposals or other releases of hazardous substances into the environment as a result of our operations or otherwise impacting real property that we own or operate.  The environmental laws and regulations could also subject us to claims by third parties for damages resulting from any spills, disposals or releases resulting from our operations or at any of our properties.


Employees

At December 31, 2009, Bio-Rad had approximately 6,600 full-time employees.  Fewer than eight percent of Bio-Rad's approximately 2,675 U.S. employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement which will expire on November 7, 2012.  Many of Bio-Rad's non-U.S. full-time employees, especially in France, are covered by collective bargaining agreements.  We consider our employee relations in general to be good.

Available Information

Bio-Rad files annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, DC 20549.  The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  Also, the SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Bio-Rad, that file electronically with the SEC.  The public can obtain any documents that we file with the SEC at

http://www.sec.gov

.

Bio-Rad’s website address is www.bio-rad.com.  We make available, free of charge through our website, our Form 10-Ks, 10-Qs and 8-Ks, and any amendments to these forms, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing with the SEC.

