Item 1A.Risk Factors.

Risk Factors Relating to our Operations

Our business is sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer spending as a result of downturns in the economy and other factors outside our control.






We face substantial competition in the hotel and casino industry and expect that such competition will continue.

The gaming industry is characterized by an increasingly high degree of competition and competition is intense in most of the markets in which we operate.  We compete with a variety of gaming operations, including land-based casinos, dockside casinos, riverboat casinos, casinos located on racing tracks and casinos located on Native American reservations and other forms of legalized gaming such as video gaming terminals (VGTs) at bars, restaurants and truck stops and mobile gambling and sports betting.  We also compete, to a lesser extent, with other forms of legalized gaming and entertainment such as bingo, pull tab games, card parlors, sports books, fantasy sports websites, “cruise-to-nowhere” operations, pari-mutuel or telephonic betting on horse racing and dog racing, state-sponsored lotteries, jai-alai and, in the future, may compete with gaming at other venues.  In addition, we compete more generally with other forms of entertainment for the discretionary spending of our customers.  Certain of our competitors are large gaming companies with greater name recognition and marketing and financial resources.  In some instances, particularly in the case of Native American casinos, our competitors pay lower taxes or no taxes.  These factors create additional challenges for us in competing for customers and accessing cash flow or financing to fund improvements for our casino and entertainment product that enable us to remain competitive.

States that already have legalized casino gaming may further expand gaming, and other states that have not yet legalized gaming may do so in the future. There has been significant competition in our markets as a result of the expansion of facilities by existing market participants, the entrance of new gaming participants into a market or legislative changes in prior years. For example, in recent years a number of states, including Illinois, Pennsylvania and Ohio, have either approved casino gaming or substantially expanded gaming by authorizing additional casino licenses and VGTs at horse racing tracks, truck stops or other locations.  Additionally, we also compete with Native American gaming operations in California and other jurisdictions where Native American tribes operate large-scale gaming facilities or otherwise conduct gaming activities on Native American lands. Further expansion of legalized casino gaming in states and on Native American reservations in or near our markets or changes to gaming laws in states in which we have operations and in states near our operations could increase competition and could adversely affect our operations.

Further, we face increasing competition as a result of the expansion of legalized online gaming and sports betting in the last few years.  Online gaminghas been approved inseveral states where we have casino properties, including Iowa, Nevada and New Jersey, and a number of states, including Indiana, Iowa, Colorado, New Jersey and Nevada, permit online sports betting.  We expect that other states will adopt legislation that permits online sports betting and gaming, which will result in significant additional competitionfor our casino properties.

Increased competition may require us to make substantial capital expenditures to maintain and enhance the competitive positions of our properties to increase the attractiveness and add to the appeal of our facilities. Because a significant portion of our cash flow is required to pay obligations under our outstanding indebtedness and the Master Lease, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient funds to undertake these expenditures or that we will be able to obtain sufficient financing to fund such expenditures. If we are unable to make such expenditures, our competitive position could be negatively affected.

Our operations in certain jurisdictions depend on agreements with third parties.

Our operations in several jurisdictions depend on agreements with third parties. If we are unable to renew these agreements on satisfactory terms as they expire, our business may be disrupted and, in the event of disruptions in multiple jurisdictions, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, Iowa law requires that each gambling venue in Iowa must have a licensed “Qualified Sponsoring Organization,” or “QSO”, which is a tax-exempt non-profit organization. The QSO must donate the profits it receives from casino operations to educational, civic, public, charitable, patriotic or religious uses. Both of our Iowa properties have an agreement with a local QSO. We have the right to renew our agreements for Bettendorf and Waterloo when they expire in 2025 and 2021, respectively.

The Federal Interstate Horse Racing Act and the state racing laws in certain jurisdictions where we have racetracks require that, in order to simulcast races, we have written agreements with the horse owners and trainers at those racetracks or that we share proceeds of slot machines at the applicable racetrack. If we fail to maintain operative agreements with the horsemen at our racetracks, we will not be permitted to conduct live racing and export and import simulcasting, and may not be permitted to continue our gaming operations, at the applicable racetrack at those facilities, which could have material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.






Some of our casinos are located on leased property. If we default on one or more leases, the applicable lessors could terminate the affected leases and we could lose possession of the affected casino.

Certain of our leases, including the Master Lease, are “triple-net” leases. Accordingly, in addition to rent, we are required to pay, among other things, the following: (1) lease payments to the underlying ground lessor for properties that are subject to ground leases; (2) facility maintenance costs; (3) all insurance premiums for insurance with respect to the leased properties and the business conducted on the leased properties; (4) taxes levied on or with respect to the leased properties (other than taxes on the income of the lessor); and (5) all utilities and other services necessary or appropriate for the leased properties and the business conducted on the leased properties. We are responsible for incurring the costs described in the preceding sentence notwithstanding the fact that many of the benefits received in exchange for such costs shall in part accrue to the lessor as the owner of the associated facilities. In addition, we remain obligated for lease payments and other obligations under the Master Lease and other ground leases even if one or more of such leased facilities is unprofitable or if we decide to withdraw from those locations. We could incur special charges relating to the closing of such facilities including lease termination costs, impairment charges and other special charges that would reduce our net income and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation and licensing, and gaming authorities have significant control over our operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business.

Licensing Requirements.  The ownership and operation of casino gaming, riverboat and horse racing facilities are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation, and regulatory authorities at the federal, state, and local levels have broad powers with respect to the licensing of gaming businesses and may revoke, suspend, condition or limit our gaming or other licenses, impose substantial fines and take other actions, each of which poses a significant risk to our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently hold all state and local licenses and related approvals necessary to conduct our present gaming operations, but we must periodically apply to renew many of our licenses and registrations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such renewals. Any failure to maintain or renew our existing licenses, registrations, permits or approvals would have a material adverse effect on us. Furthermore, if additional laws or regulations are adopted or existing laws or regulations are amended or interpreted differently, these regulations could impose additional restrictions or costs that could have a significant adverse effect on us.

Gaming authorities with jurisdiction over our operations may, in their discretion, require the holder of any securities issued by us to file applications, be investigated, and be found suitable to own our securities if they have reason to believe that the security ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policies of their respective jurisdictions. Further, the costs of any investigation conducted by any of the Gaming Authorities under these circumstances must be paid by the applicant, and refusal or failure to pay these charges may constitute grounds for a finding that the applicant is unsuitable to own the securities. If any of the Gaming Authorities determines that a person is unsuitable to own our securities, then, under the applicable gaming or horse racing laws and regulations, we can be sanctioned, including the loss of approvals that are required for us to continue our gaming operations in the relevant jurisdictions, if such unsuitable person does not timely sell our securities.






Our officers, directors and key employees are also subject to a variety of regulatory requirements and various licensing and related approval procedures in the various jurisdictions in which we operate gaming facilities. If any of the applicable Gaming Authorities were to find an officer, director or key employee of ours unsuitable for licensing or unsuitable to continue having a relationship with us, we would have to sever all relationships with that person. Furthermore, the Gaming Authorities may require us to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file appropriate applications. Either result could materially adversely affect our gaming operations.

Applicable gaming laws and regulations restrict our ability to issue securities, incur debt and undertake other financing activities. Such transactions would generally require approval of applicable Gaming Authorities, and our financing counterparties, including lenders, might be subject to various licensing and related approval procedures in the various jurisdictions in which we operate gaming facilities. If state regulatory authorities were to find any person unsuitable with regard to his, her or its relationship to us or any of our subsidiaries, we would be required to sever our relationships with that person, which could materially adversely affect our business.

.

We are also subject to a variety of other federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and ordinances that apply to non-gaming businesses, including zoning, environmental, construction and land-use laws and regulations governing smoking and the serving of alcoholic beverages.

Legislation in various forms to ban indoor tobacco smoking has been enacted or introduced in many states and local jurisdictions, including several of the jurisdictions in which we operate. If additional restrictions on smoking are enacted in our jurisdictions, we could experience a significant decrease in gaming revenue and, particularly if such restrictions are not applicable to all competitive facilities in that gaming market, our business could be materially adversely affected.

Under various federal, state and local laws and regulations, an owner or operator of real property may be held liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances or wastes

located on its property, regardless of whether or not the present owner or operator knows of, or is responsible for, the presence of such substances or wastes. We have not identified any issues associated with our properties that could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on us or the results of our operations. However, several of our properties are located in industrial areas or were used for industrial purposes for many years. As a consequence, it is possible that historical or neighboring activities have affected one or more of our properties and that, as a result, environmental issues could arise in the future, the precise nature of which we cannot now predict. The coverage and attendant compliance costs associated with these laws, regulations and ordinances may result in future additional costs.

Regulations adopted by the U.S. Department of Treasury Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (“FINCEN”) require us to report currency transactions in excess of $10,000 occurring within a gaming day, including identification of the patron by name and social security number. U.S. Treasury Department regulations also require us to report certain suspicious activity, including any transaction that exceeds $5,000, if we know, suspect or have reason to believe that the transaction involves funds from illegal activity or is designed to evade federal regulations or reporting requirements. Substantial penalties can be imposed if we fail to comply with these regulations. FINCEN has recently increased its focus on gaming companies.

We are required to report certain customer’s gambling winnings via form W-2G to comply with current Internal Revenue Service regulations. Should these regulations change, we would expect to incur additional costs to comply with the revised reporting requirements.

Taxation and Fees. In addition, gaming companies are generally subject to significant revenue-based taxes and fees in addition to normal federal, state and local income taxes, and such taxes and fees are subject to increase at any time. We pay substantial taxes and fees with respect to our operations. From time to time, federal, state, and local legislators and officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of such laws, affecting the gaming industry. In addition, worsening economic conditions could intensify the efforts of state and local governments to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes and/or property taxes. It is not possible to determine with certainty the likelihood of changes in tax laws or in the administration of such laws. Such changes, if adopted, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The large number of state and local governments with significant current or projected budget deficits makes it more likely that those governments that currently permit gaming will seek to fund such deficits with new or increased gaming taxes and/or property taxes and worsening economic conditions could intensify those efforts. Any material increase, or the adoption of additional taxes or fees, could have a material adverse effect on our future financial results.






Income Taxes.We are subject to tax in multiple U.S. tax jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining ourprovision for income taxes, deferred taxassetsor liabilities and in evaluating our tax positions. While we believe our tax positions are consistent with the tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business, it is possible that these positions may be overturned by jurisdictional tax authorities, which may have a significant impact on our provision for income taxes.

Tax laws are dynamic and subject to change as new laws are passed and new interpretations of the law are issued or applied. The U.S. recently enacted significant tax reform, and certain provisions of the new law may adversely affect us. In addition, governmental tax authorities are increasingly scrutinizing the tax positions of companies. If U.S. or state tax authorities change applicable tax laws, our overall taxes could increase, and our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely impacted.

We have partnership agreements to expand our sportsbook business and engage in online sportsbook, casino gaming and poker. There can be no assurance that regulations authorizing such activities will be approved in the jurisdictions in which we operate or that the market for such gaming activities will develop as expected.

During the second quarter of 2018, the U.S. Supreme Court overturned the federal ban on sports betting.  As a result, several jurisdictions in which we operate legalized sports betting and additional jurisdictions may do so in the future.  We currently accept wagers on sporting events in Nevada, New Jersey, Mississippi, Iowa and Indiana. However, our ability to expand our sports betting and online operations is dependent on adoption of regulations permitting sports betting in the United States and may be negatively impacted by a recent opinion of the U.S. Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel relating to the restrictions on online gaming under existing federal statutes. There can be no assurances when, or if, regulations enabling sports betting and online sportsbook, casino gaming and poker will be adopted, or the terms of such regulations, in certain of the jurisdictions in which we operate.

Following the repeal of the federal ban on sports betting, we entered into a definitive agreement with William Hill pursuant to which William Hill has agreed to operate as our sports betting operator, including with respect to mobile and online sports wagering, for a period of 25 years. We also entered into a 20-year agreement with TSG pursuant to which we agreed to provide TSG with options to obtain access to certain of our licenses for online sports wagering and real money online gaming and poker. We received equity interests in William Hill US, William Hill PLC and TSG in consideration for the execution of these agreements and we may in the future receive additional consideration, including revenue sharing based on the betting and gaming operations conducted under the authority of our licenses or in our markets.  To the extent permitted under our agreements with William Hill and TSG, we will continue to evaluate options for additional partnerships to operate online betting and gaming activities under the authority of our licenses and may in the future enter into additional partnership agreements with respect to such operations.

The market for sports betting and online gaming is rapidly evolving and highly competitive with an increasing number of competitors. The success of our sportsbook and online betting and gaming partners, the value of our equity interests in William Hill and TSG and the results of operations from sports betting and online sportsbook and gaming conducted at our properties or under the authority of our licenses are dependent on a number of factors that are beyond our control, including:

•the timing of adoption of regulations authorizing such betting and gaming activities and the restrictions contained in such regulations;

•the tax rates and license fees applicable to such activities;

•our ability to gain market share in a newly developing market;

•the potential that the market does not develop at all or does not develop as we anticipate;

•our ability to compete with new entrants in the market;

•changes in consumer demographics and public tastes and preferences; and

•the availability and popularity of other forms of entertainment.

There can be no assurance as to the returns that we will receive from our current and anticipated sports betting and online gaming operations or our partnerships with William Hill and TSG or future similar arrangements with other market service providers.






We rely on our key personnel and we may face difficulties in attracting and retaining qualified employees for our casinos and race tracks.

Our future success will depend upon, among other things, our ability to keep our senior executives and highly qualified employees. We compete with other potential employers for employees, and we may not succeed in hiring or retaining the executives and other employees that we need. A sudden loss of or inability to replace key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation.

In addition, the operation of our business requires qualified executives, managers and skilled employees with gaming and horse racing industry experience and qualifications who are able to obtain the requisite licenses and approval from the applicable Gaming Authorities. There has from time to time been a shortage of skilled labor in our markets. In addition to limitations that may otherwise exist in the supply of skilled labor, the continued expansion of gaming near our facilities, including the expansion of Native American gaming, may make it more difficult for us to attract qualified individuals. While we believe that we will continue to be able to attract and retain qualified employees, shortages of skilled labor will make it increasingly difficult and expensive to attract and retain the services of a satisfactory number of qualified employees, and we may incur higher costs than expected as a result.

Work stoppages, organizing drives and other labor problems could negatively impact our future profits.

As of December 31, 2019, we had 18 collective bargaining agreements covering approximately 3,100 employees. A lengthy strike or other work stoppages at any of our casino properties could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Given the large number of employees, labor unions are making a concerted effort to recruit more employees in the gaming industry, including at some of our properties. As a result, we cannot provide any assurance that we will not experience additional and more successful union organization activity in the future.

Because we own real property, we will be subject to extensive environmental regulation, which creates uncertainty regarding future environmental expenditures and liabilities.

We are also subject to laws and regulations that create liability and cleanup responsibility for releases of regulated materials into the environment. Certain of these laws and regulations impose strict, and under certain circumstances joint and several, liability on a current or previous owner or operator of property for the costs of remediating regulated materials on or emanating from its property. The costs of investigation, remediation or removal of those substances may be substantial.






An earthquake, hurricane, flood, other natural disaster, act of terrorism or other casualty events could adversely affect our business and we may not have sufficient insurance coverage to cover such losses.

We are subject to risks relating to mechanical failure, forces of nature, casualty, extraordinary maintenance and other causes.

All of our facilities will generally be subject to the risk that operations could be halted for a temporary or extended period of time, as the result of casualty, forces of nature, mechanical failure, or extended or extraordinary maintenance, among other causes. In addition, our gaming operations could be damaged or halted due to extreme weather conditions. These risks are particularly pronounced at our riverboat and dockside facilities because of their locations on and adjacent to water.

Our reliance on our computer systems and software could expose us to great financial harm if any of our computer systems or software were subject to any material disruption or corruption.



We rely significantly on our computer systems and software to receive and properly process internal and external data, including data related to our player loyalty program. A disruption or corruption of the proper functioning of our computer systems or software could cause us to lose data or record erroneous data, which could result in material losses. We cannot guarantee that our efforts to maintain competitive computer systems and software will be successful. Our computer systems and software may fail or be subject to bugs or other errors, resulting in service interruptions or other unintended consequences. If any of these risks materialize, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.








We are or may become involved in legal proceedings that, if adversely adjudicated or settled, could impact our business and financial condition.

From time to time, we are named in lawsuits or other legal proceedings relating to our respective businesses. In particular, the nature of our business subjects us to the risk of lawsuits filed by customers, past and present employees, competitors, business partners and others in the ordinary course of business. As with all legal proceedings, no assurances can be given as to the outcome of these matters. Moreover, legal proceedings can be expensive and time consuming, and we may not be successful in defending or prosecuting these lawsuits, which could result in settlements or damages that could significantly impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Our information technology and other systems are subject to cyber security risk including misappropriation of customer information or other breaches of information security.

In addition, third party service providers and other business partners process and maintain proprietary business information and data related to our guests, suppliers and other business partners. Our information technology and other systems that maintain and transmit this information, or those of service providers or business partners, may also be compromised by a malicious third-party penetration of our network security or that of a third party service provider or business partner, or impacted by intentional or unintentional actions or inactions by our employees or those of a third party service provider or business partner. As a result, our business information, guest, supplier and other business partner data may be lost, disclosed, accessed or taken without their consent.

Any such loss, disclosure or misappropriation of, or access to, guests’ or business partners’ information or other breach of our information security can result in legal claims or legal proceedings, including regulatory investigations and actions, may have a serious impact on our reputation and may adversely affect our businesses, operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, the loss, disclosure or misappropriation of our business information may adversely affect our reputation, businesses, operating results and financial condition.

Our operations are vulnerable to fraud and cheating.

To increase winnings, gaming customers of ours may attempt or commit fraud or cheat. Such attempts could involve tactics including the use of counterfeit chips, possibly in collusion with our employees. Internal acts of cheating could also be conducted by employees through collusion with dealers, surveillance staff, floor managers or other casino or gaming area staff. Our failure to discover such acts or schemes in a timely manner could result in losses in our gaming operations. Moreover, our reputation could be adversely affected by negative publicity related to such schemes, potentially causing a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.






Our operations have historically been subject to seasonal variations and quarterly fluctuations in operating results, and we can expect to experience such variations and fluctuations in the future.

Historically, our operations have typically been subject to seasonal variations. Our strongest operating results for our Reno properties have generally occurred in the second and third quarters and the weakest results have generally occurred during the period from November through February when weather conditions adversely affected operating results. Winter conditions can frequently adversely affect transportation routes to Reno, where a significant of our visitors arrive by ground transportation, and certain of our other properties and cause cancellations of live horse racing. For example, the Reno-Tahoe area experienced exceptionally high levels of snowfall in the first quarter of 2017, with certain resorts in the Tahoe area reporting over 50 feet of snowfall during such time, which adversely affected visitation to our Reno properties and adversely affected our results of operations for the first quarter of 2017. As a result, unfavorable seasonal conditions could have a material adverse effect on our operations.

Theconcentrationand evolution of the slot machine manufacturing industry could impose additional costs on us.

There are a limited number of slot machine manufacturers servicing the gaming industry and a large majority of our revenues are derived from slot machines at our casinos. It is important, for competitive reasons, that we offer the most popular and up-to-date slot machine games with the latest technology to customers.

In recent years, slot machine manufacturers have frequently refused to sell slot machines featuring the most popular games, instead requiring participating lease arrangements. Generally, a participating lease is substantially more expensive over the long-term than the cost to purchase a new slot machine.

For competitive reasons, we may be forced to acquire new slot machines, slot machine systems or gaming and hotel technology and equipment, or enter into participating lease arrangements, that are more expensive than our costs associated with the continued operation of our existing slot machines, equipment and software. If the newer slot machines, equipment or software do not result in sufficient incremental revenues to offset the increased investment, or if we are unable to successfully implement new software or technology, it could adversely affect our operations and profitability.

We face risks associated with growth and acquisitions.

We have grown our operations through a number of strategic acquisitions and we expect that we will continue to evaluate opportunities for growth in existing or new markets, through acquiring or developing other gaming entertainment facilities or redeveloping our existing gaming facilities. In the future, we may also pursue expansion opportunities, including joint ventures, in jurisdictions where casino gaming is not currently permitted in order to be prepared to develop projects upon approval of casino gaming.

Although we only intend to pursue acquisitions and development opportunities that, if consummated, will be accretive to us and our stockholders, we cannot be sure that we will be able to identify attractive acquisition or development opportunities or that we will experience the return on investment that we expect.In particular, we cannot be sure that we will realize the anticipated synergies and benefits of our acquisitions or that they will be accretive to our results of operations. Our estimates and assumptions regarding expected synergies and benefits of our acquisitions and development projects could materially change due to factors beyond our control and could delay, decrease or eliminate the expected accretive effect of the acquisitions and cause resulting dilution to our earnings per share or negatively impact the price of our common stock

In addition, acquisitions require significant management attention and resources to integrate new properties, businesses and operations. Potential difficulties we may encounter as part of the integration process include:

•the inability to successfully integrate acquired assets in a manner that permits us to achieve the full revenue and other benefits anticipated to result from the acquired operations;

•complexities associated with managing the combined business, including difficulties addressing possible differences in cultures and management philosophies and the challenge of integrating complex systems, technology, networks and other assets of the company in a seamless manner that minimizes any adverse impact on customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies; and

•potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses associated with acquired operations.






In addition, it is possible that the integration process could result in:

•diversion of the attention of our management;

•the disruption of, or the loss of momentum in, our ongoing businesses; and

•inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies;

any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits, or could reduce our earnings or otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results.

There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, acquire, develop or profitably manage additional companies or operations or successfully integrate such companies or operations, into our existing operations without substantial costs, delays or other problems. Additionally, there can be no assurance that we will receive gaming or other necessary licenses or approvals for new projects that we may pursue. In addition, we may from time to time elect to divest properties that we determine are not core to our operations. We cannot be sure that we will be able to sell such non-core assets on terms that result in a return on our investment or at all.

We may experience construction delays or cost overruns during our expansion or development projects that could adversely affect our operations.

we

construction

our

our

Our planned capital expenditures may not result in our expected improvements in our business.

We regularly expend capital to construct, maintain and renovate our properties to remain competitive, maintain the value and brand standards of our properties and comply with applicable laws and regulations. Our ability to realize the expected returns on our capitalinvestmentsis dependent on a number of factors, including general economic conditions; changes to construction plans and specifications; delays in obtaining or inability to obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals; disputes with contractors; disruptions to our business caused by construction; and other unanticipated circumstances or cost increases.

While we believe that the overall budgets for our planned capital expenditures are reasonable, these costs are estimates and the actual costs may be higher than expected. In addition, we can provide no assurance that these investments will be sufficient or that we will realize our expected returns on our capital investments, or any returns at all. A failure to realize our expected returns on capital investments could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We may incur impairments to goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, or long-lived assets, which could negatively affect our operating results.

As of December 31, 2019, we had $2.0 billion of goodwill and other intangible assets. We perform annual impairment testing for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets as of October 1 of each fiscal year, or on an interim basis if indicators of impairment exist. For properties with goodwill and/or other intangible assets with indefinite lives, these tests could require the comparison of the implied fair value of each reporting unit to carrying value.






As a result ofthesaleofcertain non-operating realpropertylocated in Pennsylvania, the Company recognized an impairment charge of $1.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2019.

During the third quarter of 2018, as a result of the announced sale to Churchill Downs Incorporated combined with the classification of Vicksburg’s operations as assets held for sale, an impairment charge totaling $9.8 million was recorded due to the carrying value exceeding the estimated net sales proceeds. The impairment reduced the value of goodwill. Additionally, in conjunction with the agreement to sell our rights and obligations to operate Nemacolin, an impairment charge totaling $3.8 million was recorded in 2018 due to the carrying value of the property and equipment being sold exceeding the estimated net sales proceeds.

During the fourth quarter of 2017, we recorded an impairment charge totaling $38.0 million to reduce the carrying value of goodwill and/or trade names related to our Lake Charles, Lula and Vicksburg reporting units.

We must make various assumptions and estimates in performing our impairment testing.  Our qualitative assessments including assumptions regarding market and industry conditions and our financial performance. Our quantitative assessment relies on estimates of future cash flows that are based on reasonable and supportable assumptions which represent our best estimates of the cash flows expected to result from the use of the assets including their eventual disposition and by a market approach based upon valuation multiples for similar companies. Changes in estimates or market conditions, increases in our cost of capital, reductions in transaction multiples, operating and capital expenditure assumptions or application of alternative assumptions and definitions, could produce significantly different results.

We also evaluate long-lived assets for impairment if indicators of impairment exist. In assessing the recoverability of the carrying value of such property, equipment and other long-lived assets, we make assumptions regarding future cash flows and residual values.

Future cash flow estimates are, by their nature, subjective and actual results may differ materially from our estimates. If our ongoing estimates of future cash flows are not met, we may have to record additional impairment charges in future accounting periods. Our estimates of cash flows are based on the current regulatory, social and economic climates, recent operating information and budgets and current operating plans of the various properties where we conduct operations. These estimates could be negatively impacted by changes in federal, state or local regulations, economic downturns, internal operating decisions or other events affecting various forms of travel and access to our properties.

Risks Related to the Caesars Acquisition

The Merger Agreement subjects us to restrictions on our business activities during the pendency of the Merger.

The Merger Agreement subjects us to restrictions on our business activities and obligates us to generally operate our businesses in the ordinary course in all material respects during the pendency of the Merger absent Caesars’ prior written consent.  These restrictions could prevent us from pursuing attractive business opportunities or responding effectively to competitive pressures and industry developments that arise prior to the consummation of the Merger or termination of the Merger Agreement and are outside the ordinary course of business.  In particular, the Merger Agreement restricts us from making certain acquisitions and dispositions and taking other specified actions absent Caesars’ prior written consent. If we are unable to take actions we believe are beneficial, such restrictions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Delay or failure to consummate the Merger would prevent the Company from realizing the anticipated benefits of the Merger and the Company would also remain liable for significant transaction costs.

Any delay in consummating the Merger may increase the cash portion of the Merger Consideration and adversely impact the combined company’s ability to realize synergies and other benefits that are anticipated if the Merger is consummated within the expected timeframe.  In particular, if the applicable closing conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement are not satisfiedby March 25, 2020, the amount of cash payable by us as Merger Consideration per share of Caesars common stock will increase by $0.003333 for each day from March 25, 2020 until the closing date of the Merger.  In addition, the market price of our common stock may reflect various market assumptions as to whether and when the Merger will be consummated.  Consequently, the failure to consummate, or any delay in the consummation of, the Merger could result in significant changes in the market price of our common stock.  In addition, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs relating to the Merger, such as debt commitment, ticking, legal, accounting, financial advisor and other fees, and, to the extent that the Debt Financing (as defined herein) is incurred prior to consummation of the Merger, interest expense, in each case, that may increase in the event that the consummation of the Merger is delayed and will be payable in






the event that the Merger is not consummated.  For example, we may elect to issue all or a portion of the Debt Financing (other than the commitments for our new revolving credit facility or 364-day secured bridge facility) into escrow pending consummation of the Merger and satisfaction of the other closing conditions,  and, pursuant to theamended and restated commitment letter (as amended,the “A&R Commitment Letter”)and the related fee letters for the merger financing and subject to the conditions set forth therein, the lenders have the right to require us (or our unrestricted subsidiary) to issue all or a portion of the Debt Financing(other than the commitments for our new revolving credit facility or 364-day secured bridge facility) into escrow pending consummation of the Merger and satisfaction of the other closing conditionsif it has not otherwise closed prior to March 31, 2020. Issuance of all or any portion of the Debt Financing prior to the closing of the Merger would cause us toincuradditional interest expense prior to consummation of the Merger, which may result in significant additional cost to us.Moreover, if the Merger Agreement is terminated in certain circumstances, we will be obligated to pay a termination fee to Caesarsofapproximately $836.8 million.  Further, in the event the MTA is terminated because the Merger Agreement is terminated, we are required to pay VICI a fee of $75.0 million pursuant to the terms of the MTA.

Whether or not the Merger is consummated, the pendency of the Merger could cause disruptions in our business, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

The pendency of the Merger could cause disruptions in our business, including the following:

•our current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company following the Merger or consider other employment alternatives, which might adversely affect our ability to retain or attract key managers and other employees, and current employees of ours may lose productivity as a result of such uncertainty;

•our current and prospective customers may anticipate changes in how they are served or the benefits offered by our loyalty reward programs and may, as a result, choose to discontinue their patronage;

•current and prospective suppliers or other business relations of ours may delay or defer certain business decisions or may seek to terminate, change or renegotiate their relationship or key commercial agreements with us, or not to establish a relationship with us, as a result of the Merger; and

•the attention of our management and key employees may be diverted from the operation of our business toward the consummation of the Merger.



If any of these disruptions were to occur, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and result of operation.

Obtaining required approvals and satisfying closing conditions may delay or prevent consummation of the Merger.

Consummation of the Merger is subject to various closing conditions, including, among others, (i) the expiration or termination of any applicable waiting period under the HSR Act and receipt of required gaming approvals, (ii) the absence of any governmental order or law prohibiting the consummation of the Merger, (iii) adoption of the Merger Agreement by holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Caesars common stock entitled to vote, (iv) the approval by our stockholders of the issuance of shares of our common stock in the Merger (the “Share Issuance”), (v) the effectiveness of the registration statement for our common stock to be issued in the Merger and the authorization for listing of those shares on the Nasdaq Stock Market, (vi) absence of a material adverse effect on the other party, (vii) the accuracy of the other party’s representations and warranties, subject to customary materiality standards, (viii) compliance of the other party with its respective covenants under the Merger Agreement in all material respects and (ix) conversion or certain amendments of, or another mutually agreed arrangement with respect to, Caesars’ 5.00% convertible senior notes due 2024.  The Caesars stockholders approved the Merger Agreement and our stockholders approved the Share Issuance at separate stockholder meetings held on November 15, 2019, and the amendments to the Caesars 5% Convertible Senior Notes due 2024 have been approved.

If the remaining conditions are not satisfied, the Merger will not be consummated unless such conditions are validly waived.  Such conditions may jeopardize or delay consummation of the Merger or may reduce the anticipated benefits of the Merger.  Further, no assurance can be given that the required approvals will be obtained or that the conditions to closing will be satisfied.  Even if all such approvals are obtained, no assurance can be given as to the terms, conditions and timing of such approvals or that they will satisfy the terms of the Merger Agreement.  If the Merger is not consummated by June 24, 2020 (as may be extended to a date no later than December 24, 2020 upon satisfaction of certain conditions to extension set forth in the Merger Agreement), either we or Caesars may terminate the Merger Agreement, and under certain circumstances as set forth in the Merger Agreement, we may be required to pay Caesars a termination fee as a result of such termination.






The Merger is subject to the receipt of governmental approvals that may impose conditions that could have an adverse effect on us or, if not obtained, could prevent consummation of the Merger or, in some circumstances, require us to pay Caesars a termination fee of approximately $836.8 million.

Antitrust approvals that are required to consummate the Merger may not be received, may take longer than expected or may impose conditions, including the requirement to divest assets, that could have an adverse effect on the combined company following the Merger.

Under the provisions of the HSR Act, the Merger may not be consummated until filings are made with the Antitrust Division of the DOJ and the FTC and the expiration of a 30-calendar day waiting period, or the early termination of that waiting period, following the parties’ filings.  We and Caesars filed our respective notification and report forms under the HSR Act on July 16, 2019.  On August 15, 2019, we withdrew our notification and report form and re-filed the same on August 19, 2019, which began a new 30-day waiting period. On September 18, 2019, each of we and Caesars received a Request for Additional Information and Documentary Material (a “Second Request”) from the FTC in connection with the FTC’s review of the Merger, which extends the waiting period until 30 days after both parties have substantially complied with the Second Request, unless the FTC early terminates the additional waiting period or the parties otherwise agree not to consummate the Merger for a period of time after substantial compliance. We and Caesars are working with the FTC to complete its investigation as soon as practicable.

In addition, private parties who may be adversely affected by the Merger and individual states may bring legal actions under the antitrust laws in certain circumstances.  Although we and Caesars believe the consummation of the Merger will not likely be prevented by antitrust laws, there can be no assurance that a challenge to the Merger on antitrust grounds will not be made or, if a challenge is made, what the result will be.  Under the Merger Agreement, we and Caesars have agreed to use our reasonable best efforts to obtain all regulatory clearances necessary to consummate the Merger at the earliest practicable date.

In addition, in order to consummate the Merger, we and Caesars may be required to comply with conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions imposed by antitrust, gaming and other regulatory entities, including divestitures, and such conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions may have the effect of delaying consummation of the Merger, imposing additional material costs on or materially limiting the revenue of the combined company after the consummation of the Merger, or otherwise reducing the anticipated benefits to us of the Merger.  Such conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions may result in the delay or abandonment of the Merger.

Gaming regulatory approvals may not be received, may take longer than expected or may impose conditions that are not presently anticipated or cannot be met.

Consummation of the Merger is conditioned on the receipt of approvals from a number of gaming regulatory authorities, including, among others, the Ak Chin Community Tribal Gaming Commission, the Arizona Department of Gaming, the Cherokee Tribal Gaming Commission, the Colorado Division of Gaming, the Illinois Gaming Board, the Indiana Gaming Commission, the Indiana Horse Racing Commission, the Iowa Racing and Gaming Commission, the Kentucky Horse Racing Commission, the Louisiana Gaming Control Board, the Louisiana State Racing Commission, the Maryland Lottery and Gaming Control Agency, the Mississippi Gaming Commission, the Missouri Gaming Commission, the National Indian Gaming Commission, the Nevada Gaming Commission, the New Jersey Casino Control Commission, the New Jersey Division of Gaming Enforcement, the Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board, the Pennsylvania State Horse Racing






There can be no assurance that we will be able to secure the financing in connection with the Merger, including, without limitation, the proceeds from the transactions with VICI contemplated by the MTA, and the transactions contemplated by the A&R Commitment Letter on acceptable terms, in a timely manner, or at all.

Pursuant to the MTA, we have agreed, among other things and subject to the consummation of the Merger and the other applicable conditions set forth therein and in any related documents, to (i) through one or more of our subsidiaries (after giving effect to the Merger) to consummate one or more sale and leaseback transactions with VICI and/or its affiliates with respect to certain property described in the MTA, including Harrah’s New Orleans, Harrah’s Laughlin and Harrah’s Atlantic City, (ii) through one or more of our subsidiaries (after giving effect to the Merger) to amend the CPLV Lease, the Non-CPLV Lease and the Joliet Lease (each as defined in the MTA) in accordance with the terms of the MTA and receive certain consideration from VICI or its affiliates in respect thereof, (iii) to provide a guaranty in respect of each of the CPLV Lease, the Non-CPLV Lease and the Joliet Lease in accordance with the terms of the MTA, (iv) to enter into (or cause our subsidiaries (after giving effect to the Merger) to enter






into) certain right of first refusal agreements and a put-call right agreement in accordance with the terms of the MTA and (v) to undertake certain related transactions in connection with or related to the foregoing

.  Consummation of the transactions contemplated by the MTA is subject to satisfaction of those obligations and certain other conditions, including

execution of agreements,

receipt of required regulatory approvals, the accuracy of the representations and warranties, compliance with covenants, delivery of certain closing deliverables and the absence of any governmental order or action seeking to prohibit the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the MTA.

We are currently negotiating the sale leaseback documents, lease amendments and other agreements contemplated by the MTA and cannot assure you as to the timing or outcome of those negotiations with VICI.

Although we expect the transactions contemplated by the MTA to be consummated substantially concurrently with the Merger, there can be no assurance as to the timing of the closing of such transactions or that the closings will occur on the terms set forth in the MTA or at all.  In the event that the

closings of some or all

of the transactions contemplated by the MTA

are

delayed or

do

not occur, we may be required to incur

the 364-day secured bridge facility under

the Debt Financing

or other additional indebtedness

to pay the cash portion of the Merger Consideration, repay our, and certain of Caesars’ and its subsidiaries’, outstanding debt and/or pay transaction fees and expenses related thereto, which could have an adverse impact on the business, financial condition and results of operations of the combined company following the Merger.

The consummation of the Merger is not conditioned on our ability to obtain financing or the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the MTA.  If we are unable to obtain funding contemplated by the A&R Commitment Letter from our financing sources for the cash required in connection with the Merger, we may be compelled to specifically perform our obligations to consummate the Merger or could otherwise be subject to claims under the Merger Agreement, each of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company.



Litigation challenging the Merger could delay or prevent the consummation of the Merger.

The Merger Agreement contains provisions that limit our ability to pursue alternatives to the Merger, could discourage a potential competing acquiror of ours from making a favorable alternative transaction proposal and, in specified circumstances, could require us to pay Caesars a termination fee.

The Merger Agreement contains certain provisions that restrict our ability to solicit, initiate, knowingly facilitate or knowingly encourage any inquiries regarding, or the making of any proposal or offer that constitutes, or would reasonably be expected to lead to, a competing proposal, engage, continue or otherwise participate in any substantive discussions or negotiations regarding, or furnish any non-public information to any person in connection with or for the purpose of encouraging or facilitating, a competing proposal.

These provisions could discourage a potential third-party acquiror or merger partner that might have an interest in acquiring all or a significant portion of the Company or pursuing an alternative transaction with the Company from considering or proposing such a transaction.








If the Merger is not consummated, the price of our common stock and our future businesses and operations could be harmed.

If the Merger is not consummated, we will not have realized any of the potential benefits of the Merger having been consummated and may be subject to material risks, including:

•failure to consummate the Merger may result in negative publicity and a negative impression of us in the investment community;

•the diversion of management attention from day-to-day business and the unavoidable disruption to our employees and relationships with customers, vendors, joint venture partners and other third parties as a result of efforts and uncertainties relating to the Merger may detract from our ability to grow revenue and minimize costs, which, in turn, may lead to a loss of market position that we could be unable to regain if the Merger does not occur;

•under the Merger Agreement, we are subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to consummating the Merger, which may affect our ability to execute certain of our business strategies or respond effectively to competitive pressures and industry developments; and

•in certain circumstances, we may be required to pay a termination fee of approximately $836.8 million to Caesars;

•we may be required to pay a $75.0 million termination fee to VICI pursuant to the terms of the MTA if the MTA is terminated as a result of the termination of the Merger Agreement;

•if our board of directors seeks an alternative transaction to the Merger, a potential third-party acquiror or merger partner may propose to pay a lower price to our stockholders as a result of the applicable termination fee and expense reimbursement;

•the price of our common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price of our common stock reflects a higher price than it otherwise would have based on the assumption that the Merger will be consummated;

•we would have incurred significant expenses relating to the Merger that we may be unable to recover; and

•we may be subject to litigation related to the failure to consummate the Merger or to perform our obligations under the Merger Agreement.

The integration of the Company and Caesars following the Merger may present significant challenges.  We cannot be sure that we will be able to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger in the anticipated time frame or at all.

Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate Caesars’ businesses into the Company in the anticipated time frame or at all.  We may face significant challenges in combining Caesars’ operations into our operations in a timely and efficient manner.  The combination of two independent businesses is a complex, costly and time-consuming process.  As a result, we will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of Caesars into those of the Company.  The integration process may disrupt the businesses and, if implemented ineffectively or inefficiently, would preclude realization of the full benefits expected by us and Caesars.  The failure to successfully integrate Caesars into the Company and to manage the challenges presented by the integration process successfully may result in an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the business of the Company, which may have the effect of depressing the market price of our common stock following the Merger.

We may be unable to realize anticipated synergies or may incur additional costs.

We expect to realize cost synergies and savings from the elimination of overlapping functions of Caesars and the Company, reduction of third party professional services and consulting expenses, and other targeted efficiencies. We further anticipate to benefit from revenue synergies. However, we will be required to incur costs, including severance and related expenses, to realize the anticipated synergies. In addition, the amount of synergies realized after consummation of the Merger may be reduced from anticipated levels as a result of cost reduction programs that have been implemented, or may be implemented, by Caesars prior to consummation of the Merger, including Caesars’ previously announced cost saving initiatives which Caesars expects to result in annualized cost savings of at least $75 million.  While our management believes the combined company will benefit from synergies, we may be unable to realize all of these synergies within the time frame expected or at all.  In addition, we may incur additional or unexpected costs in order to realize these synergies.








Unanticipated costs relating to the Merger could reduce our future earnings per share.

We believe that we have reasonably estimated the likely incremental costs of the combined operations of the Company and Caesars following the Merger.  However, it is possible that unexpected transaction costs such as taxes, fees or professional expenses or unexpected future operating expenses such as unanticipated costs to integrate the two businesses or increased personnel costs, as well as other types of unanticipated adverse developments, could have an adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations of the combined company following the Merger.  In addition, if actual costs are materially different than expected costs, the Merger could have a significant dilutive effect on our earnings.

We will have a substantial amount of debt outstanding following the Merger and may incur additional indebtedness in the future, which could restrict our ability to pay dividends and fund working capital and planned capital expenditures.

We expect to enter into the Debt Financing in order to consummate the Merger and refinance our existing syndicated bank credit facilities and senior notes, and a portion of Caesars’ and its subsidiaries’ outstanding indebtedness will remain outstanding following the consummation of the Merger.  As a result, we will have a significant amount of additional indebtedness outstanding following the consummation of the Merger.  In addition, we expect to have the ability to incur additional debt under our anticipated $1.0 billion revolving credit facility and Caesars Resorts Collection, LLC’s existing $1.0 billion revolving credit facility.  We also continually evaluate alternative financing structures and amounts based on our needs and capital markets conditions.  We may be required to incur indebtedness under the 364-day secured bridge facility provided under the Debt Financing or other additional indebtedness to finance the Merger Consideration if the transactions contemplated by the MTA or the previously announced sales of certain of our properties are not consummated prior to or in connection with the consummation of the Merger.  This amount of leverage could have important consequences, including:

•we may be required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make interest and principal payments on our debt, which will reduce funds available for operations, future business opportunities and dividends;

•we may have limited flexibility to react to changes in our business and our industry;

•it may be more difficult for us to satisfy our other obligations;

•we may have a limited ability to borrow additional funds or to sell assets to raise funds if needed for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes;

•we may become more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions and changes in interest rates, including changes in interest rates resulting from the expected discontinuation of LIBOR; and

•we may be at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt.

Future interest expense will be significantly higher than historic interest expense as a result of higher levels of indebtedness incurred to consummate the Merger.  Our ability to make payments on our debt and potential to pay dividends on our common stock, which we have not historically done, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future, which will depend on many factors beyond our control.  We cannot assure you that:

•our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service and repay our debt, pay dividends on our common stock and fund working capital and planned capital expenditures;

•future borrowings will be available under our credit facilities or any future credit facilities in an amount sufficient to enable it to repay our debt, pay dividends on our common stock and fund working capital and planned capital expenditures; or

•it will be able to refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all.

If we cannot generate sufficient cash from our operations to meet our debt service obligations, we may need to reduce or delay capital expenditures, the development of our business generally and any acquisitions.  If we become unable to meet our debt service and repayment obligations (or those of our subsidiaries following the Merger), we (or our applicable subsidiaries) would be in default under the terms of the applicable credit agreement or indenture, which would allow our lenders or noteholders to declare all outstanding indebtedness thereunder to be due and payable and terminate any commitments to lend thereunder.  If the amounts outstanding under our (or our subsidiaries’) credit facilities or indentures were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that our (or our subsidiaries’) assets would be sufficient to repay in full the money owed.






Following consummation of the Merger and the transactions contemplated by the MTA, we and our subsidiaries will be required to pay a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to third parties pursuant to leasing and related arrangements.

The Company and Caesars currently lease certain parcels of land on which several of their respective properties are located and, pursuant to the terms of MTA, are expected to enter into leases with VICI with respect to parcels of land on which Harrah’s New Orleans, Harrah’s Laughlin and Harrah’s Atlantic City are located and will increase the lease rate on an existing lease agreement between a subsidiary of Caesars and VICI, which will require our subsidiaries that are parties to such leases to apply a significant amount of their cash flow to required rental payments. These leases also are expected to require certain levels of capital expenditures to be made on the properties leased under these leases on an ongoing basis.  As a result of the obligation to pay rent and make capital expenditures under the new and existing leases, the ability of the combined company to fund its operations or development projects, raise capital, make acquisitions and otherwise respond to competitive and economic changes may be adversely affected.  For example, the obligations under these lease agreements may:

•make it more difficult for the combined company to satisfy its obligations with respect to its (or its subsidiaries’) indebtedness and to obtain additional indebtedness;

•increase vulnerability to general or regional adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in the combined company’s business;

•require the combined company to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to making lease payments and capital expenditures associated with the leased assets, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures associated with non-leased assets and other general corporate purposes and acquisitions;

•limit flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the combined company’s business and the industry in which it operates; and

•restrict the combined company’s ability to raise capital, make acquisitions and divestitures and engage in other significant transactions.

In addition, the annual rent escalations under these lease agreements will continue to apply regardless of the amount of cash flows generated by the properties that are subject to these lease agreements. Accordingly, if the cash flows generated by such properties decrease, or do not increase at the same rate as the rent escalations, the rents payable under these lease agreements could comprise a higher percentage of the cash flows generated by the applicable entity, which could exacerbate, perhaps materially, the issues described above.  Any of the above listed factors could have an adverse effect on the combined company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.

Moreover, if the combined company were to default on any one or more of these lease agreements, the applicable lessors could terminate the affected leases and we could lose possession of the land leased under the affected leases and any improvements on that land, including the hotels and casinos. A termination of these lease agreements could result in a default under the Company’s (or its subsidiaries’) applicable credit agreements, which would allow its lenders to declare all outstanding borrowings to be due and payable and terminate any commitments thereunder, and could have a material adverse effect on the combined company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.

The guaranties to be entered into by us in connection with the existing and new leases with VICI will include covenants that may restrict our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our shares following the Merger.

We will guaranty the obligations of our subsidiaries under the existing and new leases with VICI pursuant to which our subsidiaries will lease certain parcels of land on which several of their respective properties are located.  These guaranties will include covenants, which, among other things, may restrict our ability to pay dividends or repurchase our shares if our market capitalization is less than $5.5 billion, and may restrict our ability to make non-cash dividends, in each case, following the Merger.






Delay or failure to consummate the sale of our properties previously announced by us may require us to incur additional debt to pay the cash portion of the Merger Consideration or to repay our outstanding indebtedness or otherwise adversely impact the business, financial condition and results of operations of the combined company following the Merger.

On July 10, 2019, we entered into an agreement to sell Isle of Capri Casino Kansas City and Lady Luck Casino Vicksburg for aggregate consideration of $230.0 million, subject to certain adjustments.  The consummation of the transaction is subject to satisfaction of customary conditions, including receipt of required regulatory approvals, the accuracy of the parties’ representations and warranties, compliance with covenants, delivery of certain closing deliverables and the absence of any governmental order or action seeking to prohibit the consummation of the transaction.  Although we expect such sale transaction to be consummated prior to consummation of the Merger, there can be no assurance as to the timing of the closing of such sales or that the closings will occur on the terms set forth in the purchase agreements relating to the sales, or at all.  In the event that the closing of either sale is delayed or does not occur, we may be required to incur the 364-day secured bridge facility under the Debt Financing or other additional indebtedness to pay the cash portion of the Merger Consideration, to repay our, and certain of Caesars’ and its subsidiaries’, outstanding debt and/or to pay transaction fees and expenses related thereto, which could adversely impact the business, financial condition and results of operations of the combined company following the Merger.

On September 26, 2019, ERI and VICI entered into the Real Estate Purchase Agreements for the sale of Harrah’s New Orleans, Harrah’s Laughlin and Harrah’s Atlantic City for aggregate consideration of approximately $1.8 billion, subject to satisfaction of customary conditions, including receipt of required regulatory approvals.  In the event that the closing of any of the sales is delayed or does not occur within a certain timeframe, we may be required to incur the 364-day secured bridge facility under the Debt Financing or other additional indebtedness to pay the cash portion of the Merger Consideration, to repay our, and certain of Caesars’ and its subsidiaries, outstanding debt and/or to pay transaction fees and expenses related thereto, which could adversely impact the business, financial condition and results of operations of the combined company following the Merger.



On January 13, 2020, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell Eldorado Resort Casino Shreveport for cash consideration of approximately $230 million,subject to certain adjustments.  The consummation of the transactionis subject to receipt of required regulatory approvals, the prior or concurrent closing of the Merger and other customary conditions.

A substantial amount of Caesars’ net operating loss carryforwards may be used as a result of transactions relating to the Merger, and ERI’s ability to use any remaining net operating loss carryforwards may become limited as a result of the Merger.

applicable to that ownership change

If certain updates to the proposed regulations apply, it is not expected that the proposed regulations would be applicable to the Merger






Risks Related to our Capital Structure and Equity Ownership

Our obligations under our indebtedness and Master Lease are significant.

As of December 31, 2019, we had $2.6 billion of total indebtedness outstanding consisting of $498.8million outstanding under our term loan facility (the“Term Loan Facility” or“Term Loan”), $600 million in aggregate principal amount of outstanding 6.0% senior notes due 2026 (the “6% Senior Notes due 2026”), $875.0 million in aggregate principal amount of outstanding 6.0% senior notes due 2025 (the “6% Senior Notes due 2025”), $375.0 million in aggregate principal amount of outstanding 7.0% senior notes due 2023 (the “7% Senior Notes due 2023”) and $246.0 million of principal outstanding under our loan to fund the $246 million purchase of the real estate underlying Lumière (“Lumière Loan”). As of December 31, 2019, we had no outstanding balance under our $500.0 million revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility” and, together with the Term Loan, the “Credit Facility”). In addition, our annual rent payment under the Master Lease is at least $88.9million and is subject to annual escalation.  These financial obligations may have important negative consequences for us, including:

•limiting our ability to satisfy our obligations;

•increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;

•limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the markets in which we operate;

•placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt;

•increasing our vulnerability to, and limiting our ability to react to, changing market conditions, changes in our industry and economic downturns;

•limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures, debt service, acquisitions, general corporate or other obligations;

•subjecting us to a number of restrictive covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to pay dividends and distributions, make acquisitions and dispositions, borrow additional funds and make capital expenditures and other investments;

•restricting our and our wholly-owned subsidiaries ability to make dividend payments and other payments;

•limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must dedicate a significant portion of these funds to make principal and/or interest payments on our outstanding debt;

•exposing us to interest rate risk due to the variable interest rate on borrowings under our Credit Facility;

•causing our failure to comply with the financial and restrictive covenants contained in our current or future indebtedness, which could cause a default under such indebtedness and which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us; and

•affecting our ability to renew gaming and other licenses necessary to conduct our business.

In addition, the Master Lease requires us to make specific minimum investments in capital expenditures and, subject to certain caps, the rent escalations under the Master Lease will continue to apply regardless of the cash flows generated by the properties subject to the Master Lease and the obligations under the Master Lease are guaranteed by ERI.  If the cash flows generated by the leased properties decrease, or do not increase at the same rate as the rent escalations, the rent payable under the Master Lease and required capital expenditures could constitute a higher percentage of cash flows generated by the leased properties, which could materially exacerbate the consequences described above.






Our debt obligations will substantially increase following the Merger and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future, which could restrict our ability to pay dividends and fund working capital and planned capital expenditures.

We expect to enter into the Debt Financing in order to consummate the Merger and refinance our existing syndicated bank credit facilities and senior notes, and a portion of Caesars’ and its subsidiaries’ outstanding indebtedness will remain outstanding following the consummation of the Merger.  As a result, we will have a significant amount of additional indebtedness outstanding following the consummation of the Merger.  In addition, we expect to have the ability to incur additional debt under its anticipated $1.0 billion revolving credit facility and Caesars Resorts Collection, LLC’s existing $1.0 billion revolving credit facility.  We also continually evaluate alternative financing structures and amounts based on our needs and capital markets conditions.  We may be required to incur indebtedness under the 364-day secured bridge facility provided under the Debt Financing or other additional indebtedness to finance the Merger Consideration if the transactions contemplated by the MTA or the previously announced sales of certain of our properties are not consummated prior to or in connection with the consummation of the Merger.  This amount of leverage could have important consequences, including:

•We may be required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make interest and principal payments on our debt, which will reduce funds available for operations, future business opportunities and dividends;

•We may have limited flexibility to react to changes in our business and our industry;

•it may be more difficult for us to satisfy our other obligations;

•We may have a limited ability to borrow additional funds or to sell assets to raise funds if needed for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes;

•We may become more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions and changes in interest rates, including changes in interest rates resulting from the expected discontinuation of LIBOR; and

•We may be at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt.

Future interest expense will be significantly higher than historic interest expense as a result of higher levels of indebtedness incurred to consummate the Merger.  Our ability to make payments on our debt and potential to pay dividends on our common stock, which we have not historically done, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future, which will depend on many factors beyond our control.  We cannot assure you that:

•our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service and repay our debt, pay dividends on our common stock and fund working capital and planned capital expenditures;

•future borrowings will be available under our credit facilities or any future credit facilities in an amount sufficient to enable it to repay our debt, pay dividends on our common stock and fund working capital and planned capital expenditures; or

•we will be able to refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all.

If we cannot generate sufficient cash from our operations to meet our debt service obligations, we may need to reduce or delay capital expenditures, the development of our business generally and any acquisitions.  If we become unable to meet our debt service and repayment obligations (or those of our subsidiaries following the Merger), we (or our applicable subsidiaries) would be in default under the terms of the applicable credit agreement or indenture, which would allow our lenders or noteholders to declare all outstanding indebtedness thereunder to be due and payable and terminate any commitments to lend thereunder.  If the amounts outstanding under our (or our subsidiaries’) credit facilities or indentures were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that our (or our subsidiaries’) assets would be sufficient to repay in full the money owed.

Despite our current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may still incur significant additional indebtedness. Incurring more indebtedness could increase the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness.

We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness, including additional secured indebtedness, and may enter into financing obligations similar to the Master Lease in the future. As of December 31, 2019, we had $482.0million of borrowing capacity, after consideration of $18.0 million in outstanding letters of credit, under our Credit Facility. Our existing debt agreements currently permit, and we expect that agreements governing debt that we incur in the future will permit, us to incur certain other additional secured and unsecured debt. Further, we may incur other liabilities that do not constitute indebtedness. The risks that we face based on our outstanding indebtedness may intensify if we incur additional indebtedness or financing obligations in the future.






The LIBOR calculation method may change and LIBOR is expected to be phased out after 2021.

Our credit facility calculates interest on the outstanding principal balance using LIBOR. On July 27, 2017, the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority (the “FCA”) announced it would phase out LIBOR as a benchmark by the end of 2021. In the meantime, actions by the FCA, other regulators or law enforcement agencies may result in changes to the method by which LIBOR is calculated. At this time, it is not possible to predict the effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of any such changes or any other reforms to LIBOR that may be enacted in the United Kingdom or elsewhere.

We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and pay rent under the Master Lease and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.

Our ability to satisfy our rent obligations under the Master Lease and make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay rent under the Master Lease and the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness.

If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service and rent obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service and rent obligations. If our operating results and available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service and rent obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them, and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Additionally, the agreements governing our existing debt restrict sales of assets and limit the use of the proceeds from any disposition and our Master Lease limits our ability to dispose of leased properties; as a result, we may not be allowed, under these documents, to dispose of certain of our properties and use proceeds from such dispositions to satisfy all current debt service obligations.

The agreements governing our debt and the Master Lease impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities.

The agreements governing our existing debt impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability, among other things, to:

•incur additional debt;

•create liens or other encumbrances;

•pay dividends or make other restricted payments;

•agree to payment restrictions affecting our restricted subsidiaries;

•prepay subordinated indebtedness;

•make investments, loans or other guarantees;

•sell or otherwise dispose of a portion of our assets; or

•make acquisitions or merge or consolidate with another entity.

In addition, the credit agreement governing the Credit Facility contains certain financial covenants, including minimum interest coverage ratio and maximum total leverage ratio covenants.

A failure to comply with the covenants contained in the agreements governing our existing or future indebtedness could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of the indebtedness and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our indebtedness were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full. Moreover, in the event that such indebtedness is accelerated, there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance it on acceptable terms, or at all.






In addition, our Master Lease imposes restrictions on the business activities of the tenant, including restrictions on transfers of leased properties, requirements to make minimum specified levels of capital expenditures and limitations on the operation of the leased properties.  The Master Lease also restricts payments of dividends if the tenant does not meet the specified minimum adjusted revenue to rent ratio.

As a result of these covenants and restrictions, we are limited in how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. The restrictions caused by such covenants could also place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors.

The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly.

The U.S. securities markets in general have experienced significant price fluctuations in recent years. The market price of our common stock may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume of our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. Some of the factors that could cause fluctuations in, or have a material adverse effect on, the stock price or trading volume of our common stock include:

•general market and economic conditions, including market conditions in the hotel and casino industries;

•actual or expected variations in operating results;

•differences between actual operating results and those expected by investors and analysts;

•changes in recommendations by securities analysts;

•operations and stock performance of competitors;

•accounting charges, including charges relating to the impairment of goodwill;

•significant acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or by competitors;

•sales of our common stock or other securities in the future, including sales by our directors and officers or significant investors;

•recruitment or departure of key personnel;

•conditions and trends in the gaming and entertainment industries;

•changes in the estimate of the future size and growth of our markets; and

•changes in reserves for professional liability claims.

We cannot assure you that the stock price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. In addition, the stock market in general can experience considerable price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated to our performance. If the market price of our common stock fluctuates significantly, we may become the subject of securities class action litigation which may result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources.

We have not historically paid dividends and may not pay dividends in the future.

We do not currently expect to pay dividends on our common stock. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon among other factors, our earnings, cash requirements, financial condition, requirements to comply with the covenants under our debt instruments, legal considerations, and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. In addition, the agreements governing our indebtedness restrict its ability to pay dividends. If we do not pay dividends, then the return on an investment in our common stock will depend entirely upon any future appreciation in our stock price. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or maintain its value.

