Item 1.Business.



YUM! Brands, Inc. (referred to herein as “YUM”, the “Registrant” or the “Company”), was incorporated under the laws of the state of North Carolina in 1997.  The principal executive offices of YUM are located at 1441 Gardiner Lane, Louisville, Kentucky  40213, and the telephone number at that location is (502) 874-8300.



YUM, together with its subsidiaries, is referred to in this Form 10-K annual report (“Form 10-K”) as the Company.  The terms “we,” “us” and “our” are also used in the Form 10-K to refer to the Company.  Throughout this Form 10-K, the terms “restaurants,” “stores” and “units” are used interchangeably.



This Form 10-K should be read in conjunction with the Forward-Looking Statements on page 2 and the Risk Factors set forth in Item 1A.



(a)General Development of Business



In January 1997, PepsiCo announced its decision to spin-off its restaurant businesses to shareholders as an independent public company (the “Spin-off”).  Effective October 6, 1997, PepsiCo disposed of its restaurant businesses by distributing all of the outstanding shares of Common Stock of YUM to its shareholders.  On May 16, 2002, following receipt of shareholder approval, the Company changed its name from TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc. to YUM! Brands, Inc.



(b)Financial Information about Operating Segments



YUM consists of six operating segments:  KFC-U.S., Pizza Hut-U.S., Taco Bell-U.S., Long John Silver’s (“LJS”)-U.S. and A&W All American Food Restaurants (“A&W”)-U.S., YUM Restaurants International (“YRI” or “International Division”) and YUM Restaurants China (“China Division”).  For financial reporting purposes, management considers the four U.S. operating segments to be similar and, therefore, has aggregated them into a single reportable operating segment (“U.S.”).  At the beginning of 2010 we began reporting information for our Thailand and KFC Taiwan businesses within our International Division as a result of changes to our management reporting structure.  These businesses now report to the President of YRI, 
whereas previously they reported to the President of the China Division.  While this reporting change did not impact our consolidated results, segment information for previous years has been restated to be consistent with the current year presentation throughout the Form 10-K.  The China Division includes only mainland China (“China”) and the International Division includes the remainder of our international operations.



Operating segment information for the years ended December 25, 2010, December 26, 2009 and December 27, 2008 for the Company is included in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) in Part II, Item 7, pages 25 through 59 and in the related Consolidated Financial Statements and footnotes in Part II, Item 8, pages 61 through 124.



(c)Narrative Description of Business



General



YUM is the world’s largest quick service restaurant (“QSR”) company based on number of system units, with more than 37,000 units in more than 110 countries and territories.  Through the five concepts of KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell, LJS and A&W (the “Concepts”), the Company develops, operates, franchises and licenses a worldwide system of restaurants which prepare, package and sell a menu of competitively priced food items.  Units are operated by a Concept or by independent franchisees or licensees under the terms of franchise or license agreements.  Franchisees can range in size from individuals owning just one unit to large publicly traded companies.  In addition, the Company owns non-controlling interests in entities in China who operate similar to franchisees of
 KFC and a non-controlling interest in Little Sheep, a Hot Pot concept headquartered in Hong Kong.






At year end 2010, we had approximately 20,000 system restaurants in the U.S. and recorded revenues of $4.1 billion and Operating Profit of $668 million during 2010.  The International Division, based in Dallas, Texas, comprises approximately 14,000 system restaurants, primarily KFCs and Pizza Huts, operating in over 110 countries outside the U.S.  In 2010 YRI recorded revenues of $3.1 billion and Operating Profit of $589 million.  The China Division, based in Shanghai, China, comprises approximately 4,000 system restaurants in China, primarily KFCs and Pizza Huts.  In 2010, the China Division recorded revenues of $4.1 billion and Operating Profit of $755 million.



Restaurant Concepts



Most restaurants in each Concept offer consumers the ability to dine in and/or carry out food.  In addition, Taco Bell, KFC, LJS and A&W offer a drive-thru option in many stores.  Pizza Hut offers a drive-thru option on a much more limited basis.  Pizza Hut and, on a much more limited basis, KFC offer delivery service.



Each Concept has proprietary menu items and emphasizes the preparation of food with high quality ingredients, as well as unique recipes and special seasonings to provide appealing, tasty and attractive food at competitive prices.



The franchise program of the Company is designed to assure consistency and quality, and the Company is selective in granting franchises.  Under standard franchise agreements, franchisees supply capital – initially by paying a franchise fee to YUM, purchasing or leasing the land, building and equipment and purchasing signs, seating, inventories and supplies and, over the longer term, by reinvesting in the business.  Franchisees then contribute to the Company’s revenues through the payment of royalties based on a percentage of sales.



The Company believes that it is important to maintain strong and open relationships with its franchisees and their representatives.  To this end, the Company invests a significant amount of time working with the franchisee community and their representative organizations on all aspects of the business, including products, equipment, operational improvements and standards and management techniques.



The Company and its franchisees also operate multibrand units, primarily in the U.S., where two or more of the Concepts are operated in a single unit.



Following is a brief description of each concept:



KFC



·KFC was founded in Corbin, Kentucky by Colonel Harland D. Sanders, an early developer of the quick service food business and a pioneer of the restaurant franchise concept.  The Colonel perfected his secret blend of 11 herbs and spices for Kentucky Fried Chicken in 1939 and signed up his first franchisee in 1952.·As of year end 2010, KFC was the leader in the U.S. chicken QSR segment among companies featuring chicken-on-the-bone as their primary product offering, with a 40 percent market share (Source: The NPD Group, Inc.; NPD Foodworld; CREST) in that segment, which is nearly three times that of its closest national competitor.·KFC operates in 110 countries and territories throughout the world.  As of year end 2010, KFC had 5,055 units in the U.S., and 11,798 units outside the U.S., including 3,244 units in China.  Approximately 15 percent of the U.S. units and 29 percent of the non-U.S. units are Concept-owned.










·Traditional KFC restaurants in the U.S. offer fried and non-fried chicken-on-the-bone products, primarily marketed under the names Original Recipe, Extra Tasty Crispy and Kentucky Grilled Chicken.  Other principal entree items include chicken sandwiches (including the Snacker and the Twister), KFC Famous Bowls, Colonel’s Crispy Strips, Wings, Popcorn Chicken and seasonally, Chunky Chicken Pot Pies.  KFC restaurants in the U.S. also offer a variety of side items, such as biscuits, mashed potatoes and gravy, coleslaw, corn, and potato wedges, as well as desserts.  While many of these products are offered outside of the U.S., international menus are more focused on chicken sandwiches and Colonel’s Crispy Strips, and include side items that are suited to local preferences and tastes.  Res
taurant decor throughout the world is characterized by the image of the Colonel.



Pizza Hut



·The first Pizza Hut restaurant was opened in 1958 in Wichita, Kansas, and within a year, the first franchise unit was opened.  Today, Pizza Hut is the largest restaurant chain in the world specializing in the sale of ready-to-eat pizza products.·As of year end 2010, Pizza Hut was the leader in the U.S. pizza QSR segment, with a 14 percent market share (Source: The NPD Group, Inc.; NPD Foodworld; CREST) in that segment.·Pizza Hut operates in 95 countries and territories throughout the world. As of year end 2010, Pizza Hut had 7,542 units in the U.S., and 5,890 units outside of the U.S.  Approximately 6 percent of the U.S. units and 22 percent of the non-U.S. units are Concept-owned.·Pizza Hut features a variety of pizzas, which may include Pan Pizza, Thin ‘n Crispy, Hand Tossed, Sicilian, Stuffed Crust, Twisted Crust, Sicilian Lasagna Pizza, Cheesy Bites Pizza, The Big New Yorker, The Big Italy, The Insider, The Chicago Dish, the Natural, Pizza Mia and 4forALL.  Each of these pizzas is offered with a variety of different toppings.  Pizza Hut now also offers a variety of Tuscani Pastas.  Menu items outside of the U.S. are generally similar to those offered in the U.S., though pizza toppings are often suited to local preferences and tastes.  Many Pizza Huts offer chicken wings, including over 3,000 stores offering wings under the brand WingStreet, primarily in the U.S.



Taco Bell



·The first Taco Bell restaurant was opened in 1962 by Glen Bell in Downey, California, and in 1964, the first Taco Bell franchise was sold.  Taco Bell is based in Irvine, California.·As of year end 2010, Taco Bell was the leader in the U.S. Mexican QSR segment, with a 52 percent market share (Source: The NPD Group, Inc.; NPD Foodworld; CREST) in that segment.·Taco Bell operates in 21 countries and territories throughout the world. As of year end 2010, there were 5,634 Taco Bell units in the U.S., and 262 units outside of the U.S.  Approximately 22 percent of the U.S. units and 1 percent of the non-U.S. units are Concept-owned.·Taco Bell specializes in Mexican-style food products, including various types of tacos, burritos, gorditas, chalupas, quesadillas, taquitos, salads, nachos and other related items.  Additionally, proprietary entrée items include Grilled Stuft Burritos and Border Bowls.  Taco Bell units feature a distinctive bell logo on their signage.








LJS



·The first LJS restaurant opened in 1969 and the first LJS franchise unit opened later the same year.  LJS is based in Louisville, Kentucky.



·As of year end 2010, LJS was the leader in the U.S. seafood QSR segment, with a 37 percent market share (Source: The NPD Group, Inc.; NPD Foodworld; CREST) in that segment.·LJS operates in 4 countries and territories throughout the world.  As of year end 2010, there were 964 LJS units in the U.S., and 31 units outside the U.S.  All single-brand units inside and outside of the U.S. are operated by franchisees or licensees.  As of year end 2010, there were 86 Concept-owned multi-brand units that included the LJS concept.·LJS features a variety of seafood and chicken items, including meals featuring batter-dipped fish, chicken and shrimp, non-fried salmon, shrimp and tilapia, hushpuppies and portable snack items.  LJS units typically feature a distinctive seaside/nautical theme.



A&W



·A&W was founded in Lodi, California by Roy Allen in 1919 and the first A&W franchise unit opened in 1925.  A&W is based in Louisville, Kentucky.·A&W operates in 9 countries and territories throughout the world.  As of year end 2010, there were 322 A&W units in the U.S., and 317 units outside the U.S.  As of year end 2010, all units were operated by franchisees.·A&W serves A&W draft Root Beer and a signature A&W Root Beer float, as well as hot dogs and hamburgers.



Restaurant Operations



Through its Concepts, YUM develops, operates, franchises and licenses a worldwide system of both traditional and non-traditional QSR restaurants.  Traditional units feature dine-in, carryout and, in some instances, drive-thru or delivery services.  Non-traditional units, which are typically licensed outlets, include express units and kiosks which have a more limited menu and operate in non-traditional locations like malls, airports, gasoline service stations, convenience stores, stadiums, amusement parks and colleges, where a full-scale traditional outlet would not be practical or efficient.








Supplyand Distribution



The Company’s Concepts, including Concept units operated by its franchisees, are substantial purchasers of a number of food and paper products, equipment and other restaurant supplies. The principal items purchased include chicken, cheese, beef and pork products, seafood, paper and packaging materials.



The Company is committed to conducting its business in an ethical, legal and socially responsible manner.  All restaurants, regardless of their ownership structure or location, must adhere to strict food quality and safety standards.  The guidelines are translated to local market requirements and regulations where appropriate and without compromising the standards.  The Company has not experienced any significant continuous shortages of supplies, and alternative sources for most of these products are generally available.  Prices paid for these supplies fluctuate.  When prices increase, the Concepts may attempt to pass on such increases to their customers, although there is no assurance that this can be done practically.



U.S. Division.The Company, along with the representatives of the Company’s KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell, LJS and A&W franchisee groups, are members in the Unified FoodService Purchasing Co-op, LLC (the “Unified Co-op”) which was created for the purpose of purchasing certain restaurant products and equipment in the U.S.  The core mission of the Unified Co-op is to provide the lowest possible sustainable store-delivered prices for restaurant products and equipment.  This arrangement combines the purchasing power of the Concept-owned and franchisee restaurants in the U.S. which the Company believes leverages the system’s scale to drive cost savings and effectiveness in the purchasing function.  The Company al
so believes that the Unified Co-op has resulted, and should continue to result, in closer alignment of interests and a stronger relationship with its franchisee community.



Most food products, paper and packaging supplies, and equipment used in restaurant operations are distributed to individual restaurant units by third party distribution companies.  McLane Company, Inc. (“McLane”) is the exclusive distributor for the majority of items used in Concept-owned restaurants in the U.S. and for a substantial number of franchisee and licensee stores.  The Company entered into a new agreement with McLane effective January 1, 2011 relating to distribution to Concept-owned restaurants in the U.S.  This agreement extends through December 31, 2016 and generally restricts Concept-owned restaurants from using alternative distributors in the U.S. for most products.



International and China Divisions.Outside of the U.S. we and our franchisees use decentralized sourcing and distribution systems involving many different global, regional, and local suppliers and distributors.  In China, we work with approximately 500 suppliers and own the entire distribution system.  In our YRI markets we have approximately 1,500 suppliers, including U.S.-based suppliers that export to many countries.








Trademarks and Patents



The Company and its Concepts own numerous registered trademarks and service marks.  The Company believes that many of these marks, including its Kentucky Fried Chicken®, KFC®, Pizza Hut®, Taco Bell® and Long John Silver’s® marks, have significant value and are materially important to its business.  The Company’s policy is to pursue registration of its important marks whenever feasible and to oppose vigorously any infringement of its marks.  The Company also licenses certain A&W trademarks and service marks (the “A&W Marks”), which are owned by A&W Concentrate Company (formerly A&W Brands, Inc.).  A&W Concentrate Company, which is not affiliated with the Company, has granted the Company an exclusive, worldwide (excluding Canada),
 perpetual, royalty-free license (with the right to sublicense) to use the A&W Marks for restaurant services.



The use of these marks by franchisees and licensees has been authorized in KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell, LJS and A&W franchise and license agreements.  Under current law and with proper use, the Company’s rights in its marks can generally last indefinitely.  The Company also has certain patents on restaurant equipment which, while valuable, are not material to its business.



Working Capital



Information about the Company’s working capital is included in MD&A in Part II, Item 7, pages 25 through 59 and the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in Part II, Item 8, page 64.



Customers



The Company’s business is not dependent upon a single customer or small group of customers.



Seasonal Operations



The Company does not consider its operations to be seasonal to any material degree.



Backlog Orders



Company restaurants have no backlog orders.



Government Contracts



No material portion of the Company’s business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts or subcontracts at the election of the U.S. government.



Competition



The retail food industry, in which our Concepts compete, is made up of supermarkets, supercenters, warehouse stores, convenience stores, coffee shops, snack bars, delicatessens and restaurants (including the QSR segment), and is intensely competitive with respect to food quality, price, service, convenience, location and concept.  The industry is often affected by changes in consumer tastes; national, regional or local economic conditions; currency fluctuations; demographic trends; traffic patterns; the type, number and location of competing food retailers and products; and disposable purchasing power.  Each of the Concepts competes with international, national and regional restaurant chains as well as locally-owned restaurants, not only for customers, but also for management and hourly personnel, suitable real esta
te sites and qualified franchisees.  Given the various types and vast number of competitors, our Concepts do not constitute a significant portion of the retail food industry in terms of number of system units or system sales, either on a worldwide or individual market basis.










Research and Development (“R&D”)



The Company’s subsidiaries operate R&D facilities in Louisville, Kentucky (KFC); Dallas, Texas (Pizza Hut and YRI); and Irvine, California (Taco Bell) and in several locations outside the U.S., including Shanghai, China.  The Company expensed $33 million, $31 million and $34 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, for R&D activities.  From time to time, independent suppliers also conduct research and development activities for the benefit of the YUM system.



Environmental Matters



The Company is not aware of any federal, state or local environmental laws or regulations that will materially affect its earnings or competitive position, or result in material capital expenditures.  However, the Company cannot predict the effect on its operations of possible future environmental legislation or regulations.  During 2010, there were no material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities and no such material expenditures are anticipated.



Government Regulation



U.S. Division.The Company and its U.S. Division are subject to various federal, state and local laws affecting its business.  Each of the Concepts’ restaurants in the U.S. must comply with licensing and regulation by a number of governmental authorities, which include health, sanitation, safety and fire agencies in the state and/or municipality in which the restaurant is located.  In addition, each Concept must comply with various state and federal laws that regulate the franchisor/franchisee relationship.  To date, no Concept has been significantly affected by any difficulty, delay or failure to obtain required licenses or approvals.



The Company and each Concept are also subject to federal and state laws governing such matters as employment and pay practices, overtime, tip credits and working conditions.  The bulk of the Concepts’ employees are paid on an hourly basis at rates related to the federal and state minimum wages.



The Company and each Concept are also subject to federal and state child labor laws which, among other things, prohibit the use of certain “hazardous equipment” by employees younger than 18 years of age.  Neither the Company nor any Concept has been materially adversely affected by such laws to date.



The Company and each Concept, as applicable, continue to monitor their facilities for compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”) in order to conform to its requirements.  Under the ADA, the Company or the relevant Concept could be required to expend funds to modify its restaurants to better provide service to, or make reasonable accommodation for the employment of, disabled persons.



Internationaland China Divisions.The Company’s restaurants outside the U.S. are subject to national and local laws and regulations which are similar to those affecting U.S. restaurants, including laws and regulations concerning labor, health, sanitation and safety.  The restaurants outside the U.S. are also subject to tariffs and regulations on imported commodities and equipment and laws regulating foreign investment.  International compliance with environmental requirements has not had a material 
adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, capital expenditures or competitive position.








Employees



As of year end 2010, the Company and its Concepts employed approximately 378,000 persons, approximately 86 percent of whom were part-time.  Approximately 17 percent of these employees are employed in the U.S.  The Company believes that it provides working conditions and compensation that compare favorably with those of its principal competitors.  The majority of employees are paid on an hourly basis.  Some non-U.S. employees are subject to labor council relationships that vary due to the diverse cultures in which the Company operates.  The Company and its Concepts consider their employee relations to be good.



(d)Financial Information about Geographic Areas



Financial information about our significant geographic areas (U.S., International Division and China Division) is incorporated herein by reference from Selected Financial Data in Part II, Item 6, page 23; Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) in Part II, Item 7, pages 25 through 59; and in the related Consolidated Financial Statements and footnotes in Part II, Item 8, pages 61 through 124.



(e)Available Information



The Company makes available through the Investor Relations section of its internet website atwww.yum.comits annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Our Corporate Governance Principles and our Code of Conduct are also located within this section of the website.  The reference to the Company’s website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the website and should not be considered part of this document.  These documents, as well 
as our SEC filings, are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy from our Investor Relations Department.



