Item
      1.Business.



YUM!
Brands, Inc. (referred to herein as “YUM”, the “Registrant” or the “Company”),
was incorporated under the laws of the state of North Carolina in
1997.  The principal executive offices of YUM are located at 1441
Gardiner Lane, Louisville, Kentucky  40213, and the telephone number
at that location is (502) 874-8300.



YUM,
together with its subsidiaries, is referred to in this Form 10-K annual report
(“Form 10-K”) as the Company.  The terms “we,” “us” and “our” are also
used in the Form 10-K to refer to the Company.  Throughout this Form
10-K, the terms “restaurants,” “stores” and “units” are used
interchangeably.



This Form
10-K should be read in conjunction with the Forward-Looking Statements on page 2
and the Risk Factors set forth in Item 1A.



(a)General
      Development of Business



In
January 1997, PepsiCo announced its decision to spin-off its restaurant
businesses to shareholders as an independent public company (the
“Spin-off”).  Effective October 6, 1997, PepsiCo disposed of its
restaurant businesses by distributing all of the outstanding shares of Common
Stock of YUM to its shareholders.  On May 16, 2002, following receipt
of shareholder approval, the Company changed its name from TRICON Global
Restaurants, Inc. to YUM! Brands, Inc.



(b)Financial
      Information about Operating
Segments



YUM
consists of six operating segments:  KFC-U.S., Pizza Hut-U.S., Taco
Bell-U.S., Long John Silver’s (“LJS”)-U.S. and A&W All American Food
Restaurants (“A&W”)-U.S., YUM Restaurants International (“YRI” or
“International Division”) and YUM Restaurants China (“China
Division”).  For financial reporting purposes, management considers
the four U.S. operating segments to be similar and, therefore, has aggregated
them into a single reportable operating segment (“U.S.”).  The China
Division includes mainland China (“China”), Thailand and KFC Taiwan, and the
International Division includes the remainder of our international
operations.



Operating
segment information for the years ended December 26, 2009, December 27, 2008 and
December 29, 2007 for the Company is included in Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) in Part
II, Item 7, pages 24 through 58 and in the related Consolidated Financial
Statements and footnotes in Part II, Item 8, pages 59 through 116.



(c)Narrative
      Description of Business



General



YUM is
the world’s largest quick service restaurant (“QSR”) company based on number of
system units, with more than 37,000 units in more than 110 countries and
territories.  Through the five concepts of KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell,
LJS and A&W (the “Concepts”), the Company develops, operates, franchises and
licenses a worldwide system of restaurants which prepare, package and sell a
menu of competitively priced food items.  Units are operated by a
Concept or by independent franchisees or licensees under the terms of franchise
or license agreements.  Franchisees can range in size from individuals
owning just one unit to large publicly traded companies.  In addition,
the Company owns non-controlling interests in entities in China who operate
similar to franchisees of KFC and a non-controlling interest in Little Sheep, a
Hot Pot concept headquartered in Hong Kong.






At year
end 2009, we had approximately 20,000 system restaurants in the U.S. which
achieved revenues of $4.5 billion and Operating Profit of $647 million during
2009.  The International Division, based in Dallas, Texas, comprises
approximately 13,000 system restaurants, primarily KFCs and Pizza Huts,
operating in over 110 countries outside the U.S.  In 2009 YRI achieved
revenues of $2.7 billion and Operating Profit of $491 million.  The
China Division, based in Shanghai, China, comprises approximately 4,000 system
restaurants, predominately KFCs.  In 2009, the China Division achieved
revenues of $3.7 billion and Operating Profit of $602 million.



Restaurant
Concepts



Most
restaurants in each Concept offer consumers the ability to dine in and/or carry
out food.  In addition, Taco Bell, KFC, LJS and A&W offer a
drive-thru option in many stores.  Pizza Hut offers a drive-thru
option on a much more limited basis.  Pizza Hut and, on a much more
limited basis, KFC offer delivery service.



Each
Concept has proprietary menu items and emphasizes the preparation of food with
high quality ingredients, as well as unique recipes and special seasonings to
provide appealing, tasty and attractive food at competitive prices.



The
franchise program of the Company is designed to assure consistency and quality,
and the Company is selective in granting franchises.  Under standard
franchise agreements, franchisees supply capital – initially by paying a
franchise fee to YUM, purchasing or leasing the land, building and equipment and
purchasing signs, seating, inventories and supplies and, over the longer term,
by reinvesting in the business.  Franchisees then contribute to the
Company’s revenues through the payment of royalties based on a percentage of
sales.



The
Company believes that it is important to maintain strong and open relationships
with its franchisees and their representatives.  To this end, the
Company invests a significant amount of time working with the franchisee
community and their representative organizations on all aspects of the business,
including products, equipment, operational improvements and standards and
management techniques.



The
Company and its franchisees also operate multibrand units, primarily in the
U.S., where two or more of the Concepts are operated in a single
unit.



Following
is a brief description of each concept:



KFC



·KFC
      was founded in Corbin, Kentucky by Colonel Harland D. Sanders, an early
      developer of the quick service food business and a pioneer of the
      restaurant franchise concept.  The Colonel perfected his secret
      blend of 11 herbs and spices for Kentucky Fried Chicken in 1939 and signed
      up his first franchisee in 1952.  KFC is based in Louisville,
      Kentucky.·As
      of year end 2009, KFC was the leader in the U.S. chicken QSR segment among
      companies featuring chicken-on-the-bone as their primary product offering,
      with a 42 percent market share (Source: The NPD Group, Inc.; NPD
      Foodworld; CREST) in that segment, which is more than three times that of
      its closest national competitor.·KFC
      operates in 108 countries and territories throughout the
      world.  As of year end 2009, KFC had 5,162 units in the U.S.,
      and 11,102 units outside the U.S., including 2,872 units in mainland
      China.  Approximately 17 percent of the U.S. units and 31
      percent of the non-U.S. units are operated by the
  Company.










·Traditional
      KFC restaurants in the U.S. offer fried and non-fried chicken-on-the-bone
      products, primarily marketed under the names Original Recipe, Extra Tasty
      Crispy and Kentucky Grilled Chicken.  Other principal entree
      items include chicken sandwiches (including the Snacker and the Twister),
      KFC Famous Bowls, Colonel’s Crispy Strips, Wings, Popcorn Chicken and
      seasonally, Chunky Chicken Pot Pies.  KFC restaurants in the
      U.S. also offer a variety of side items, such as biscuits, mashed potatoes
      and gravy, coleslaw, corn, and potato wedges, as well as
      desserts.  While many of these products are offered outside of
      the U.S., international menus are more focused on chicken sandwiches and
      Colonel’s Crispy Strips, and include side items that are suited to local
      preferences and tastes.  Restaurant decor throughout the world
      is characterized by the image of the
Colonel.



Pizza
Hut



·The
      first Pizza Hut restaurant was opened in 1958 in Wichita, Kansas, and
      within a year, the first franchise unit was opened.  Today,
      Pizza Hut is the largest restaurant chain in the world specializing in the
      sale of ready-to-eat pizza products.  Pizza Hut is based in
      Dallas, Texas.



·As
      of year end 2009, Pizza Hut was the leader in the U.S. pizza QSR segment,
      with a 14 percent market share (Source: The NPD Group, Inc.; NPD
      Foodworld; CREST) in that segment.



·Pizza
      Hut operates in 92 countries and territories throughout the world. As of
      year end 2009, Pizza Hut had 7,566 units in the U.S., and 5,715 units
      outside of the U.S.  Approximately 8 percent of the U.S. units
      and 25 percent of the non-U.S. units are operated by the
      Company.



·Pizza
      Hut features a variety of pizzas, which may include Pan Pizza, Thin ‘n
      Crispy, Hand Tossed, Sicilian, Stuffed Crust, Twisted Crust, Sicilian
      Lasagna Pizza, Cheesy Bites Pizza, The Big New Yorker, The Insider, The
      Chicago Dish, the Natural, Pizza Mia and 4forALL.  Each of these
      pizzas is offered with a variety of different toppings.  Pizza
      Hut now also offers a variety of Tuscani Pastas.  WingStreet
      chicken wings are served in over 3,000 Pizza Hut locations, primarily in
      the U.S.  Menu items outside of the U.S. are generally similar
      to those offered in the U.S., though pizza toppings are often suited to
      local preferences and tastes.





Taco
Bell



·The
      first Taco Bell restaurant was opened in 1962 by Glen Bell in Downey,
      California, and in 1964, the first Taco Bell franchise was
      sold.  Taco Bell is based in Irvine,
  California.·As
      of year end 2009, Taco Bell was the leader in the U.S. Mexican QSR
      segment, with a 52 percent market share (Source: The NPD Group, Inc.; NPD
      Foodworld; CREST) in that segment.·Taco
      Bell operates in 20 countries and territories throughout the world. As of
      year end 2009, there were 5,604 Taco Bell units in the U.S., and 251 units
      outside of the U.S.  Approximately 23 percent of the U.S. units
      and 1 percent of the non-U.S. units are operated by the
      Company.·Taco
      Bell specializes in Mexican-style food products, including various types
      of tacos, burritos, gorditas, chalupas, quesadillas, taquitos, salads,
      nachos and other related items.  Additionally, proprietary
      entrée items include Grilled Stuft Burritos and Border
      Bowls.  Taco Bell units feature a distinctive bell logo on their
      signage.








LJS



·The
      first LJS restaurant opened in 1969 and the first LJS franchise unit
      opened later the same year.  LJS is based in Louisville,
      Kentucky.



·As
      of year end 2009, LJS was the leader in the U.S. seafood QSR segment, with
      a 36 percent market share (Source: The NPD Group, Inc.; NPD Foodworld;
      CREST) in that segment.·LJS
      operates in 6 countries and territories throughout the
      world.  As of year end 2009, there were 989 LJS units in the
      U.S., and 35 units outside the U.S.  All single-brand units
      inside and outside of the U.S. are operated by franchisees or
      licensees.  As of year end 2009, there were 110 company operated
      multi-brand units that included the LJS concept.·LJS
      features a variety of seafood and chicken items, including meals featuring
      batter-dipped fish, chicken and shrimp, non-fried salmon, shrimp and
      tilapia, hushpuppies and portable snack items.  LJS units
      typically feature a distinctive seaside/nautical
  theme.



A&W



·A&W
      was founded in Lodi, California by Roy Allen in 1919 and the first A&W
      franchise unit opened in 1925.  A&W is based in Louisville,
      Kentucky.·A&W
      operates in 9 countries and territories throughout the
      world.  As of year end 2009, there were 344 A&W units in the
      U.S., and 293 units outside the U.S.  As of year end 2009, all
      units were operated by franchisees.·A&W
      serves A&W draft Root Beer and a signature A&W Root Beer float, as
      well as hot dogs and hamburgers.



Restaurant
Operations



Through
its Concepts, YUM develops, operates, franchises and licenses a worldwide system
of both traditional and non-traditional QSR restaurants.  Traditional
units feature dine-in, carryout and, in some instances, drive-thru or delivery
services.  Non-traditional units, which are typically licensed
outlets, include express units and kiosks which have a more limited menu and
operate in non-traditional locations like malls, airports, gasoline service
stations, convenience stores, stadiums, amusement parks and colleges, where a
full-scale traditional outlet would not be practical or efficient.








Supplyand Distribution



The
Company’s Concepts and franchisees are substantial purchasers of a number of
food and paper products, equipment and other restaurant supplies. The principal
items purchased include chicken, cheese, beef and pork products, seafood, paper
and packaging materials.



The
Company is committed to conducting its business in an ethical, legal and
socially responsible manner.  All restaurants, regardless of their
ownership structure or location, must adhere to strict food quality and safety
standards.  The guidelines are translated to local market requirements
and regulations where appropriate and without compromising the
standards.  The Company has not experienced any significant continuous
shortages of supplies, and alternative sources for most of these products are
generally available.  Prices paid for these supplies
fluctuate.  When prices increase, the Concepts may attempt to pass on
such increases to their customers, although there is no assurance that this can
be done practically.



U.S.
Division.The Company, along with the representatives of the
Company’s KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell, LJS and A&W franchisee groups, are
members in the Unified FoodService Purchasing Co-op, LLC (the “Unified Co-op”)
which was created for the purpose of purchasing certain restaurant products and
equipment in the U.S.  The core mission of the Unified Co-op is to
provide the lowest possible sustainable store-delivered prices for restaurant
products and equipment.  This arrangement combines the purchasing
power of the Concept and franchisee restaurants in the U.S. which the Company
believes leverages the system’s scale to drive cost savings and effectiveness in
the purchasing function.  The Company also believes that the Unified
Co-op has resulted, and should continue to result, in closer alignment of
interests and a stronger relationship with its franchisee
community.



Most food
products, paper and packaging supplies, and equipment used in restaurant
operations are distributed to individual restaurant units by third party
distribution companies.  McLane Company, Inc. (“McLane”) is the
exclusive distributor for the majority of items used in Concept-owned
restaurants in the U.S. and for a substantial number of franchisee and licensee
stores.  McLane became the distributor when it assumed all
distribution responsibilities under an existing agreement between Ameriserve
Food Distribution, Inc. and the Company.  This agreement extends
through October 31, 2010 and generally restricts Concept-owned restaurants from
using alternative distributors in the U.S. for most products.



International and China
Divisions.Outside of the U.S. we and our franchisees use
decentralized sourcing and distribution systems involving many different global,
regional, and local suppliers and distributors.  In China, we work
with approximately 500 suppliers.  In our YRI markets we have
approximately 1,400 suppliers, including U.S.-based suppliers that export to
many countries.  In certain countries, we own all or a portion of the
distribution system, including China where we own the entire distribution
system.








Trademarks
and Patents



The
Company and its Concepts own numerous registered trademarks and service
marks.  The Company believes that many of these marks, including its
Kentucky Fried Chicken®, KFC®, Pizza Hut®, Taco Bell® and Long John Silver’s®
marks, have significant value and are materially important to its
business.  The Company’s policy is to pursue registration of its
important marks whenever feasible and to oppose vigorously any infringement of
its marks.  The Company also licenses certain A&W trademarks and
service marks (the “A&W Marks”), which are owned by A&W Concentrate
Company (formerly A&W Brands, Inc.).  A&W Concentrate Company,
which is not affiliated with the Company, has granted the Company an exclusive,
worldwide (excluding Canada), perpetual, royalty-free license (with the right to
sublicense) to use the A&W Marks for restaurant services.



The use
of these marks by franchisees and licensees has been authorized in KFC, Pizza
Hut, Taco Bell, LJS and A&W franchise and license
agreements.  Under current law and with proper use, the Company’s
rights in its marks can generally last indefinitely.  The Company also
has certain patents on restaurant equipment which, while valuable, are not
material to its business.



Working
Capital



Information
about the Company’s working capital is included in MD&A in Part II, Item 7,
pages 24 through 58 and the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in Part II,
Item 8, page 62.



Customers



The
Company’s business is not dependent upon a single customer or small group of
customers.



Seasonal
Operations



The
Company does not consider its operations to be seasonal to any material
degree.



Backlog
Orders



Company
restaurants have no backlog orders.



Government
Contracts



No
material portion of the Company’s business is subject to renegotiation of
profits or termination of contracts or subcontracts at the election of the U.S.
government.



Competition



The
retail food industry, in which the Company competes, is made up of supermarkets,
supercenters, warehouse stores, convenience stores, coffee shops, snack bars,
delicatessens and restaurants (including the QSR segment), and is intensely
competitive with respect to food quality, price, service, convenience, location
and concept.  The industry is often affected by changes in consumer
tastes; national, regional or local economic conditions; currency fluctuations;
demographic trends; traffic patterns; the type, number and location of competing
food retailers and products; and disposable purchasing power.  Each of
the Concepts compete with international, national and regional restaurant chains
as well as locally-owned restaurants, not only for customers, but also for
management and hourly personnel, suitable real estate sites and qualified
franchisees.  In 2009, the restaurant business in the U.S. consisted
of about 945,000 restaurants representing approximately $566 billion in annual
sales.  The Company’s Concepts accounted for about 2% of those
restaurants and about 3% of those sales.  There is currently no way to
reasonably estimate the size of the competitive market outside the
U.S.










Research
and Development (“R&D”)



The
Company’s subsidiaries operate R&D facilities in Louisville, Kentucky (KFC);
Dallas, Texas (Pizza Hut and YRI); and Irvine, California (Taco Bell) and in
several locations outside the U.S., including Shanghai, China
(China).  The Company expensed $31 million, $34 million and $39
million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, for R&D
activities.  From time to time, independent suppliers also conduct
research and development activities for the benefit of the YUM
system.



Environmental
Matters



The
Company is not aware of any federal, state or local environmental laws or
regulations that will materially affect its earnings or competitive position, or
result in material capital expenditures.  However, the Company cannot
predict the effect on its operations of possible future environmental
legislation or regulations.  During 2009, there were no material
capital expenditures for environmental control facilities and no such material
expenditures are anticipated.



Government
Regulation



U.S.
Division.The Company and its
U.S. Division are subject to various federal, state and local laws affecting its
business.  Each of the Concept’s restaurants in the U.S. must comply
with licensing and regulation by a number of governmental authorities, which
include health, sanitation, safety and fire agencies in the state and/or
municipality in which the restaurant is located.  In addition, each
Concept must comply with various state and federal laws that regulate the
franchisor/franchisee relationship.  To date, no Concept has been
significantly affected by any difficulty, delay or failure to obtain required
licenses or approvals.



The
Company and each Concept are also subject to federal and state laws governing
such matters as employment and pay practices, overtime, tip credits and working
conditions.  The bulk of the Concepts’ employees are paid on an hourly
basis at rates related to the federal and state minimum wages.



The
Company and each Concept are also subject to federal and state child labor laws
which, among other things, prohibit the use of certain “hazardous equipment” by
employees younger than 18 years of age.  Neither the Company nor any
Concept has been materially adversely affected by such laws to
date.



The
Company and each Concept, as applicable, continue to monitor their facilities
for compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”) in order to
conform to its requirements.  Under the ADA, the Company or the
relevant Concept could be required to expend funds to modify its restaurants to
better provide service to, or make reasonable accommodation for the employment
of, disabled persons.



Internationaland
China Divisions.The
Company’s restaurants outside the U.S. are subject to national and local laws
and regulations which are similar to those affecting U.S. restaurants, including
laws and regulations concerning labor, health, sanitation and
safety.  The restaurants outside the U.S. are also subject to tariffs
and regulations on imported commodities and equipment and laws regulating
foreign investment.  International compliance with environmental
requirements has not had a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of
operations, capital expenditures or competitive position.








Employees



As of
year end 2009, the Company and its Concepts employed approximately 350,000
persons, approximately 86 percent of whom were
part-time.  Approximately 21 percent of these employees are employed
in the U.S.  The Company believes that it provides working conditions
and compensation that compare favorably with those of its principal
competitors.  The majority of employees are paid on an hourly
basis.  Some non-U.S. employees are subject to labor council
relationships that vary due to the diverse cultures in which the Company
operates.  The Company considers its employee relations to be
good.



(d)Financial
      Information about Geographic Areas



Financial
information about our significant geographic areas (U.S., International Division
and China Division) is incorporated herein by reference from Selected Financial
Data in Part II, Item 6, page 22; Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) in Part II, Item 7,
pages 24 through 58; and in the related Consolidated Financial Statements and
footnotes in Part II, Item 8, pages 59 through 116.



(e)Available
      Information



The
Company makes available through the Investor Relations section of its internet
website atwww.yum.comits
annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on
Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section
13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after
electronically filing such material with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Our Corporate Governance Principles and our Code of
Conduct are also located within this section of the website.  The
reference to the Company’s website address does not constitute incorporation by
reference of the information contained on the website and should not be
considered part of this document.  These documents, as well as our SEC
filings, are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy from our
Investor Relations Department.



