Item 1.Business.



YUM! Brands, Inc. (referred to herein as “YUM”, the “Registrant” or the “Company”), was incorporated under the laws of the state of North Carolina in 1997.  The principal executive offices of YUM are located at 1441 Gardiner Lane, Louisville, Kentucky  40213, and the telephone number at that location is (502) 874-8300.  Our website address ishttp://www.yum.com.



YUM, together with its subsidiaries, is referred to in this Form 10-K annual report (“Form 10-K”) as the Company.  The terms “we,” “us” and “our” are also used in the Form 10-K to refer to the Company.  Throughout this Form 10-K, the terms “restaurants,” “stores” and “units” are used interchangeably.  While YUM! Brands, Inc., referred to as the Company, does not directly own or operate any restaurants, throughout this document we may refer to restaurants as being Company-operated.



(a)General Development of Business



In January 1997, PepsiCo announced its decision to spin-off its restaurant businesses to shareholders as an independent public company.  Effective October 6, 1997, PepsiCo disposed of its restaurant businesses by distributing all of the outstanding shares of Common Stock of YUM to its shareholders.  On May 16, 2002, following receipt of shareholder approval, the Company changed its name from TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc. to YUM! Brands, Inc.



(b)Financial Information about Operating Segments



YUM consists of five operating segments:  YUM Restaurants China ("China" or “China Division”), YUM Restaurants International (“YRI” or “International Division”), Taco Bell U.S., KFC U.S. and Pizza Hut U.S.  The China Division includes only mainland China, and the International Division includes the remainder of our international operations.  For financial reporting purposes, management considers the three U.S. operating segments to be similar and, therefore, has aggregated them into a single reportable operating segment (“U.S.”).    In December 2011, the Company sold the Long John Silver's ("LJS") and A&W All-American Food Restaurants ("A&W") brands to key franchisee leaders and strategic investors in separate transactions.  Financial information prior to these transactions reflects our ownership of these brands.



Operating segment information for the years endedDecember 31, 2011,December 25, 2010andDecember 26, 2009for the Company is included in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) in Part II, Item 7, pages 21 through 47 and in the related Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8, pages 48 through 93.



(c)Narrative Description of Business



General



YUM is the world’s largest quick service restaurant (“QSR”) company based on number of system units, with approximately 37,000 units in more than 120 countries and territories.  Primarily through the three concepts of KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell (the “Concepts”), the Company develops, operates, franchises and licenses a worldwide system of restaurants which prepare, package and sell a menu of competitively priced food items.  Units are operated by a Concept or by independent franchisees or licensees under the terms of franchise or license agreements.  Franchisees can range in size from individuals owning just one restaurant to large publicly traded companies.  In addition, the Company owns non-controlling interests in Chinese entities who operate in a manner similar to KFC franchisees, as well as a non-controlling interest in Little Sheep Group Limited ("Little Sheep"), a casual dining concept headquartered in Inner Mongolia, China.  On February 1, 2012, we acquired a controlling interest in Little Sheep.  See Notes 4 and 21 for details.



The China Division, based in Shanghai, China, comprises approximately 4,500 system restaurants, primarily Company-owned KFCs and Pizza Huts.  In 2011, the China Division recorded revenues of approximately $5.6 billion and Operating Profit of $908 million.  The International Division, based in Dallas, Texas, comprises approximately 14,500 system restaurants, primarily  franchised KFCs and Pizza Huts, operating in over 120 countries outside the U.S.  In 2011 YRI recorded revenues of approximately $3.3 billion and Operating Profit of $673 million.  We have approximately 18,000 system restaurants in the U.S. and recorded revenues of approximately $3.8 billion and Operating Profit of $589 million in 2011.










Restaurant Concepts



Most restaurants in each Concept offer consumers the ability to dine in and/or carry out food.  In addition, Taco Bell and KFC offer a drive-thru option in many stores.  Pizza Hut offers a drive-thru option on a much more limited basis.  Pizza Hut and, on a much more limited basis, KFC offer delivery service.



Each Concept has proprietary menu items and emphasizes the preparation of food with high quality ingredients, as well as unique recipes and special seasonings to provide appealing, tasty and attractive food at competitive prices.



The franchise programs of the Company are designed to assure consistency and quality, and the Company is selective in granting franchises.  Under standard franchise agreements, franchisees supply capital – initially by paying a franchise fee to YUM, purchasing or leasing the land, building, equipment, signs, seating, inventories and supplies and, over the longer term, by reinvesting in the business.  Franchisees then contribute to the Company’s revenues through the payment of royalties based on a percentage of sales.



The Company believes that it is important to maintain strong and open relationships with its franchisees and their representatives.  To this end, the Company invests a significant amount of time working with the franchisee community and their representative organizations on all aspects of the business, including products, equipment, operational improvements and standards and management techniques.



The Company and its franchisees also operate multibrand units, primarily in the U.S., where two or more of the Concepts are operated in a single unit.



Following is a brief description of each Concept:



KFC



•KFC was founded in Corbin, Kentucky by Colonel Harland D. Sanders, an early developer of the quick service food business and a pioneer of the restaurant franchise concept.  The Colonel perfected his secret blend of 11 herbs and spices for Kentucky Fried Chicken in 1939 and signed up his first franchisee in 1952.



•KFC operates in 115 countries and territories throughout the world.  As of year end 2011, KFC had 3,701 units in China, 8,920 units in YRI and 4,780 units in the U.S.  Approximately 79 percent of the China units, 11 percent of the YRI units  and  10 percent of the  U.S. units are Concept-owned.



•As of year end 2011, KFC was the leader in the U.S. chicken QSR segment among companies featuring chicken-on-the-bone as their primary product offering, with a 39 percent market share in that segment, which is over twice as large as that of its closest national competitor.  (Source: The NPD Group, Inc./CREST®, year ending December 2011, based on consumer spending)



•KFC restaurants across the world offer fried and non-fried chicken products such as sandwiches, chicken strips, chicken-on-the-bone and other chicken products marketed under a variety of names.  KFC restaurants also offer a variety of side items suited to local preferences and tastes.  Restaurant decor throughout the world is characterized by the image of the Colonel.



Pizza Hut



•The first Pizza Hut restaurant was opened in 1958 in Wichita, Kansas, and within a year, the first franchise unit was opened.  Today, Pizza Hut is the largest restaurant chain in the world specializing in the sale of ready-to-eat pizza products.



•Pizza Hut operates in 97 countries and territories throughout the world. As of year end 2011, Pizza Hut had 764 units in China, 5,383 units in YRI and 7,600 units in the U.S. All of the China units and approximately 11 percent of the YRI units and 6 percent of the U.S. units are Concept-owned.



•Pizza Hut operates in the delivery and casual dining segments around the world.  Outside of the U.S., Pizza Hut often uses unique branding to differentiate its delivery and casual dining businesses.



•As of year end 2011, Pizza Hut was the leader in the U.S. pizza QSR segment, with a 15 percent market share in that segment.  (Source: The NPD Group, Inc./CREST®, year ending December 2011, based on consumer spending)












•Pizza Hut features a variety of pizzas which are marketed under varying names.  Each of these pizzas is offered with a variety of different toppings suited to local preferences and tastes.  Many Pizza Huts also offer pasta and chicken wings, including over 3,000 stores offering wings under the brand WingStreet, primarily in the U.S.  Pizza Hut units feature a distinctive red roof logo on their signage.



Taco Bell



•The first Taco Bell restaurant was opened in 1962 by Glen Bell in Downey, California, and in 1964, the first Taco Bell franchise was sold.



•Taco Bell operates in 27 countries and territories throughout the world. As of year end 2011, there were 5,670 Taco Bell units in the U.S. and 275 in YRI.  Approximately 21 percent of the U.S. units and 1 percent of the YRI units are Concept-owned.



•As of year end 2011, Taco Bell was the leader in the U.S. Mexican QSR segment, with a 50 percent market share in that segment.  (Source: The NPD Group, Inc./CREST®, year ending December 2011, based on consumer spending)



•Taco Bell specializes in Mexican-style food products, including various types of tacos, burritos, quesadillas, salads, nachos and other related items.  Taco Bell units feature a distinctive bell logo on their signage.



Restaurant Operations



Through its Concepts, YUM develops, operates, franchises and licenses a worldwide system of both traditional and non-traditional QSR restaurants.  Traditional units feature dine-in, carryout and, in some instances, drive-thru or delivery services.  Non-traditional units, which are typically licensed outlets, include express units and kiosks which have a more limited menu, usually lower sales volumes and operate in non-traditional locations like malls, airports, gasoline service stations, train stations, subways, convenience stores, stadiums, amusement parks and colleges, where a full-scale traditional outlet would not be practical or efficient.



Restaurant management structure varies by Concept and unit size.  Generally, each Concept-owned restaurant is led by a restaurant general manager (“RGM”), together with one or more assistant managers, depending on the operating complexity and sales volume of the restaurant.  Most of the employees work on a part-time basis.  Each Concept issues detailed manuals, which may then be customized to meet local regulations and customs, covering all aspects of restaurant operations, including food handling and product preparation procedures, food safety and quality, equipment maintenance, facility standards and accounting control procedures.  The restaurant management teams are responsible for the day-to-day operation of each unit and for ensuring compliance with operating standards. CHAMPS – which stands for Cleanliness, Hospitality, Accuracy, Maintenance, Product Quality and Speed of Service – is our proprietary core systemwide program for training, measuring and rewarding employee performance against key customer measures.  CHAMPS is intended to align the operating processes of our entire system around one set of standards. RGMs’ efforts, including CHAMPS performance measures, are monitored by Area Coaches.  Area Coaches typically work with approximately six to twelve restaurants.  Various senior operators visit Concept-owned restaurants from time to time to help ensure adherence to system standards and mentor restaurant team members.



Supplyand Distribution



The Company’s Concepts, including Concept units operated by its franchisees, are substantial purchasers of a number of food and paper products, equipment and other restaurant supplies. The principal items purchased include chicken, cheese, beef and pork products, paper and packaging materials.



The Company is committed to conducting its business in an ethical, legal and socially responsible manner.  All restaurants, regardless of their ownership structure or location, must adhere to strict food quality and safety standards.  The guidelines are translated to local market requirements and regulations where appropriate and without compromising the standards.  The Company has not experienced any significant continuous shortages of supplies, and alternative sources for most of these products are generally available.  Prices paid for these supplies fluctuate.  When prices increase, the Concepts may attempt to pass on such increases to their customers, although there is no assurance that this can be done practically.



China DivisionIn China, we work with approximately 500 independent suppliers, mostly China-based, providing a wide range of products.  We own most of the distribution system which includes approximately 20 logistics centers.












International DivisionThroughout YRI we and our franchisees use decentralized sourcing and distribution systems involving many different global, regional, and local suppliers and distributors.  In our YRI markets we have approximately 1,500 suppliers, including U.S.-based suppliers that export to many countries.



U.S. DivisionThe Company, along with the representatives of the Company’s KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell franchisee groups, are members in the Unified FoodService Purchasing Co-op, LLC (the “Unified Co-op”) which was created for the purpose of purchasing certain restaurant products and equipment in the U.S.  The core mission of the Unified Co-op is to provide the lowest possible sustainable store-delivered prices for restaurant products and equipment.  This arrangement combines the purchasing power of the Concept-owned and franchisee restaurants in the U.S. which the Company believes leverages the system’s scale to drive cost savings and effectiveness in the purchasing function.  The Company also believes that the Unified Co-op has resulted, and should continue to result, in closer alignment of interests and a stronger relationship with its franchisee community.



Most food products, paper and packaging supplies, and equipment used in restaurant operations are distributed to individual restaurant units by third-party distribution companies.  McLane Company, Inc. (“McLane”) is the exclusive distributor for the majority of items used in Concept-owned restaurants and for a substantial number of franchisee and licensee stores.  The Company entered into an  agreement with McLane effective January 1, 2011 relating to distribution to Concept-owned restaurants.  This agreement extends through December 31, 2016 and generally restricts Concept-owned restaurants from using alternative distributors for most products.



Trademarks and Patents



The Company and its Concepts own numerous registered trademarks and service marks.  The Company believes that many of these marks, including its Kentucky Fried Chicken®, KFC®, Pizza Hut® and Taco Bell® marks, have significant value and are materially important to its business.  The Company’s policy is to pursue registration of its important marks whenever feasible and to oppose vigorously any infringement of its marks.



The use of these marks by franchisees and licensees has been authorized in our franchise and license agreements.  Under current law and with proper use, the Company’s rights in its marks can generally last indefinitely.  The Company also has certain patents on restaurant equipment which, while valuable, are not material to its business.



Working Capital



Information about the Company’s working capital is included in MD&A in Part II, Item 7, pages 21 through 47 and the  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in Part II, Item 8, page 51.



Customers



The Company’s business is not dependent upon a single customer or small group of customers.



Seasonal Operations



The Company does not consider its operations to be seasonal to any material degree.



Backlog Orders



Company restaurants have no backlog orders.



Government Contracts



No material portion of the Company’s business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts or subcontracts at the election of the U.S. government.



Competition



The retail food industry, in which our Concepts compete, is made up of supermarkets, supercenters, warehouse stores, convenience stores, coffee shops, snack bars, delicatessens and restaurants (including the QSR segment), and is intensely competitive with respect to food quality, price, service, convenience, location and concept.  The industry is often affected by changes in consumer tastes; national, regional or local economic conditions; currency fluctuations; demographic trends; traffic patterns; the type, number










and location of competing food retailers and products; and disposable purchasing power.  Each of the Concepts competes with international, national and regional restaurant chains as well as locally-owned restaurants, not only for customers, but also for management and hourly personnel, suitable real estate sites and qualified franchisees.  Given the various types and vast number of competitors, our Concepts do not constitute a significant portion of the retail food industry in terms of number of system units or system sales, either on a worldwide or individual country basis.



Research and Development (“R&D”)



The Company’s subsidiaries operate R&D facilities in Shanghai, China (China Division); Dallas, Texas (Pizza Hut U.S. and YRI); Irvine, California (Taco Bell); Louisville, Kentucky (KFC U.S.) and several other locations outside the U.S.  The Company expensed $34 million, $33 million and $31 million in2011,2010and2009, respectively, for R&D activities.  From time to time, independent suppliers also conduct research and development activities for the benefit of the YUM system.



Environmental Matters



The Company is not aware of any federal, state or local environmental laws or regulations that will materially affect its earnings or competitive position, or result in material capital expenditures.  However, the Company cannot predict the effect on its operations of possible future environmental legislation or regulations.  During2011, there were no material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities and no such material expenditures are anticipated.



Government Regulation



U.S. Division.The Company and its U.S. Division are subject to various federal, state and local laws affecting its business.  Each of the Concepts’ restaurants in the U.S. must comply with licensing and regulation by a number of governmental authorities, which include health, sanitation, safety, fire and zoning agencies in the state and/or municipality in which the restaurant is located.  In addition, each Concept must comply with various state and federal laws that regulate the franchisor/franchisee relationship.  To date, the Company has not been materially adversely affected by such licensing and regulation or by any difficulty, delay or failure to obtain required licenses or approvals.



The Company and each Concept are also subject to federal and state laws governing such matters as immigration, employment and pay practices, overtime, tip credits and working conditions.  The bulk of the Concepts’ employees are paid on an hourly basis at rates related to the federal and state minimum wages.  The Company has not been materially adversely affected by such laws to date.



The Company and each Concept are also subject to federal and state child labor laws which, among other things, prohibit the use of certain “hazardous equipment” by employees younger than 18 years of age.  The Company has not been materially adversely affected by such laws to date.



The Company and each Concept are also subject to laws relating to information security, privacy, cashless payments, and consumer credit, protection and fraud.  The Company has not been materially adversely affected by such laws to date.



The Company and each Concept are also subject to laws relating to nutritional content, nutritional labeling, product safety and menu labeling.  The Company has not been materially adversely affected by such laws to date.



The Company and each Concept, as applicable, continue to monitor their facilities for compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”) in order to conform to its requirements.  Under the ADA, the Company or the relevant Concept could be required to expend funds to modify its restaurants to better provide service to, or make reasonable accommodation for the employment of, disabled persons.  The Company has not been materially adversely affected by such laws to date.



Internationaland China Divisions.The Company’s restaurants outside the U.S. are subject to national and local laws and regulations which are similar to those affecting U.S. restaurants, including laws and regulations concerning information security, labor, health, sanitation and safety.  The restaurants outside the U.S. are also subject to tariffs and regulations on imported commodities and equipment and laws regulating foreign investment.  International compliance with environmental requirements has not had a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, capital expenditures or competitive position.



See Item 1A "Risk Factors" on page 8 for a discussion of risks relating to federal, state, local and international regulation of our business.












Employees



As of year end2011, the Company and its Concepts employed approximately 466,000 persons, approximately 87 percent of whom were part-time.    The Company believes that it provides working conditions and compensation that compare favorably with those of its principal competitors.  The majority of employees are paid on an hourly basis.  Some employees are subject to labor council relationships that vary due to the diverse cultures in which the Company operates.  The Company and its Concepts consider their employee relations to be good.



(d)Financial Information about Geographic Areas



Financial information about our significant geographic areas (China Division, International Division and U.S.) is incorporated herein by reference from Selected Financial Data in Part II, Item 6, pages 19 and 20; MD&A in Part II, Item 7, pages 21 through 47; and in the related Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8, pages 48 through 93.



(e)Available Information



The Company makes available through the Investor Relations section of its internet website at www.yum.com its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").  Our Corporate Governance Principles and our Code of Conduct are also located within this section of the website.  The reference to the Company’s website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the website and should not be considered part of this document.  These documents, as well as our SEC filings, are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy from our Investor Relations Department.





