Item 1. Business

Quest
Diagnostics Incorporated is the world’s leading provider of diagnostic testing,
information and services. We provide insights that enable patients, physicians
and others to make better healthcare decisions.

Quest
Diagnostics was incorporated in Delaware in 1990; its predecessor companies
date back to 1967. We conduct business through our headquarters in Madison, New
Jersey, and our laboratories, patient service centers, offices and other
facilities around the United States and in selected locations outside the
United States. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “Quest
Diagnostics,” the “Company,” “we” and “our” mean Quest Diagnostics Incorporated
and its consolidated subsidiaries.

During
2010, we generated net revenues of $7.4 billion and processed approximately 146
million test requisitions. Additional financial information concerning Quest
Diagnostics, including our consolidated subsidiaries and business segments, for
each of the years ended December 31, 2010, December 31, 2009 and December 31,
2008 is included in the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto in
“Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in Part II, Item 8.

OUR STRATEGY AND STRENGTHS

Our
mission is to be the undisputed world leader in diagnostic testing, information
and services. We are dedicated to improving the health of patients through
unsurpassed diagnostic insights and innovation and we focus on patients, growth
and people to help achieve our goals.

We
offer high value diagnostic testing services and products attractive to
patients, physicians, payers, and others and have become the provider of choice
in key areas of the diagnostic testing market. We believe that successful
execution of our strategy will drive continued growth of our business.
Additionally, we believe that, over the long term, we will be able to grow at a
rate above the U.S. clinical laboratory industry growth rate, to expand margins
and to increase international revenues to 10% of consolidated revenues. The
elements of our growth strategy are described below.





•

Leverage our unparalleled assets and capabilities



•Continue to lead in medical innovation and information technology
solutions. We are a leading innovator in the clinical testing
market with unmatched medical and technical expertise. We have the most
comprehensive test menu and leading medical and scientific experts available
for consultation. We collaborate with leading academic centers and maintain
relationships with advisors and consultants that are leaders in key fields,
such as cardiology, oncology and infectious disease. In connection with our
research and development efforts, our medical and scientific experts publish
in peer-reviewed journals research that demonstrates the clinical value and importance
of diagnostic testing. In 2010, we published over thirty articles that
support advancements and the latest thinking in laboratory testing and
disease diagnosis. Over the past several years, we have expanded our business
in more complex and faster-growing testing areas, including gene-based and
esoteric testing, anatomic pathology services and point-of-care testing.



We see
 significant opportunity to use diagnostics for personalized medicine. For
 example, our clinical trials business has biomarker capabilities that advance
 our efforts to develop companion diagnostics for new therapies that will
 foster personalized patient treatment.










We remain a
 leading innovator in the clinical testing industry by continuing to introduce
 new tests, technology and services, including in personalized and targeted
 medicine. For example, in 2010, we introduced our XSense ® Fragile X with
 Reflex test. This test, which bypasses the need to perform the Southern Blot
 DNA analysis method in 99% of cases, enables patients to get their results
 more quickly than other tests and is a good example of our strength in new
 laboratory analysis techniques. In addition, as an industry leader with the
 largest and broadest U.S. network and expanding presence outside the United
 States, we believe we are the channel of choice for developers of new tests
 to introduce their products to the marketplace. Through our relationships
 with the academic medical community and pharmaceutical and biotechnology
 firms, we believe that we are a leader in bringing technical innovation to
 the market.



We empower
 healthcare organizations and clinicians with information technology solutions
 that can help improve patient care and medical practice, through our Care360TMsuite of products, our Centergy Data Exchange and the ChartMaxx®electronic document management
 system for hospitals. We provide interoperable technologies that help
 healthcare organizations and physicians enter, share and access clinical
 information without costly IT implementation or significant workflow
 disruption. These solutions offer access to a large national healthcare
 provider network, including approximately 160,000 networked physicians using
 Quest Diagnostics’ Care360 connectivity products. The Care360 products, including
 our Care360 Labs and Meds, enable physicians electronically to order
 diagnostic tests and review test results from Quest Diagnostics and
 electronically to prescribe medication. Our Care360 EHR product allows
 physicians to generate a complete record of a clinical patient encounter,
 automates and streamlines the clinician’s workflow, and allows for rapid
 deployment and implementation with minimal workflow disruption. We believe
 that these products enhance the value we provide to our customers and result
 in increased customer loyalty by providing more convenient ordering and
 reporting of clinical tests, greater convenience in electronically
 prescribing medication and better access to clinical information.



In December
 2010, the Care360 EHR solution received ONC-ATCB 2011/12 certification as a
 Complete EHR from the Certification Commission for Health Information
 Technology. The 2011/2012 criteria support the Stage 1 Meaningful Use
 measures required to qualify eligible providers and hospitals for funding
 under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, which included laws
 designed to expedite the implementation of electronic health records and
 build a national electronic health infrastructure in the United States. We
 believe that we are well positioned to enable physicians to participate in
 this government stimulus program.



•Deliver a superior patient experience. The patient is
at the center of everything we do. Increasingly, patients have a choice when
it comes to selecting a healthcare provider and we strive to give patients
compelling reasons to put their trust in us. We have made significant
investments in training our employees to provide a superior patient
experience. We believe that this will drive patient and physician loyalty. We
are a leader in providing patients with advanced tools to manage their
healthcare and medical information. Our automated patient appointment
scheduling enables patients to schedule appointments, including via mobile
devices, at times that are convenient for them while essentially eliminating
their waiting time. We believe that we are the only national clinical test
provider that offers this service in almost all of its patient service
centers. We also offer TestMinderTM, which sends email reminders
to patients that require frequent testing. In 2010, we introduced GazelleTM,
a secure mobile health platform that allows users to receive their Quest
Diagnostics laboratory results and manage their personal health information
directly from their smartphone. We also collaborate with KeasTM,
Microsoft®HealthVaultTMand Google HealthTMin connection with their personal health
records offerings.



•Continuously drive Six Sigma quality. We strive to
provide the highest quality in all that we do, including: phlebotomy and
specimen transport services; analytical testing processes in our
laboratories; accurate and timely lab reports; and accurate and timely
billing. We use Six Sigma and Lean processes to continuously reduce defects,
enhance quality and further increase the efficiency of our operations. Six
Sigma is a management approach that utilizes a thorough understanding of
customer needs and requirements, root cause analysis, process improvements
and rigorous tracking and measuring to enhance quality. Lean is a management
approach that seeks to streamline processes and eliminate waste. We also use
Six Sigma and Lean principles to help standardize operations and processes
across our Company and identify and adopt company best practices. We believe
our focus on continuously using Six Sigma and Lean in all aspects of our
business results in superior service to our customers and drives customer
loyalty.



•Expand our diagnostic scope. Technology advances are
enabling testing to move closer to the patient and point-of-care, or near
patient, tests are becoming increasingly available and reliable. This enables
more timely and effective decisions, with the opportunity to improve patient
care and reduce medical costs. We








have three
 businesses that offer point-of-care testing: HemoCue, Focus Diagnostics and
 Enterix. We intend to expand our product menus, develop novel technology
 platforms and systems to meet the needs of our clients and pursue potential
 additional acquisitions to supplement our offering. Test results from our
 point-of-care products can be entered into our Care360 system, enabling the
 integration of tests performed in a near patient setting with those performed
 in our laboratories. We are well positioned to offer choice and integrated
 solutions to physicians, hospitals, clinics and retail customers for the
 testing methods that are most appropriate for each patient and practice.•Expand our geographic reach. In addition to growth
opportunities in the United States, we see opportunities to expand our
presence in India, Ireland, Mexico, Puerto Rico and the U.K. and to bring our
experience and expertise in diagnostic testing to other international
markets, particularly to developing countries where the testing markets are
highly fragmented and less mature.

To
support our strategy, we expect to continue to selectively evaluate
acquisitions in the United States and in select international markets. We
anticipate that acquisitions will enable us to expand our capabilities, further
leverage our assets and differentiate our Company from our competition,
diversify our revenues and accelerate our growth.

BUSINESS OPERATIONS

Quest
Diagnostics is the world’s leading provider of diagnostic testing, information
and services, providing insights that enable patients, physicians and others to
make better healthcare decisions. We offer U.S. patients and physicians the
broadest access to diagnostic testing services through our nationwide network
of laboratories and Company-owned patient service centers. We provide
interpretive consultation through the largest medical and scientific staff in
the industry, with approximately 900 M.D.s and Ph.D.s, primarily located in the
United States, many of whom are recognized leaders in their field. We are the
leading provider of clinical testing, including gene-based and esoteric
testing, anatomic pathology services and testing for drugs-of-abuse, and the
leading provider of risk assessment services for the life insurance industry.
We also are a leading provider of testing for clinical trials. Our diagnostics
products business manufactures and markets FDA cleared or approved diagnostic
test kits and specialized point-of-care testing. We empower healthcare
organizations and clinicians with robust information technology solutions. Our
activities are described below.

Patients
are at the center of everything that we do. We are leveraging our diagnostic
testing capabilities and our assets to serve multiple customer bases. Most of
our services are provided in the United States; for each of the years ended
December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010, we derived approximately 3% of our revenues
from foreign operations and held approximately 7% of our long-lived assets
outside the United States. The following chart shows the percentage of our 2010
net revenues generated by the activities identified.

ActivityApproximate Percentage of 2010 Net RevenuesClinical
 testing91%Routine clinical testing52%Anatomic pathology testing14%Gene-based and esoteric testing22%Drugs of abuse testing (employer services)3%Healthcare
 information technology, clinical trials testing, life insurer services and
 diagnostic products9%

Clinical
Testing.We are the world’s largest commercial
clinical testing company. Clinical testing is an essential element in the
delivery of healthcare services. Physicians use clinical tests to assist in the
detection, diagnosis, evaluation, monitoring and treatment of diseases and
other medical conditions. Clinical testing is generally categorized as clinical
laboratory testing and anatomic pathology services. We offer customers the
broadest access to the most extensive test menu of clinical laboratory and
anatomic pathology tests in the United States. Clinical laboratory testing
generally is performed on whole blood, serum, plasma and other body fluids,
such as urine, and specimens such as microbiology samples. Clinical laboratory
tests which can be performed by most clinical laboratories are considered
routine. Esoteric tests are clinical laboratory tests that are not routine,
require highly skilled personnel and generally require more sophisticated
equipment. Anatomic pathology services are performed on tissues, such as
biopsies, and






other samples,
such as human cells. As tests increasingly become more complex, we believe that
providing sound medical and scientific consultation regarding our tests and
test results will help spur the integration of new tests into clinical
practice, and help physicians best utilize these tests to improve patient
outcomes and enhance patient satisfaction. To this end, our in-house experts,
including medical directors, scientific directors, genetic counselors and board
certified geneticists are available for consultation with our customers
regarding testing that we perform.

Routine
clinical testing. We are the leading provider of routine clinical
testing, including testing for drugs-of-abuse. We perform routine testing
through our network of major laboratories and rapid response laboratories.
Rapid response laboratories are smaller facilities where we can quickly perform
an abbreviated menu of routine tests for customers that require rapid
turnaround times. We also perform routine testing at hospital laboratories that
we manage. We operate laboratories 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, performing
and reporting most routine tests within 24 hours. The majority of test results
are delivered electronically.

Routine
tests measure various important bodily health parameters such as the functions
of the kidney, heart, liver, thyroid and other organs. Commonly ordered tests
include:

•blood
 chemistries, including cholesterol levels;•complete
 blood cell counts;•urinalyses;•pregnancy
 and other prenatal tests;•routine
 microbiology testing;•prescription drug monitoring;•alcohol and
 other substance-abuse tests; and•allergy
 tests such as the ImmunoCap®test.

Anatomic
pathology testing. We are the leading provider of anatomic
pathology services in the United States, through our AmeriPathTM,
Dermpath DiagnosticsTMand Quest Diagnostics brands. Anatomic
pathology involves the diagnosis of cancer and other diseases and medical
conditions through examination of tissue and cell samples taken from patients.
We provide inpatient anatomic pathology and medical director services at
hospitals throughout the country, and through our major laboratories.

We
provide a full range of services to all anatomic pathology subspecialties. We
have approximately 725 medical doctors, including luminaries in their field,
with a passion for providing the highest quality service to patients. Among
them are approximately 700 pathologists. We provide integrated, comprehensive
reports that include both anatomic pathology and clinical pathology tests,
enabling our pathologists to offer patients and physicians a complete analysis.
Our approach fosters personalized patient care.

We
have a strong history of leadership and innovation in cancer diagnostics. We
introduced the Leumeta®family of tests for leukemia and lymphoma.
These proprietary plasma-based molecular tests may some day eliminate the need
for painful bone marrow biopsies. As discussed below under the heading
“Scientific Innovation,” recently we introduced our Lung Cancer Mutation Panel,
designed to aid treatment selection for lung cancer patients. This panel
detects mutations in the EFGR, ALK and KRAS genes. This panel, together with
our numerous individual tests for lung cancer mutations, provides the most
comprehensive lung cancer test offerings available from a commercial
laboratory.

Gene-Based
and Esoteric Testing






Diagnostics.

Our
esoteric laboratories provide reference testing services to physicians, large
academic medical centers, hospitals and other commercial laboratories. Our
esoteric testing laboratories perform hundreds of complex tests that are not
routinely performed by our regional laboratories, including but not limited to
the following fields:

•endocrinology
 and metabolism (the study of glands, their hormone secretions and their
 effects on body growth and metabolism);•genetics
 (the study of chromosomes, genes and their protein products and effects);•hematology
 (the study of blood and bone marrow cells) and coagulation (the process of
 blood clotting);•immunogenetics
 and human leukocyte antigens (solid organ and bone marrow transplantation;
 eligibility for vaccines; selection of pharmacotherapeutic agents and
 immunotherapy);•immunology
 (the study of the immune system, including antibodies, cytokines, immune
 system cells and their effect, receptor systems and autoimmune diseases);•microbiology
 and infectious diseases (the study of microscopic forms of life, including
 parasites, bacteria, viruses, fungi and other infectious agents);•oncology
 (the study of abnormal cell growth, including benign tumors and cancer);•serology (a
 science dealing with body fluids and their analysis, including antibodies,
 proteins and other characteristics); and•toxicology
 (the study of chemicals and drugs and their adverse effects on the body).

We
also offer gene-based tests for the predisposition, diagnosis, treatment and
monitoring of cancers. We believe that offering a full range of gene-based and
other esoteric tests strengthens our market offering and market position and
enhances our reputation as the nation’s leading test provider.

Scientific
Innovation

We
focus our resources on key disease states and technologies that help doctors
care for their patients through better predisposition, screening, monitoring,
diagnosis, prognosis and treatment choices. We also look for tests that are
less invasive than currently available options, to increase the choices that
physicians and patients have for the collection of diagnostic samples. With
these priorities in mind, we recently introduced a number of new or enhanced
tests, including those discussed below.

•Cancer.-In 2010, we
 introduced our Lung Cancer Mutation assays, designed to aid treatment
 selection for lung cancer patients. These assays detect mutations in the
 EFGR, ALK and KRAS genes. These assays, together with our numerous other
 tests for lung cancer mutations, are designed to provide the most
 comprehensive lung cancer test offerings available from a commercial
 laboratory.-We enhanced
 our Colorectal Cancer Mutation assay offering, which helps identify genetic
 mutations in the KRAS, PIK3CA, NRAS and BRAF genes that inhibit
 anti-epidermal growth factor receptor










therapy
 response in metastatic colorectal cancer patients.



-We
 introduced our ColoVantageTMtest, a blood test designed to aid in
 the detection of colorectal cancer, based on DNA methylation of the Septin 9
 gene. We were the first commercial laboratory in the U.S. to offer a
 laboratory developed test based on the Septin 9 biomarker.



-After
 closely collaborating with Vermillion, Inc. on the commericialization of its
 FDA-cleared OVA1TMovarian cancer test, we launched the test in
 the first quarter of 2010. This multi-analyte test, which uses a proprietary
 algorithm, provides a new option for helping physicians assess if a woman’s
 ovarian mass is benign or malignant prior to a planned surgery. This
 information is expected to help physicians determine whether to refer a woman
 with high risk of cancer to a gynecological oncologist versus a general
 surgeon or gynecologist.



•Infectious
 Disease.



-We launched
 the SureSwabTMVaginosis/Vaginitis Plus test. This assay supports
 differential diagnosis and can aid in appropriate therapy selection. While
 the test provides physicians with results for several organisms, we also
 offer the individual assays for the components of the SureSwab panel for
 situations when a physician wishes to focus diagnosis on a particular
 organism. Differential diagnosis of vaginitis is important for the successful
 treatment of the patient, and, in some cases, the evaluation of her sexual
 partner.



•Genetics and
 Personalized Medicine.Increasingly, tests will be
 introduced that determine a patient’s genotype or gene expression profile
 relative to a particular disease. These tests can help physicians to
 determine a patient’s susceptibility to disease or to tailor medical care to
 an individual’s needs – such as determining if a medication might be more or
 less effective for a particular person, or which type of medication might
 work better, or tailoring the right dosage once the proper medicine is
 prescribed. A few examples are set forth below:



-In 2010, we
 introduced AccuTypeTMCP, a gene-based test that uses a blood or
 saliva sample to aid the identification of the CYP2C19 gene to help
 physicians predict the metabolism of clopidogrel in patients. Since its
 introduction, we have enhanced the test with additional allele detection.



-Our XSense® Fragile X with Reflex test was approved by the State of New York. The test is
the first for Fragile X Syndrome to be approved by New York to employ a new
laboratory analysis technique that bypasses the need to perform the Southern
Blot DNA analysis method in 99% of cases.



-We
 introduced AccuTypeTMMetformin to identify a patient’s response
 to metformin to optimize therapeutic intervention. Approximately 40 million
 Americans have pre-diabetes and, after intensive life-style modification,
 metformin is considered a first-line therapy for prevention and treatment of
 diabetes. More than 30% of individuals have mutations that result in changing
 efficacy of metformin therapy.



-In 2010, we
 expanded our drug testing menu to include specific profiles for prescription
 pain medication monitoring for patients being treated for chronic pain.
 Medications tested include prescription medications and drugs of abuse. The
 results include a specialized medMATCH™ Report, which interprets the test
 results based on the prescribed medication.



•Cardiovascular
 Disease.



-In 2010, we
 launched AccuType pharmacogenomic tests for clopidogrel and metformin, two of
 the most commonly prescribed medications for patients that have had a
 cardiovascular event or that have diabetes, respectively.



-We also
 introduced LpPLA2 for cardiovascular risk assessment and deepened and
 advanced our investment and pipeline in testing for cardiovascular disease.

Healthcare
Information Technology.We empower healthcare
organizations and clinicians with information technology solutions that can
help improve patient care and medical practice, through our Care360TMsuite of products, Centergy Data Exchange and the ChartMaxx®electronic
document management system for hospitals. We provide interoperable technologies
that help healthcare organizations and physicians enter, share and access clinical
information without costly IT implementation or significant workflow disruption.
These solutions offer access to a large national healthcare provider network,
including approximately 160,000 networked physicians using Quest Diagnostics’ Care360
connectivity products. We believe that these products enhance the value we provide
to our customers and result in increased customer loyalty by providing more convenient
ordering and reporting of clinical tests, greater convenience in






electronically
prescribing medication and providing better access to clinical information.

The
Care360 products, including our Care360 Labs and Meds, enable physicians
electronically to order diagnostic tests and review test results from Quest
Diagnostics and electronically to prescribe medication. Since December 2009,
the number of medications written through Care360 ePrescribing has grown to an
annualized rate of approximately 22 million. Our Care360 EHR product allows
physicians to generate a complete record of a clinical patient encounter,
automates and streamlines the clinician’s workflow, and allows for rapid
deployment and implementation with minimal workflow disruption. The solution
allows doctors to electronically create, manage and distribute patient
encounter notes, including vital signs and progress notes. It captures lab and
radiology results, provides clinical decision support tools and allows doctors
to send secure messages and clinical information to other practitioners and
secure, Web-based laboratory results to their patients’ personal health
records. Physicians also take advantage of our new Care360 Mobile application
that lets them review results and order medications using their Apple®iPhone®or iPad®.

In
December 2010, the Care360 EHR solution received ONC-ATCB 2011/12 certification
as a Complete EHR from the Certification Commission for Health Information
Technology. The 2011/2012 criteria support the Stage 1 Meaningful Use measures
required to qualify eligible providers and hospitals for funding under the
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, which included laws designed to
expedite the implementation of electronic health records and build a national
electronic health infrastructure in the United States. We believe that we are
well positioned to enable physicians to participate in this government stimulus
program.

In
2010, for the seventh time in the past nine years, ChartMaxx was awarded the #1
in KLAS award for the document management and imaging category. It is being
used by over 400,000 clinical and administrative users in hospitals and other
clinical locations. Our Centergy®Data Exchange is the delivery
mechanism for clinical transactions, including bi-directional transmission of
orders and results involving the acute care and ambulatory settings.

We
are a leader in providing patients with advanced tools to manage their health.
We collaborate with Keas, Microsoft and Google in connection with their
personal health records offerings. Using our Care360 connectivity products,
physicians can securely provide diagnostic and other data to a patient’s
account. In 2010, we introduced GazelleTM, a secure mobile health
platform that allows users to receive their Quest Diagnostics laboratory
results and manage their personal health information directly from their
smartphone. With Gazelle, users can see, store and share their vital health
information with ease and security on a mobile basis. Gazelle also features a
mobile appointment scheduling application and allows patients to find a Quest
Diagnostics location.

We
believe that our healthcare information technology capabilities, and our
collaboration with others regarding healthcare information technology initiatives,
differentiate us from the competition.

Clinical
Trials Testing.We believe that we are the second
largest provider of central laboratory testing performed in connection with
clinical research trials on new drugs, vaccines and certain medical devices.
Clinical research trials are required by the FDA and other international
regulatory authorities to assess the safety and efficacy of new drugs and
vaccines. We see opportunities to develop pharmacogenetic and pharmacogenomic
tests to help speed drug approval processes for our clinical trials customers
and, capitalizing on the trend to personalized medicine, to better focus
patient therapy based on a patient’s genetic markers. We have biomarker
capabilities that advance our efforts to develop these tests.

We
have clinical trials testing centers in the United States and the United
Kingdom, and we provide clinical trials testing in Argentina, Australia,
Brazil, China and Singapore through affiliated laboratories. While we serve
most of the major pharmaceutical companies, approximately 32% of our net
revenues from clinical trials testing in 2010 represented testing for
GlaxoSmithKline plc (“GSK”). We are the primary provider of central laboratory
testing to support GSK’s clinical trials testing requirements worldwide.

Life
Insurer Services.We are the largest provider of risk
assessment services to the life insurance industry in North America. We also
provide risk assessment services for insurance companies doing business in many
countries outside the United States.

Our
risk assessment services comprise underwriting support services to the life
insurance industry, including clinical testing, teleunderwriting, specimen
collection and paramedical examinations, medical record retrieval, case
management, motor vehicle reports, telephone inspections, prescription
histories and credit checks. The clinical tests that we perform and data we
gather are designed to assist insurance companies to objectively evaluate the
mortality risks of policy applicants. The majority of the testing is performed
on specimens of life insurance applicants, but also includes specimens of
applicants for other types of insurance. Factors such as the number of
applications for underwritten life insurance policies can affect the
utilization of clinical testing and other services we provide to our






insurance
customers. Most of our specimen collections and paramedical examinations are
performed by our network of approximately 5,275 contracted paramedical examiners
at the applicant’s home or workplace. We also offer paramedical examinations
through approximately 500 of our patient service centers, and operate
approximately 75 locations other than patient service centers in the United
States and Canada where we provide paramedical examinations, bringing to
approximately 575 the total number of sites where we can provide these
examinations. We also contract with third parties at over an additional 120
locations across the United States and Canada to coordinate providing these
exams.

We
seek to grow our insurance revenues by increasing our market share and by
offering new and innovative clinical tests, data collection and analytics and
other services. Our life insurance customers have been consolidating, which has
resulted in increased individual customer purchasing power. We expect that this
trend will continue. We charge our life insurance customers on a
fee-for-service basis, typically under multi-year agreements.

Employer
Services.We believe that we are the leading provider
of clinical testing to employers for the detection of employee use of
drugs-of-abuse. Our Quest Diagnostics Drug Testing IndexTM, which is
an annual report of our aggregate drug testing results, is used by employers,
the federal government and the media to help identify and quantify drug abuse
among the nation’s workforce.

As
healthcare costs have increased, so has the value of preventative care.
Employers grappling with increased healthcare costs use wellness testing as a
key tool to reduce their healthcare costs and the healthcare risks of their
employees. We provide wellness testing and analytic services to employers to
enable them and their employees to take an active role in improving their
health and empower employers with aggregated health information. Our Blueprint
for Wellness®program offers employers actionable data to power
their health improvement and cost containment programs. We are leveraging our
patient service centers and paramedical network to deliver wellness screening
nationwide. We also offer Blueprint for Wellness®directly to
individuals.

Diagnostic
Products, Including Point-of-care, or Near Patient, Testing.Technology advances are enabling testing to move closer to the patient and are
becoming increasingly available, accurate and cost effective. Over time, some
testing that is now done in clinical laboratories will cease to be performed in
clinical laboratories and will be performed closer to the patient. We believe
that our point-of-care testing strategy will strengthen our relationship with
our customers by enabling us to offer more solutions that improve the
effectiveness of our customers and the care of their patients by enabling
faster diagnosis and treatment. We are well positioned to offer options and
integrated solutions to physicians, hospitals and clinics for the testing
methods that are most appropriate for each patient and practice.

We
develop and manufacture products that enable healthcare professionals to make healthcare
diagnoses, including products for point-of-care, or near patient, testing for
the professional market. We have several companies, including Focus
Diagnostics, Enterix, and HemoCue, that enhance our offerings and better enable
us to serve these markets. We will consider additional acquisitions or licenses
of selective products to complement the products and services we provide. The
results of several of our point-of-care tests can be entered into our Care360TMsystem and hospital laboratory information systems so that they are
available in electronic medical records. We intend to offer additional data
links in the future. This will differentiate our point-of-care test products
from other products that are not integrated into an electronic repository.

Focus
Diagnostics is a leading provider of infectious disease testing that has
established a reputation for being first to introduce new tests to the market,
including diagnostic tests for Lyme disease, West Nile Virus, SARS and, most
recently, H1N1. Focus Diagnostics develops, manufactures and markets diagnostic
products, such as HerpeSelect®ELISA tests that detect patient
antibodies to specific types of herpes simplex virus, which can be performed on
a variety of instrument platforms. Focus Diagnostics sells its diagnostic
products to large academic medical centers, hospitals and commercial
laboratories globally. Focus has an agreement with 3M Corporation for global
human diagnostic rights to a compact integrated bench-top instrument for use with
real time polymerase chain reaction (“PCR”) assays. These tests are sold under
the SimplexaTMbrand name. In 2010, Focus received FDA 510(k)
clearance for the bench-top instrument, the SimplexaTMH1N1
Influenza test and the SimplexaTMFlu A/B and RSV test for the
instrument. Each test also has received the CE mark for sale in Europe. We
intend to develop and pursue FDA clearance and CE marking for additional
SimplexaTMtests.

HemoCue
manufactures and distributes point-of-care testing products. HemoCue is the
leading global provider in point-of-care testing for hemoglobin, with a growing
market share for glucose, microalbumin and white blood cell testing. In 2010,
HemoCue added a room temperature version of its high sensitivity glucose test
    in the EU; HemoCue is seeking FDA 510(k) clearance for this test in the U.S.
HemoCue also began to market and deliver its White Blood Cell Analyzer, a
whole-blood test performed on finger-stick samples, in both single (worldwide)
and differential (in Europe) counts. We are seeking 510(k) clearance and waived
status under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (“CLIA”)
for this product which, if granted, would permit physicians to use these products
in a much larger segment of






physician
offices. The HemoCue handheld systems are used in physician’s offices, blood
banks, hospitals, diabetes clinics and public health clinics. Approximately
one-half of HemoCue products are sold outside the United States. We believe
that HemoCue has a strong product development pipeline, based on its pioneering
use of its patented microfluidic systems.

Enterix,
an Australia-based company, manufactures the InSure®fecal immunochemical test (FITTM)
for screening for colorectal cancer.

International.We have laboratory facilities in Gurgaon, India;
Heston, England; Mexico City, Mexico; and San Juan, Puerto Rico. These
laboratories support clinical testing in their local markets, and also may
support our clinical trials business. We have an office in Ireland that
supports our activities in that country, and also have sales representatives
dedicated to offering our point-of-care test products in countries outside the
United States. We see opportunities to bring our experience and expertise in
diagnostic testing and point-of-care products to international markets,
particularly developing countries where the testing markets are highly
fragmented and less mature, including by leveraging existing facilities to
serve new markets.

THE UNITED STATES CLINICAL TESTING MARKET

Most
clinical tests are performed by one of three types of laboratories:
hospital-affiliated laboratories; commercial clinical laboratories; or
physician-office laboratories. We believe that hospital-affiliated laboratories
account for approximately 60% of the market, commercial clinical laboratories
approximately one-third and physician-office laboratories the balance.

Key
Trends.There are a number of key trends that we
expect to have a significant impact on the clinical testing business in the
United States and on our business. These trends present both opportunities and
risks. However, because clinical testing is an essential healthcare service and
because of the key trends discussed below, we believe that the industry will continue
to grow over the long term and that we are well positioned to benefit from the
long-term growth expected in the industry.

Demographics.
The growing and aging population is increasing the demand for clinical testing.

Prevention
and wellness. We believe that the value of detection, prevention,
wellness and personalized care is recognized more now than ever before.
Consumers, employers, health plans and government agencies increasingly are
focusing on helping the healthy stay healthy, detecting symptoms among those at
risk and providing preventative care that helps avoid disease. Physicians
increasingly are relying on diagnostic testing to help identify risk for a
disease, to detect the symptoms of disease earlier, to aid in the choice of
therapeutic regimen, to monitor patient compliance and to evaluate treatment
results. Physicians, consumers and payers increasingly recognize the value of
diagnostic testing as a means to improve health and reduce the overall cost of
healthcare through early detection, prevention and treatment. Federal
healthcare reform legislation adopted in 2010 contained provisions eliminating
patient cost-sharing for preventative services, and additional provisions that
we believe will increase the number of patients that have health insurance and
thus better access to diagnostic testing.

Science and
technology advances. Medical advances allow for more accurate and
earlier diagnosis and treatment of diseases. Continuing research and
development in the area of genomics is expected to yield new, more
sophisticated and specialized diagnostic tests. These advances also are
spurring interest in and demand for personalized or tailored medicine, which
relies on diagnostic and prognostic testing. Pharmacogenomic testing
increasingly is used as a parameter to help speed drug approval processes and
to better focus therapy based on patient and tumor-specific genetic markers.
Demand also is growing toward comprehensive care management solutions that
serve patients, payers and practitioners by improving access to patient data,
increasing patient participation in care management, reducing medical errors
and improving clinical outcomes. There is an increasing focus on
interconnectivity, and electronic medical records and patient health records
continue to grow.

Customers
and payers. Our customers and payers, including physicians,
health insurance plans, employers, pharmaceutical companies and others, have
been consolidating. We expect that this trend will continue. Consolidation is
increasing bargaining power, enhancing purchasing sophistication and
encouraging internalization of testing. In addition, federal healthcare reform
legislation adopted in 2010 encourages the formation of “accountable care
organizations” and requires implementation of health insurance exchanges, which
may result in changes in the way that some healthcare services are purchased
and delivered in the United States.

Competition.
The clinical testing industry remains fragmented, is highly
competitive and is subject to new competition. Competition is growing from
non-traditional competitors. Increased hospital acquisitions of physician
practices enhance physician ties to hospital-affiliated laboratories and may
strengthen their competitive position. New market entrants with extensive
resources may make acquisitions or expand into our traditional areas of
operations. We also are expanding into new diagnostic testing areas that are
highly competitive.






Legislative,
regulatory and policy environment. Government oversight of and
attention to the healthcare industry in the United States is significant and
increasing. The 2009 American Recovery and Reinvestment Act included laws
designed to expedite the implementation of electronic health records and build
a national electronic health infrastructure in the United States. During 2010,
the FDA publicly announced that it has decided to exercise regulatory authority
over laboratory developed tests, and that it plans to issue guidance to the
industry regarding its regulatory approach. Federal healthcare reform
legislation adopted in 2010 has created significant uncertainty as healthcare
markets react to potential and impending changes.

Globalization.
There is a growing demand for healthcare services in emerging market countries.
Opportunities are arising to participate in the restructuring or growth of the
healthcare systems in these countries. Additionally, our customers are
establishing positions outside the United States. Demographic changes globally
may also create opportunities.

Customers
and Payers.We provide testing services to a broad
range of customers, with orders for clinical testing generally generated by
physicians, hospitals and employers. In most cases, the customer that orders
the testing is not responsible for the payments for services. Depending on the
billing arrangement and applicable law, the payer may be (1) a third party
responsible for providing health insurance coverage to patients, such as a health
insurance plan, self-insured employer benefit fund, or the traditional Medicare
or Medicaid program, (2) the patient or (3) the physician or other party (such
as a hospital, another laboratory or an employer) who referred the testing to
us.

Health
Plans. Health plans, including managed care organizations and
other health insurance providers, typically reimburse us as a contracted
provider on behalf of their members for clinical testing services performed.
Reimbursement from our two largest health plans totaled approximately 13% of
our consolidated net revenues in 2010. Our largest health plan accounted for
approximately 9% of our consolidated net revenues in 2010.

Health
plans typically negotiate directly or indirectly with a number of clinical
laboratories, and represent approximately one-half of our total clinical
testing volumes and one-half of our net revenues from clinical testing. The
trend of consolidation among health plans has continued. In certain markets,
such as California, health plans may delegate to independent physician
associations (“IPAs”) the ability to negotiate for clinical testing services on
behalf of certain members.

Health
plans and IPAs often require that clinical test service providers accept
discounted fee structures or assume all or a portion of the financial risk
associated with providing testing services through capitated payment
arrangements and discounted fee-for-service arrangements. Under capitated
payment arrangements, we provide services at a predetermined monthly
reimbursement rate for each covered member, generally regardless of the number
or cost of services provided by us. Average reimbursement rates under capitated
payment arrangements are typically lower than our overall average reimbursement
rate. Health plans continue to offer preferred provider organization (“PPO”)
plans, point-of-service (“POS”) plans, consumer driven health plans (“CDHPs”)
and limited benefit coverage programs. Reimbursement under these programs is
typically negotiated on a fee-for-service basis, which generally results in
higher revenue per requisition than under capitation arrangements. We do not
expect that the design of these plans will pose a significant barrier to
accessing clinical testing services. To the extent that plans and programs
require greater levels of patient cost-sharing, this could negatively impact
patient collection experience.

Most
of our agreements with major health plans are non-exclusive arrangements.
Certain health plans, however, have limited their laboratory network to only a
single national laboratory, seeking to obtain improved pricing. Although
non-contracted providers historically generally were reimbursed at “reasonable
and customary” rates, health plans today are employing several approaches,
including “reasonable and customary” rates, to reimburse non-contracted
providers. Contracted rates generally are lower than “reasonable and customary”
rates.

We
also sometimes are a member of a “complementary network.” A complementary
network is generally a set of contractual arrangements that a third party will
maintain with various providers that provide discounted fees for the benefit of
its customers. A member of a health plan may choose to access a non-contracted
provider that is a member of a complementary network; if so, the provider will
be reimbursed at a rate negotiated by the complementary network.

We
attempt to strengthen our relationships with health plans and increase the
volume of testing services by offering health plans services and programs that
leverage our Company’s expertise and resources, including our superior access,
extensive test menu, medical staff and data, and in such areas as wellness and
disease management.

Physicians.
Physicians, including both primary care physicians and specialists, requiring
testing for patients are the primary referral source of our clinical testing
volume. Physicians determine which laboratory to recommend or use based on a
variety of factors, including: service; patient access and convenience,
including participation in a health plan network; price; and depth and breadth
of test and service offering. Physicians also purchase and utilize our
point-of-care tests.






Hospitals

Most
physicians have admitting privileges or other relationships with hospitals as
part of their medical practice. Many hospitals seek to leverage their
relationships with community physicians by encouraging the physicians to send
their outreach testing to the hospital’s laboratory. In addition, hospitals
that own physician practices generally require the practices to refer tests to
the hospital’s affiliated laboratory. Hospitals can have greater leverage with
health insurers than do commercial clinical laboratories, particularly
hospitals that have a significant market share; hospitals thus are frequently
able to negotiate higher reimbursement rates with health insurance plans than
commercial clinical laboratories for comparable clinical testing services.

We
also have joint venture arrangements with leading integrated healthcare
delivery networks in several metropolitan areas. These joint venture
arrangements, which provide testing for affiliated hospitals as well as for
unaffiliated physicians and other local healthcare providers, serve as our
principal laboratory facilities in their service areas. Typically, we have
either a majority ownership interest in, or day-to-day management
responsibilities for, our hospital joint venture relationships.

Employers.
Employers use clinical tests for drugs-of-abuse to determine an individual’s
employability and his or her “fitness for duty.” Companies with high employee
turnover, safety conscious environments or regulatory testing requirements
provide the highest volumes of testing. Factors such as the general economy and
job market can impact the utilization of drugs-of-abuse testing. We seek to
grow our employer volumes through offering new and innovative programs to help
companies with their goal of maintaining a safe and productive workplace. We
also offer employers our Blueprint for Wellness program, providing wellness
screening and analytic services to employers, to help employers and their
employees manage increasing healthcare costs and to capitalize on trends in
personalized health.

Other
Laboratories and Other Customers. We also provide testing
services to federal, state and local governmental agencies and perform esoteric
testing services for commercial clinical laboratories that do not have a full
range of testing capabilities. These customers are charged on a fee-for-service
basis.

GENERAL

Competition.While there has been significant consolidation in the clinical testing industry
in recent years, our industry remains fragmented and highly competitive. We
primarily compete with three types of clinical testing providers:
hospital-affiliated laboratories, other commercial clinical laboratories and
physician-office laboratories. Our largest commercial clinical laboratory
competitor is Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings, Inc. In addition, we
compete with many smaller regional and local commercial clinical laboratories,
specialized esoteric laboratories and laboratories owned by physicians and
hospitals. In anatomic pathology, additional competitors include anatomic
pathology practices, including those in academic institutions. In addition,
there has been a trend among specialty physician practices to establish their
    own histology laboratory capabilities and/or bring pathologists into their
     practices, thereby reducing referrals from these practices.

We
believe that healthcare providers traditionally consider a number of factors
when selecting a testing provider, including:

•service
 capability and quality;•accuracy,
 timeliness and consistency in reporting test results;•patient
 insurance coverage;•number and
 type of tests performed;•pricing;•number,
 convenience and geographic coverage of patient service centers;








•reputation
 in the medical community;•healthcare
 information technology solutions;•qualifications
 of its staff; and•ability to
 develop new and useful tests.

We
believe that we are an effective competitor in each of these areas. We also
believe that offering the most comprehensive test menu in the industry,
innovative test and information technology offerings, a superior patient
experience, Six Sigma quality and unparalleled access and distribution,
provides us with a competitive advantage.

We
believe that large commercial clinical laboratories may be able to increase
their share of the overall clinical testing market due to their large service
networks and lower cost structures. These advantages should enable larger
clinical laboratories to more effectively serve customers, including members of
large healthcare plans. In addition, we believe that consolidation in the
clinical testing industry will continue. However, a significant portion of
clinical testing is likely to continue to be performed by hospitals, which
generally have affiliations with community physicians that refer testing to us.
As a result of these affiliations, we compete against hospital-affiliated
laboratories primarily on the basis of service capability and quality as well
as other non-pricing factors. In addition, recent market activity may increase
the competitive environment. For example, health plan actions to exclude large
national clinical laboratories from contracts may enhance the relative
competitive position of regional laboratories, and increased hospital
acquisitions of physician practices enhance the ties of the physicians to
hospital-affiliated laboratories.

The
diagnostic testing industry is faced with changing technology and new product
introductions. Advances in technology may lead to the development of more
cost-effective tests that can be performed outside of a commercial clinical
laboratory such as (1) point-of-care tests that can be performed by physicians
in their offices; (2) complex tests that can be performed by hospitals in their
own laboratories; and (3) home testing that can be carried out without
requiring the services of clinical laboratories. Development of such technology
and its use by our customers and patients would reduce the demand for our
laboratory testing services and negatively impact our revenues. With our
point-of-care test strategy, we are positioning ourselves to service this
growing market for physicians and hospitals. We also believe that our overall
point-of-care test strategy will strengthen our relationship with our customers
by enabling us to offer more solutions that improve their effectiveness and the
care of their patients by enabling faster diagnosis and treatment.

The
diagnostic product, life insurance services, clinical trials and healthcare
information technology markets are highly competitive. We have many
competitors, some of which have much more extensive experience in these markets
and some of which have greater resources. We compete in the diagnostic products
market by attempting to find and exploit unique differentiated products,
including products that take advantage of our healthcare information technology
solutions. We compete in the life insurance services business by seeking to
provide a superior applicant experience, faster services completion and a wider
array of highest quality, integrated services than our competitors. We compete
in the clinical trials business by leveraging our strengths as the world’s
leading diagnostic testing company, including the depth and breadth of our
testing menu, our superior scientific expertise, our ability to support complex
global clinical trials and our lab management and information technology
solutions. We compete in the healthcare information technology market by
offering solutions that foster better patient care and improve performance for
healthcare institutions, patients and physician practices, particularly smaller
and medium sized physician practices.

Sales
and Marketing.

Information
Technology.We use information systems extensively in
virtually all aspects of our business, including clinical laboratory testing,
test reporting, billing, customer service, logistics and management of medical
data. We believe that our healthcare information technology systems help
differentiate us favorably. We endeavor to establish systems that create value
and efficiencies for our Company, patients and customers. The successful
delivery of our






services
depends, in part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our
information technology systems.

Some
of our historic growth has come through acquisitions and we continue to use
non-standardized billing, laboratory or other core information systems. We have
standardized some of our systems and are implementing standard laboratory
information and billing systems across our operations, including those from our
most recent acquisitions. We expect implementation will take several more years
to complete, and will result in significantly more centralized systems,
improved operating efficiency, more timely and comprehensive information for
management and enhanced control over our operational environment.

Quality
Assurance.In our clinical testing business, our goal
is to continually improve the processes for collection, handling, storage and
transportation of patient specimens, as well as the precision and accuracy of
analysis and result reporting. Our quality assurance efforts focus on
pre-analytic, analytic and post-analytic processes, including positive patient
identification of specimens, report accuracy, proficiency testing, reference
range relevance, process audits, statistical process control and personnel
training for all of our laboratories and patient service centers. We also focus
on the licensing, credentialing, training and competence of our professional and
technical staff. We have implemented an enhanced specimen tracking system, with
global positioning system capabilities, that enables us to better track
specimens. We continue to implement our Six Sigma and standardization
initiatives to help achieve our goal of becoming recognized as the undisputed
quality leader in the healthcare services industry. In addition, some of our
laboratories have achieved International Organization for Standardization, or
ISO, certification. These certifications are international standards for
quality management systems. In 2010, we took a number of steps to further
enhance our quality assurance program, including actions to reduce errors, to
measure and monitor performance and to drive process discipline.

As
part of our comprehensive quality assurance program, we utilize internal
proficiency testing, extensive quality control and rigorous process audits for
our clinical laboratory operations. For most clinical laboratory tests, quality
control samples are processed in parallel with the analysis of patient
specimens. The results of tests on these quality control samples are monitored
to identify trends, biases or imprecision in our analytical processes.

We
participate in external proficiency testing and have accreditation or licenses
for our clinical laboratory operations from various regulatory agencies or
accrediting organizations, such as the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services (“CMS”), the College of American Pathologists (“CAP”) and certain
states. All of our laboratories participate in various external quality
surveillance programs. They include, but are not limited to, proficiency
testing programs administered by CAP, as well as some state agencies. CAP is an
independent, non-governmental organization of board-certified pathologists
approved by CMS to inspect clinical laboratories to determine compliance with
the standards required by CLIA. CAP offers an accreditation program to which
laboratories may voluntarily subscribe. All of our major regional and esoteric
laboratories, including our facility in India, and most of our rapid response
laboratories, are accredited by CAP. Accreditation includes on-site inspections
and participation in the CAP (or equivalent) proficiency testing program. Also,
all of our cytotechnologists and pathologists participate in an individual
proficiency testing program.

Our
diagnostic products businesses maintain extensive quality assurance programs
focused on ensuring that our products are safe and effective and that we comply
with applicable regulatory requirements in the United States, Europe and
Australia. They are regulated by the FDA and are required to be in compliance
with the Quality Systems Regulations, 21 CFR part 820, and with applicable
standards outside the U.S. In addition, our manufacturing sites are certified
in accordance with, or audited by the deemed authority for, ISO 13485: 2003
standards. We endeavor to design and manufacture our diagnostics products in
compliance with Quality Systems Regulations. In addition, the diagnostics
products businesses maintain procedures designed to ensure that products we
purchase conform to their specifications.

Intellectual
Property Rights.We own significant intellectual
property, including patents, patent applications, technology, trade secrets,
know-how, copyrights and trademarks in the United States and other countries.
From time to time, we also license U.S. and non-U.S. patents, patent
applications, technology, trade secrets, know-how, copyrights or trademarks
owned by others. In the aggregate, these intellectual property assets and
licenses are of material importance to our business. We believe, however, that
no single patent, technology, trademark, intellectual property asset or license
is material to our business as a whole.

Our
approach is to manage our intellectual property assets to safeguard them and to
maximize their value to our enterprise. We generally actively defend our
intellectual property assets and pursue protection of our products, processes
and other intellectual property where possible.

Our
success in remaining a leading innovator in the diagnostic testing industry by
continuing to introduce new tests, technology and services will depend, in
part, on our ability to license new and improved technologies on favorable
terms. Other companies or individuals, including our competitors, may obtain
patents or other property rights on tests or processes that we may be
performing, particularly in such emerging areas as gene-based testing and other
specialty






testing, that
could prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to develop, perform or sell
our tests or operate our business.

Employees.At December 31, 2010, we employed approximately 42,000 people. This total
excludes employees of the joint ventures where we do not have a majority
interest. We have no collective bargaining agreements with any unions covering
any employees in the United States, and we believe that our overall relations
with our employees are good.

BILLING AND REIMBURSEMENT

Billing.We generally bill for clinical testing services on a fee-for-service basis
under one of two types of fee schedules. These fees may be negotiated or
discounted. The types of fee schedules are:

•“Client”
 fees charged to physicians, hospitals, and institutions for which a clinical
 laboratory performs testing services on a wholesale basis and which are
 billed on a monthly basis.•“Patient”
 fees charged to individual patients and certain third-party payers on a
 claim-by-claim basis.

Billing
for clinical testing services is very complicated, and we maintain compliance
policies and procedures for our billing. Patients, insurance companies,
Medicare, Medicaid, physicians, hospitals and employer groups all have
different billing requirements. Some billing arrangements require us to bill
multiple payers, and there are several other factors that complicate billing
(e.g., disparity in coverage and information requirements among various payers;
incomplete or inaccurate billing information provided by ordering physicians).
We incur additional costs as a result of our participation in Medicare and
Medicaid programs because clinical laboratory testing and anatomic pathology
services are subject to complex, stringent and frequently ambiguous federal and
state laws and regulations, including those relating to coverage, billing and
reimbursement. Changes in laws and regulations could further complicate our
billing and increase our billing expense. CMS establishes procedures and
continuously evaluates and implements changes to the reimbursement process and
requirements for coverage.

As
an integral part of our billing compliance program, we investigate reported
failures or suspected failures to comply with federal and state healthcare
reimbursement requirements. Any Medicare or Medicaid overpayments resulting
from non-compliance are reimbursed by us. As a result of these efforts, we have
periodically identified and reported overpayments, reimbursed the payers for
overpayments and taken appropriate corrective action.

In
2010, our bad debt expense was 4% of our net revenues. We believe that most of
our bad debt expense is primarily the result of missing or incorrect billing
information on requisitions and Advance Beneficiary Notices received from
healthcare providers and the failure of patients to pay the portion of the
receivable that is their responsibility, rather than credit related issues.
Deteriorating economic conditions may adversely impact our bad debt expense. In
general, we perform the requested tests and report test results regardless of
whether the billing information is correct or complete. We subsequently attempt
to contact the healthcare provider or patient to obtain any missing information
and to rectify incorrect billing information. Missing or incorrect information
on requisitions complicates and slows down the billing process, creates
backlogs of unbilled requisitions and generally increases the aging of accounts
receivable and bad debt expense. The increased use of electronic ordering
reduces the incidence of missing or incorrect information.

Government
Coverage and Reimbursements.Government payers, such
as Medicare and Medicaid, have taken steps and can be expected to continue to
take steps to control the cost, utilization and delivery of healthcare
services, including clinical test services. For example, Medicare carriers have
adopted policies under which they do not pay for many commonly ordered clinical
tests unless the ordering physician has provided an appropriate diagnosis code
supporting the medical necessity of the test. Physicians are required by law
to provide diagnostic information when they order clinical tests for Medicare
and Medicaid patients. In addition, the final 2011 Physician Fee Schedule rule
includes a requirement that all laboratory requisitions, with the exception of
electronic orders, contain the ordering physician’s signature in order to
be billable to Medicare. CMS had postponed this requirement until the beginning
of the second quarter of 2011. Recent published reports indicate
that CMS plans to rescind this requirement; however, CMS has not officially announced
its decision.

The
healthcare industry has experienced significant changes in reimbursement
practices during the past several years. Historically, many different local
carriers administered Medicare Part B, which covers services provided by
commercial clinical laboratories. They often had inconsistent policies,
increasing the complexity of the billing process for clinical laboratories.
They are being replaced with contractors who will administer Part B benefits
for beneficiaries in larger regional areas. It is expected that the revised
system will reduce the administrative complexity of billing for services
provided to Medicare beneficiaries.

With
regard to the clinical test services performed on behalf of Medicare
beneficiaries, we must bill the Medicare program directly and must accept the
carrier’s fee schedule amount for covered services as payment in full. In






addition,
state Medicaid programs are prohibited from paying more (and in most instances,
pay significantly less) than Medicare. Currently, Medicare does not require the
beneficiary to pay a co-payment for clinical laboratory testing. Certain
Medicaid programs require Medicaid recipients to pay co-payment amounts for
clinical laboratory testing. Medicare patients generally are required to make
co-payments for anatomic pathology services.

Part
B of the Medicare program contains fee schedule payment methodologies for
clinical testing services, and for pathology and other physician services,
performed for covered patients, including a national ceiling on the amount that
carriers could pay under their local Medicare clinical testing fee schedules.
The Medicare national fee schedule for clinical testing services for 2011 is
reduced by 1.75% from 2010 levels as a result of the 2010 federal healthcare
reform legislation. This reduction is the first of a series of such annual
reductions effective from 2011 to 2015. In December 2010, Congress delayed by
one year a potential 30% decrease in the physician fee schedule that otherwise
would have become effective January 1, 2011. The following table sets forth the percentage of our consolidated net
revenues reimbursed under Medicare attributable to the clinical testing and
physician fee schedules in 2010.

Medicare Part B Reimbursements% of our 2010 Consolidated Net RevenuesClinical Laboratory Fee Schedule12%Physician
 Fee Schedule3%

Penalties
for violations of laws relating to billing government healthcare programs and
for violations of federal and state fraud and abuse laws include: (1) exclusion
from participation in Medicare/Medicaid programs; (2) asset forfeitures; (3)
civil and criminal fines and penalties; and (4) the loss of various licenses,
certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business. Civil
monetary penalties for a wide range of violations may be assessed on a per
violation basis. A parallel civil remedy under the federal False Claims Act
provides for penalties on a per violation basis, plus damages of up to three
times the amount claimed.

Historically,
most Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries were covered under the traditional
Medicare and Medicaid programs administered by the federal government. Over the
last several years, the federal government has continued to expand its
contracts with private health insurance plans for Medicare beneficiaries and
has encouraged such beneficiaries to switch from the traditional programs to
the private programs, called “Medicare Advantage” programs. There has been
continued growth of health insurance plans offering Medicare Advantage programs
and of beneficiary enrollment in these plans. In recent years, in an effort to
control costs, states also have increasingly mandated that Medicaid
beneficiaries enroll in private managed care arrangements. The 2010 federal
healthcare reform legislation is intended to control the growth of Medicare
Advantage programs, encourage beneficiaries to switch back to traditional
Medicare programs and expand the eligibility for traditional Medicaid programs.

REGULATION

Our
businesses are subject to or impacted by extensive and frequently changing laws
and regulations in the United States (at both the federal and state levels),
    and the other jurisdictions in which we conduct business. These laws and
regulations include regulations over aspects of our business, and laws and
regulations relating to conducting our business generally (e.g., export
controls laws, U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws of other
jurisdictions), including in the United States and in the other jurisdictions
in which we conduct business. We also are subject to inspections and audits by
governmental agencies. Set forth below are highlights of the key regulatory
areas applicable to our businesses.

CLIA
and State Clinical Laboratory Licensing Regulations.All of our laboratories and, where applicable, patient service centers, are
licensed and accredited as required by the appropriate federal and state
agencies. CLIA regulates virtually all clinical laboratories by requiring that
they be certified by the federal government and comply with various technical,
operational, personnel and quality requirements intended to ensure that the
services provided are accurate, reliable and timely. The cost of compliance
with CLIA makes it cost prohibitive for many physicians to operate clinical
laboratories in their offices. However, manufacturers of laboratory equipment
and test kits could seek to increase their sales by marketing point-of-care
test equipment to physicians and by selling to both physicians and patients
test kits approved by the FDA for home use. Diagnostic tests approved or
cleared by the FDA for home use are automatically deemed to be “waived” tests
under CLIA and may be performed in physician office laboratories with minimal
regulatory oversight under CLIA as well as by patients in their homes.

CLIA
does not preempt state laws that are more stringent than federal law. State
laws may require additional personnel qualifications, quality control, record
maintenance and/or proficiency testing. State laws also may require detailed
review of our scientific validations and technical procedures for tests.






Fraud and Abuse Rules.Federal
anti-kickback laws and regulations prohibit making payments or furnishing other
benefits to influence the referral of tests billed to Medicare, Medicaid or
certain other federal or state healthcare programs. The penalties for violation
of these laws and regulations may include monetary fines, criminal and civil
penalties and/or suspension or exclusion from participation in Medicare,
Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs. Several states have similar
laws.

In
addition, federal and state anti-self-referral laws generally prohibit Medicare
and Medicaid payments for clinical tests referred by physicians who have a
personal investment in, or a compensation arrangement with, the testing
laboratory. Some states also have similar laws that are not limited to Medicare
and Medicaid referrals and could also affect investment and compensation
arrangements with physicians.

FDA.The FDA has regulatory responsibility over, among other areas, instruments, test
kits, reagents and other devices used by clinical laboratories to perform
diagnostic testing in the United States. The FDA also regulates clinical trials
(and, therefore, testing that we perform for sponsors of those trials),
drugs-of-abuse testing for employers, testing for blood bank purposes and
testing of donors of human cells for purposes such as in vitro fertilization. A
number of esoteric tests we develop internally are first offered as
laboratory-developed tests (“LDTs”). The FDA has claimed regulatory authority
over all LDTs, but has exercised enforcement discretion with regard to most
LDTs performed by high complexity CLIA-certified laboratories. During 2010, the
FDA publicly announced that it has decided to exercise regulatory authority
over LDTs, and that it plans to issue guidance to the industry regarding its
regulatory approach. The FDA has indicated that it will use a risk-based
approach to regulation and will direct more resources to tests with wider
distribution and with the highest risk of injury, but that it will be sensitive
to the need to not adversely impact patient care or innovation. The FDA has not
announced a framework or timetable for implementing its new regulatory
approach. The regulatory approach adopted by the FDA may lead to an increased
regulatory burden on our Company, including additional costs and delays in
introducing new tests.

Laboratories
use analyte specific reagents (“ASRs”) in some LDTs. Under current FDA
guidance, manufacturers of certain products previously marketed as ASRs must
file for FDA clearance of these products in order to market them in the United
States. In addition, the FDA recently has increased its scrutiny of reagents
and kits labeled Research Use Only (“RUO”) or Investigational Use Only (“IUO”)
and has announced that it plans to issue guidance on RUO and IUO labeled
products. The regulation of ASR, RUO or IUO products could result in increased
product cost, a delay in obtaining them or, if a manufacturer withdraws its
products from the market, an inability to obtain the product. These factors may
hinder our ability to develop and market new products or services or cause an
increase in the cost of our products or services.

Environmental,
      Health and Safety.We are
subject to laws and regulations related to the protection of the environment,
the health and safety of employees and the handling, transportation and
disposal of medical specimens, infectious and hazardous waste and radioactive
materials. For example, the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration
(“OSHA”) has established extensive requirements relating specifically
to workplace safety for healthcare employers in the U.S. This includes
requirements to develop and implement multi-faceted programs to protect workers
from exposure to blood-borne pathogens, such as HIV and hepatitis B and C,
including preventing or minimizing any exposure through needle stick injuries.
For purposes of transportation, some biological materials and laboratory
supplies are classified as hazardous materials and are subject to regulation
by one or more of the following agencies: the U.S. Department of Transportation,
the U.S. Public Health Service, the United States Postal Service and the
International Air Transport Association. We generally use third-party vendors
to dispose of regulated medical waste, hazardous waste and radioactive
materials and contractually require them to comply with applicable laws and
regulations.






Physicians.Many
    of our pathologists enter into an employment agreement. These agreements
    have varying terms, but generally can be terminated at any time, upon advance
    notice. Most of the agreements contain covenants generally limiting the activities
    of the pathologist within a defined geographic area for a limited period
    of time after termination of employment. The agreements may be subject to
    limitations under state law that may limit the enforceability of these covenants.

Our
pathologists are required to hold a valid license to practice medicine in the
jurisdiction in which they practice. If they provide inpatient services, they
must become a member of the medical staff at the relevant hospital, with
privileges in pathology.

Several
states, including some in which our businesses are located, prohibit business
corporations from engaging in the practice of medicine. In certain states,
business corporations are prohibited from employing licensed healthcare
professionals to provide services on behalf of the corporation; these laws vary
from state to state. The manner in which licensed physicians can be organized
to perform medical services may be governed by the laws of the state in which
medical services are provided and by the medical boards or other entities
authorized by these states to oversee the practice of medicine. In some states,
anatomic pathology services are delivered through physician-owned entities that
employ the practicing pathologists.

Privacy and Security of Health and Personal
Information.We are required to comply with laws and regulations in
the United States (at the federal and state levels) and jurisdictions outside
the United States in which we conduct business, including the European Union,
regarding protecting the security and privacy of certain healthcare and
personal information. These privacy and security laws include the federal
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, as amended, and the
regulations thereunder (collectively, “HIPAA”). The HIPAA security regulations
establish requirements for safeguarding electronic protected health
information. The HIPAA privacy regulations establish comprehensive federal
standards regarding the uses and disclosures of protected health information.
Together, these laws and regulations establish a complex regulatory framework
on a variety of subjects, provide for penalties for non-compliance, and may require
a healthcare provider to notify patients or the government if the provider
discovers certain breaches of unsecured personal or a patient’s protected
health information. We have implemented practices to meet applicable
requirements.

Drug Testing; Controlled Substances.All
U.S. laboratories that perform drug testing for public sector employees and
employees of certain federally regulated businesses are required to be
certified as meeting the detailed performance and quality standards of the Substance
Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. To obtain access to controlled
substances used to perform drugs-of-abuse testing in the United States,
laboratories must be licensed by the Drug Enforcement Administration. All of
our laboratories that perform such testing or that utilize controlled
substances are so certified or so licensed, respectively.

Compliance.We seek to conduct our business
in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. Many of the laws and
regulations applicable to us, however, including many of those relating to
billing, reimbursement of tests and relationships with physicians and
hospitals, are vague or indefinite or have not been interpreted by the courts.
They may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial
authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations,
including our pricing and/or billing practices. The applicability or
interpretation of laws and regulations also may not be clear in light of emerging
changes in clinical testing science and healthcare technology. Such
occurrences, regardless of their outcome, could, among other things:

•increase our
 operating costs including, but not limited to, those costs associated with
 performing clinical or anatomic pathology tests or manufacturing or
 distributing products, and administrative requirements related to billing;•decrease the
 amount of reimbursement related to testing services performed;•damage our
 reputation; and/or•adversely
 affect important business relationships with third parties.

If
we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil
and criminal penalties, fines, exclusion from participation in governmental
healthcare programs and the loss of various licenses, certificates and
authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as incur additional
liabilities from third party claims, all of which could have a material adverse
effect on our business. Certain federal and state statutes, regulations and
other laws, including thequi tamprovisions of the federal False Claims Act, allow private individuals to bring
lawsuits against healthcare companies on behalf of government payers, private
payers and/or patients alleging inappropriate billing practices.

The
federal or state governments may bring claims based on theories as to our
current practices that we believe






are lawful.
The federal and state governments have substantial leverage in negotiating
settlements since the amount of potential damages far exceeds the rates at
which we are reimbursed, and the government has the remedy of excluding a
non-compliant provider from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid
programs. Reimbursement from traditional Medicare and Medicaid programs
represented approximately 18% of our net revenues during 2010. We believe that,
based on our experience with settlements and public announcements by various
government officials, the federal and state governments continue to strengthen
their enforcement efforts against healthcare fraud. In addition, legislative
provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse provide government
enforcement personnel substantially increased funding, powers and remedies to
pursue suspected cases of fraud and abuse.

We
have a long-standing and well-established compliance program. The Quality,
Safety & Compliance Committee of our Board of Directors oversees our
compliance program and requires periodic management reports regarding our
compliance program. Our program includes detailed policies and procedures and
training programs intended to ensure the strict implementation and observance
of all applicable laws, regulations and Company policies. Further, we conduct
in-depth reviews of procedures and facilities to assure regulatory compliance
throughout our operations. We conduct annual training of our employees on these
compliance policies and procedures.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

We
file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other
information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). You may
read and copy any document that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s public
reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC
at 1-800-SEC-0330 for information regarding the public reference room. The SEC
maintains an internet site that contains annual, quarterly and current reports,
proxy and information statements and other information that issuers (including
Quest Diagnostics) file electronically with the SEC. Our electronic SEC filings
are available to the public at the SEC’s internet site, www.sec.gov.

Our
internet site is www.QuestDiagnostics.com. You can access Quest Diagnostics’
Investor Relations webpage at www.QuestDiagnostics.com/investor. The
information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Report.
We make available free of charge, on or through our Investor Relations webpage,
our proxy statements, Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q,
Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or
furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the
“Exchange Act”), as soon as reasonably practical after such material is filed
with, or furnished to, the SEC. We also make available, through our Investor
Relations webpage, statements of beneficial ownership of our equity securities
filed by our directors, officers, 10% or greater shareholders and others under
Section 16 of the Exchange Act.

We
have a corporate governance webpage. You can access information regarding our
corporate governance at www.QuestDiagnostics.com/governance. We post the
following on our corporate governance webpage:

•Directors•Management•Code of
 Business Ethics•Integrity
 Commitment•Values•Corporate
 Governance Guidelines•Charters for
 the following committees of our Board of Directors: Audit and Finance;
 Compensation; Executive; Governance; and Quality, Safety and Compliance•Certificate
 of Incorporation•Bylaws

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

The following
persons serve as executive officers of the Company.

Surya N. Mohapatra, Ph.D.(61) is Chairman
of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer. Prior to joining the
Company in February 1999 as Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer,
he was Senior Vice President of Picker International, a worldwide leader in
advanced medical imaging technologies. Dr. Mohapatra was appointed President and
Chief Operating Officer in June 1999, Chief Executive Officer in May 2004 and
Chairman of the Board in December 2004. He is a director of ITT Corporation, a
trustee of The Rockefeller University and a member






of the
Corporate Advisory Board of Johns Hopkins Carey Business School. Dr. Mohapatra
has been a director of the Company since 2002.

Jon R. Cohen, M.D.(56) is Senior Vice
President and Chief Medical Officer. Dr. Cohen joined the company in March
2009. He served as the Senior Advisor to New York Governor David Patterson from
2008 to 2009, where he was responsible for all policy and strategic planning.
From 2007 to 2008, Dr. Cohen was a managing director, health industries
advisory services at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Prior to that, he spent 21
years with North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System, one of the nation’s
largest not-for-profit health systems, including serving as its Chief Medical
Officer from 2000 to 2006.

Robert A. Hagemann(54) is Senior Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer. He joined Corning Life Sciences, Inc. in
1992, where he held a variety of senior financial positions before being named
Vice President and Corporate Controller of the Company in 1996. Mr. Hagemann
has served as Chief Financial Officer since August 1998. He is a director of
Zimmer Holdings, Inc.

Joan E. Miller, Ph.D.(56) is Senior Vice
President – Pathology and Hospital Services. Dr. Miller joined Corning Life
Sciences, Inc. in 1992 and since has held positions of increasing
responsibility. Dr. Miller was named Senior Managing Director, Nichols
Institute in 2002 and Vice President, Hospital Business in 2003. Since June
2007, Dr. Miller has overseen the Company’s hospital testing services,
including its esoteric testing facilities, and its anatomic pathology testing
services.

Michael E. Prevoznik(49) is Senior Vice
President and General Counsel. Mr. Prevoznik joined the Company as Vice
President and General Counsel in August 1999. In 2003, he assumed responsibility
for governmental affairs. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Prevoznik served in
positions of increasing responsibility within the compliance organization at
SmithKline Beecham, most recently as Vice President, Compliance, with
responsibility for coordinating all SmithKline Beecham compliance activities
worldwide.

Wayne R. Simmons(55) is Vice President –
Operations. Since July 2007, he has overseen the Company’s U.S. clinical
testing operations. Mr. Simmons joined the Company in February 2004 as Vice
President for our central region. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Simmons
served in positions of increasing responsibility with Philips Medical Systems,
including, since 2002, as Vice President of Supply Chain, in which position he
was responsible for operations at Philips Medical Systems CT Operations
facilities globally.

