Item 1. Business

Quest
Diagnostics Incorporated is the world’s leading provider of diagnostic testing,
information and services. We provide insights that enable patients and
physicians to make better healthcare decisions.

Quest
Diagnostics was incorporated in Delaware in 1990; its predecessor companies
date back to 1967. We conduct business through our headquarters in Madison, New
Jersey, and our laboratories, patient service centers, offices and other
facilities around the United States and in selected locations outside the
United States. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “Quest
Diagnostics,” the “Company,” “we” and “our” mean Quest Diagnostics Incorporated
and its consolidated subsidiaries.

During
2011, we generated net revenues of $7.5 billion and processed approximately 146
million test requisitions. Additional financial information concerning Quest
Diagnostics, including our consolidated subsidiaries and business segments, for
each of the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 is included in the
consolidated financial statements and notes thereto in “Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data” in Part II, Item 8.

OUR STRATEGY AND
STRENGTHS

Our
mission is to be the undisputed world leader in diagnostic testing, information
and services. We are dedicated to improving the health of patients through
unsurpassed diagnostic insights and innovation and we focus on patients, growth
and people to help achieve our goals.

Growth Strategy.We offer high value
diagnostic testing services and products attractive to patients, physicians,
payers, employers and others. We believe that successful execution of our
strategy will drive continued growth of our business. Additionally, we believe
that, over the long term, we will be able to grow at a rate above the U.S.
clinical laboratory industry growth rate, and to expand margins. The elements
of our growth strategy are described below.





•

Leverage our assets and capabilities.



•Continue to lead in medical innovation.We
 are a leading innovator in the clinical testing market with unsurpassed
 medical and technical expertise. We collaborate with leading academic centers
 and maintain relationships with advisors and consultants that are leaders in
 key fields, such as cardiology, oncology, neurology and infectious disease.
 In connection with our research and development efforts, our medical and
 scientific experts publish in peer-reviewed journals research that
 demonstrates the clinical value and importance of diagnostic testing. In
 2011, we published over fifty articles that support advancements and the
 latest thinking in laboratory testing and disease diagnosis. Over the past
 several years, we have expanded our business in more complex and faster-growing
 testing areas, including gene-based and esoteric testing and diagnostics
 products.



We see
 significant opportunity to use diagnostics for personalized medicine and, as
 a result of combining the resources we gained through our 2011 acquisition of
 Celera Corporation with our other assets, can offer an “end to end” array of
 services for companion diagnostics. We have expertise dealing with biomarkers
 in clinical trials, have biomarker discovery capabilities, and can make
 available laboratory developed tests,in vitrodiagnostics (“IVD”) test kits
 and late-stage commercialization support for companion diagnostics for new
 therapies that will foster personalized patient treatment. For example, in
 2012, the FDA granted our de novo classification petition for our STRATIFY
 JCVTMAntibody ELISA










testing
 service. It is the first blood test to be FDA market authorized for the
 qualitative detection of antibodies to the polyomavirus JC virus for
 stratifying risk for progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, an
 infrequent but serious brain infection, in patients with multiple sclerosis
 receiving TYSABRI®, a therapy for relapsing forms of multiple
 sclerosis. STRATIFY JCVTM, which was developed under an exclusive
 collaboration for the United States market with the co-manufacturer of
 TYSABRI®, is to be performed only at Focus Diagnostics.



We continue
 to introduce new tests, technology and services, including many with a focus
 on personalized and targeted medicine. For example, in 2011, we introduced
 our AccuType®IL28b, a test designed to aid in the prediction of
 patient response to the widely-used peginterferon alpha-based therapy for
 treating hepatitis C virus infection. In addition, as an industry leader with
 the largest and broadest U.S. network and presence outside the United States,
 we believe we are the distribution channel of choice for developers of new
 tests to introduce their products to the marketplace. Through our
 relationships with the academic medical community and pharmaceutical and
 biotechnology firms, we believe that we are a leader in bringing technical
 innovation to the market.



•Provide leading healthcare information
 technology solutions. We provide interoperable
 technologies that help healthcare organizations and physicians enter, share
 and access clinical information without costly IT implementation or
 significant workflow disruption, including through our Care360®suite
 of products and our ChartMaxx®electronic document management
 system for hospitals. These solutions offer access to a large national
 healthcare provider network, including approximately 200,000 networked
 physicians and clinicians using Quest Diagnostics’ Care360 connectivity
 products. The Care360 products, including Care360 Labs and Meds, enable physicians
 electronically to order diagnostic tests and review test results from Quest
 Diagnostics and electronically to prescribe medications. Our Care360 EHR
 product, which is certified as a complete electronic health record by the
 Certification Commission for Health Information Technology, allows physicians
 to generate a complete record of a clinical patient encounter, automates and
 streamlines the clinician’s workflow, and allows for rapid deployment and
 implementation with minimal workflow disruption. We believe that these
 products enhance the value we provide to our customers and result in
 increased customer loyalty by providing more convenient ordering and
 reporting of clinical tests, greater convenience in electronically
 prescribing medication and better access to clinical information.



We are a
 leader in providing patients with tools to manage their healthcare and
 medical information. Our automated patient appointment scheduling enables
 patients to schedule appointments, including via mobile devices, at times
 that are convenient for them while reducing or eliminating their waiting
 time. We also offer TestMinder®, which sends email reminders to
 patients who require frequent testing, and Gazelle®, a secure
 mobile health platform that allows users to receive their Quest Diagnostics
 laboratory results, manage their personal health information, find a Quest
 Diagnostics location and schedule appointments directly from their
 smartphone.



•Continuously drive Six Sigma quality and deliver a positive patient
 experience.We strive to provide the highest quality
 in all that we do. We use Six Sigma and Lean processes to continuously reduce
 defects, enhance quality and further increase the efficiency of our
 operations. Six Sigma is a management approach that utilizes a thorough
 understanding of customer needs and requirements, root cause analysis,
 process improvements and rigorous tracking and measuring to enhance quality.
 Lean is a management approach that seeks to streamline processes and
 eliminate waste. We also use Six Sigma and Lean principles to help
 standardize operations and processes across our Company and identify and
 adopt best practices. We believe our use of Six Sigma and Lean results in
 superior service to our customers and drives customer loyalty. The patient is
 at the center of everything we do. Patients have a choice when it comes to
 selecting a healthcare provider and we strive to give patients reason to put
 their trust in us. We have made significant investments in training our
 employees to provide a positive patient experience. We believe that this will
 drive patient and physician loyalty.



•Expand our diagnostic scope.Technology
 advances are enabling testing to move closer to the patient and
 point-of-care, or near-patient, tests are becoming increasingly available and
 reliable. This enables more timely and effective decisions, with the
 opportunity to improve patient care and reduce medical costs. We have
 businesses, including HemoCue, Celera and Focus Diagnostics, which offer
 diagnostics products, including point-of-care testing. We intend to expand
 our product menus and develop novel technology platforms and systems to meet
 the needs of our clients. We are well positioned to offer choice and
 integrated solutions to physicians, hospitals, clinics and retail customers
 for the testing methods that are most appropriate for each patient and
 practice.






Shareholder Focus.

We
are focused on increasing shareholder returns and returns on invested capital
(“ROIC”) through a framework that encompasses improving operating performance
and disciplined capital deployment. To improve our operating performance, we
are taking steps to accelerate organic revenue growth and to reduce our
operating costs. We have launched a program to reduce our operating costs by
$500 million by the end of 2014.

Our
disciplined capital deployment framework includes dividends, share repurchases
and investment in our business and is intended to improve ROIC. The framework
    is grounded in maintaining an investment grade credit rating. In 2012, the
    Company expects to use the majority of its free cash flow to reduce its outstanding
    debt and achieve a debt/EBITDA ratio in the range of 2 –
2¼ times. Upon achieving our targeted leverage ratio, we expect to return
to investors through a combination of dividends and share repurchases a majority
of our free cash flow. Consistent with that expectation, we increased our
quarterly common stock dividend by 70%, from $0.10 per share to $0.17 per share,
in January 2012. We expect that the dividend will grow over time commensurate
with earnings and cash flows.

We
will continue to invest in our business in a disciplined manner which should
require significantly less capital than in recent years. As a result of our
2011 acquisitions of Athena Diagnostics and Celera, we believe that we have
established a solid foundation of strategic assets and capabilities, and that
it is unlikely that we will complete any large strategic acquisitions in the near
term. Our near-term investments are likely to focus on smaller fold-in
acquisitions; investments in science and innovation in the form of licensing,
collaborations and internal development; and investments in technology that
will improve quality and efficiency in our laboratories and in other parts of
our business. We anticipate that selective acquisitions will enable us to add
capabilities and further strengthen our access and distribution.

BUSINESS
OPERATIONS

Quest
Diagnostics is the world’s leading provider of diagnostic testing, information
and services, providing insights that enable patients and physicians to make
better healthcare decisions. We offer U.S. patients and physicians the broadest
access to diagnostic testing services through our nationwide network of
laboratories and Company-owned patient service centers. We provide interpretive
consultation through the largest medical and scientific staff in the industry,
including hundreds of M.D.s and Ph.D.s, primarily located in the United States,
many of whom are recognized leaders in their fields. We are the leading
provider of clinical testing, including gene-based and esoteric testing and
anatomic pathology services, and the leading provider of risk assessment
services for the life insurance industry. We also are a leading provider of
testing for clinical trials and testing for drugs of abuse. Our diagnostics
products business manufactures and markets diagnostic test kits and specialized
point-of-care testing. We empower healthcare organizations and clinicians with
robust information technology solutions. Our activities are described below.

Patients
are at the center of everything that we do. We are leveraging our diagnostic
testing capabilities and our assets to serve multiple customer bases. Most of
our services are provided in the United States; for the years ended December
31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we derived approximately 4%, 3% and 3%, respectively,
of our revenues from foreign operations and held approximately 6%, 7% and 7%,
respectively, of our long-lived assets outside the United States. The following
chart shows the percentage of our 2011 net revenues generated by the activities
identified.

ActivityApproximatePercentageof 2011 Net RevenuesClinical
 testing91%Routine clinical testing50%Anatomic pathology testing13%Gene-based and esoteric testing25%Drugs of abuse testing (employer services)3%Healthcare information technology, clinical
 trials testing, life insurer services and diagnostic products9%

Clinical
Testing.We are the world’s largest commercial clinical testing company.
Clinical testing is an essential element in the delivery of healthcare
services. Physicians use clinical tests to assist in the detection, diagnosis,
evaluation, monitoring and treatment of diseases and other medical conditions.
Clinical testing is generally categorized as clinical laboratory testing and
anatomic pathology services. We offer customers the broadest access to the most
extensive test menu of clinical laboratory and anatomic pathology tests in the
United States. Clinical laboratory testing generally is performed on whole
blood, serum, plasma and other body fluids, such as urine, and specimens such
as microbiology samples. Clinical laboratory tests which can be performed by
most clinical laboratories are considered routine. Esoteric tests are clinical
laboratory tests typically that are not routine, require professional
“hands-on”






attention from
highly-skilled technical personnel, generally require more sophisticated
technology, equipment or materials and may be performed less frequently than
routine tests. Consequently, esoteric tests generally are reimbursed at higher
levels than routine tests. It is not practical, from a cost-effectiveness or
infrastructure perspective, for most hospitals, commercial laboratories or
physician office laboratories to develop and perform a broad menu of esoteric
tests, or to perform low-volume esoteric testing in-house. Such tests generally
are outsourced to an esoteric clinical testing laboratory, which specializes in
performing these complex tests. Anatomic pathology services are performed on
tissues, such as biopsies, and other samples, such as human cells. As tests
increasingly become more complex, we believe that providing sound medical and
scientific consultation regarding our tests and test results will help spur the
integration of new tests into clinical practice, and help physicians best
utilize these tests to improve patient outcomes and enhance patient
satisfaction. To this end, our in-house experts, including medical directors,
scientific directors, genetic counselors and board certified geneticists, are
available for consultation with our customers regarding testing that we perform.

Routine
clinical testing.We are the leading provider of
routine clinical testing, including testing for drugs of abuse. We perform
routine testing through our network of major laboratories and rapid response
laboratories. Rapid response laboratories are smaller facilities where we can
quickly perform an abbreviated menu of routine tests for customers that require
rapid turnaround times. We also perform routine testing at hospital
laboratories that we manage. We operate laboratories 24 hours a day, 365 days a
year. The majority of test results are delivered electronically.

Routine
tests measure various important bodily health parameters such as the functions
of the kidney, heart, liver, thyroid and other organs. Commonly ordered tests
include:

•blood
 chemistries, including cholesterol levels;•complete
 blood cell counts;•urinalysis;•pregnancy
 and other prenatal tests;•routine
 microbiology testing;•alcohol and
 other substance-abuse tests; and•allergy
 tests such as the ImmunoCap®test.

Anatomic
pathology testing.We are the leading provider of
anatomic pathology services in the United States, through our AmeriPath®,
Dermpath Diagnostics®and Quest Diagnostics brands. Anatomic
pathology involves the diagnosis of cancer and other diseases and medical
conditions through examination of tissue and cell samples taken from patients.
We provide inpatient anatomic pathology and medical director services at
hospitals throughout the country, and through our major laboratories.

We
provide a full range of services to all anatomic pathology subspecialties. Our
experienced staff of hundreds of medical doctors, including luminaries in their
field, have a passion for providing the highest quality service to patients. We
provide integrated, comprehensive reports that include both anatomic pathology
and clinical pathology tests, enabling our pathologists to offer patients and
physicians a complete analysis. Our approach fosters personalized patient care.

We
have a strong history of leadership and innovation in cancer diagnostics. We
introduced the Leumeta®family of tests for leukemia and lymphoma.
These proprietary plasma-based molecular tests may some day eliminate the need
for painful bone marrow biopsies. As discussed below under the heading
“Scientific Innovation,” we continue to develop and release new tests to aid in
the detection and treatment of cancer.

Gene-Based
and Esoteric Testing.We are the leading provider in
the United States of gene-based and esoteric testing. Gene-based and esoteric
tests increasingly are ordered by physicians to assist them in the diagnostic
process, to establish a prognosis and to choose or monitor a therapeutic
regimen. Esoteric tests include procedures in the areas of molecular
diagnostics, protein chemistry, cellular immunology and advanced microbiology.
Commonly ordered esoteric tests include viral and bacterial detection tests,
drug therapy monitoring tests, genetic tests, autoimmune panels and complex
cancer evaluations. In 2011, we acquired Athena Diagnostics®, a
provider of neurology testing, establishing the leading position in the growing
neurology testing market. In 2011, we also acquired Celera®Corporation, providing immediate access to increased genetic tests. As part of
this acquisition, we also acquired Berkeley HeartLab, enhancing our leading
position in advanced cardiovascular testing. We conduct complex and specialized
testing, including molecular diagnostics, in our world renowned Quest
Diagnostics Nichols Institute laboratory facilities and in a number of other
locations, including Focus Diagnostics and Athena Diagnostics.






Our
esoteric laboratories provide reference testing services to physicians, large
academic medical centers, hospitals and other commercial laboratories. Our
esoteric testing laboratories perform hundreds of complex tests that are not
routinely performed by our regional laboratories, including but not limited to
the following fields:

•endocrinology
 and metabolism (the study of glands, their hormone secretions and their
 effects on body growth and metabolism);•genetics
 (the study of chromosomes, genes and their protein products and effects);•hematology
 (the study of blood and bone marrow cells) and coagulation (the process of
 blood clotting);•neurology
 (the study of the nervous system, its structure and its diseases);•immunogenetics
 and human leukocyte antigens (solid organ and bone marrow transplantation,
 eligibility for vaccines, selection of pharmacotherapeutic agents and
 immunotherapy);•immunology
 (the study of the immune system, including antibodies, cytokines, immune
 system cells and their effect, receptor systems and autoimmune diseases);•microbiology
 and infectious diseases (the study of microscopic forms of life, including
 parasites, bacteria, viruses, fungi and other infectious agents);•oncology
 (the study of abnormal cell growth, including benign tumors and cancer);•serology (a
 science dealing with body fluids and their analysis, including antibodies,
 proteins and other characteristics); and•toxicology
 (the study of chemicals and drugs and their adverse effects on the body).

We
also offer gene-based tests for the predisposition, diagnosis, treatment and
monitoring of cancers. We believe that offering a full range of gene-based and
other esoteric tests strengthens our market offering and market position and
enhances our reputation as the nation’s leading test provider.

Scientific
Innovation.We are a leading innovator in the clinical
testing industry, with capabilities ranging from early discovery to validation
of clinical tests. We develop tests at our laboratories, such as Quest Diagnostics
Nichols Institute; we also develop innovative techniques and services in
anatomic pathology. We collaborate with leading academic centers and maintain
relationships with advisors and consultants who are leaders in key fields, such
as cardiology, oncology and infectious disease. In connection with our research
and development efforts, our medical and scientific experts publish in
peer-reviewed journals research that demonstrates the clinical value and
importance of diagnostic testing. In 2011, they published more than 50 articles
that provided fundamental insights into the biology of diseases or introduced
novel diagnostic testing approaches benefitting patients, including in such
areas as cardiovascular genetics, mass spectrometry small molecule and protein
diagnostics, and novel cancer diagnostic markers. They also help to shape the
latest thinking as the authors of textbooks, or chapters therein, used by
academic institutions to train healthcare providers.






We
focus our resources on key disease states, including cancer, cardiovascular
disease, infectious disease and neurological conditions. We seek technologies
that help doctors care for their patients through better predisposition,
screening, monitoring, diagnosis, prognosis and treatment choices. We also look
for tests that are less invasive than currently available options, to increase
the choices that physicians and patients have for the collection of diagnostic
samples. With these priorities in mind, we recently introduced a number of new
or enhanced tests, including those discussed below.



•Cancer.



-In 2011, we
 introduced our melanoma treatment selection mutation panel, which is designed
 to assist in the personalized selection of patient therapies.



-We
 introduced our thyroid cancer mutation panel, which assists in the diagnosis
 of thyroid cancer and aids physicians and surgeons as they plan surgery and
 other therapies to treat and attempt to cure thyroid cancer.



•Infectious
 Disease.



-During 2011,
 we enhanced our SureSwab®Vaginosis/Vaginitis Plus test. We
 expanded the organisms and sample types in the offering.



-We
 introduced Accutype®IL28b, a test designed to aid in the
 prediction of patient response to the widely-used peginterferon alpha-based
 therapy for treating hepatitis C virus infection.



-We also made
 several important additions to our transplant infectious disease offering.



•Genetics and
 Personalized Medicine.Increasingly, tests will be
 introduced that help to determine a patient’s genotype or gene expression profile
 relative to a particular disease. These tests can help physicians to
 determine a patient’s susceptibility to disease or to tailor medical care to
 an individual’s needs – such as determining if a medication might be more or
 less effective for a particular person, or which type of medication might
 work better, or tailoring the right dosage once the proper medicine is
 prescribed. A few examples are set forth below:



-In 2012, the
 FDA granted our de novo classification petition for our STRATIFY JCVTMAntibody ELISA testing service. It is the first blood test to be FDA market
 authorized for the qualitative detection of antibodies to the polyomavirus JC
 virus for stratifying risk for progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, an
 infrequent but serious brain infection, in patients with multiple sclerosis
 receiving TYSABRI®, a therapy for relapsing forms of multiple
 sclerosis.



-In 2011, we
 introduced testing for very long chain fatty acids, to assist in diagnosis
 and monitoring of inherited disorders of fatty acid metabolism.



-We also
 introduced high resolution chromosomal analysis testing with oligonucleotide
 microarrays to enhance our testing services in the pre-natal and post-natal
 genetics areas.



-In 2011, we
 expanded our prescription pain medication monitoring offering for patients
 being treated for chronic pain. We added several key medications to the test
 menu as well as genetic testing for CYP2D6 and CYP2C19 to help guide the
 prescribing and management of these medications.



•Cardiovascular
 Disease.



-During 2011,
 we released a test for therapeutic drug monitoring of dabigatran, a new oral
 anti-coagulant.



-Through
 Berkeley HeartLabs we introduced genetic testing for an additional mutation
 in the LPA gene which helps identify patients with risk of cardiovascular
 disease and likelihood to benefit from aspirin therapy.



-We also
 released genetic testing for SLC01B1, which helps identify patients at risk
 for myopathy from Simvastatin therapy for cholesterol reduction.



•Neurology.



-Through
 Athena Diagnostics, we launched several new molecular genetic tests for
 stroke, neuromuscular diseases and mitochondrial disorders.








-We also
 began to offer genetic testing for spinal muscular atrophy to all our clients
 to aid in screening for this inherited neuromuscular condition.

Healthcare Information Technology.We
provide interoperable technologies that help healthcare organizations and
physicians enter, share and access clinical information without costly IT
implementation or significant workflow disruption, including through our
Care360®suite of products and our ChartMaxx®electronic
document management system for hospitals. These solutions offer access to a large
national healthcare provider network, including approximately 200,000 networked
physicians and clinicians using Quest Diagnostics’ Care360 connectivity
products. We believe that these products enhance the value we provide to our
customers and result in increased customer loyalty by providing more convenient
ordering and reporting of clinical tests, greater convenience in electronically
prescribing medication and providing better access to clinical information. We
believe that our healthcare information technology capabilities differentiate
us from the competition.

The
Care360 products, including our Care360 Labs and Meds, enable physicians
electronically to order diagnostic tests and review test results from Quest
Diagnostics and electronically to prescribe medication. At the end of 2011,
prescriptions were written through Care360 ePrescribing at an annualized rate
of 32 million medications. Our Care360 EHR product, which is certified as a
complete electronic health record by the Certification Commission for Health
Information Technology, allows physicians to generate a complete record of a
clinical patient encounter, automates and streamlines the clinician’s workflow,
and allows for rapid deployment and implementation with minimal workflow disruption.
The solution allows doctors to electronically create, manage and distribute
patient encounter notes, including vital signs and progress notes. It captures
lab and radiology results, provides clinical decision support tools and allows
doctors to send secure messages and clinical information to other practitioners
and secure, Web-based laboratory results to their patients’ personal health
records. Physicians also take advantage of our new Care360 Mobile application
that lets them review results and order medications using their smartphones or
mobile devices. Care360 was named the top stand-alone e-Prescribing system of
2011 by Black Book Rankings.

In
2011, for the eighth time in the past ten years, ChartMaxx was awarded the Best
in KLAS award for the document management and imaging category. It is being
used by over 400,000 clinical and administrative users in hospitals and other
clinical locations. Our Care360 Data Exchange is the delivery mechanism for
clinical transactions, including bi-directional transmission of orders and
results involving the acute care and ambulatory settings.

We
are a leader in providing patients with advanced tools to manage their health.
Using our Care360 connectivity products, physicians can securely provide
diagnostic and other data to a patient’s account. We offer Gazelle®,
a secure mobile health platform that allows users to receive their Quest
Diagnostics laboratory results, manage their personal health information, find
a Quest Diagnostics location and schedule appointments directly from their
smartphone.

Clinical Trials Testing.We believe that we
are the second largest provider of central laboratory testing performed in
connection with clinical research trials on new drugs, vaccines and certain
medical devices. Clinical research trials are required by the FDA and non-U.S.
international regulatory authorities to assess the safety and efficacy of new
drugs, vaccines and some medical devices. We see opportunities to develop
pharmacogenetic and pharmacogenomic tests to help speed drug approval processes
for our clinical trials customers and, capitalizing on the trend to
personalized medicine, to better focus patient therapy based on a patient’s
genetic markers. We have biomarker capabilities that advance our efforts to
develop these tests. In 2011, we acquired Celera, enhancing our ability to
provide biomarker discovery and develop IVD test kits. As a result, we now
offer an “end to end” array of services for companion diagnostics.

We
have clinical trials testing centers in the United States, the United Kingdom
and India, and we provide clinical trials testing in Argentina, Brazil, China
and Singapore through affiliated laboratories. We serve most of the major
pharmaceutical companies.

Life Insurer Services.We are the largest
provider of risk assessment services to the life insurance industry in North
America. We also provide risk assessment services for insurance companies doing
business in many countries outside the United States.

Our
risk assessment services comprise underwriting support services to the life
insurance industry, including laboratory testing, electronic data collection,
specimen collection and paramedical examinations, medical record retrieval,
case management, motor vehicle reports, telephone inspections, prescription
histories and credit checks. The laboratory tests that we perform and data we
gather are designed to assist insurance companies to objectively evaluate the
mortality risks of policy applicants. The majority of the testing is performed
on specimens of life insurance applicants, but also includes specimens of
applicants for other types of insurance. Factors such as the number of
applications for underwritten life insurance policies can affect the
utilization of clinical testing and other services we provide to our insurance
customers. Most of our specimen collections and paramedical examinations are
performed by






our network of
approximately 5,000 contracted paramedical examiners at the applicant’s home or
workplace. We also offer paramedical examinations through approximately 500 of
our patient service centers, and operate approximately 80 locations other than
patient service centers in the United States and Canada where we provide paramedical
examinations, bringing to approximately 580 the total number of sites where we
can provide these examinations. We also contract with third parties at over an
additional 200 locations globally to coordinate providing these exams.

We
seek to grow our risk assessment services revenues by increasing our market
share and by offering new and innovative laboratory tests, data collection and
analytics and other services. For example, in 2011, we were the first in the
industry to offer on-line lab results to life insurance applicants. We charge
our life insurance customers on a fee-for-service basis, typically under
multi-year agreements.

Employer Services.We believe that we are a
leading provider of testing to employers for the detection of employee use of
drugs of abuse. Our Quest Diagnostics Drug Testing IndexTM, which is
an annual report of our aggregate drug testing results, is used by employers,
the federal government and the media to help identify and quantify drug abuse
among the nation’s workforce.

We
provide a full range of solutions for drugs of abuse, including urine, hair,
blood and oral fluid tests. We regularly look for opportunities to enhance our
test offerings. In 2011, we introduced Oral-Eze®, our own innovative
oral fluid collection system that simplifies the collection of oral samples for
routine drug testing. The Oral-Eze®Oral Fluid Collector provides
all the advantages of previous collection systems, with the added benefit of
our indicator window technology.

As
healthcare costs have increased, so has the value of preventive care. Employers
grappling with rising healthcare costs increasingly use wellness screening as a
key tool to reduce their healthcare costs and the healthcare risks of their
employees. We provide wellness testing and analytic services to employers to
enable them and their employees to take an active role in improving their
health and empower employers with aggregated health information. Our Blueprint
for Wellness®program offers employers actionable data to power
their health improvement and cost containment programs. We are leveraging our
patient service centers and paramedical examiner network to deliver wellness
screening nationwide. We also are exploring offering Blueprint for Wellness®through additional channels.

Diagnostic Products, Including Point-of-care, or
Near-patient, Testing.Technology advances are enabling testing to
move closer to the patient and are becoming increasingly available, accurate
and cost effective. Over time, some testing that is now done in clinical
laboratories will cease to be performed in clinical laboratories and will be
performed closer to the patient. We believe that our point-of-care testing
strategy will strengthen our relationship with our customers by enabling us to
offer more solutions that improve the effectiveness of our customers and the
care of their patients by enabling faster diagnosis and treatment. We are well
positioned to offer options and integrated solutions to physicians, hospitals
and clinics for the testing methods that are most appropriate for each patient
and practice.

We
develop and manufacture products that enable healthcare professionals to make
healthcare diagnoses, including products for point-of-care, or near-patient,
testing for the professional market. We have several companies, including Focus
Diagnostics, HemoCue and Celera, that enhance our offerings and better enable
us to serve these markets.

®

®

®

clostridium
difficile

TM

HemoCue®innovates, manufactures and distributes point-of-care testing products
globally. HemoCue is the leading global provider in point-of-care testing for
hemoglobin, with a growing market share for glucose, microalbumin and white
blood cell testing. HemoCue offers its White Blood Cell Differential System in
Europe, and plans in 2012 to






seek 510(k)
clearance and waived status under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement
Amendments (“CLIA”) for this product which, if granted, would permit physicians
to use these products in a much larger segment of physician offices. The HemoCue
handheld systems are used in physician’s offices, blood banks, hospitals,
diabetes clinics and public health clinics. Approximately sixty percent of
HemoCue products are sold outside the United States.

Celera
offers a number of market leading high complexity molecular diagnostic products
in segments such as HIV-1 drug resistance testing, reproductive genetics,
transplantation and cardiovascular genetics. Celera products, which are
distributed by a third party worldwide, span the various levels of regulatory
registrations and are sold to a broad spectrum of customers who require high
quality and regulatory approved products. We also manufacture and offer the
InSure®fecal immunochemical test (FITTM) for screening
for colorectal cancer.

International.We have laboratory
facilities in Gurgaon, India; Heston, England; Mexico City, Mexico; and San
Juan, Puerto Rico. These laboratories support clinical testing in their local
markets, and also may support our clinical trials business. We have an office
in Ireland that supports our activities in that country, and also have sales
representatives dedicated to offering our diagnostic test products in countries
outside the United States. We see opportunities to bring our experience and
expertise in diagnostic testing and point-of-care products to international
markets, particularly developing countries where the testing markets are highly
fragmented and less mature, including by leveraging existing facilities to
serve new markets.

THE UNITED STATES
CLINICAL TESTING MARKET

Most
clinical tests are performed by one of three types of laboratories:
hospital-affiliated laboratories; commercial clinical laboratories; or
physician-office laboratories. We believe that hospital-affiliated laboratories
account for approximately 60% of the market, commercial clinical laboratories
approximately one-third and physician-office laboratories the balance.

Key
Trends.There are a number of key trends that we
expect will have a significant impact on the clinical testing business in the
United States and on our business. These trends present both opportunities and
risks. However, because clinical testing is an essential healthcare service and
because of the key trends discussed below, we believe that the industry will
continue to grow over the long term and that we are well positioned to benefit
from the long-term growth expected in the industry.

Demographics.The growing and aging population, the burden of chronic diseases and unmet
diagnostic needs may increase the demand for clinical testing.

Prevention
and wellness.We believe that the value of detection,
prevention, wellness and personalized care is recognized more now than ever
before. Consumers, employers, health plans and government agencies increasingly
are focusing on helping the healthy stay healthy, detecting symptoms among
those at risk and providing preventive care that helps avoid disease.
Physicians increasingly are relying on diagnostic testing to help identify risk
for a disease, to detect the symptoms of disease earlier, to aid in the choice
of therapeutic regimen, to monitor patient compliance and to evaluate treatment
results. Physicians, consumers and payers increasingly recognize the value of
diagnostic testing as a means to improve health and reduce the overall cost of
healthcare through early detection, prevention and treatment. Federal
healthcare reform legislation adopted in 2010 contained provisions eliminating
patient cost-sharing for preventive services, and additional provisions that we
believe will increase the number of patients that have health insurance and
thus better access to diagnostic testing.

Science
and technology advances.Medical advances allow for
more accurate and earlier diagnosis and treatment of diseases. Continuing
research and development in the area of genomics is expected to yield new, more
sophisticated and specialized diagnostic tests. These advances also are
spurring interest in and demand for personalized or tailored medicine, which
relies on diagnostic and prognostic testing. Pharmacogenomic testing
increasingly is used as a parameter to help speed drug approval processes and
to better focus therapy based on patient and tumor-specific genetic markers.
Demand also is growing toward comprehensive care management solutions that
serve patients, payers and practitioners by improving access to patient data,
increasing patient participation in care management, reducing medical errors
and improving clinical outcomes. There is an increasing focus on
interconnectivity, and electronic medical records and patient health records
continue to grow.

Customers
and payers.Our customers and payers, including
physicians, health insurance plans, employers, pharmaceutical companies and others,
have been consolidating. We expect that this trend will continue. Consolidation
is increasing pricing transparency and bargaining power, enhancing purchasing
sophistication and encouraging internalization of testing. Patient-centered
medical homes are increasingly being established to deliver patient care. In
addition, federal healthcare reform legislation adopted in 2010 encourages the
formation of “accountable care organizations” and requires implementation of
health insurance exchanges, which may result in changes in the way that some
healthcare services are purchased and delivered in the United States.






Competition.The clinical testing industry remains fragmented, is highly competitive and is
subject to new competition. Competition is growing from non-traditional
competitors. Increased hospital acquisitions of physician practices enhance
physician ties to hospital-affiliated laboratories and may strengthen their
competitive position. New market entrants with extensive resources may make
acquisitions or expand into our traditional areas of operations. We also are
expanding into new diagnostic testing areas that are highly competitive.

Reimbursement
pressure. There is a strong focus in the United States
on controlling the overall cost of healthcare. Healthcare market participants,
including governments, are focusing on controlling costs, including by
potentially changing reimbursement for healthcare services, revising test
coding, changing medical coverage policies, pre-authorization of lab testing,
introducing lab spend management utilities and payment and patient care
innovations such as accountable care organizations and patient-centered medical
homes. While pressure to control healthcare costs poses a risk to our Company,
it also creates an opportunity for increased utilization of diagnostic testing
as an efficient means to manage the total cost of healthcare.

Healthcare
Utilization. Recently, utilization of the healthcare
system in the United States has been lower. There may be many factors
contributing to this result, including reduced employment levels, benefit plans
imposing higher levels of patient responsibility, under-employment in the work
force and patients delaying medical care.

Legislative,
regulatory and policy environment.Government
oversight of and attention to the healthcare industry in the United States is
significant and increasing. During 2011, the FDA issued several draft guidance
documents that, if finalized, could have a significant impact on our business,
including, among others, guidance documents regarding applications for mobile
telecommunication devices, companion diagnostics, products labeled Research Use
Only (“RUO”) or Investigational Use Only (“IUO”) and modifications to the 510(k)
process. Federal healthcare reform legislation adopted in 2010, and court
challenges to that legislation, has created significant uncertainty as
healthcare markets react to potential and impending changes.

Globalization.There is a growing demand for healthcare services in emerging market countries.
Opportunities are arising to participate in the restructuring or growth of the
healthcare systems in these countries. Additionally, our customers are
establishing positions outside the United States. Demographic changes globally
also may create opportunities.

Customers and Payers.We provide testing
services to a broad range of customers who order clinical testing, including
physicians, hospitals and employers. In most cases, the customer that orders
the testing is not responsible for the payments for services. Depending on the
billing arrangement and applicable law, the payer may be (1) a third party
responsible for providing health insurance coverage to patients, such as a
health insurance plan, self-insured employer benefit fund, an accountable care
organization, a patient centered medical home or the traditional Medicare or
Medicaid program, (2) the patient or (3) the physician or other party (such as
a hospital, another laboratory or an employer) who referred the testing to us.

Health Plans.Health plans, including
managed care organizations and other health insurance providers, typically
reimburse us as a contracted provider on behalf of their members for clinical
testing services performed. Reimbursement from our two largest health plans
totaled approximately 12% of our consolidated net revenues in 2011. Our largest
health plan accounted for approximately 8% of our consolidated net revenues in
2011.

Health
plans typically negotiate directly or indirectly with a number of clinical
laboratories, and represent approximately one-half of our total clinical
testing volumes and one-half of our net revenues from clinical testing. The
trend of consolidation among health plans has continued. In certain markets,
such as California, health plans may delegate to independent physician
associations (“IPAs”) or other alternative delivery systems (e.g., physician
hospital organizations) the ability to negotiate for clinical testing services
on behalf of certain members.

Health
plans and IPAs often require that clinical test service providers accept
discounted fee structures or assume all or a portion of the financial risk
associated with providing testing services through capitated payment
arrangements and discounted fee-for-service arrangements. Under capitated
payment arrangements, we provide services at a predetermined monthly
reimbursement rate for each covered member, generally regardless of the number
or cost of services provided by us. Health plans continue to offer preferred
provider organization (“PPO”) plans, point-of-service (“POS”) plans, consumer
driven health plans (“CDHPs”) and limited benefit coverage programs.
Reimbursement under these programs is typically negotiated on a fee-for-service
basis, which generally results in higher revenue per requisition than under
capitation arrangements. We do not expect that the design of these plans will
pose a significant barrier to patients accessing clinical testing services. To
the extent that plans and programs require greater levels of patient
cost-sharing, this could negatively impact patient collection experience.

Most
of our agreements with major health plans are non-exclusive arrangements.
Certain health plans, however, have limited their laboratory network to only a
single national laboratory, seeking to obtain improved pricing.






Although
non-contracted providers historically generally were reimbursed at “reasonable
and customary” rates, health plans today are employing several approaches to
limit reimbursement to non-contracted providers. Contracted rates generally are
lower than “reasonable and customary” rates.

We
also sometimes are a member of a “complementary network.” A complementary
network is generally a set of contractual arrangements that a third party will
maintain with various providers that provide discounted fees for the benefit of
its customers. A member of a health plan may choose to access a non-contracted
provider that is a member of a complementary network; if so, the provider will
be reimbursed at a rate negotiated by the complementary network.

We
attempt to strengthen our relationships with health plans and increase the
volume of testing services by offering health plans services and programs that
leverage our Company’s expertise and resources, including our superior access,
extensive test menu, medical staff and data, and in such areas as wellness and
disease management.

Physicians.Physicians, including both primary care physicians and specialists, requiring
testing for patients are the primary referral source of our clinical testing
volume. Physicians determine which laboratory to recommend or use based on a
variety of factors, including: service; patient access and convenience,
including participation in a health plan network; quality; price; and depth and
breadth of test and service offering. Physicians also purchase and utilize our
point-of-care tests.

Hospitals.

Most
physicians have admitting privileges or other relationships with hospitals as
part of their medical practice. Many hospitals seek to leverage their
relationships with community physicians by encouraging the physicians to send
their outreach testing to the hospital’s laboratory. In addition, hospitals
that own physician practices generally require the practices to refer tests to
the hospital’s affiliated laboratory. In recent years, there has been a trend
of hospitals acquiring physician practices, and as a result, an increased
percentage of physician practices are owned by hospitals. Hospitals can have
greater leverage with health insurers than do commercial clinical laboratories,
particularly hospitals that have a significant market share; hospitals thus are
frequently able to negotiate higher reimbursement rates with health insurance
plans than commercial clinical laboratories for comparable clinical testing
services.

We
also have joint venture arrangements with leading integrated healthcare
delivery networks in several metropolitan areas. These joint venture
arrangements, which provide testing for affiliated hospitals as well as for
unaffiliated physicians and other local healthcare providers, serve as our
principal laboratory facilities in their service areas. Typically, we have
either a majority ownership interest in, or day-to-day management
responsibilities for, our hospital joint venture relationships.

Employers.Employers use clinical tests for drugs of abuse to determine an individual’s
employability and his or her “fitness for duty.” Companies with high employee
turnover, safety conscious environments or regulatory testing requirements
provide the highest volumes of testing. Factors such as the general economy and
job market can impact the utilization of drugs of abuse testing. We seek to
grow our employer volumes through offering new and innovative programs to help
companies with their goal of maintaining a safe and productive workplace. We
also offer employers our Blueprint for Wellness®program, providing
wellness screening and analytic services to employers, to help employers and
their employees manage increasing healthcare costs and to capitalize on trends
in personalized health.

Other
Laboratories and Other Customers. We also provide
testing services to federal, state and local governmental agencies and perform
esoteric testing services for other commercial clinical laboratories. These
customers are charged on a fee-for-service basis.






GENERAL

Competition.While there has been
significant consolidation in the clinical testing industry in recent years, our
industry remains fragmented and highly competitive. We primarily compete with
three types of clinical testing providers: other commercial clinical
laboratories, hospital-affiliated laboratories and physician-office
laboratories. Our largest commercial clinical laboratory competitor is
Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings, Inc. In addition, we compete with
many smaller regional and local commercial clinical laboratories and
specialized esoteric laboratories. In anatomic pathology, additional
competitors include anatomic pathology practices, including those in academic
institutions. In addition, there has been a trend among specialty physician
practices to establish their own histology laboratory capabilities and/or bring
pathologists into their practices, thereby reducing referrals from these
practices.

We
believe that healthcare providers traditionally consider a number of factors
when selecting a testing provider, including:

•service capability
 and quality;•accuracy,
 timeliness and consistency in reporting test results;•patient
 insurance coverage;•number and
 type of tests performed;•pricing;•access to
 medical/scientific thought leaders for consultation;•number,
 convenience and geographic coverage of patient service centers;•reputation
 in the medical community;•healthcare
 information technology solutions;•qualifications
 of its staff; and•ability to
 develop new and useful tests.

We
believe that we are an effective competitor in each of these areas. We also
believe that offering the most comprehensive test menu in the industry,
innovative test and information technology offerings, a superior patient experience,
a staff including medical and scientific experts, Six Sigma quality and
unparalleled access and distribution provide us with a competitive advantage.

We
believe that large commercial clinical laboratories may be able to increase
their share of the overall clinical testing market due to their large service
networks and lower cost structures. These advantages should enable larger
clinical laboratories to more effectively serve customers, including members of
large healthcare plans. In addition, we believe that consolidation in the
clinical testing industry will continue. However, a significant portion of
clinical testing is likely to continue to be performed by hospitals, which
generally have affiliations with community physicians that refer testing to us.
As a result of these affiliations, we compete against hospital-affiliated
laboratories primarily on the basis of service capability and quality as well
as other non-pricing factors. In addition, recent market activity may increase
the competitive environment. For example, health plan actions to exclude large
national clinical laboratories from contracts may enhance the relative
competitive position of regional laboratories, and increased hospital
acquisitions of physician practices enhance the ties of the physicians to
hospital-affiliated laboratories.

The
diagnostic testing industry is faced with changing technology and new product
introductions. Advances in technology may lead to the development of more
cost-effective tests that can be performed outside of a commercial clinical
laboratory such as (1) point-of-care tests that can be performed by physicians
in their offices; (2) complex tests that can be performed by hospitals in their
own laboratories; and (3) home testing that can be carried out without
requiring the services of clinical laboratories. Development of such technology
and its use by our customers and patients would reduce the demand for our
laboratory testing services and negatively impact our revenues. With our point-of-care
test strategy, we are positioning ourselves to service this growing market for
physicians and hospitals. We also believe that our overall point-of-care test
strategy will strengthen our relationship with our customers by enabling us to
offer more solutions that improve their effectiveness and the care of their
patients by enabling faster diagnosis and treatment.

The
markets for diagnostic products, life insurance risk assessment services,
clinical trials and healthcare information technology are highly competitive.
We have many competitors, some of which have much more extensive experience in
these markets and some of which have greater resources. We compete in the
diagnostic products market






by attempting
to find and exploit unique differentiated products, including products that
take advantage of our healthcare information technology solutions. We compete
in the life insurance risk assessment services business by seeking to provide a
superior applicant experience, faster services completion and a wider array of
highest quality, integrated services than our competitors. We compete in the
clinical trials business by leveraging our strengths as the world’s leading
diagnostic testing company, including the depth and breadth of our testing
menu, our superior scientific expertise, our ability to support complex global
clinical trials and our lab management and information technology solutions. We
compete in the healthcare information technology market by offering solutions
that foster better patient care and improve performance for healthcare
institutions, patients and physician practices, particularly smaller and medium
sized physician practices.

Sales and Marketing.Our sales force is
organized to focus on customer groups and service types. The majority of
representatives focus on physician services, cancer diagnostics and hospital
clients. The physician services team is our largest, and includes specialty
representatives. Our cancer diagnostics team focuses on physicians who routinely
screen for, or treat, cancer. Our hospital client sales organization focuses on
meeting the unique clinical testing needs of hospitals and other commercial
clinical laboratories. A smaller portion of our sales force focuses on selling
drugs of abuse and wellness testing to employers. In addition, we have sales
organizations that focus on selling diagnostic products and instruments,
including point-of-care tests, and our healthcare information technology
products. We also have dedicated sales teams that focus on selling risk
assessment services in the life insurance market and clinical trials services.

Information Technology.We use information
systems extensively in virtually all aspects of our business, including
clinical laboratory testing, test reporting, billing, customer service,
logistics and management of medical data. We believe that our healthcare
information technology systems help differentiate us favorably. We endeavor to
establish systems that create value and efficiencies for our Company, patients
and customers. The successful delivery of our services depends, in part, on the
continued and uninterrupted performance of our information technology systems.
We have taken precautionary measures to prevent problems that could affect our IT
systems.

Some
of our historic growth has come through acquisitions and, as a result, we
continue to use multiple information systems. We have standardized some of our
systems and are implementing standard laboratory information and billing systems
across our operations, including those from our most recent acquisitions. We
expect implementation will take several more years to complete, and will result
in significantly more centralized systems, improved operating efficiency, more
timely and comprehensive information for management and enhanced control over
our operational environment.

Quality Assurance.In our clinical testing
business, our goal is to continually improve the processes for collection,
handling, storage and transportation of patient specimens, as well as the
precision and accuracy of analysis and result reporting. Our quality assurance
efforts focus on pre-analytic, analytic and post-analytic processes, including
positive patient identification of specimens, report accuracy, proficiency
testing, reference range relevance, process audits, statistical process control
and personnel training for all of our laboratories and patient service centers.
We also focus on the licensing, credentialing, training and competence of our professional
and technical staff. We have implemented an enhanced specimen tracking system,
with global positioning system capabilities, that enables us to better track
specimens. We continue to implement our Six Sigma and standardization
initiatives to help achieve our goal of becoming recognized as the undisputed
quality leader in the healthcare services industry. In addition, some of our
laboratories have achieved International Organization for Standardization, or
ISO, certification. These certifications are international standards for
quality management systems. In 2011, we continued to take steps to enhance our
quality assurance program.

As
part of our comprehensive quality assurance program, we utilize internal
proficiency testing, extensive quality control and rigorous process audits for
our clinical laboratory operations. For most clinical laboratory tests, quality
control samples are processed in parallel with the analysis of patient
specimens. The results of tests on these quality control samples are monitored
to identify trends, biases or imprecision in our analytical processes.

We
participate in external proficiency testing and have accreditation or licenses
for our clinical laboratory operations from various regulatory agencies or
accrediting organizations, such as the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services (“CMS”), the College of American Pathologists (“CAP”) and certain
states. All of our laboratories participate in various external quality
surveillance programs. They include, but are not limited to, proficiency
testing programs administered by CAP, as well as some state agencies. CAP is an
independent, nongovernmental organization of board-certified pathologists
approved by CMS to inspect clinical laboratories to determine compliance with
the standards required by CLIA. CAP offers an accreditation program to which
laboratories may voluntarily subscribe. All of our major regional and esoteric
laboratories, including our facility in India, and most of our rapid response
laboratories, are accredited by CAP. Accreditation includes on-site inspections
and participation in the CAP (or equivalent) proficiency testing program. Also,
all of our cytotechnologists and pathologists participate in an individual
proficiency testing program.






Our
diagnostic products businesses maintain extensive quality assurance programs
focused on ensuring that our products are safe and effective and that we comply
with applicable regulatory requirements in the United States and other
countries. They are regulated by the FDA and are required to be in compliance
with the Quality Systems Regulations, 21 CFR part 820, and with applicable
standards outside the United States. In addition, our manufacturing sites are
certified in accordance with, or audited by the deemed authority for, ISO
13485: 2003 standards. We endeavor to design and manufacture our diagnostics
products in compliance with Quality Systems Regulations.

Intellectual Property Rights.We own
significant intellectual property, including patents, patent applications,
technology, trade secrets, know-how, copyrights and trademarks in the United
States and other countries. From time to time, we also license U.S. and
non-U.S. patents, patent applications, technology, trade secrets, know-how,
copyrights or trademarks owned by others. In the aggregate, these intellectual
property assets and licenses are of material importance to our business. We
believe, however, that no single patent, technology, trademark, intellectual
property asset or license is material to our business as a whole.

Our
approach is to manage our intellectual property assets to safeguard them and to
maximize their value to our enterprise. We generally actively defend our
intellectual property assets and pursue protection of our products, processes
and other intellectual property where possible.

Our
success in remaining a leading innovator in the diagnostic testing industry by
continuing to introduce new tests, technology and services will depend, in
part, on our ability to license new and improved technologies on favorable
terms. Other companies or individuals, including our competitors, may obtain
patents or other property rights on tests or processes that we may be
performing, particularly in such emerging areas as gene-based testing and other
specialty testing, that could prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to
develop, perform or sell our tests or operate our business.

Employees.At December 31, 2011, we
employed approximately 42,000 people. This total excludes employees of the
joint ventures where we do not have a majority ownership interest. We have no
collective bargaining agreements with unions covering employees in the United
States, and we believe that our overall relations with our employees are good.

BILLING AND
REIMBURSEMENT

Billing.We generally bill for clinical
testing services on a fee-for-service basis under one of two types of fee
schedules. These fees may be negotiated or discounted. The types of fee schedules
are:

•“Client”
 fees charged to physicians, hospitals, and institutions for which a clinical
 laboratory performs testing services on a wholesale basis and which are
 billed on a monthly basis.•“Patient”
 fees charged to individual patients and certain third-party payers on a
 claim-by-claim basis.

Billing
for clinical testing services is very complicated, and we maintain compliance
policies and procedures for our billing. Patients, insurance companies,
Medicare, Medicaid, physicians, hospitals and employer groups all have
different billing requirements. Some billing arrangements require us to bill
multiple payers, and there are several other factors that complicate billing
(e.g., disparity in coverage and information requirements among various payers;
and incomplete or inaccurate billing information provided by ordering
physicians). We incur additional costs as a result of our participation in
Medicare and Medicaid programs because clinical laboratory testing and anatomic
pathology services are subject to complex, stringent and frequently ambiguous
federal and state laws and regulations, including those relating to coverage,
billing and reimbursement. Changes in laws and regulations could further
complicate our billing and increase our billing expense. CMS establishes
procedures and continuously evaluates and implements changes to the
reimbursement process and requirements for coverage.

As
an integral part of our billing compliance program, we investigate reported
failures or suspected failures to comply with federal and state healthcare
reimbursement requirements. Any Medicare or Medicaid overpayments resulting
from non-compliance are reimbursed by us. As a result of these efforts, we have
periodically identified and reported overpayments, reimbursed the payers for
overpayments and taken appropriate corrective action.

We
believe that most of our bad debt expense is primarily the result of missing or
incorrect billing information on requisitions and Advance Beneficiary Notices
received from healthcare providers and the failure of patients to pay the
portion of the receivable that is their responsibility, rather than credit
related issues. Deteriorating economic conditions may adversely impact our bad
debt expense. In general, we perform the requested tests and report test
results regardless of whether the billing information is correct or complete.
We subsequently attempt to contact the healthcare provider or patient to obtain
any missing information and to rectify incorrect billing information. Missing
or incorrect information on requisitions complicates and slows down the billing
process, creates backlogs of unbilled requisitions and generally increases the
aging of accounts receivable and bad debt expense. The increased use of
electronic ordering reduces the incidence of missing or incorrect information.






Government Coverage and Reimbursements.Government payers, such as Medicare and Medicaid, have taken steps and can be
expected to continue to take steps to control the cost, utilization and
delivery of healthcare services, including clinical test services. For example,
Medicare has adopted policies under which it does not pay for many commonly
ordered clinical tests unless the ordering physician has provided an
appropriate diagnosis code supporting the medical necessity of the test.
Physicians are required by law to provide diagnostic information when they
order clinical tests for Medicare and Medicaid patients.

The
healthcare industry has experienced significant changes in reimbursement
practices during the past several years. Historically, many different local
carriers administered Medicare Part B, which covers services provided by
commercial clinical laboratories. They often had inconsistent policies,
increasing the complexity of the billing process for clinical laboratories.
They are being replaced with contractors who will administer both Part B and
Medicare Part A benefits for beneficiaries in larger regional areas. It is
expected that the revised system will reduce the administrative complexity of
billing for services provided to Medicare beneficiaries.

With
regard to the clinical test services performed on behalf of Medicare
beneficiaries, we must bill the Medicare program directly and must accept the
carrier’s fee schedule amount for covered services as payment in full. In
addition, state Medicaid programs are prohibited from paying more (and in most
instances, pay significantly less) than Medicare. Currently, Medicare does not require
the beneficiary to pay a co-payment for clinical laboratory testing reimbursed
under the Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule. Certain Medicaid programs require
Medicaid recipients to pay co-payment amounts for clinical laboratory testing.
Medicare patients generally are required to make co-payments for anatomic
pathology services.

Part
B of the Medicare program contains fee schedule payment methodologies for
clinical testing services, and for pathology and other physician services,
performed for covered patients, including a national ceiling on the amount that
carriers could pay under their local Medicare clinical testing fee schedules.
The Medicare Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule for 2012 is increased by 0.65%
from 2011 levels. In December 2011, Congress delayed by two months a potential
27.4% decrease in the physician fee schedule that otherwise would have become
effective January 1, 2012. The following table sets forth the percentage of our
consolidated net revenues reimbursed under Medicare attributable to the
clinical testing and physician fee schedules in 2011.

Medicare
 Part BReimbursements% of our2011ConsolidatedNet RevenuesClinical
 Laboratory Fee Schedule12%Physician
 Fee Schedule3%

Penalties
for violations of laws relating to billing government healthcare programs and
for violations of federal and state fraud and abuse laws include: (1) exclusion
from participation in Medicare/Medicaid programs; (2) asset forfeitures; (3)
civil and criminal fines and penalties; and (4) the loss of various licenses,
certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business. Civil
monetary penalties for a wide range of violations may be assessed on a per
violation basis. A parallel civil remedy under the federal False Claims Act
provides for penalties on a per violation basis, plus damages of up to three
times the amount claimed.

Historically,
most Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries were covered under the traditional
Medicare and Medicaid programs administered by the federal government. Over the
last several years, the federal government has continued to expand its
contracts with private health insurance plans for Medicare beneficiaries and
has encouraged such beneficiaries to switch from the traditional programs to
the private programs, called “Medicare Advantage” programs. There has been
continued growth of health insurance plans offering Medicare Advantage programs
and of beneficiary enrollment in these plans. In recent years, in an effort to control
costs, states also have increasingly mandated that Medicaid beneficiaries
enroll in private managed care arrangements. The 2010 federal healthcare reform
legislation is intended to control the growth of Medicare Advantage programs,
encourage beneficiaries to switch back to traditional Medicare programs and
expand the eligibility for traditional Medicaid programs.

REGULATION

Our
businesses are subject to or impacted by extensive and frequently changing laws
and regulations in the United States (at both the federal and state levels) and
the other jurisdictions in which we conduct business. These laws and
regulations include regulations particular to our business, and laws and
regulations relating to conducting business generally (e.g., export controls
laws, U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws of other
jurisdictions), including in the United States and in other jurisdictions. We
also are subject to inspections and audits by governmental agencies. Set forth
below are highlights of the key regulatory areas applicable to our businesses.






CLIA and State Clinical Laboratory Licensing
Regulations.All of our laboratories and, where applicable, patient
service centers, are licensed and accredited as required by the appropriate
federal and state agencies. CLIA regulates virtually all clinical laboratories
by requiring that they be certified by the federal government and comply with
various technical, operational, personnel and quality requirements intended to
ensure that the services provided are accurate, reliable and timely. The cost
of compliance with CLIA makes it cost prohibitive for many physicians to
operate clinical laboratories in their offices. However, manufacturers of
laboratory equipment and test kits could seek to increase their sales by
marketing point-of-care test equipment to physicians and by selling to both
physicians and patients test kits approved by the FDA for home use. Diagnostic
tests approved or cleared by the FDA for home use are automatically deemed to
be “waived” tests under CLIA and may be performed in physician office
laboratories with minimal regulatory oversight under CLIA as well as by
patients in their homes.

CLIA
does not preempt state laws that are more stringent than federal law. State
laws may require additional personnel qualifications, quality control, record
maintenance and/or proficiency testing. State laws also may require detailed
review of our scientific validations and technical procedures for tests.

Fraud and Abuse Rules.Federal
anti-kickback laws and regulations prohibit making payments or furnishing other
benefits to influence the referral of tests billed to Medicare, Medicaid or
certain other federal or state healthcare programs. The penalties for violation
of these laws and regulations may include monetary fines, criminal and civil
penalties and/or suspension or exclusion from participation in Medicare,
Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs. Several states have similar
laws.

In
addition, federal and state anti-self-referral laws generally prohibit Medicare
and Medicaid payments for clinical tests referred by physicians who have a
personal investment in, or a compensation arrangement with, the testing
laboratory. Some states also have similar laws that are not limited to Medicare
and Medicaid referrals and could also affect investment and compensation
arrangements with physicians.

FDA.

in vitro

In Vitro

Environmental, Health and Safety.We are
subject to laws and regulations related to the protection of the environment,
the health and safety of employees and the handling, transportation and
disposal of medical specimens, infectious and hazardous waste and radioactive
materials. For example, the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration
(“OSHA”) has established extensive requirements relating specifically to
workplace safety for healthcare employers in the U.S. This includes
requirements to develop and implement multi-faceted programs to






protect
workers from exposure to blood-borne pathogens, such as HIV and hepatitis B and
C, including preventing or minimizing any exposure through needle stick
injuries. For purposes of transportation, some biological materials and
laboratory supplies are classified as hazardous materials and are subject to
regulation by one or more of the following agencies: the U.S. Department of
Transportation, the U.S. Public Health Service, the United States Postal
Service and the International Air Transport Association. We generally use
third-party vendors to dispose of regulated medical waste, hazardous waste and
radioactive materials and contractually require them to comply with applicable
laws and regulations.

Physicians.Many of our pathologists enter
into an employment agreement. These agreements have varying terms, but
generally can be terminated at any time, upon advance notice. Most of the
agreements contain covenants generally limiting the activities of the
pathologist within a defined geographic area for a limited period of time after
termination of employment. The agreements may be subject to limitations under
state law that may limit the enforceability of these covenants.

Our
pathologists are required to hold a valid license to practice medicine in the
jurisdiction in which they practice. If they provide inpatient services, they
must become a member of the medical staff at the relevant hospital, with
privileges in pathology.

Several
states, including some in which our businesses are located, prohibit business
corporations from engaging in the practice of medicine. In certain states,
business corporations are prohibited from employing licensed healthcare
professionals to provide services on behalf of the corporation; these laws vary
from state to state. The manner in which licensed physicians can be organized
to perform medical services may be governed by the laws of the state in which
medical services are provided and by the medical boards or other entities
authorized by these states to oversee the practice of medicine. In some states,
anatomic pathology services are delivered through physician-owned entities that
employ the practicing pathologists.

Privacy and Security of Health and Personal
Information.We are required to comply with laws and regulations in
the United States (at the federal and state levels) and jurisdictions outside
the United States in which we conduct business, including the European Union,
India and Mexico, regarding protecting the security and privacy of certain
healthcare and personal information. These privacy and security laws include
the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, as amended,
and the regulations thereunder (collectively, “HIPAA”). The HIPAA security
regulations establish requirements for safeguarding electronic protected health
information. The HIPAA privacy regulations establish comprehensive federal
standards regarding the uses and disclosures of protected health information.
Together, these laws and regulations establish a complex regulatory framework
on a variety of subjects, provide for penalties for non-compliance, and may
require a healthcare provider to notify individuals or the government if the
provider discovers certain breaches of unsecured personal or a patient’s
protected health information. We have implemented policies and practices
designed to meet applicable requirements.

Drug Testing; Controlled Substances.All
U.S. laboratories that perform drug testing for certain public sector employees
and employees of certain federally regulated businesses are required to be
certified as meeting the detailed performance and quality standards of the
Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. To obtain access to
controlled substances used to perform drugs of abuse testing in the United
States, laboratories must be licensed by the Drug Enforcement Administration.
All of our laboratories that perform such testing or that utilize controlled
substances are so certified or so licensed, respectively.

Compliance.We seek to conduct our business
in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. Many of the laws and
regulations applicable to us, however, including many of those relating to
billing, reimbursement of tests and relationships with physicians and hospitals,
are vague or indefinite or have not been interpreted by the courts. They may be
interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in
a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations, including our
pricing and/or billing practices. The applicability or interpretation of laws
and regulations also may not be clear in light of emerging changes in clinical
testing science and healthcare technology. Such occurrences, regardless of
their outcome, could, among other things:

•increase our
 operating costs including, but not limited to, those costs associated with
 performing clinical or anatomic pathology tests or manufacturing or
 distributing products, and administrative requirements related to billing;•decrease the
 amount of reimbursement related to testing services performed;•damage our
 reputation; and/or•adversely
 affect important business relationships with third parties.

If
we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil
and criminal penalties, fines, exclusion from participation in governmental
healthcare programs and the loss of various licenses, certificates and






authorizations
necessary to operate our business, as well as incur additional liabilities from
third party claims, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our
business. Certain federal and state statutes, regulations and other laws,
including thequi tamprovisions of the federal False Claims Act, allow
private individuals to bring lawsuits against healthcare companies on behalf of
government payers, private payers and/or patients alleging inappropriate
billing practices.

The
federal or state governments may bring claims based on theories as to our
current practices that we believe are lawful. The federal and state governments
have substantial leverage in negotiating settlements since the amount of
potential damages far exceeds the rates at which we are reimbursed, and the
government has the remedy of excluding a non-compliant provider from
participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Reimbursement from
traditional Medicare and Medicaid programs represented approximately 18% of our
net revenues during 2011. We believe that, based on our experience with settlements
and public announcements by various government officials, the federal and state
governments continue to strengthen their enforcement efforts against healthcare
fraud. In addition, legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and
abuse provide government enforcement personnel substantially increased funding,
powers, penalties and remedies to pursue suspected cases of fraud and abuse.

We
have a long-standing and well-established compliance program. The Quality,
Safety & Compliance Committee of our Board of Directors oversees our
compliance program and requires periodic management reports regarding our
compliance program. Our program includes detailed policies and procedures and
training programs intended to ensure the strict implementation and observance
of all applicable laws, regulations and Company policies. Further, we conduct
in-depth reviews of procedures and facilities to assure regulatory compliance
throughout our operations. We conduct annual training of our employees on these
compliance policies and procedures.

AVAILABLE
INFORMATION

We
file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other
information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). You may
read and copy any document that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s public
reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC
at 1-800-SEC-0330 for information regarding the public reference room. The SEC
maintains an internet site that contains annual, quarterly and current reports,
proxy and information statements and other information that issuers (including
Quest Diagnostics) file electronically with the SEC. Our electronic SEC filings
are available to the public at the SEC’s internet site, www.sec.gov.

Our
internet site is www.QuestDiagnostics.com. You can access Quest Diagnostics’
Investor Relations webpage at www.QuestDiagnostics.com/investor. The
information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Report.
We make available free of charge, on or through our Investor Relations webpage,
our proxy statements, Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form
10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or
furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the
“Exchange Act”), as soon as reasonably practical after such material is filed
with, or furnished to, the SEC. We also make available, through our Investor
Relations webpage, statements of beneficial ownership of our equity securities
filed by our directors, officers, 10% or greater shareholders and others under
Section 16 of the Exchange Act.

We
have a corporate governance webpage. You can access information regarding our
corporate governance at www.QuestDiagnostics.com/governance. We post the
following on our corporate governance webpage:

•Directors•Management•Code of
 Business Ethics•Integrity
 Commitment•Values•Corporate
 Governance Guidelines•Charters for
 the following committees of our Board of Directors: Audit and Finance;
 Compensation; Executive; Governance; and Quality, Safety and Compliance•Certificate
 of Incorporation•Bylaws






EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

The
following persons serve as executive officers of the Company.

Surya
N. Mohapatra, Ph.D.(62) is Chairman of the Board,
President and Chief Executive Officer. Prior to joining the Company in February
1999 as Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, he was Senior Vice
President of Picker International, a worldwide leader in advanced medical
imaging technologies. Dr. Mohapatra was appointed President and Chief Operating
Officer in June 1999, Chief Executive Officer in May 2004 and Chairman of the
Board in December 2004. He is a director of Xylem Inc., a trustee of The
Rockefeller University and a member of the Corporate Advisory Board of Johns
Hopkins Carey Business School. Dr. Mohapatra was a director of ITT Corporation
from 2008 to October 2011. He has been a director of the Company since 2002.

Jon
R. Cohen, M.D.(57) is Senior Vice President, Hospital
Services and Chief Medical Officer. Dr. Cohen joined the company in March 2009
and served as Chief Medical Officer until May 2011, when he also assumed
responsibility for Hospital Services. He served as the Senior Advisor to New
York Governor David Patterson from 2008 to 2009, where he was responsible for
all policy and strategic planning. From 2007 to 2008, Dr. Cohen was a managing
director, health industries advisory services at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.
Prior to that, he spent 21 years with North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health
System, one of the nation’s largest not-for-profit health systems, including
serving as its Chief Medical Officer from 2000 to 2006.

Catherine
T. Doherty(49) is Senior Vice President, Physician
Services Business. She joined the Company in 1990 and from 2008 through May
2011 served as the Vice President, Hospital Services. Prior to 2008, Ms.
Doherty held a variety of positions of increasing responsibility, including
Vice President, Office of the Chairman; Vice President, Finance and
Administration for the Hospital business; Vice President, Investor Relations;
and Chief Accounting Officer.

Robert
A. Hagemann(55) is Senior Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer. He joined Corning Life Sciences, Inc. in 1992, where he held
a variety of senior financial positions before being named Vice President and
Corporate Controller of the Company in 1996. Mr. Hagemann has served as Chief
Financial Officer since August 1998. He is a director of Zimmer Holdings, Inc.

Joan
E. Miller, Ph.D.(57) is Senior Vice President,
Pathology and Neurology. Dr. Miller joined Corning Life Sciences, Inc. in 1992
and since has held positions of increasing responsibility. Dr. Miller was named
Senior Managing Director, Nichols Institute in 2002 and Vice President,
Hospital Business in 2003. From June 2007 until May 2011, Dr. Miller had
responsibility for the Company’s Hospital Services, including its esoteric
testing facilities, and its anatomic pathology testing services. Beginning in
May 2011, she has had responsibility for anatomic pathology and neurology
testing services.

Kathy
Ordoñez(61) is Senior Vice President, Discovery
and Development for Quest Diagnostics, and President, Celera. Ms. Ordoñez is
responsible for managing the Company’s innovation pipeline and diagnostics
products businesses. In her role as President of Celera, she is responsible for
leading Celera, including Berkeley HeartLab, and driving its focus on
personalizing disease management through diagnostic products and services. Ms.
Ordoñez joined Quest Diagnostics with its acquisition of Celera in May 2011.
She served as Chief Executive Officer of Celera and was a founder of Celera
Diagnostics. Prior to joining Celera’s parent company, Applera, in December
2000, Ms. Ordoñez held a number of senior positions over a 15-year period with
Hoffmann La-Roche. She oversaw the formation of Roche Molecular Systems,
serving as President and Chief Executive Officer, and led the application of
polymerase chain reaction technology to the diagnostic, research and forensic
fields.

Michael
E. Prevoznik(50) is Senior Vice President and General
Counsel. Mr. Prevoznik joined the Company as Vice President and General Counsel
in August 1999. Since April 2011, in addition to serving as General Counsel,
Mr. Prevoznik has had management responsibility for the Company’s international
and clinical trials activities. In 2003, he assumed responsibility for
governmental affairs. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Prevoznik served in
positions of increasing responsibility within the compliance organization at
SmithKline Beecham, most recently as Vice President, Compliance, with
responsibility for coordinating all SmithKline Beecham compliance activities
worldwide.

