Item 1.Business

Quest
Diagnostics Incorporated is the world’s leading provider of diagnostic testing,
information and services. We provide insights that enable patients, physicians
and others to make better healthcare decisions.

Quest
Diagnostics was incorporated in Delaware in 1990; its predecessor companies
date back to 1967. We conduct business through our headquarters in Madison, New
Jersey, and our laboratories, patient service centers, offices and other
facilities around the United States and in selected locations outside the
United States. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “Quest
Diagnostics,” the “Company,” “we” and “our” mean Quest Diagnostics Incorporated
and its consolidated subsidiaries.

During
2009, we generated net revenues of $7.5 billion and processed approximately 148
million test requisitions. Additional financial information concerning Quest
Diagnostics, including our consolidated subsidiaries, for each of the years
ended December 31, 2009, December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007 is included in
the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto in “Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data” in Part II, Item 8.

OUR STRATEGY AND STRENGTHS

Our
mission is to be the undisputed world leader in diagnostic testing, information
and services. We are dedicated to improving the health of patients through
unsurpassed diagnostic insights and innovation and we focus on patients, growth
and people to help achieve our goals.

We
offer high value diagnostic testing services and products attractive to
patients, physicians, payers, and others and have become the provider of choice
in key areas of the diagnostic testing market. We believe that successful
execution of our strategy will drive continued growth of our business.
Additionally, we believe that, over the long term, we will be able to grow at a
rate above the U.S. clinical laboratory industry growth rate, to expand margins
and to increase international revenues to 10% of consolidated revenues. We plan
to do this by gaining more customers, selling more services and products to
existing customers and by continuously improving the efficiency of our
operations. The elements of our growth strategy are described below.



•Deliver a superior patient experience.The
 patient is at the center of everything we do. Increasingly, patients have a
 choice when it comes to selecting a healthcare provider and we strive to give
 patients compelling reasons to put their trust in us. We have made significant
 investments in training our employees to provide a superior patient
 experience. We believe that this will drive patient and physician loyalty.
 Our automated patient appointment scheduling enables patients to schedule
 appointments at times that are convenient for them while essentially
 eliminating their waiting time. We believe that we are the only national
 clinical test provider that offers this service in almost all of its patient
 service centers. We also offer TestMinder™, which sends email reminders
 to patients that require frequent testing. We collaborate with Keas, Microsoft
 and Google in connection with their personal health records offerings. Keas™
 provides an online tool that delivers personalized health plans to
 individuals, based upon the individual’s health information. Microsoft®
 HealthVault™ and Google Health™ are tools that allow patients to store,
 manage, and share their medical records online. These are examples of how electronic
 connectivity is becoming increasingly important in impacting the overall patient
 experience.



•Continuously drive Six Sigma quality.We
 strive to provide the highest quality in all that we do, including:
 phlebotomy and specimen transport services; analytical testing processes in
 our laboratories; accurate and timely lab reports; and accurate and timely billing.
 We use Six Sigma and Lean processes to continuously reduce defects, enhance
 quality and further increase the efficiency of our operations. Six Sigma is a
 management approach that utilizes a thorough understanding of customer needs
 and requirements, root cause analysis, process improvements and rigorous
 tracking and measuring to enhance quality. Lean is a management approach that
 seeks to streamline processes and eliminate waste. We also use Six Sigma and
 Lean principles to help standardize operations and processes across our
 Company and identify and adopt company best practices. We believe our focus
 on continuously using Six Sigma and Lean in all aspects of our business
 results in superior service to our customers and drives customer loyalty.



•Leverage our unparalleled assets and capabilities.We
 are the world leader in the clinical testing business and the leading cancer
 diagnostic testing provider. We have the most extensive clinical testing
 network in the United States, offering national access to testing services.
 We operate a nationwide network of over 2,000 of our own patient service
 centers where we collect patient specimens, and laboratories in most major
 metropolitan areas. We provide anatomic pathology services, including
 inpatient anatomic pathology and medical director services at hospitals,
 throughout the United States. We have a medical and scientific staff of
 approximately 900 M.D.s and Ph.D.s, primarily located in the United States,
 many of whom are recognized leaders in their field. We serve approximately
 half of the physicians and half of the hospitals in the United States. We
 also operate approximately 80 locations in the United States and Canada










where we
 coordinate the provision of paramedical examinations related to life
 insurance applications. We offer the broadest test menu, with more than 3,000
 tests, and are the leading provider in the United States of gene-based and
 other esoteric testing. We have strong logistics capabilities, including
 approximately 3,500 courier vehicles and over 20 airplanes that together make
 approximately 90,000 stops daily. We have approximately 8,400 phlebotomists
 and approximately 5,600 paramedical examiners. We plan to continue to enhance
 our test menu and service capabilities. We believe that customers and payers
 prefer providers that offer a comprehensive and innovative range of tests and
 services and the most convenient access to those services and that, by
 offering such services, we will be able to profitably enhance our market position.



•Continue to lead in medical innovation and information technology
 solutions.We are a leading innovator in the
 clinical testing market with unmatched medical and technical expertise. We
 have the most comprehensive test menu and leading medical and scientific
 experts available for consultation. We collaborate with leading academic
 centers and maintain relationships with advisors and consultants that are
 leaders in key fields, such as cardiology, oncology and infectious disease.
 In connection with our research and development efforts, our medical and
 scientific experts publish in peer-reviewed journals research that
 demonstrates the clinical value and importance of diagnostic testing. In
 2009, we published several articles that provide fundamental insights into
 the nature of cystic fibrosis and leukemia. Over the past several years, we
 have expanded our business in more complex and faster-growing testing areas,
 including gene-based and esoteric testing, anatomic pathology services and
 point-of-care testing.



We see
 significant opportunity to use diagnostics for personalized medicine, and our
 clinical trials business has biomarker capabilities that advance our efforts
 to develop companion diagnostics for new therapies that will foster
 personalized patient treatment. To us, personalized medicine is getting the
 right test to the right patient at the right time, and includes the manner of
 testing. For example, different tests may make sample collection methods less
 invasive or more convenient to a patient.



We remain a
 leading innovator in the clinical testing industry by continuing to introduce
 new tests, technology and services, including in personalized and targeted
 medicine. For example, in 2009, we introduced the first commercial test for the
 2009 H1N1 influenza virus that received an Emergency Use Authorization from
 the FDA for the expected duration of the H1N1 emergency. We received the
 Emergency Use Authorization approximately 12 weeks after the U.S. government
 declared infection by the H1N1 virus a pandemic emergency. Our H1N1 test is a
 good example of our strength in rapidly developing and deploying innovative
 diagnostics to improve patient care. In addition, as an industry leader with
 the largest and broadest U.S. network and expanding presence outside the
 United States, we believe we are the channel of choice for developers of new
 tests to introduce their products to the marketplace. Through our
 relationships with the academic medical community and pharmaceutical and
 biotechnology firms, we believe that we are a leader in bringing technical
 innovation to the market.









The 2009
 American Recovery and Reinvestment Act included laws designed to expedite the
 implementation of electronic health records and build a national electronic
 health infrastructure in the United States. We have been pioneering
 advancements in healthcare information technology for many years. We believe
 that we are well positioned to enable physicians to take advantage of the
 government stimulus program, and we are committed to our Care 360 products
 becoming designated as certified technology for purposes of the federal laws.








•Expand our geographic reach.In addition to
 growth opportunities in the United States, we see opportunities to expand our
 presence in Ireland, India, Mexico, Puerto Rico and the U.K. and to bring our
 experience and expertise in diagnostic testing to other international
 markets, particularly to developing countries where the testing markets are
 highly fragmented and less mature.•Expand our diagnostic scope.Technology
 advances are enabling testing to move closer to the patient and
 point-of-care, or near patient, tests are becoming increasingly available and
 reliable. This enables more timely and effective decisions, with the
 opportunity to improve patient care and reduce medical costs. Since July
 2006, we have acquired three businesses that offer point-of-care testing:
 HemoCue, Focus Diagnostics and Enterix. We intend to expand our product
 menus, develop novel technology platforms and systems to meet the needs of
 our clients and pursue potential additional acquisitions to supplement our
 offering. Test results from our point-of-care products can be entered into
 our Care360 system, enabling the integration of tests performed in a near
 patient setting with those performed in our laboratories. We are well
 positioned to offer choice and integrated solutions to physicians, hospitals,
 clinics and retail customers for the testing methods that are most
 appropriate for each patient and practice.

In
support of our strategy, in recent years we have undertaken several
acquisitions to support our strategy. These acquisitions enable us to expand
our capabilities, further leverage our assets and differentiate our Company
from our competition, diversify our revenues and accelerate our growth. We
expect to continue to selectively evaluate acquisitions in the United States
and in select international markets.

BUSINESS OPERATIONS

Quest
Diagnostics is the world’s leading provider of diagnostic testing, information
and services, providing insights that enable patients, physicians and others to
make decisions to improve health. We offer U.S. patients and physicians the broadest
access to diagnostic testing services through our nationwide network of
laboratories and Company-owned patient service centers. We provide interpretive
consultation through the largest medical and scientific staff in the industry,
with approximately 900 M.D.s and Ph.D.s, primarily located in the United
States, many of whom are recognized leaders in their field. We are the leading
provider of clinical testing, including gene-based and other esoteric testing,
anatomic pathology services, including dermatopathology and testing for
drugs-of-abuse, and the leading provider of risk assessment services for the
life insurance industry. We are also a leading provider of testing for clinical
trials. Our diagnostics products business manufactures and markets FDA cleared
or approved diagnostic test kits and specialized point-of-care testing. We
empower healthcare organizations and clinicians with robust information
technology solutions. Our activities are described below.

Patients
are at the center of everything that we do. We are leveraging our diagnostic
testing capabilities and our assets to serve multiple customer bases. In 2009,
our clinical testing business accounted for greater than 90% of our net
revenues, with the balance derived from insurer services, clinical trials
testing, diagnostic products and healthcare information technology. Most of our
services are provided in the United States. Clinical testing includes routine
testing, anatomic pathology, gene-based and esoteric testing, and drugs-of-abuse
testing, which generated approximately 54%, 16%, 20% and 2%, respectively, of
our 2009 net revenues. Risk assessment services for the life insurance
industry, clinical trials testing, diagnostic products and healthcare
information technology combined generated approximately 8% of our 2009 net
revenues. In 2009, we derived approximately 3% of our net revenues from foreign
operations and held approximately 7% of our long-lived assets outside the
United States.

Clinical Testing.






Routine
clinical testing.We are the leading provider of
routine clinical testing, including testing for drugs-of-abuse. We perform
routine testing through our network of major laboratories and rapid response
laboratories. Rapid response laboratories are smaller facilities where we can
quickly perform an abbreviated menu of routine tests for customers that require
rapid turnaround times. We also perform routine testing at hospital
laboratories that we manage. We operate laboratories 24 hours a day, 365 days a
year, performing and reporting most routine tests within 24 hours. The majority
of test results are delivered electronically.

Routine
tests measure various important bodily health parameters such as the functions
of the kidney, heart, liver, thyroid and other organs. Commonly ordered tests
include:

•blood
 chemistries, including cholesterol levels;•complete
 blood cell counts;•urinalyses;•pregnancy
 and other prenatal tests;•routine
 microbiology testing;•alcohol and
 other substance-abuse tests; and•allergy
 tests such as the ImmunoCap®test.

Cancer Diagnostics; Anatomic Pathology.We
are the leading provider of cancer diagnostics, including anatomic pathology
services, in the United States. Anatomic pathology involves the diagnosis of
cancer and other diseases and medical conditions through examination of tissue
and cell samples taken from patients. We provide cancer diagnostics testing,
including inpatient anatomic pathology and medical director services at
hospitals, throughout the country, including through our major laboratories. We
have a substantial presence in select geographic areas and strong relationships
with ordering physicians. We significantly strengthened our cancer diagnostics
offering through our May 2007 acquisition of AmeriPath Group Holdings, Inc.

We
provide a full-range of cancer diagnostic services to all anatomic pathology
subspecialties. We have approximately 725 medical doctors, including
luminaries in their field, with a passion for providing the highest quality
service to patients. Among them are approximately 700 pathologists. We offer
    gene-based tests for the predisposition, diagnosis, treatment and monitoring
    of cancers. We provide integrated, comprehensive reports that include both
    anatomic pathology and clinical pathology tests, enabling our pathologists
    to offer patients and physicians a complete analysis. Our approach fosters
    personalized treatment.

We
have a strong history of leadership and innovation in cancer diagnostics. We
introduced the LeumetaTMfamily of tests for leukemia and lymphoma.
These proprietary plasma-based molecular tests may some day eliminate the need
for painful bone marrow biopsies. As discussed beginning on page 5 under the
heading “Scientific Innovation”, recently we introduced the EGFR Pathway test
for metastatic colorectal cancer patients and collaborated closely with
Vermillion, Inc. on the development of its FDA-cleared OVA1TMovarian cancer
test. We also offer the FDA-cleared HE4 biomarker test for monitoring women
with ovarian cancer. With HE4 and OVA1 in our portfolio, we are now the only
diagnostic testing company to offer FDA cleared tests for ovarian cancer in the
pre- and post-surgical settings. Pursuant to an agreement with the National
Cancer Screening Service of the Republic of Ireland, we also provide cervical
cancer screening testing for women age 25 to 60 participating in Ireland’s
first nationwide cytology-screening program.

Gene-Based and Other Esoteric Testing.






renowned
Nichols Institute laboratory facilities (one on each U.S. coast), and in a
number of other locations, including Focus Diagnostics.

Our
esoteric laboratories provide reference testing services to physicians, large
academic medical centers, hospitals and other commercial laboratories. Our
esoteric testing laboratories perform hundreds of complex tests that are not
routinely performed by our regional laboratories, including but not limited to
the following fields:

•endocrinology
 and metabolism (the study of glands, their hormone secretions and their
 effects on body growth and metabolism);•genetics
 (the study of chromosomes, genes and their protein products and effects);•hematology
 (the study of blood and bone marrow cells) and coagulation (the process of
 blood clotting);•immunogenetics
 and human leukocyte antigens (HLA) (solid organ and bone marrow
 transplantation; eligibility for vaccines; selection of pharmacotherapeutic
 agents and immunotherapy);•immunology
 (the study of the immune system, including antibodies, cytokines, immune
 system cells and their effect, receptor systems and autoimmune diseases);•microbiology
 and infectious diseases (the study of microscopic forms of life, including parasites,
 bacteria, viruses, fungi and other infectious agents);•oncology
 (the study of abnormal cell growth, including benign tumors and cancer);•serology (a
 science dealing with body fluids and their analysis, including antibodies,
 proteins and other characteristics); and•toxicology
 (the study of chemicals and drugs and their adverse effects on the body).

We
believe that offering a full range of gene-based and other esoteric tests
strengthens our market offering and market position and enhances our reputation
as the nation’s leading test provider.

Scientific Innovation.

We
focus our resources on key disease states and technologies that help doctors
care for their patients through better screening, monitoring, diagnosis,
prognosis and treatment choices. We also look for tests that are less invasive
than currently available options, to increase the choices that physicians and
patients have for the collection of diagnostic samples. With these priorities
in mind, we recently introduced a number of new tests which are discussed
below.

•Cancer.-We
 introduced our ColoVantageTMtest, a blood test designed to aid in
 the detection of colorectal cancer, based on DNA methylation of the Septin9
 gene. We are the first commercial laboratory in the U.S. to offer a
 laboratory developed test based on the Septin9 biomarker.-We
 introduced EGFR Pathway, a test that identifies, in a single reflex test
 offering, genetic mutations in the KRAS, NRAS and BRAF genes that inhibit
 anti-epidermal growth factor receptor therapy response in metastatic
 colorectal cancer patients.-We
 collaborated closely with Vermillion, Inc. on the development of its
 FDA-cleared OVA1 ovarian cancer test. This multi-analyte test, which uses a
 proprietary algorithm, provides a new option for










helping
 physicians assess if a woman’s ovarian mass is benign or malignant prior to a
 planned surgery. This information is expected to help physicians determine
 whether to refer a woman with high risk of cancer to a gynecological
 oncologist versus a general surgeon or gynecologist. We expect to launch the
 test in the first quarter of 2010, and have a multi-year exclusive license
 for the clinical reference laboratory market in the U.S.



-Our
 plasma-based LeumetaTMtests are useful in determining many
 different types of hematological disorders, and in particular, in the
 diagnosis of certain hematological cancers associated with mutations inJAK2. In 2009, we expanded our menu of
 Leumeta tests to add numerous tests for mutations in multiple cancer types,
 including solid tumors.



•Infectious
 Disease.



-We continued
 to expand our menu of tests focused on infectious diseases, drawing on our
 expertise and strength in this field.



-We
 introduced the first commercial test for the 2009 H1N1 influenza virus
 authorized by the FDA for emergency use, approximately 12 weeks after the
 U.S. government declared a pandemic emergency. Soon thereafter, the FDA
 granted us Emergency Use Authorization for our H1N1 influenza test to run on
     our recently introduced Simplexa® testing platform. We were the first
     company in the U.S. that the FDA authorized to both perform the test in
     its lab and also offer H1N1 test kits to high complexity labs. This expanded
     the nation’s
 capacity to perform testing and reduce turnaround time for results. Our H1N1
 influenza test also has met the European Union’s regulatory standards and
 is now available to qualified laboratories in approximately 35 countries in
 Europe. Our H1N1 test is a good example of our strength in rapidly developing
 and deploying innovative diagnostics to improve patient care.



•Genetics and
 Personalized Medicine. Increasingly, tests will be
 introduced that determine a patient’s genotype or gene expression profile
 associated with a particular disease. These tests can help physicians to
 determine a patient’s susceptibility to disease or to tailor medical care to
 an individual’s needs – such as determining if a medication might be more or
 less effective for a particular person, or which type of medication might
 work better, or tailoring the right dosage once the proper medicine is
 prescribed. A few examples are set forth below:



-Most of the
 roughly one million patients who undergo stent procedures each year are
 prescribed the anti-platelet drug Plavix® (clopidogrel biphosphate) to help
 prevent the formation of blood clots, that can lead to heart attack or
 stroke. Yet, 30% or more of people possess the CYP2C19 gene, which, if
 present, can slow the metabolism of clopidogrel. As a result, these patients
 may have a lessened response to normal doses of clopidogrel. This information
 can be helpful to a physician in determining whether to prescribe a higher
 dose of clopidogrel or an alternative anti-platelet drug. We introduced
 AccuTypeTMCP, a gene-based test that uses a blood or saliva
 sample to aid the identification of this gene to help physicians predict the
 metabolism of clopidogrel in patients.



-We have a
 leading offering of tests to aid in the care of patients with HIV. This year,
 we added our HIV-1 Coreceptor Tropism Test, which aids physicians in predicting
 if a patient will respond to the newest class of antiretroviral drugs, called
 entry inhibitors. Our test reports results in approximately half the time of
 the nearest competing test, enabling physicians to more quickly determine
 therapeutic choices for patients. In addition to HIV tropism testing, the
 Company’s test services range from HIV diagnostic testing to monitoring HIV
 viral load, determining a viral genotype, and testing for the HLA-B*5701
 genetic marker as an aid in helping to predict a hypersensitivity reaction to
 Ziagen® (abacavir), an antiretroviral medication.



-Our
 ClariSureTMaCGH postnatal test was approved by the State of New
 York. The test employs microarray analysis to aid in detecting copy-number
 chromosomal abnormalities implicated in dozens of medical conditions,
 including mental retardation, birth defects and autism spectrum and
 developmental disorders, which conventional laboratory tests may fail to
 detect.



•Cardiovascular
 Disease.



-In 2009, we
 introduced our first protein mass spectrometry test, for Aldosterone Renin
 Ratio. Use of the test, which aids in the diagnosis of secondary
 hypertension, is supported by 2009 Endocrine Society Consensus Guidelines.
 The test improves specificity and reduces turn around time compared to
 competing tests.










•Oral and
 Dental Related Diseases.-Recognizing the increased attention to the connection between
     oral and general health, in 2009 we acquired Oral DNA, a diagnostic laboratory
     company specializing in laboratory tests for oral and dental related diseases.
     This provided us an offering to test for periodontal disease and strengthened
     our leadership in cancer diagnostics, and enhanced our ability to offer
     physicians and patients increased alternatives for personalizing diagnostic
     testing.

Clinical
Trials Testing.We believe that we are the second
largest provider of central laboratory testing performed in connection with
clinical research trials on new drugs, vaccines and certain medical devices.
Clinical research trials are required by the FDA and other international regulatory
authorities to assess the safety and efficacy of new drugs and vaccines. We see
opportunities to develop pharmacogenetic and pharmacogenomic tests to help
speed drug approval processes for our clinical trials customers and,
capitalizing on the trend to personalized medicine, to better focus patient
therapy based on a patient’s genetic markers. We have biomarker capabilities
that advance our efforts to develop these tests.

We
have clinical trials testing centers in the United States and the United
Kingdom, and we provide clinical trials testing in Australia, China, Singapore
and South America through affiliated laboratories. While we serve most of the
major pharmaceutical companies, approximately 35% of our net revenues from
clinical trials testing in 2009 represented testing for GlaxoSmithKline plc
(GSK). We are the primary provider of central laboratory testing to support
GSK’s clinical trials testing requirements worldwide.

Life Insurer Services.We are the largest
provider of risk assessment services to the life insurance industry in the
United States and Canada. We also provide risk assessment services for
insurance companies doing business in many countries outside the United States.

Our
risk assessment services comprise underwriting support services to the life
insurance industry including teleunderwriting, specimen collection and
paramedical examinations, clinical testing, medical record retrieval, case
management, motor vehicle reports, telephone inspections, prescription
histories and credit checks. The clinical tests that we perform and data we
gather are designed to assist insurance companies to objectively evaluate the
mortality and morbidity risks of policy applicants. The majority of the testing
is performed on specimens of life insurance applicants, but also includes
specimens of applicants for other types of insurance. Factors such as the
number of applications for underwritten life insurance policies can affect the
utilization of clinical testing and other services we provide to our insurance
customers. Most of our specimen collections and paramedical examinations are
performed by our approximately 5,600 paramedical examiners at the applicant’s
home or workplace. We also offer paramedical examinations through approximately
500 of our patient service centers, and operate approximately 80 locations
other than patient service centers in the United States and Canada where we
provide paramedical examinations, bringing to approximately 580 the total
number of sites where we can provide these examinations. We also contract with
third parties at over an additional 125 locations across the United States and
Canada to coordinate providing these exams.

We
seek to grow our insurance revenues by increasing our market share and by
offering new and innovative clinical tests and other services. Our life
insurance customers have been consolidating, which has resulted in increased
individual customer purchasing power. We expect that this trend will continue.
We charge our life insurance customers on a fee-for-service basis, typically
under multi-year agreements.

Employer
Services.We believe that we are the leading provider
of clinical testing to employers for the detection of employee use of
drugs-of-abuse. Our Quest Diagnostics Drug Testing IndexTM, which is
an annual report of our aggregate drug testing results, is used by employers,
the federal government and the media to help identify and quantify drug abuse
among the nation’s workforce.

As
healthcare costs have increased, so has the value of preventative care.
Employers grappling with increased healthcare costs use wellness testing as a
key tool to reduce their healthcare costs and the healthcare risks of their
employees. We provide wellness testing and analytic services to employers to
enable them and their employees to take an active role in improving their
health and empower employers with aggregated health information. Our Blueprint
for WellnessTMprogram offers employers actionable data to power
their health improvement and cost containment programs. We are leveraging our
patient service centers and paramedical network to deliver wellness screening
nationwide. We also offer Blueprint for WellnessTMdirectly to
individuals through our website, BlueprintForWellness.com.

Diagnostic Products, Including Point-of-care, or Near
Patient, Testing.Technology advances are enabling testing to move
closer to the patient and are becoming increasingly available and reliable.
Over time, some testing that is now done in clinical laboratories will cease to
be performed in clinical laboratories and will be performed closer to the
patient. We believe that our point-of-care testing strategy will strengthen our
relationship with our customers by enabling us to offer more solutions that
improve the effectiveness of our customers and the care of their patients by






enabling
faster diagnosis and treatment. We are well positioned to offer options and
integrated solutions to physicians, hospitals and clinics for the testing
methods that are most appropriate for each patient and practice.

We
develop and manufacture products that enable healthcare professionals to make
healthcare diagnoses, including products for point-of-care, or near patient,
testing for the professional market. Since July 2006, we have acquired several
companies, including Focus Diagnostics, Enterix, and HemoCue, that enhance our
offerings and better enable us to serve these markets. We will consider
additional acquisitions or licenses of selective products to complement the
products and services we provide. The results of several of our point-of-care
tests can be entered into our Care360TMsystem and hospital
laboratory information systems so that they are available in electronic medical
records. We intend to offer additional data links in the future. This will
differentiate our point-of-care test products from other products that are not
integrated into an electronic repository.

Focus
Diagnostics is a leading provider of infectious disease testing that has
established a reputation for being first to introduce new tests to the market,
including diagnostic tests for Lyme disease, West Nile Virus, SARS and, most
recently, H1N1. Focus Diagnostics develops, manufactures and markets diagnostic
products, such as HerpeSelect®ELISA tests that detect patient
antibodies to specific types of herpes simplex virus, which can be performed
on a variety of instrument platforms. Focus Diagnostics sells its diagnostic
products to large academic medical centers, hospitals and commercial
laboratories globally. In 2009, Focus entered into agreements with 3M
Corporation for global human diagnostic rights to a compact integrated cycler
for use with real time polymerase chain reaction (“PCR”) assays. The
first product released on the integrated cycler is a second generation test for
H1N1 influenza virus which received Emergency Use Authorization for sale by the
FDA and CE mark for sale in Europe. This test is sold under the SimplexaTMbrand
name. We intend to develop and pursue FDA clearance and CE marking for
additional tests to be sold under the SimplexaTMbrand name.

HemoCue
manufactures and distributes point-of-care testing products. HemoCue is the
leading global provider in point-of-care testing for hemoglobin, with a growing
market share for glucose, microalbumin and white blood cell testing. In 2009,
HemoCue added the AvieTMhemoglobin A1c test, which has received FDA
510(k) clearance and a waived status under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement
Amendments of 1988 (“CLIA”), to its diabetes test suite. The measurement of
hemoglobin is important for blood donors and for patients being considered for
transfusion therapy, or undergoing dialysis or chemotherapy, where instant test
results can lead to immediate treatment decisions. The HemoCue handheld systems
are used in physician’s offices, blood banks, hospitals, diabetes clinics and
public health clinics. In developing countries, these systems are used as the
primary means to screen for anemia. Approximately one-half of HemoCue products
are sold outside the United States. We believe that HemoCue has a strong
product development pipeline, based on its pioneering use of its patented
microfluidic systems. HemoCue received FDA 510(k) clearance for its White Blood
Cell Analyzer, a whole-blood test performed on finger-stick samples that can
assist physicians by providing a total white blood cell count. We are applying
for CLIA-waived status for this product which, if granted, would permit
physicians to use these products in a much larger segment of physician offices.

Enterix,
an Australia-based company, manufactures the InSure® fecal immunochemical test
(FITTM) for screening for colorectal cancer.

International.We have laboratory
facilities in Gurgaon, India; Heston, England; Mexico City, Mexico; and San
Juan, Puerto Rico. These laboratories support clinical testing in their local
markets and our clinical trials business. We have an office in Ireland that
supports our activities in that country, and also have sales representatives
dedicated to offering our point-of-care test products in countries outside the
United States. We see opportunities to bring our experience and expertise in
diagnostic testing and point-of-care products to international markets,
particularly developing countries where the testing markets are highly
fragmented and less mature, including by leveraging existing facilities to
serve new markets.

Healthcare Information Technology.We
empower healthcare organizations and clinicians with information technology
solutions that can help improve patient care and medical practice, including
through our Care360™ suite of products and the ChartMaxx® electronic document
management system for hospitals. We provide interoperable technologies that
help health information exchanges and physicians enter, share and access
clinical information without costly IT implementation or significant workflow
disruption. These solutions offer access to a large national healthcare
provider network, including hundreds of electronic health record (EHR)
applications and approximately 160,000 networked physicians using Quest
Diagnostics’ Care360 connectivity products. We believe that these products
enhance the value we provide to our customers and result in increased customer
loyalty by providing more convenient ordering and reporting of clinical tests,
greater convenience in electronically prescribing medication and providing
better access to clinical information.

The
Care360 products, including our Care360 Labs and Meds, enable physicians
electronically to order diagnostic tests and review test results from Quest
Diagnostics and electronically to prescribe medication. Since






December 2008,
the number of medications written through Care360 ePrescribing has nearly
tripled to an annualized rate of more than 12 million. Our Care360 EHR product
allows physicians to generate a complete record of a clinical patient
encounter, automates and streamlines the clinician’s workflow, and allows for
rapid deployment and implementation with minimal workflow disruption. The
solution allows doctors to electronically create, manage and distribute patient
encounter notes including vital signs and progress notes. It captures lab and
radiology results and allows doctors to send secure messages and clinical
information to other practitioners and secure, Web-based laboratory results to
their patients’ personal health records. Physicians also take advantage of our
new Care360 Mobile application that lets them review results and order
medications using their Apple® iPhone®.

In
2009, we launched an upgraded version of our industry leading ChartMaxx
document managing and imaging solution, which enhances the ability of
healthcare enterprises to track, respond to and report on, requests from
Recovery Audit Contractor auditors. Our Centergy® Clinical Portal is the hospital-facing
component of our suite of modular healthcare solutions, which also includes
full scale Data Exchange Services. It is the choice of one third of the
original Nationwide Health Information Network contractors and some of the
largest health information exchanges, deployed in California, New York, British
Columbia, District of Columbia and New Mexico.

The
2009 American Recovery and Reinvestment Act included laws designed to expedite
the implementation of electronic health records and build a national electronic
health infrastructure in the United States. We have been pioneering
advancements in healthcare information technology for many years, believe that
we are well positioned to enable physicians to take advantage of the government
stimulus program and are committed to our Care360 products becoming designated
as certified technology for purposes of the federal laws.

We
collaborate with Keas, Microsoft and Google in connection with their personal
health records offerings. Keas™ provides an online tool that delivers
personalized health plans to individuals, based upon the individual’s health
information. Microsoft® HealthVault™ and Google Health™ are tools that allow
patients to store, manage, and share their medical records online in a HIPAA
compliant fashion. Using our Care360 connectivity products, physicians can
securely provide diagnostic and other data to a patient’s account.

We believe that our healthcare information technology capabilities,
    and our collaboration with others regarding healthcare information technology
    initiatives, differentiate us from the competition.

THE UNITED STATES CLINICAL TESTING MARKET

Most
clinical tests are performed by one of three types of laboratories:
hospital-affiliated laboratories; commercial clinical laboratories; or
physician-office laboratories. We believe that hospital-affiliated laboratories
account for approximately 60% of the market, commercial clinical laboratories
approximately one-third and physician-office laboratories the balance.

Key Trends.There are a number of key
trends that we expect to have a significant impact on the clinical testing
business in the United States and on our business. These trends present both
opportunities and risks. The current economic slowdown may temporarily reduce
industry growth rates. However, because clinical testing is an essential
healthcare service and because of the key trends discussed below, we believe
that the industry will continue to grow over the long term and that we are well
positioned to benefit from the long-term growth expected in the industry.

Demographics.The growing and aging
population is increasing the demand for clinical testing.

Increased
testing.We believe that we have entered the decade of
diagnostics, moving from dominant focus on curative care to a greater
recognition of the value of detection, prevention and personalized care.
Physicians increasingly are relying on diagnostic testing to help identify risk
for a disease, to detect the symptoms of disease earlier, to aid in the choice
of therapeutic regimen, to monitor patient compliance and to evaluate treatment
results. Physicians, consumers and payers increasingly recognize the value of
diagnostic testing as a means to improve health and reduce the overall cost of
healthcare through early detection, prevention and treatment.

Science and technology advances.Medical
advances allow for more accurate and earlier diagnosis and treatment of
diseases. Continuing research and development in the area of genomics is
expected to yield new, more sophisticated and specialized diagnostic tests.
These advances also are spurring interest in and demand for personalized or
tailored medicine, which relies on diagnostic and prognostic testing. In
addition, pharmacogenetic testing increasingly is used as a parameter to help
speed drug approval processes and to better focus therapy based on patient and
tumor-specific genetic markers.

Health information technologies.Demand is
growing toward comprehensive care management solutions that serve patients,
payers and practitioners by improving access to patient data, increasing
patient participation in care management, reducing medical errors and improving
clinical outcomes. There is an increasing focus on interconnectivity, the
ability to interact with other software and systems, and real time data
aggregation. Electronic medical records and patient health records continue to
grow.






Customer
and payer consolidation.Our customers and payers,
including physicians, health insurance plans, employers, pharmaceutical
companies and others, have been consolidating. We expect that this trend will
continue. Consolidation is increasing customer and payer bargaining power,
enhancing purchasing sophistication and encouraging internalization of testing.

Highly competitive.The clinical testing
industry remains fragmented, is highly competitive and is subject to new
competition. Competition is growing from non-traditional competitors. New
market entrants with extensive resources may make acquisitions or expand into
our traditional areas of operations. We also are expanding into new diagnostic
testing areas that are highly competitive.

Legislative, regulatory and policy environment.Government oversight of and attention to the healthcare industry in the United
States is significant and increasing. The 2009 American Recovery and
Reinvestment Act included laws designed to expedite the implementation of
electronic health records and build a national electronic health infrastructure
in the United States. In addition, there has been extensive discussion of U.S.
federal legislation to reform healthcare. It is not possible to predict whether
U.S. federal legislation to reform healthcare will be enacted, or the nature or
impact of any such legislation.

Prevention
and wellness. There is an increased awareness of the
benefits of, and increased interest in, preventative medicine and wellness.
Consumers, employers, health plans and government agencies increasingly are
focusing on helping the healthy stay healthy, detecting symptoms among those at
risk and providing preventative care that helps avoid disease.

Globalization.There is a growing demand
for healthcare services in emerging market countries. Opportunities are arising
to participate in the restructuring or growth of the healthcare systems in
these countries. Additionally, our customers are establishing positions outside
the United States. Demographic changes globally may also create opportunities.

Customers and Payers.We provide testing
services to a broad range of customers, with orders for clinical testing
generally generated by physicians, hospitals and employers. In most cases, the
customer that orders the testing is not responsible for the payments for
services. We consider a party that refers a test to us a “customer” and a party
that reimburses us a “payer.” Depending on the billing arrangement and
applicable law, the payer may be (1) a third party responsible for providing
health insurance coverage to patients, such as a health insurance plan,
self-insured employer benefit fund, or the traditional Medicare or Medicaid
program, (2) the patient or (3) the physician or other party (such as a
hospital, another laboratory or an employer) who referred the testing to us.

The
following table shows current estimates of the breakdown of the percentage of
our total volume of requisitions and net revenues associated with our clinical
testing business during 2009 applicable to each payer group:

Net Revenuesas % ofRequisitionTotalVolumeClinical Laboratoryas % ofTestingTotal VolumeNet RevenuesTraditional
 Medicare and Medicaid Programs15% - 20%15% - 20%Physicians, Hospitals, Employers and Other
 Monthly-Billed Clients30% - 35%20% - 25%Health Plans47% - 52%47% - 52%Patients2% - 5%5% - 10%

Health
plans, including managed care organizations and other health insurance
providers, typically reimburse us as a contracted provider on behalf of their
members for clinical testing services performed. Reimbursement from our two
largest health plans totaled approximately 14% of our consolidated net
revenues in 2009. Our largest health plan accounted for approximately
9% of our consolidated net revenues in 2009.

Physicians.Physicians, including both
primary care physicians and specialists, requiring testing for patients are the
primary referral source of our clinical testing volume. Physicians determine
which laboratory to recommend or use, based on a variety of factors, including:
service; patient access and convenience, including participation in a health
plan network; price; and depth and breadth of test and service offering.
Physicians also purchase and utilize our point-of-care tests.






Health
Plans.Health plans typically negotiate directly or
indirectly with a number of clinical laboratories, and represent approximately
one-half of our total clinical testing volumes and one-half of our net revenues
from clinical testing. The trend of consolidation among health plans has
continued. In certain markets, such as California, health plans may delegate to
independent physician associations (“IPAs”) the ability to negotiate for
clinical testing services on behalf of certain members.

Health
plans and IPAs often require that clinical test service providers accept
discounted fee structures or assume all or a portion of the financial risk
associated with providing testing services through capitated payment
arrangements and discounted fee-for-service arrangements. Under capitated
payment arrangements, we provide services at a predetermined monthly
reimbursement rate for each covered member, generally regardless of the number
or cost of services provided by us. Average reimbursement rates under capitated
payment arrangements are typically lower than our overall average reimbursement
rate. Health plans continue to focus product offerings on point-of-service
(“POS”) plans, and consumer driven health plans (“CDHPs”) that offer a greater
choice of healthcare providers. Reimbursement under these programs is typically
negotiated on a fee-for-service basis, which generally results in higher
revenue per requisition than under capitation arrangements. In addition,
several health plans have made strategic acquisitions or have developed
products to more broadly serve the individual (non-group) market. We do not
expect that the design of these plans will pose a significant barrier to
accessing clinical testing services. Increased number of patients in CDHPs and
high deductible plans, such as those offered in the individual market,
generally require greater levels of patient cost-sharing; this could negatively
impact patient collection experience.

Most
of our agreements with major health plans are non-exclusive arrangements.
Certain health plans, however, have limited their laboratory network to only a
single national laboratory to obtain improved pricing. In cases where members
choose to use a non-contracted provider due to service, quality or convenience,
the non-contracted provider is generally reimbursed at rates considered
“reasonable and customary.” Contracted rates are generally lower than
“reasonable and customary” rates.

We
also may be a member of a “complementary network.” A complementary network is
generally a set of contractual arrangements that a third party will maintain
with various providers that provide discounted fees for the benefit of its
customers. A member of a health plan may choose to access a non-contracted
provider that is a member of a complementary network; if so, the provider will
be reimbursed at a rate negotiated by the complementary network.

We
attempt to strengthen our relationships with health plans and increase the
volume of testing services by offering health plans services and programs that
leverage our Company’s expertise and resources, including in such areas as
wellness and disease management.

Hospitals.

Most
physicians have admitting privileges or other relationships with hospitals as
part of their medical practice. Many hospitals seek to leverage their
relationships with community physicians by encouraging the physicians to send
their outreach testing to the hospital’s laboratory. In addition, hospitals
that own physician practices generally require the practices to refer tests to
the hospital’s affiliated laboratory. Hospitals can have greater leverage with
health insurers than do commercial clinical laboratories, particularly
hospitals that have a significant market share; hospitals thus are frequently
able to negotiate higher reimbursement rates with health insurance plans than
commercial clinical laboratories for comparable clinical testing services.

We
also have joint venture arrangements with leading integrated healthcare
delivery networks in several metropolitan areas. These joint venture arrangements,
which provide testing for affiliated hospitals as well as for unaffiliated
physicians and other local healthcare providers, serve as our principal
laboratory facilities in their service areas. Typically, we have either a
majority ownership interest in, or day-to-day management responsibilities for,
our hospital joint venture relationships.






Employers.Employers use clinical tests for drugs-of-abuse to determine an individual’s
employability and his or her “fitness for duty.” Companies with high turnover,
safety conscious environments or regulatory testing requirements provide the
highest volumes of testing. Factors such as the general economy and job market
can impact the utilization of drugs-of-abuse testing. We seek to grow our
employer volumes through offering new and innovative programs to help companies
with their goal of maintaining a safe and productive workplace. We also offer
employers our Blueprint for Wellness program, providing wellness screening and
analytic services to employers, to help employers and their employees manage
increasing healthcare costs and to capitalize on trends in personalized health.

Other Laboratories and Other Customers. We
also provide testing services to federal, state and local governmental agencies
and perform esoteric testing services for commercial clinical laboratories that
do not have a full range of testing capabilities. These customers are charged
on a fee-for-service basis.

GENERAL

Competition.While there has been significant consolidation in the clinical testing industry
in recent years, our industry remains fragmented and highly competitive. We
primarily compete with three types of clinical testing providers:
hospital-affiliated laboratories, other commercial clinical laboratories and
physician-office laboratories. Our largest commercial clinical laboratory
competitor is Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings, Inc. In addition, we
compete with many smaller regional and local commercial clinical laboratories,
specialized esoteric laboratories and laboratories owned by physicians and
hospitals. In anatomic pathology, additional competitors include anatomic
pathology practices, including those in academic institutions. In addition,
there has been a trend among specialty physician practices to bring
pathologists into those practices, thereby reducing referrals from those
practices.

We believe
 that healthcare providers traditionally consider a number of factors when
 selecting a testing provider, including:•service
 capability and quality;•accuracy,
 timeliness and consistency in reporting test results;•pricing;•patient
 insurance coverage;•number and
 type of tests performed by the provider;•number,
 convenience and geographic coverage of patient service centers;•reputation
 in the medical community;•healthcare information technology solutions;•qualifications
 of its staff; and•ability to
 develop new and useful tests.

We
believe that we are an effective competitor in each of these areas. We also
believe that offering the most comprehensive test menu in the industry,
innovative test and information technology offerings, a superior patient
experience, Six Sigma quality and unparalleled access and distribution,
provides us with a competitive advantage that enables us to compete on more
than price alone.

We
believe that large commercial clinical laboratories may be able to increase
their share of the overall clinical testing market due to their large service
networks and lower cost structures. These advantages should enable larger
clinical laboratories to more effectively serve large customers and members of
large healthcare plans. In addition, we believe that consolidation in the clinical
testing industry will continue. However, a significant portion of clinical
testing is likely to continue to be performed by hospitals, which generally
have affiliations with community physicians that refer testing to us. As a
result of these affiliations, we compete against hospital-affiliated
laboratories primarily on the basis of service capability and quality as well
as other non-pricing factors. Our failure to provide service superior to
hospital-affiliated laboratories and other laboratories could have a material
adverse effect on our net revenues and profitability. In addition, recent
market activity, including actions by payers to exclude large national clinical
laboratories from contracts, may enhance the relative competitive position of
regional laboratories.

The
diagnostic testing industry is faced with changing technology and new product
introductions. Advances in technology may lead to the development of more
cost-effective tests that can be performed outside of a commercial clinical
laboratory such as (1) point-of-care tests that can be performed by physicians
in their offices; (2) complex tests that can be performed by hospitals in their
own laboratories; and (3) home testing that can be carried out without






requiring the
services of clinical laboratories. Development of such technology and its use
by our customers and patients would reduce the demand for our laboratory
testing services and negatively impact our net revenues. With our point-of-care
test strategy, we are positioning ourselves to service this growing market for
physicians and hospitals. We also believe that our overall point-of-care test
strategy will strengthen our relationship with our customers by enabling us to
offer more solutions that improve their effectiveness and the care of their
patients by enabling faster diagnosis and treatment.

The
diagnostic product, life insurance services, clinical trials and healthcare
information technology markets are highly competitive. We have many competitors,
some of which have much more extensive experience in these markets and some of
which have greater resources. We compete in the diagnostic products market by
attempting to find and exploit unique differentiated products, including
products that take advantage of our healthcare information technology
solutions. We compete in the life insurance services business by seeking to
provide a superior applicant experience, faster services completion and a wider
array of highest quality, integrated services than our competitors. We compete
in the clinical trials business by leveraging our strengths as the world’s
leading diagnostic testing company, including the depth and breadth of our
testing menu, our superior scientific expertise, our ability to support complex
global clinical trials and our lab management and information technology
solutions. We compete in the healthcare information technology market by
offering solutions that foster better patient care and improve performance for
healthcare institutions, patients and physician practices, particularly smaller
and medium sized physician practices. There is no guarantee that we will be
able to compete successfully in these markets.

Sales
and Marketing.Our sales force is organized to focus
on customer groups and service types. The majority of representatives focus on
marketing clinical laboratory testing, anatomic pathology and related services
to physicians, including physician specialists. Supporting our physician sales
teams are genomics and esoteric testing specialists, who are specially trained
and focused on educating our clients on new and more complex tests. In
addition, we have a sales force that focuses on regional and national insurance
organizations. We also have a hospital sales organization that focuses on
meeting the unique clinical testing needs of hospitals. A smaller portion of
our sales force focuses on selling drugs-of-abuse and wellness testing to
employers. We also have a sales force that focuses on selling risk assessment testing
services to life insurance companies. In addition, we have a sales organization
that focuses on selling diagnostic products to hospitals, commercial clinical
laboratories, physician office laboratories, blood banks and clinics, and a
sales force that sells our point-of-care tests to customers globally. We also
have a sales force that focuses on selling our clinical trials services to drug
developers. We have an active customer management process to evaluate the
growth potential and profitability of all accounts.

Information
Technology.We use information systems extensively in
virtually all aspects of our business, including clinical laboratory testing,
test reporting, billing, customer service, logistics and management of medical
data. We believe that our healthcare information technology systems help
differentiate us favorably. We endeavor to establish systems that create value
and efficiencies for our Company, patients and customers. The successful
delivery of our services depends, in part, on the continued and uninterrupted
performance of our information technology systems.

Some
of our historic growth has come through acquisitions and we continue to use
non-standardized billing, laboratory or other core information systems. We have
standardized some of our systems and are implementing standard laboratory
information and billing systems across our operations, including those from our
most recent acquisitions. We expect implementation will take several more years
to complete, and will result in significantly more centralized systems,
improved operating efficiency, more timely and comprehensive information for
management and enhanced control over our operational environment.

Quality
Assurance.In our clinical testing business, our goal
is to continually improve the processes for collection, handling, storage and
transportation of patient specimens, as well as the precision and accuracy of
analysis and result reporting. Our quality assurance efforts focus on positive
patient identification of specimens, report accuracy, proficiency testing,
reference range relevance, process audits, statistical process control and
personnel training for all of our laboratories and patient service centers. We
also focus on the licensing, credentialing, training and competence of our
professional and technical staff. We are implementing an enhanced specimen
tracking system, with global positioning system capabilities, that will enable
us to better track specimens. We continue to implement our Six Sigma and
standardization initiatives to help achieve our goal of becoming recognized as
the undisputed quality leader in the healthcare services industry. In addition,
some of our laboratories have achieved International Organization for
Standardization, or ISO, certification. These certifications are international
standards for quality management systems. In 2009, we took a number of steps to
further enhance our quality assurance program, including devoting additional
resources to the program and taking advantage of technology advances designed
to improve quality assurance.

As
part of our comprehensive quality assurance program, we utilize internal
proficiency testing, extensive quality control and rigorous process audits for
our clinical laboratory operations. For most clinical laboratory tests, quality
control samples are processed in parallel with the analysis of patient
specimens. The results of tests on these quality control samples are monitored
to identify trends, biases or imprecision in our analytical processes.






We
participate in external proficiency testing and have accreditation for our
clinical laboratory operations from various regulatory agencies or accrediting
organizations, such as the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”),
the College of American Pathologists (“CAP”) and certain states. All of our
laboratories participate in various external quality surveillance programs.
They include, but are not limited to, proficiency testing programs administered
by CAP, as well as some state agencies. CAP is an independent, non-governmental
organization of board-certified pathologists approved by CMS to inspect
clinical laboratories to determine compliance with the standards required by
CLIA. CAP offers an accreditation program to which laboratories may voluntarily
subscribe. All of our major regional and esoteric laboratories, including our
facility in India, and most of our rapid response laboratories, are accredited
by CAP. Accreditation includes on-site inspections and participation in the CAP
(or equivalent) proficiency testing program. Also, all of our cytotechnologists
and pathologists participate in an individual proficiency testing program.

Our
diagnostic products businesses maintain extensive quality assurance programs
focused on compliance with applicable regulatory requirements in the United
States, Europe and Australia. They are regulated by the FDA and are required to
be in compliance with the Quality Systems Regulations, 21 CFR part 820, and
with applicable standards outside the U.S. In addition, our manufacturing sites
are certified in accordance with, or audited by the deemed authority for, ISO
13485: 2003 standards. We endeavor to design and manufacture our diagnostics
products in compliance with Quality Systems Regulations so that the finished
products are safe and effective. In addition, the diagnostics products
businesses maintain procedures designed to ensure that products we purchase
conform to the manufacturer’s specifications.

Intellectual
Property Rights.We own significant intellectual
property, including patents, patent applications, technology, trade secrets,
know-how, copyrights and trademarks in the United States and other countries.
From time to time, we also license U.S. and non-U.S. patents, patent
applications, technology, trade secrets, know-how, copyrights or trademarks
owned by others. In the aggregate, these intellectual property assets and
licenses are of material importance to our business. We believe, however, that no
single patent, technology, trademark, intellectual property asset or license is
material to our business as a whole.

Our
approach is to manage our intellectual property assets to safeguard them and to
maximize their value to our enterprise. We generally actively defend our
intellectual property assets and pursue protection of our products, processes
and other intellectual property where possible.

Our
success in remaining a leading innovator in the diagnostic testing industry by
continuing to introduce new tests, technology and services will depend, in
part, on our ability to license new and improved technologies on favorable
terms. Other companies or individuals, including our competitors, may obtain
patents or other property rights on tests or processes that we may be
performing, particularly in such emerging areas as gene-based testing and other
specialty testing, that could prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to
develop, perform or sell our tests or operate our business.

Employees.At December 31, 2009, we employed approximately 43,000 people. This total
excludes employees of the joint ventures where we do not have a majority
interest. We have no collective bargaining agreements with any unions covering
any employees in the United States, and we believe that our overall relations
with our employees are good.

BILLING AND REIMBURSEMENT

Billing.We generally bill for clinical testing services on a fee-for-service basis
under one of two types of fee schedules. These fees are generally subject to
negotiation with or discounted to non-governmental payers. The types of fee
schedules are:

•“Client”
 fees charged to physicians, hospitals, and institutions for which a clinical
 laboratory performs testing services on a wholesale basis and which are
 billed on a monthly basis.•“Patient”
 fees charged to individual patients and third-party payers, like Medicare and
 Medicaid.

Billing
for clinical testing services is very complicated, and we have compliance
policies and procedures that increase our billing costs. Patients, insurance
companies, Medicare, Medicaid, physicians, hospitals and employer groups all
have different billing requirements. Some billing arrangements require us to
bill multiple payers, and there are several other factors that complicate
billing (e.g., disparity in coverage and information requirements among various
payers; incomplete or inaccurate billing information provided by ordering
physicians). We incur additional costs as a result of our participation in
Medicare and Medicaid programs because clinical laboratory testing and anatomic
pathology services are subject to complex, stringent and frequently ambiguous
federal and state laws and regulations, including those relating to coverage,
billing and reimbursement. Changes in laws and regulations could further
complicate our billing and increase our billing expense. CMS establishes
procedures and continuously evaluates and implements changes to the
reimbursement process.






As
an integral part of our billing compliance program, we investigate reported
failures or suspected failures to comply with federal and state healthcare
reimbursement requirements. Any Medicare or Medicaid overpayments resulting from
non-compliance are reimbursed by us. As a result of these efforts, we have
periodically identified and reported overpayments, reimbursed the payers for
overpayments and taken appropriate corrective action.

In
2009, our bad debt expense was 4.3% of our net revenues. We believe that most
of our bad debt expense is primarily the result of missing or incorrect billing
information on requisitions and Advance Beneficiary Notices (ABNs) received
from healthcare providers and the failure of patients to pay the portion of the
receivable that is their responsibility, rather than credit related issues.
Deteriorating economic conditions may adversely impact our bad debt expense. In
general, we perform the requested tests and report test results regardless of
whether the billing information is correct or complete. We subsequently attempt
to contact the healthcare provider or patient to obtain any missing information
and to rectify incorrect billing information. Missing or incorrect information
on requisitions complicates and slows down the billing process, creates
backlogs of unbilled requisitions and generally increases the aging of accounts
receivable and bad debt expense. The increased use of electronic ordering
reduces the incidence of missing or incorrect information.

Government
Coverage and Reimbursements.Government payers, such
as Medicare and Medicaid, have taken steps and can be expected to continue to
take steps to control the cost, utilization and delivery of healthcare
services, including clinical test services. For example, Medicare carriers have
adopted policies under which they do not pay for many commonly ordered clinical
tests unless the ordering physician has provided an appropriate diagnosis code
supporting the medical necessity of the test. Physicians are required by law to
provide diagnostic information when they order clinical tests for Medicare and
Medicaid patients.

The
healthcare industry has experienced significant changes in reimbursement
practices during the past several years. Historically, many different local
carriers administered Medicare Part B, which covers services provided by
commercial clinical laboratories. They often had inconsistent policies,
increasing the complexity of the billing process for clinical laboratories.
They are being replaced with contractors who will administer Part B benefits
for beneficiaries in larger regional areas. It is expected that the revised
system will reduce the administrative complexity of billing for services
provided to Medicare beneficiaries.

With
regard to the clinical test services performed on behalf of Medicare
beneficiaries, we must bill the Medicare program directly and must accept the
carrier’s fee schedule amount for covered services as payment in full. In
addition, state Medicaid programs are prohibited from paying more (and in most
instances, pay significantly less) than Medicare. Currently, Medicare does not
require the beneficiary to pay a co-payment for clinical laboratory testing.
Certain Medicaid programs require Medicaid recipients to pay co-payment amounts
for clinical laboratory testing. Medicare patients generally are required to
make co-payments for anatomic pathology services.

Federal
law contains a Medicare fee schedule payment methodology for clinical testing
services performed for patients covered under Part B of the Medicare program,
and a national ceiling on the amount that carriers could pay under their local
Medicare fee schedules. During 2009, Medicare and Medicaid programs represented
approximately 18% of our net revenues. Effective January 1, 2010, the national
fee schedule for clinical testing services was decreased 1.9%.

Federal
    law also contains a Medicare fee schedule payment methodology for pathology
    and other physician services performed for patients covered under Part B
    of the Medicare program.  In December 2009, Congress
    enacted a 60-day hold on a potential 21.2% decrease in this schedule
    that would otherwise have gone into effect January 1, 2010. In 2009, approximately
    3% of our net revenues were reimbursed based on this fee schedule.

CMS
is permitted to adjust statutorily prescribed fees for clinical test services
if the standard rules by which those payments are calculated will result in
fees that are “grossly excessive.” CMS rules set forth a process and factors
for establishing a “realistic and equitable” payment amount for clinical test
services under Medicare Part B (and services paid under a prospective payment
system) if existing payment amounts are determined to be inherently
unreasonable; payment amounts may be considered unreasonable if they are either
grossly excessive or deficient. Under CMS rules, if CMS or a carrier determines
that an overall payment adjustment of less than 15% is needed to produce a
realistic and equitable payment amount, then the payment amount is not
considered “grossly excessive or deficient.” However, if a determination is
made that a payment adjustment of 15% or more is justified, CMS could provide
an adjustment of less than 15%, but not more than 15%, in any given year. Fees
payable by Medicare could be reduced prospectively as a result of the
application of these rules.

We
are generally permitted to bill Medicare beneficiaries directly for statutorily
excluded testing services. An advance beneficiary notice (“ABN”) is a notice
signed by the beneficiary which documents the patient’s informed decision to
personally assume financial liability for tests which are likely to be denied
and not reimbursed by Medicare because they are deemed to be not medically
necessary for the patient (these tests include limited coverage tests for which
the ordering physician did not provide an appropriate diagnosis code and
certain tests ordered on a patient at a






frequency
greater than covered by Medicare). We do not have any direct contact with most
of these patients and, in such cases, cannot control the proper use of the ABN
by the physician or the physician’s office staff, who must obtain the ABN on
our behalf. If the ABN is not timely provided to the beneficiary or is not
completed properly, we may end up performing tests that we cannot subsequently
bill to the patient if payment is denied by Medicare due to coverage
limitations.

Penalties
for violations of laws relating to billing federal healthcare programs and for
violations of federal and state fraud and abuse laws include: (1) exclusion
from participation in Medicare/Medicaid programs; (2) asset forfeitures; (3)
civil and criminal fines and penalties; and (4) the loss of various licenses,
certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business. Civil
monetary penalties for a wide range of violations may be assessed on a per
violation basis. A parallel civil remedy under the federal False Claims Act
provides for damages on a per violation basis, plus damages of up to three
times the amount claimed.

Historically,
most Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries were covered under the traditional
Medicare and Medicaid programs directly administered by the federal government.
Over the last several years, the federal government has continued to expand its
contracts with private health insurance plans for Medicare beneficiaries and
has encouraged such beneficiaries to switch from the traditional programs to
the private programs, called “Medicare Advantage” programs. There has been
continued growth of health insurance plans offering Medicare Advantage programs
and of beneficiary enrollment in these plans. In recent years, in an effort to
control costs, states also have increasingly mandated that Medicaid
beneficiaries enroll in private managed care arrangements. If these efforts
continue to be successful, we may experience a further shift of traditional
Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries to private health insurance options.

REGULATION

Our
businesses are subject to or impacted by extensive and frequently changing laws
and regulations in the United States (at both the federal and state levels) and
the other jurisdictions in which we conduct business. These laws and
regulations include regulations over aspects of our business, and laws and
regulations relating to conducting our business generally (e.g., export
controls laws, U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws of other jurisdictions),
including in the United States and in the other jurisdictions in which we
conduct business. We also are subject to inspections and audits by governmental
agencies. Set forth below are highlights of the key regulatory areas applicable
to our businesses.

CLIA
and State Clinical Laboratory Licensing Regulations.All of our laboratories and, where applicable, patient service centers are
licensed and accredited as required by the appropriate federal and state
agencies. CLIA regulates virtually all clinical laboratories by requiring that
they be certified by the federal government and comply with various
operational, personnel and quality requirements intended to ensure that the
services provided are accurate, reliable and timely. The cost of compliance
with CLIA makes it cost prohibitive for many physicians to operate clinical
laboratories in their offices. However, manufacturers of laboratory equipment
and test kits could seek to increase their sales by marketing point-of-care
test equipment to physicians and by selling to both physicians and patients
test kits approved by the FDA for home use. Diagnostic tests approved or
cleared by the FDA for home use are automatically deemed to be “waived” tests
under CLIA and may be performed in physician office laboratories with minimal
regulatory oversight under CLIA as well as by patients in their homes.

CLIA
does not preempt state laws that are more stringent than federal law. State
laws may require additional personnel qualifications, quality control, record
maintenance and/or proficiency testing. State laws also may require detailed
review of our scientific validations and technical procedures for tests before
approval for use or marketing of services.

Fraud
and Abuse Rules.Federal anti-kickback laws and
regulations prohibit making payments or furnishing other benefits to influence
the referral of tests billed to Medicare, Medicaid or certain other federal or
state healthcare programs. The penalties for violation of these laws and
regulations may include monetary fines, criminal and civil penalties and/or
suspension or exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other
federal healthcare programs. Several states have similar laws.

In
addition, federal and state anti-self-referral laws generally prohibit Medicare
and Medicaid payments for clinical tests referred by physicians who have a
personal investment in, or a compensation arrangement with, the testing
laboratory. Some states also have laws that are not limited to Medicare and
Medicaid referrals and could also affect investment and compensation
arrangements with physicians.

FDA.The FDA has regulatory responsibility over, among other areas, instruments,
test kits, reagents and other devices used by clinical laboratories to perform
diagnostic testing in the United States. The FDA also regulates clinical trials
(and, therefore, testing that we perform for sponsors of those trials),
drugs-of-abuse testing for employers, testing for blood bank purposes and
testing of donors of human cells for purposes such asin vitrofertilization. A number of






esoteric tests
we develop internally are first offered as laboratory-developed tests (“LDTs”).
The FDA has claimed regulatory authority over
all LDTs, but has exercised enforcement discretion with regard to most LDTs
performed by high complexity CLIA-certified laboratories. However, the FDA has
been petitioned to exercise regulatory authority over certain LDTs and to
initiate enforcement action against companies that make effectiveness claims
about LDTs that are without sufficient analytical and clinical support. In
addition, the FDA has issued two drafts of a guidance document describing
certain LDTs it refers to as “In Vitro Diagnostic Multivariate Index Assays.”
The FDA could finalize this guidance document, clarifying its intention to
regulate these tests as medical devices and the laboratories that offer this
subset of LDTs. If FDA regulation of this subset of LDTs occurs or if increased
regulation of the various medical devices used in laboratory-developed testing
ensues, it would lead to an increased regulatory burden resulting in additional
costs and delays in introducing new tests, including genetic tests; this may
hinder us from developing and marketing certain new products or services.

In
September 2007, the FDA finalized its guidance relating to analyte specific
reagents (“ASRs”), which laboratories use in LDTs. As a result, manufacturers
of certain products previously marketed as ASRs must file for FDA clearance of
these products in order to market them in the United States. Failure to act
diligently and to cooperate with the FDA may result in enforcement action
against the manufacturer. The increased regulation of these products could result
in increased product cost, a delay in obtaining them or, if a manufacturer
withdraws its products from the market, an inability to obtain the product.
These factors may hinder our ability to develop and market new products or
services or cause an increase in the cost of our products or services.

Environmental,
Health and Safety.We are subject to laws and
regulations related to the protection of the environment, the health and safety
of employees and the handling, transportation and disposal of medical
specimens, infectious and hazardous waste and radioactive materials. For
example, the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”) has
established extensive requirements relating specifically to workplace safety
for healthcare employers in the U. S. This includes requirements to develop and
implement multi-faceted programs to protect workers from exposure to blood-borne
pathogens, such as HIV and hepatitis B and C, including preventing or
minimizing any exposure through sharps or needle stick injuries. For purposes
of transportation, some biological materials and laboratory supplies are
classified as hazardous materials and are subject to regulation by one or more
of the following agencies: the U.S. Department of Transportation, the U.S.
Public Health Service, the United States Postal Service and the International
Air Transport Association. We generally use third-party vendors to dispose of
regulated medical waste, hazardous waste and radioactive materials and
contractually require them to comply with applicable laws and regulations.

Contracts
and Relationships with Physicians.We employ pathologists. Many of our pathologists
enter into an employment agreement. These agreements have varying terms, but
generally can be terminated at any time, upon advance notice. Most of the
agreements contain covenants generally limiting the activities of the
pathologist within a defined geographic area for a limited period of time after
termination of employment. The agreements may be subject to limitations under
state law that may limit the enforceability of these covenants.

Our
pathologists are required to hold a valid license to practice medicine in the
jurisdiction in which they practice. If they provide inpatient services, they
must become a member of the medical staff at the relevant hospital, with
privileges in pathology.

Many
states, including some in which our businesses are located, prohibit business
corporations from engaging in the practice of medicine. In certain states,
business corporations are prohibited from employing licensed healthcare
professionals to provide services on behalf of the corporation; these laws vary
from state to state. The manner in which licensed physicians can be organized
to perform medical services may be governed by the laws of the state in which






medical
services are provided and by the medical boards or other entities authorized by
these states to oversee the practice of medicine. In some states, anatomic
pathology services are delivered through physician-owned entities that employ
the practicing pathologists.

Some
states restrict the splitting or sharing of fees between physicians and
non-physicians. These laws may apply to some of the arrangements that we have
with pathologists; the laws vary from state to state.

Privacy
and Security of Health and Personal Information.Healthcare providers and others involved in providing healthcare services to
patients are required to comply with the federal Health Insurance Portability
and Accountability Act (“HIPAA”) regulations regarding protecting the
security and privacy of certain healthcare information, as well as HIPAA standards
for electronic healthcare transactions in the United States. The HIPAA regulations
on adoption of national provider identifiers required healthcare providers to
adopt new, unique identifiers for reporting on claims transactions. The
security regulations establish requirements for safeguarding electronic patient
information. The privacy regulations establish comprehensive federal standards
regarding the uses and disclosures of protected health information. New federal
laws adopted in 2009 impose additional obligations on healthcare providers
regarding the privacy and security of protected health information, increase
the penalties associated with the failure to meet the HIPAA regulatory
requirements, allow state attorneys general to enforce violations of the HIPAA
privacy and security regulations and require healthcare providers to notify
patients and the government if they discover certain breaches of the patient’s
unsecured protected health information. These laws and regulations establish
a complex regulatory framework on a variety of subjects. We have implemented
practices that we believe meet the requirements.

We
also must comply with privacy and security laws and regulations adopted by
states in the United States and jurisdictions outside the United States in
which we conduct business, including the European Union. Some of these laws and
regulations relate to the privacy and security of personal information, such
    as social security numbers. Some of the laws and regulations impose reporting
    and disclosure requirements in the event of certain security breaches. We
have implemented practices that we believe meet applicable requirements.

Drug
Testing; Controlled Substances.All U.S. laboratories
that perform drug testing for public sector employees and employees of certain
federally regulated businesses are required to be certified as meeting the
detailed performance and quality standards of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health
Services Administration. To obtain access to controlled substances used to
perform drugs-of-abuse testing in the United States, laboratories must be
licensed by the Drug Enforcement Administration. All of our laboratories that
perform such testing or that use controlled substances are so certified or so
licensed, respectively.

Compliance.We seek to conduct our business in compliance with all applicable laws and
regulations. Many of the laws and regulations applicable to us, however, including
many of those relating to billing, reimbursement of tests and relationships
with physicians and hospitals, are vague or indefinite or have not been
interpreted by the courts. They may be interpreted or applied by a
prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require
us to make changes in our operations, including our pricing and/or billing
practices. The applicability or interpretation of laws and regulations also may
not be clear in light of emerging changes in clinical testing science and
healthcare technology. Such occurrences, regardless of their outcome, could,
among other things:

•increase our
 operating costs including, but not limited to, those costs associated with
 performing clinical or anatomic pathology tests or manufacturing or
 distributing products, and administrative requirements related to billing;•decrease the
 amount of reimbursement related to testing services performed;•damage our
 reputation; and/or•adversely
 affect important business relationships with third parties.

If
we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil
and criminal penalties, fines, exclusion from participation in governmental
healthcare programs and the loss of various licenses, certificates and
authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as incur additional
liabilities from third party claims, all of which could have a material adverse
effect on our business. Certain federal and state statues, regulations and other
laws, including thequi tamprovisions of the federal False Claims Act, allow private individuals to bring
lawsuits against healthcare companies on behalf of government payers, private
payers and/or patients alleging inappropriate billing practices.

The
federal or state governments may bring claims based on theories as to our
current practices that we believe are lawful. The federal government has
substantial leverage in negotiating settlements since the amount of potential
damages far exceeds the rates at which we are reimbursed, and the government
has the remedy of excluding a non-compliant provider from participation in the
Medicare and Medicaid programs, which represented approximately 18%






of our net
revenues during 2009. We believe that, based on our experience with settlements
and public announcements by various government officials, the federal
government continues to strengthen its enforcement efforts against healthcare
fraud. In addition, legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and
abuse provide federal enforcement personnel substantially increased funding,
powers and remedies to pursue suspected cases of fraud and abuse.

We
have a long-standing and well-established compliance program. The Quality,
Safety & Compliance Committee of our Board of Directors oversees our
compliance program and requires periodic management reports regarding our
compliance program. Our program includes detailed policies and procedures and
training programs intended to ensure the strict implementation and observance
of all applicable laws, regulations and Company policies. Further, we conduct
in-depth reviews of procedures and facilities to assure regulatory compliance
throughout our operations. We conduct annual training of our employees on these
compliance policies and procedures.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

We
file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other
information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). You may
read and copy any document that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s public
reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC
at 1-800-SEC-0330 for information regarding the public reference room. The SEC
maintains an internet site that contains annual, quarterly and current reports,
proxy and information statements and other information that issuers (including
Quest Diagnostics) file electronically with the SEC. Our electronic SEC filings
are available to the public at the SEC’s internet site, www.sec.gov.

Our
internet site is www.questdiagnostics.com. You can access Quest Diagnostics’
Investor Relations webpage at www.questdiagnostics.com/investor. The
information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Report.
We make available free of charge, on or through our Investor Relations webpage,
our proxy statements, Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form
10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or
furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the
“Exchange Act”), as soon as reasonably practical after such material is filed
with, or furnished to, the SEC. We also make available, through our Investor
Relations webpage, statements of beneficial ownership of our equity securities
filed by our directors, officers, 10% or greater shareholders and others under
Section 16 of the Exchange Act.

We
have a corporate governance webpage. You can access information regarding our
corporate governance at www.questdiagnostics.com/governance. We post the
following on our corporate governance webpage:

•Directors•Management•Code of
 Business Ethics•Integrity
 Commitment•Values•Corporate
 Governance Guidelines•Charters for
 our Audit and Finance Committee, Compensation Committee, Executive Committee,
 Governance Committee and Quality, Safety and Compliance Committee•Certificate
 of Incorporation•Bylaws






EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE
COMPANY

The following
persons serve as executive officers of the Company.

Surya
N. Mohapatra, Ph.D.(60) is Chairman of the Board,
President and Chief Executive Officer. Prior to joining the Company in February
1999 as Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, he was Senior Vice
President of Picker International, a worldwide leader in advanced medical
imaging technologies. Dr. Mohapatra was appointed President and Chief Operating
Officer in June 1999, Chief Executive Officer in May 2004 and Chairman of the
Board in December 2004. He is a director of ITT Corporation. Dr. Mohapatra has
been a director of the Company since 2002.

Jon
R. Cohen, M.D.(55) is Senior Vice President and
Chief Medical Officer. Dr. Cohen joined the company in March 2009. He served as
the Senior Advisor to New York Governor David Patterson from 2008 to 2009,
where he was responsible for all policy and strategic planning. From 2007 to
2008, Dr. Cohen was a managing director, health industries advisory services at
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Prior to that, he spent 21 years with North
Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System, one of the nation’s largest
not-for-profit health systems, including serving as its Chief Medical Officer
from 2000 to 2006.

Robert
A. Hagemann(53) is Senior Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer. He joined Corning Life Sciences, Inc. in 1992, where he held
a variety of senior financial positions before being named Vice President and
Corporate Controller of the Company in 1996. Mr. Hagemann has served as Chief
Financial Officer since August 1998. He is a director of Zimmer Holdings, Inc.

Joan
E. Miller, Ph.D.(55) is Senior Vice President –
Pathology and Hospital Services. Dr. Miller joined Corning Life Sciences, Inc.
in 1992 and since has held positions of increasing responsibility. Dr. Miller
was named Senior Managing Director, Nichols Institute in 2002 and Vice
President, Hospital Business in 2003. Since June 2007, Dr. Miller has overseen
the Company’s hospital testing services, including its esoteric testing
facilities, and its anatomic pathology testing services.

Michael
E. Prevoznik(48) is Senior Vice President and General
Counsel. Mr. Prevoznik joined the Company as Vice President and General Counsel
in August 1999. In 2003, he assumed responsibility for governmental affairs.
Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Prevoznik served in positions of increasing
responsibility within the compliance organization at SmithKline Beecham, most
recently as Vice President, Compliance, with responsibility for coordinating
all SmithKline Beecham compliance activities worldwide.

Wayne
R. Simmons(54) is Vice President – Operations. Since
July 2007, he has overseen the Company’s U.S. clinical testing operations. Mr.
Simmons joined the Company in February 2004 as Vice President for our central
region. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Simmons served in positions of
increasing responsibility with Philips Medical Systems, including, since 2002,
as Vice President of Supply Chain, in which position he was responsible for
operations at Philips Medical Systems CT Operations facilities globally.






