Item 1. Business



Quest Diagnostics Incorporated is the world's leading provider of diagnostic testing information services. We provide insights that empower and enable patients, physicians, hospitals, integrated delivery networks (each an "IDN"), health plans, employers and others to make better healthcare decisions.



Quest Diagnostics was incorporated in Delaware in 1990; its predecessor companies date back to 1967. We conduct business through our headquarters in Madison, New Jersey, and our laboratories, patient service centers, offices and other facilities around the United States and in selected locations outside the United States. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “Quest Diagnostics,” the “Company,” “we” and “our” mean Quest Diagnostics Incorporated and its consolidated subsidiaries.



During2013, we generated net revenues of$7.1 billionand processed approximately147 milliontest requisitions. Additional financial information concerning Quest Diagnostics, including our consolidated subsidiaries and businesses, for each of the years endedDecember 31, 2013,2012and2011is included in the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto in “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in Part II, Item 8.













OUR STRATEGY AND STRENGTHS



In 2012, Quest Diagnostics launched a new vision and strategy.  Our vision is: empowering better health with diagnostic insights.  We have three aspirational goals:  a healthier world; build a valuable company; and create an inspiring workplace.  Our values were unchanged: quality, integrity, accountability, innovation and leadership.



Our Strategy



In 2012, we introduced a five-point business strategy to help us achieve our vision and our goals.  In 2013, we executed against our five-point strategy, and as the year concluded, revised the priority of the five points in the strategy.  The discussion below reflects the current priorities.



1. Restore growth.In 2013, we launched a multi-year initiative, Project Restore, to identify, prioritize, resource and  implement a wide range of activities designed to create consistent, profitable growth.  For example, the program leverages centralized analytics and best practice teams to improve sales and marketing effectiveness, reduce attrition and bring to local teams lessons learned across the enterprise.  Our goal is to achieve and ultimately exceed market growth rates over the course of the program.



We are pursuing seven tactical approaches to restore growth.  Three of these approaches have a near-term focus:  sales and marketing excellence; grow esoteric testing through a disease focus; and provide professional lab services to hospitals and IDNs.  The remaining four growth approaches have a long-term focus:  succeed internationally; create value from information assets; lead in companion diagnostics; and extend in adjacent markets.



In 2013, we made progress on our goal to be the preferred partner for diagnostic information services through sales and marketing excellence.  We created one commercial organization in our Diagnostic Information Services business, centrally led and focused on local customer needs.  We are implementing world-class management discipline around processes, tools and measurement.  We are building a virtuous circle of talent acquisition and retention, and have instilled a customer-focused, winning culture.  Our expectation is that the combination of these elements will result in physicians, hospitals, health plans, IDNs and employers being eager to partner with Quest Diagnostics.



We plan to grow esoteric testing revenues by creating value through scientific and product innovation for major clinical opportunities.  Further, we are pursuing opportunities to create value from the integration of lab testing and clinical information.  We also plan to provide holistic solutions centered on evidence-supported standards of care, and to combine routine, guideline mandated testing with esoteric solutions.   In 2013, we put in place clinical franchise organizations to focus on these opportunities, working with our science and innovation team.  The clinical franchise organizations focus on cancer, cardiovascular, infectious disease and immunology, neurology, prescription drug monitoring and toxicology, sports diagnostics, wellness, and women's and reproductive health.  The October 2013 launch of our BRCAvantageTMsolution, only a few months after the decision of the United States Supreme Court in theMyriadpatent case, is an example of the power of our new clinical franchises.  Our franchises are designed to enable us to act like a focused boutique service provider while maintaining the advantages of our scale.



In addition, we plan to grow by pursuing strategic partnerships with hospitals and IDNs.  We believe that continued price and utilization pressure, as well as evolving payment models in healthcare, will drive demand for our expertise in a range of strategic partnerships, including lab management outsourcing, outreach acquisition and joint ventures.  We can partner with hospitals to drive the success of accountable care organizations, including by consolidating data and delivering insights, delivering test management solutions to improve care and help control cost and by providing patient-focused programs to enable effective management of care.  Our 2013 agreements with UMass Memorial Medical Center and Dignity Health are examples of the kinds of opportunities we see.  Our laboratory professional services team continues to expand its pipeline of hospitals and IDNs interested in working with us to improve outcomes and reduce costs.



2. Drive operational excellence.Improving our operations will yield many benefits, including: enhancing customer satisfaction, employee engagement and shareholder value; improving our competitiveness; and strengthening our foundation for growth.  To drive operational excellence, we are focusing on four strategic imperatives: to deliver a superior customer experience; to enhance our end-to-end customer value chain with enterprise architecture; to develop best-in-class business performance tools; and to elevate our cost excellence.  In 2013, we made strong progress driving operational excellence, and improving our quality and efficiency.  We believe that this will enable us to improve our overall customer experience.



Our cost excellence program, Invigorate, consists of seven flagship programs, with structured plans in each, to drive savings and improve performance across the customer value chain: organization excellence; information technology











excellence; procurement excellence; service excellence; lab excellence; billing excellence; and business process excellence. Invigorate delivered more than $250 million in realized savings in 2013.  We also exited 2013 with run-rate savings of more than $500 million, compared to 2011, surpassing the original Invigorate goal established in 2011 a year earlier than planned.  This positions the Company to exceed our $600 million goal in run-rate savings by the end of 2014, compared to 2011.  We now anticipate run-rate savings approaching $700 million, compared to 2011.  We also are pursuing opportunities to increase this total to $1 billion beyond 2014.



3. Simplify the organization to enable growth and productivity.In 2012, we concluded that our organization was not structured to align well with our objectives.  Previously, the organization was too complex, and it failed to let the Company take advantage of its scale and capabilities.  In 2013, we revised our senior management team; it now is composed of both executives who joined the Company prior to our current President and Chief Executive Officer and several executives who joined thereafter.  We also restructured our organization to eliminate silos in our core business and provide for leadership in defined geographies.  These changes included the elimination of three management layers and over 500 management positions.  Our new organization is designed to align around future growth opportunities, to align upstream and downstream units in our business for seamless execution and to leverage our company-wide infrastructure to gain more capability, value and efficiency.  In 2013, we also introduced new behaviors to make us more agile, transparent, customer-focused, collaborative and performance oriented.  We continue to simplify the organization to better focus on our customers, speed decision-making and to empower employees.



The Company is made up of two businesses:  Diagnostic Information Services and Diagnostic Solutions.  Our Diagnostic Information Services business, comprised of two parts, develops and delivers diagnostic testing, information and services to patients, physicians, health plans, hospitals, IDNs, employers and others.  The value creation side of the business, organized by clinical franchise, focuses on customer solutions for the marketplace, including new test development and upstream marketing.  The value delivery side includes sales and downstream marketing, routine and esoteric laboratory operations, field operations, logistics and client services.  Diagnostic Solutions includes our other businesses, including central laboratory testing for pharmaceutical and medical device clinical trials, life insurer services, diagnostic products and healthcare information technology.



4. Refocus on diagnostic information services.We are refocusing on diagnostic information services.  We retained pathology services and our international assets and are evaluating options with respect to the Celera Corporation ("Celera") drug assets and the Celera products businesses.  As 2012 concluded, we sold our OralDNA salivary diagnostics business.  In 2013, we sold our HemoCue and Enterix diagnostic products businesses and the ibrutinib royalty rights.



5. Deliver disciplined capital deployment and strategically aligned accretive acquisitions.We are focused on increasing shareholder returns and returns on invested capital (“ROIC”) through a framework that encompasses improving operating performance and disciplined capital deployment.



Our disciplined capital deployment framework includes dividends, share repurchases and investment in our business and is intended to improve ROIC.  The framework is grounded in maintaining an investment grade credit rating.  Our target debt/EBITDA ratio is in the range of 2 - 2¼ times.  We expect to return to investors through a combination of dividends and share repurchases a majority of our free cash flow.  Consistent with that expectation, in January 2014 we announced that we increased our quarterly common stock dividend by 10%, from $0.30 per common share to $0.33 per common share.   This represents our third increase in the dividend since 2011.  We believe that the dividend can grow over time.  We also believe that opportunities may arise to return incremental capital to shareholders from free cash flow as a result of portfolio actions.  In 2013, we returned more than $1 billion to stockholders through repurchases of our common stock, including approximately $800 million of proceeds from our portfolio actions, including the sales of HemoCue, Enterix, OralDNA and the ibrutinib royalty rights.



We will continue to invest in our business in a disciplined manner.  We believe that we have established a solid foundation of strategic assets and capabilities.  We expect to generate 1 to 2 percent revenue growth per year through value-creating, strategically-aligned acquisitions using disciplined investment criteria.  We screen potential acquisitions using guidelines that assess strategic fit and financial considerations, including value creation, ROIC and impact on our earnings.  In 2013, we closed acquisitions of the laboratory assets of UMass Memorial Medical Center, Dignity Health, Advanced Toxicology Network and ConVerge Diagnostics Services.



Our additional near-term investments in growth are likely to focus on investments in science and innovation in the form of licensing, collaborations and internal development to grow esoteric testing, and tools to support commercial excellence.    We also expect to make investments to improve operational excellence, including, for example, systems standardization and











automation, footprint optimization and Project Invigorate.  In addition, we expect to make additional investments to restore growth, including, for example, Project Restore.



Our Strengths



We offer high value diagnostic information services and diagnostic solutions, including those grounded in pathology and gene-based and esoteric testing, that are attractive to patients, physicians, hospitals, health plans, IDNs, employers and others.  We believe that customers and payers prefer providers that offer a comprehensive and innovative range of tests and services and the most convenient access to those services and that, by offering such services, we strengthen our market offering, market position and reputation.



Our assets and capabilities.We are the world leader in the diagnostic information services business. We are the leading provider in the United States of  routine and gene-based and esoteric testing services, including anatomic pathology, serving approximately one-third of the adult population of the United States each year.  We have the leading test menu in the industry.  We offer national access and have the most extensive network in the United States.  Our nationwide specimen collection network includes over 2,200 of our own patient service centers and, in addition, approximately 3,200 phlebotomists in physician offices.  We also operate many additional locations where approximately 5,500 paramedical examiners coordinate the provision of paramedical examinations related to life insurance applications.  We have a medical and scientific staff available for consultation, including over 725 M.D.s and Ph.D.s, primarily located in the United States, many of whom are recognized leaders in their field, and genetic counselors. We serve approximately half of the physicians and half of the hospitals in the United States.  We have strong logistics capabilities, including approximately 3,000 courier vehicles and 20 aircraft that collectively make tens of thousands of stops daily.



Innovation.We are a leading innovator in diagnostic information services with outstanding medical and technical expertise.  We collaborate with multiple organizations, including leading academic centers and others, and maintain relationships with advisors and consultants that are leaders in key fields, such as cardiology, oncology, neurology and infectious disease. Our medical and scientific experts publish research that demonstrates the clinical value and importance of diagnostic testing, including in connection with our research and development efforts.  In 2013, they authored approximately 150 publications, including about 100 articles in peer-reviewed journals, that provided insights into diagnostic testing, introduced novel diagnostic approaches benefiting patients or provided the latest thinking in laboratory testing and disease diagnosis.  We also publish Quest Diagnostics Health TrendsTMreports identifying trends in disease and wellness.  Recent reports focused on cardiovascular health and prescription drug monitoring.



We see significant opportunity to use diagnostic information services to personalize treatment options based on the individual genetic profile of each patient.  For example, we can offer an “end-to-end” array of services for companion diagnostics.  We have expertise dealing with biomarkers in clinical trials, have biomarker discovery capabilities, and can make available laboratory developed tests,in vitrodiagnostics (“IVD”) test kits and late-stage commercialization support for companion diagnostics for new therapies that will foster personalized patient treatment.



We continue to introduce new tests, technology and services, including many with a focus on personalized and targeted medicine.  In addition, as an industry leader with the largest and broadest U.S. network and presence outside the United States, we believe we are the distribution channel of choice for developers of new tests to introduce their products to the marketplace. Through our relationships with the academic medical community, pharmaceutical and biotechnology firms and other collaborators, we believe that we are a leader in bringing technical innovation to the market.



Leading healthcare information technology solutions. We provide interoperable technologies that help healthcare organizations and physicians enter, share and access clinical information without costly IT implementation or significant workflow disruption, including through our Care360®suite of products, and our ChartMaxx®electronic document management system for hospitals. These solutions offer access to a large national healthcare provider network using Quest Diagnostics' Care360 connectivity products. The Care360 products, including Care360 Labs and Meds, enable physicians electronically to order diagnostic testing and review test results from Quest Diagnostics and electronically to prescribe medications. Our Care360 EHR product allows physicians to generate a complete record of a clinical patient encounter, automates and streamlines the clinician's workflow, and allows for rapid deployment and implementation with minimal workflow disruption. We believe that these products enhance the value we provide to our customers and result in increased customer loyalty by providing more convenient ordering and reporting of diagnostic information services, greater convenience in electronically prescribing medication and better access to clinical information.



We are a leader in providing patients with tools to manage their healthcare and medical information. Our automated patient appointment scheduling enables patients to schedule appointments, including via mobile devices, at times that are











convenient for them while reducing or eliminating their waiting time.  We also offer TestMinder,®which sends email reminders to patients who require frequent testing, and Gazelle,®a secure mobile health platform that allows users to receive and archive their Quest Diagnostics test results, manage their personal health information, find a Quest Diagnostics location and schedule appointments directly from their smartphone.



Strong quality and a positive customer experience. We strive to provide the highest quality in all that we do.  Employing root cause analysis, process improvements and rigorous tracking and measuring, we seek to enhance quality, streamline processes, eliminate waste and help standardize operations across our Company.  We build upon our best-in-class business performance tools to continuously reduce defects, enhance quality and further increase the efficiency of our operations and business management processes. We use Hoshin management principles in our efforts to achieve breakthrough management.  We use customer insights in our solutions development, listening to the voice of internal and external customers in all our business processes.  We have a culture of continuous improvement, and have adopted standard frameworks and methodologies for project management.  Through our change management program, we embrace and seek to benefit from change.



The customer is at the center of everything we do.  Customers have a choice when it comes to selecting a healthcare provider and we strive to give them reason to put their trust in us.  Focusing on a thorough understanding of customer needs and requirements, we seek to identify and adopt best practices that will result in a superior customer experience.  We are striving to provide a superior customer experience for all our customers, because we believe that this will drive customer loyalty.





BUSINESS OPERATIONS



Our operations are organized in two business groups.  Our activities are described below.



Our Diagnostics Information Services business is the leading provider of diagnostic information services, which includes providing clinical testing services such as routine testing, gene-based and esoteric testing, anatomic pathology services and drugs-of-abuse testing, as well as related services and insights.  We offer patients, physicians, hospitals, IDNs, health plans, employers and others the broadest access in the United States to diagnostic information services through our nationwide network of laboratories, Company-owned patient service centers and phlebotomists in physician offices. We provide interpretive consultation through the largest medical and scientific staff in the industry, including over 725 M.D.s and Ph.D.s, primarily located in the United States, many of whom are recognized leaders in their fields, and genetic counselors.



In our Diagnostic Solutions group, we offer a variety of solutions for insurers, healthcare providers and others.  We are the leading provider of risk assessment services for the life insurance industry.  We also are a leading provider of testing for clinical trials.  In addition, we offer healthcare organizations and clinicians robust information technology solutions and diagnostic products, including test kits.



We leverage our diagnostic information capabilities and assets to serve multiple customer bases. Most of our services are provided in the United States.  For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, we derived approximately 2%, 2%, and 3%, respectively, of our net revenues from foreign operations.  For the year ended December 31, 2013, less than 1% of our long-lived assets were held outside the United States, and for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, less than 1% (excluding the HemoCue assets held for sale in 2012) and 6% (including the HemoCue assets held for sale in 2012), respectively, of our long-lived assets were held outside the United States. The following chart shows the percentage of our 2013 net revenues generated by the activities identified.











ActivityApproximate Percentageof 2013 Net RevenuesDiagnostic information services92Routine clinical testing services54Gene-based, esoteric and anatomic pathology testing services35Forensic drugs-of-abuse testing services3Diagnostic Solutions: Healthcare information technology, clinical trials testing, life insurer services and diagnostic products8



Diagnostic Information Services



Background - clinical testing.



Clinical testing is an essential element in the delivery of healthcare services. Physicians use clinical testing to assist in the detection, diagnosis, evaluation, monitoring and treatment of diseases and other medical conditions. Clinical testing is generally categorized as clinical laboratory testing and anatomic pathology services.



Clinical laboratory testing generally is performed on whole blood, serum, plasma and other body fluids, such as urine, and specimens such as microbiology samples. Clinical laboratory tests which can be performed by most clinical laboratories are considered routine.  Routine testing measures various important bodily health parameters such as the functions of the kidney, heart, liver, thyroid and other organs. Commonly ordered tests include blood chemistries, urinalysis, allergy tests and complete blood cell counts.



Esoteric tests are clinical laboratory tests typically that are not routine.  Esoteric tests include procedures in the areas of molecular diagnostics, protein chemistry, cellular immunology and advanced microbiology.  These tests may require professional “hands-on” attention from highly-skilled technical personnel, generally require more sophisticated technology, equipment or materials and may be performed less frequently than routine tests. Consequently, esoteric tests generally are reimbursed at higher levels than routine tests. It is not practical, from a cost-effectiveness or infrastructure perspective, for most hospitals, commercial laboratories or physician office laboratories to develop and perform a broad menu of esoteric tests, or to perform low-volume esoteric testing in-house. Such tests generally are outsourced to an esoteric clinical testing laboratory, which specializes in performing these complex tests.  Commonly ordered esoteric tests include viral and bacterial detection tests, drug therapy monitoring tests, genetic tests, autoimmune panels and complex cancer evaluations.  Gene-based and esoteric tests increasingly are ordered by physicians to assist them in the diagnostic process, to establish a prognosis and to choose or monitor a therapeutic regimen.



Anatomic pathology services are performed on tissues, such as biopsies, and other samples, such as human cells.  Anatomic pathology involves the diagnosis of cancer and other diseases and medical conditions through examination of tissue and cell samples taken from patients.



Our services.



We are the world's largest provider of diagnostic information services.  We provide information and insights based on clinical testing and related services.   The clinical testing that we perform includes routine testing, esoteric or gene-based testing and anatomic pathology testing.  We are the leading provider of routine, esoteric and gene-based and anatomic pathology testing in the world, and offer customers the broadest access to the most extensive test menu.   Increasingly, we are focused on providing solutions and insights to our customers, based on the testing that we perform.



We also are a leader in providing testing for the detection of employee use of drugs of abuse, offering a full range of solutions, including urine, hair, blood and oral fluid tests.  Our Quest Diagnostics Drug Testing IndexTM, which is an annual report of our aggregate drug testing results, is cited by employers, the federal government and the media to help identify and quantify drug abuse among the nation's workforce.  We also provide wellness testing and analytic services, such as our Blueprint for Wellness®program, to employers to enable them and their employees to take an active role in improving their health and containing costs.











We believe that offering services, solutions and insights based on a full range of tests will strengthen our market offering, market position and reputation.  Our experienced medical staff has a passion for providing the highest quality service to our customers.  Our in-house experts, including medical directors, scientific directors, genetic counselors and board certified geneticists, provide medical and scientific consultation regarding our tests and test results, and help physicians and others best utilize these tests to improve patient outcomes and enhance patient satisfaction. Our approach fosters personalized patient care.



We have built advanced testing capabilities, including access to a pipeline of biomarkers, to drive growth in gene-based and esoteric testing services across medical disciplines.  Our esoteric laboratories provide reference testing services to physicians, large academic medical centers, hospitals and other commercial laboratories. Our esoteric testing laboratories perform hundreds of complex tests that are not routinely performed by our regional laboratories, including but not limited to the following fields:



•endocrinology and metabolism (the study of glands, their hormone secretions and their effects on body growth and metabolism);

•genetics (the study of chromosomes, genes and their protein products and effects);

•hematology (the study of blood and bone marrow cells) and coagulation (the process of blood clotting);

•neurology (the study of the nervous system, its structure and its diseases);

•immunogenetics and human leukocyte antigens (solid organ and bone marrow transplantation, eligibility for vaccines, selection of pharmacotherapeutic agents and immunotherapy);

•immunology (the study of the immune system, including antibodies, cytokines, immune system cells and their effect, receptor systems and autoimmune diseases);

•microbiology and infectious diseases (the study of microscopic forms of life, including parasites, bacteria, viruses, fungi and other infectious agents);

•oncology (the study of abnormal cell growth, including benign tumors and cancer);

•serology (a science dealing with body fluids and their analysis, including antibodies, proteins and other characteristics); and

•toxicology (the study of chemicals and drugs and their adverse effects on the body).



We also offer gene-based testing services for the predisposition, diagnosis, treatment and monitoring of cancers. We provide integrated, comprehensive diagnostic information services that include both anatomic pathology and clinical pathology testing, enabling our pathologists to offer patients and physicians a complete analysis.



We provide our services through our nationwide network of major laboratories, anatomic pathology laboratories and rapid response laboratories. Rapid response laboratories are smaller facilities where we can quickly perform an abbreviated menu of routine tests for customers that require rapid turnaround times. We conduct complex and specialized testing, including molecular diagnostics, in our world renowned Quest Diagnostics Nichols Institute laboratory facilities and in other facilities, including Focus Diagnostics and Athena Diagnostics.  We operate 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.  We also provide routine testing services, and inpatient anatomic pathology and medical director services, at hospital laboratories.



Most of our services are provided under the Quest Diagnostics brand, but we also provide services under the AmeriPath,®Dermpath Diagnostics,®Focus Diagnostics®and Athena Diagnostics®brands.  Focus Diagnostics®is a leading provider of infectious disease diagnostic information services and has established a reputation for being first to introduce new tests to the market, including diagnostic tests for Lyme disease, West Nile Virus, SARS and H1N1.  Through Athena Diagnostics®we have the leading position in the growing neurology diagnostics market.   We have a leading position in advanced cardiovascular diagnostic information services, including our CardioIQ®offering.  We have a strong history of leadership and innovation in cancer diagnostics, including introduction of the Leumeta®family of tests for leukemia and lymphoma.



International.



We provide diagnostic information services in several markets outside the United States.  We have laboratory facilities in Gurgaon, India; Heston, England; Mexico City, Mexico; and San Juan, Puerto Rico. These laboratories support the provision of diagnostic information services in their local markets, and also may support our clinical trials business. We have an office in Ireland that supports our activities in that country.  We see opportunities to bring our experience and expertise in diagnostic information services to markets outside the United States, including by leveraging existing facilities to serve new markets.











Connectivity.



We offer connectivity solutions that provide more convenient ordering and reporting of diagnostic information services, greater convenience in electronically prescribing medication and better access to information.  We believe that our connectivity solutions enhance the value we provide, help differentiate us from the competition and result in increased customer loyalty.



The majority of diagnostic information that we provide is delivered electronically, including by taking advantage of our Care360®products.  These products, including Care360 Labs and Meds, enable physicians electronically to order diagnostic testing and review test results from our Company and electronically to prescribe medication.  Our Care360 Mobile application allows physicians to review diagnostic information and order medications using their smartphones or mobile devices.  There is a large national healthcare provider network using Quest Diagnostics' Care360 connectivity products.



We also provide patients with tools to manage their healthcare and medical information. Our automated patient appointment scheduling enables patients to schedule appointments, including via smartphones, at times that are convenient for them while reducing or eliminating their waiting time.  We also offer TestMinder,®which sends email reminders to patients who require frequent testing, and Gazelle,®a secure mobile health platform that allows users to receive and archive their Quest Diagnostics test results, manage their personal health information, find a Quest Diagnostics location and schedule appointments directly from their smartphone.



Innovation.



We are a leading innovator in diagnostic information services.  Our capabilities include early discovery, technology development and clinical validation of diagnostic tests.  We develop tests at our laboratories, such as Quest Diagnostics Nichols Institute and Athena Diagnostics.   Where appropriate, we collaborate with partners that can help us to achieve our vision of empowering better health through diagnostic insights.  Our partnership with the New York Giants professional football team, devoted to finding new ways to use diagnostic information services to improve the health and performance of athletes of all ages and abilities, is a good example of this.



We collaborate with leading academic centers and maintain relationships with advisers and consultants who are leaders in key fields of science and medicine.  For example, we collaborate with the University of California, San Francisco, the nation's leading university focused exclusively on health, to accelerate the translation of biomedical research into advanced diagnostics in the field of precision medicine.  This collaboration has the overarching aim of enabling holistic and integrated diagnostic solutions that close gaps in care or enable new clinical value, with initial focus areas including autism, oncology, neurology and women's health.  In addition, we collaborate with other key groups and organizations to foster important advances in health care.  Our collaboration with the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ("CDC") to improve public health analysis of hepatitis C screening, diagnosis and treatment, based on analysis of our national hepatitis C virus ("HCV") diagnostic information, and our participation in studies sponsored by the National Institutes of Health (e.g., NIH National Children Study) are good examples of this.



Our medical and scientific experts publish research that demonstrates the clinical value and importance of diagnostic testing, including in connection with our research and development efforts.  In 2013, they authored approximately 150 publications, including about 100 articles in peer-reviewed journals, that provided insights into diagnostic testing, introduced novel diagnostic approaches benefiting patients or provided the latest thinking in laboratory testing and disease diagnosis.  They also help to shape the latest thinking as the authors of textbooks, or chapters therein, used by academic institutions to train healthcare providers.  Our experts also participate on scientific committees determining guidelines for diagnostic usage in a number of fields, such as HIV, HCV and testosterone testing.



We successfully transfer technical innovations to the market through our relationships with technology developers, including the academic community and pharmaceutical and biotechnology firms, our in-house expertise and our collaborations, including with emerging medical technology companies that develop and commercialize novel diagnostics, pharmaceutical and device technologies.  For example, in 2013 we introduced access to a new non-invasive cell-free fetal DNA screening test developed by Natera, a leading innovator in prenatal genetic testing.  We search for new opportunities and continue to build a robust pipeline of new solutions.  Through our strengths in assay development and the commercialization of test services, we believe that we are the partner of choice for developers of new technologies and tests to introduce their products to the marketplace.



We seek technologies that help doctors care for their patients through better predisposition, screening, monitoring, diagnosis, prognosis and treatment choices.  We seek to develop tests that help to determine a patient's genotype or gene









expression profile relative to a particular disease and its potential therapies, because these tests can help physicians to determine a patient's susceptibility to disease or to tailor medical care to an individual's needs - such as determining if a medication might be an optimum choice for a particular person, or tailoring the right dosage once the proper medicine is prescribed.  In addition, we aim to develop holistic solutions responsive to challenges that physicians face, by developing solutions of multiple tests, information and services focused on specific clinical challenges.  We also look for tests that are less invasive than currently available options, to increase the choices that physicians and patients have for the collection of diagnostic samples. With these priorities in mind, during 2013 we introduced over 75 new or enhanced tests and disease area solutions, including those discussed below.



•Cancer.

-We introduced innovative next generation sequencing testing to aid in the diagnosis of leukemia.

-We introduced tissue-based microarray testing for solid tumors and a specific application for melanoma.

-We introduced our BRCAvantageTMsolution for genetic mutations in BRCA1 and 2 genes to identify women at high risk of breast cancer.



•Infectious Disease and Immunology.

-We launched an HIV 4th generation test that follows the new proposed CDC HIV testing algorithm.

-We introduced Hepatitis C Antibody w/Reflex to Quant which offers healthcare providers a convenient test for HCV screening and confirmation of infection.

-We developed and introduced AccuType®Ribivarin (ITPA) to assess risk for acquiring ribivarin-induced anemia in patients being treated for HCV infection.  This assay helps establish frequency of monitoring in ribivarin-treated patients.

-We developed and introduced Hepatitis C Viral RNA NS3 Genotype.  This assay may be used to detect boceprevir and telaprevir resistance-associated NS3 mutations in NS3 protease inhibitor treatment-experienced patients.

-We licensed and introduced a novel proprietary biomarker for the diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis sold under the trade name IdentaRA with 14-3-3ηTM.

-We introduced the ImmunoCAP®Peanut Component Allergen test, which helps to assess a patient's level of risk of a life-threatening reaction.



•Cardiovascular and Metabolic Disease.

-We released CardioIQ®, an advanced cardiovascular risk assessment and enhanced interpretive report.

-We released the CardioIQ®Ion Mobility test, a proprietary approach to measure lipoprotein subfractions.

-We validated and released Presage®ST2, recently approved by the FDA to assess the prognosis of patients associated with heart failure.

-We developed and released holistic diagnostics solutions for monitoring diabetes and managing renal disease in diabetes.

-In addition, we advanced our program in diabetes testing by releasing insulin testing by mass spectrometry, which helps address variability issues that previously have hindered the clinical use of testing for this analyte.



•Neurology.

-We launched a convenient blood test panel in accordance with professional clinical guidelines to identify treatable causes of dementia and memory loss.

-We provided innovative solutions to diagnose hereditary peripheral neuropathies by offering a tiered testing approach to test a large set of disease genes by next generation DNA sequencing.  This offering is based upon the American Academy of Neurology practice parameter for evaluating neuropathies.

-We launched new genetic tests for neuromuscular disorders, including several that provide alternatives to invasive muscle and nerve biopsies.

-We developed tests for potentially treatable immune-mediated neurological disorders.



•Women's Health.

-We further enhanced our SureSwab®Vaginosis/Vaginitis Plus test by expanding the organisms and sample types in the offering.

-We introduced access to a new non-invasive cell-free fetal DNA screening test developed by Natera, a leading innovator in prenatal genetic testing.

-We released FSHD testing by DNA combing, the first commercial application of DNA combing technology in the U.S.











•Prescription Drug Monitoring and Toxicology.

-We added several new tests, including testing for synthetic cannabinoids, synthetic stimulants, zolpidem and other prescription drugs.

-We expanded our genetic testing services that assist physicians in their treatment of patients with chronic pain.



Diagnostic Solutions



Clinical Trials Testing.



We are a leading provider of central laboratory testing performed in connection with clinical research trials on new drugs, vaccines and certain medical devices. Clinical research trials are required by the FDA and non-U.S. regulatory authorities to assess the safety and efficacy of new drugs, vaccines and some medical devices. We see opportunities to develop pharmacogenetic and pharmacogenomic tests to help speed drug approval processes for our clinical trials customers and, capitalizing on the trend to personalized medicine, to better focus patient therapy based on a patient's genetic markers. We have biomarker capabilities that advance our efforts to develop these tests, and offer an “end-to-end” array of services for companion diagnostics.



We have clinical trials testing centers in the United States, the United Kingdom and India, and we provide clinical trials testing in Argentina, Brazil, China and Singapore through affiliated laboratories.  We serve a broad range of large pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies.



Life Insurer Services.



We are the largest provider of risk assessment services to the life insurance industry in North America. We also provide risk assessment services for insurance companies doing business outside North America.  We charge our life insurance customers on a fee-for-service basis, typically under multi-year agreements.



Our risk assessment services comprise underwriting support services to the life insurance industry, including data gathering, paramedical examinations and clinical laboratory testing. The laboratory tests that we perform and data we gather are designed to assist insurance companies objectively to evaluate the mortality risks of applicants.  Factors such as the number of applications for life insurance policies and the level of underwriting services sought affect the level of services we provide to our customers. Most of our specimen collections and paramedical examinations are performed by our network of approximately 5,500 paramedical examiners at the applicant's home or workplace. We also offer paramedical examinations through approximately 600 of our patient service centers, and operate approximately 80 locations other than patient service centers in North America where we provide paramedical examinations, bringing the total number of sites in North America where we can provide these examinations to approximately 680. We also contract with third parties to coordinate providing these exams at more than 350 additional locations globally.



Diagnostic Products.



Focus Diagnostics and Celera develop and manufacture products that enable healthcare professionals to make healthcare diagnoses, including products for testing for the professional market. We offer these products in the United States and, through distributors, in other countries.



Focus Diagnostics develops, manufactures and markets diagnostic products which can be performed on a variety of instrument platforms. Focus Diagnostics' product lines include Simplexa®molecular chemistries with a focus on infectious disease and hospital-acquired infections, HerpeSelect®HSV serology, and a line of DxSelectTMIFA and ELISA products for testing for emerging infectious diseases.  Focus Diagnostics maintains an exclusive global distribution agreement with 3M Corporation to bring real-time polymerase chain reaction products to the market using Simplexa®molecular chemistries and the 3MTMIntegrated Cycler, a compact bench-top instrument.  Focus Diagnostics strives to be the first company to provide diagnostic solutions for emerging infectious diseases.  Its past accomplishments include assays for West Nile Virus, SARS and Influenza A H1N1.  Focus Diagnostics sells its diagnostic products to large academic medical centers, hospitals and commercial laboratories.



Celera offers a number of market-leading high complexity molecular diagnostic products in segments such as HIV-1 drug resistance testing (under the ViroSeq®brand), reproductive genetics and transplantation (under the AtriaTMand AlleleSeqr®brands).  Celera products are sold to a broad spectrum of customers.











Healthcare Information Technology.



We provide interoperable technologies that help healthcare organizations and physicians enter, share and access clinical information without costly information technology implementation or significant workflow disruption.



Our Care360®EHR product allows physicians to generate a complete record of a clinical patient encounter, automates and streamlines the clinician's workflow, and allows for rapid deployment and implementation with minimal workflow disruption. The solution allows doctors to electronically create, manage and distribute patient encounter notes, including vital signs and progress notes. It captures lab and radiology results, provides clinical decision support tools and allows doctors to send secure messages and clinical information to other practitioners and secure, Web-based laboratory results to their patients' personal health records.



ChartMaxx®is our electronic document management system for hospitals.  Clients have contracted for its use at over 185 sites nationwide.



Non-Commercial, Development State Drug Assets



As a result of its 2011 acquisition of Celera, the Company also has an interest in non-commercial, development state drug assets.  The Company is evaluating options with respect to these interests.

We have an agreement with Merck & Co., Inc. ("Merck") under which Merck has a license to our intellectual property for the development of, among other things, small molecule inhibitors of cathepsin K. This agreement was entered into by a predecessor of Celera that Celera acquired in November 2001.  Under the agreement, we are entitled to receive future milestone payments based on development progress for each potential product under the agreement. We are also entitled to receive single digit royalty payments from the sale of drugs, if any, resulting from the program.  This drug development program entered Phase III clinical trials in September 2007 and Merck has disclosed its intent to file a New Drug Application in 2014.  We do not control the development activities conducted by Merck. Merck may not successfully develop or commercialize any compounds covered by the agreement and may not obtain needed regulatory approvals, and we may not receive any further payments under this agreement.



The Company may be entitled to milestone payments associated with the small molecule drug discovery and development programs sold by Celera to Pharmacyclics, Inc. in 2006.  These programs are for the treatment of cancer and other diseases, including programs that target histone deactylase, Factor VIIa, and B cell tyrosine kinases involved in immune function.  In addition, we will be entitled to royalty payments in the single digits based on annual sales of any drugs, other than ibrutinib, commercialized from the three programs, if any.  We have not received any royalty payments related to these programs. In 2013, we sold the rights to royalties in respect of ibrutinib, a drug candidate that is an inhibitor of the enzyme Bruton's tyrosine kinase, for $485 million.  In late 2013, the FDA announced approval of ibrutinib to treat patients with mantle cell lymphoma.



We have no direct control over the amount or timing of resources devoted to any of these programs.  The programs may never meet the specified milestones or the programs may be terminated, and therefore may never generate milestone payments. Also, even if some milestones are met, there is no assurance that these programs will result in any product sales that would generate royalty payments to us.



Our small molecule program agreements will remain in effect for as long as any royalties are payable under the respective agreements. The obligation to pay royalties generally coincides with the life of the underlying patents. Each of the third parties with which we have agreements are required to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop a therapeutic product and to pay us amounts due under the terms of the agreements, including milestone and/or royalty payments, promptly after the amounts become payable. These agreements generally are terminable upon an uncured material breach of the agreement by either party. In addition, Merck may terminate its agreement with us for any reason upon advance written notice, but would lose its license from us and would not be able to commercialize any product under the license.













THE UNITED STATES CLINICAL TESTING INDUSTRY



The U.S. clinical testing industry consists of two segments.  One segment, which we believe makes up approximately 40% of the total industry, includes testing done within hospitals, including both inpatient and outpatient testing.  The second segment, which we believe makes up approximately 60% of the total industry, includes testing done outside of hospitals, including hospital outreach testing and testing done in commercial clinical laboratories, physician-office laboratories and other locations.  Within the second segment, we believe that hospital outreach has been increasing share in the last few years.  We believe that hospital-affiliated laboratories account for approximately 60% of the total industry, commercial clinical laboratories approximately one-third and physician-office laboratories and other locations account for the balance.



Key Trends.There are a number of key trends that are having, and that we expect will continue to have, a significant impact on the diagnostic information services business in the United States and on our business. These trends present both opportunities and risks. However, because diagnostic information service is an essential healthcare service and because of the key trends discussed below, we believe that the industry will continue to grow over the long term and that we are well positioned to benefit from the long-term growth expected in the industry.



Demographics.As the population continues to grow and age, the burden of chronic diseases and unmet diagnostic needs may increase the demand for diagnostic information service.



Prevention and wellness.We believe that the value of detection, prevention, wellness and personalized care now is well recognized. Consumers, employers, health plans and government agencies increasingly focus on helping the healthy stay healthy, detecting symptoms among those at risk and providing preventive care that helps avoid disease. Physicians increasingly rely on diagnostic information services to help identify risk for a disease, to detect the symptoms of disease earlier, to aid in the choice of therapeutic regimen, to monitor patient compliance and to evaluate treatment results. There is increased focus on a disease-oriented approach to diagnostics, treatment and management.  Physicians, consumers and payers increasingly recognize the value of diagnostic information services as a means to improve health and reduce the overall cost of healthcare through early detection, prevention and treatment. Federal healthcare reform legislation adopted in 2010 contained provisions eliminating patient cost-sharing for preventive services, and additional provisions that we believe will increase the number of patients that have health insurance, including Medicaid, and thus better access to diagnostic testing.



Science and technology advances.Medical advances allow for more accurate and earlier diagnosis and treatment of diseases. Continuing advances in genomics and proteomics are expected to yield new, more sophisticated and specialized diagnostic tests. These advances also are spurring interest in and demand for personalized or tailored medicine, which relies on diagnostic and prognostic testing. Pharmacogenomic testing increasingly is used as a parameter to help speed drug approval processes and to better focus therapy based on patient and tumor-specific genetic markers. Demand also is growing toward comprehensive care management solutions that serve patients, payers and practitioners by improving access to patient data, increasing patient participation in care management, reducing medical errors and improving clinical outcomes. There is increasing focus on interconnectivity, and electronic medical records and patient health records continue to grow.



Customers and payers.Our customers and payers, including physicians, health insurance plans, IDNs, employers, pharmaceutical companies and others, have been consolidating and diversifying. For example, an increased number of hospital systems are considering establishing or have established health insurance plans, and health insurance plans increasingly are considering providing or are providing healthcare services.  Consolidation is increasing pricing transparency and bargaining power, enhancing purchasing sophistication and encouraging internalization of clinical testing.  Physicians increasingly are employed by hospital systems or large group practices integrated with healthcare systems, instead of organizing physician-owned practices, which is changing the dynamics for whether clinical testing is performed by a hospital or a non-hospital.  Patient-centered medical homes are increasingly being established to deliver patient care.  In addition, federal healthcare reform legislation adopted in 2010 encourages the formation of accountable care organizations and requires implementation of health insurance exchanges, which may result in changes in the way that some healthcare services are purchased and delivered in the United States.



Competition.The clinical testing industry remains fragmented, is highly competitive and is subject to new competition. Competition is growing from non-traditional competitors. Increased hospital acquisitions of physician practices enhance physician ties to hospital-affiliated laboratories and may strengthen their competitive position. New industry entrants with extensive resources may make acquisitions or expand into our traditional areas of operations.



Reimbursement pressure.  There is a strong focus in the United States on controlling the overall cost of healthcare.  Healthcare market participants, including governments, are focusing on controlling costs, including potentially by changing reimbursement for healthcare services (including but not limited to a shift from fee for service to capitation), revising test











coding, changing medical coverage policies (e.g., healthcare benefits design), pre-authorization of lab testing, requiring co-pays, introducing lab spend management utilities and payment and patient care innovations such as accountable care organizations and patient-centered medical homes.  While pressure to control healthcare costs poses a risk to our Company, it creates an opportunity for increased utilization of testing as an efficient means to manage the total cost of healthcare.  We believe that it also creates greater opportunities for low-cost providers, like our Company, as compared to other providers.



Healthcare utilization. In the past few years, growth in healthcare utilization in the United States has slowed.  There may be many factors contributing to this result, including sluggish employment growth, under-employment in the work force, patients delaying medical care and increased patient financial responsibility for medical care.



Legislative, regulatory and policy environment.Government oversight of and attention to the healthcare industry in the United States is significant and increasing; healthcare payment reform is a top issue.  The FDA has announced several regulatory and guidance initiatives that may impact the clinical laboratory testing business, including by increasing regulation of laboratory-developed tests ("LDTs") and analyte specific reagents.    Federal healthcare reform legislation adopted in 2010 has created significant uncertainty as healthcare markets react to potential and impending changes.  For example, states may opt out of Medicaid expansion and employers may discontinue offering group health insurance to their employees, shifting more people to exchange products.



Globalization.There is a growing demand for healthcare services in emerging market countries. Opportunities are arising to participate in the restructuring or growth of the healthcare systems outside the United States. Additionally, our customers are establishing positions outside the United States. Demographic changes globally also may create opportunities.



Customers and Payers.We provide diagnostic information services to a broad range of customers, including physicians, hospitals, IDNs, patients and employers. In many cases, the customer that orders the services is not responsible to pay for them. Depending on the billing arrangement and applicable law, the payer may be the patient or a third party; in some cases, patients may bear responsibility for a portion of the payment.  Examples of potential third-party payers include health insurance plans, self-insured employer benefit funds, accountable care organizations, patient-centered medical homes, the traditional Medicare or Medicaid program, physicians or others (e.g., a hospital, another laboratory or an employer).  In light of health care reform, there is increased market activity regarding alternative payment models, including bundled payment models.



Health plans.Health plans, including managed care organizations and other health insurance providers, typically reimburse us as a contracted provider on behalf of their members for diagnostic information services performed. Reimbursement from our five largest health plans totaled less than 20%, and no one health plan accounted for 10%, of our consolidated net revenues in 2013.



Health plans typically negotiate directly or indirectly with a number of diagnostic information services providers, and represent approximately one-half of our total clinical testing volumes and one-half of our net revenues from diagnostic information services. The trend of consolidation among health plans has continued. In certain locations, health plans may delegate to independent physician associations (“IPAs”) or other alternative delivery systems (e.g., physician hospital organizations, accountable care organizations and patient centered medical homes) the ability to negotiate for diagnostic information services on behalf of certain members.



Health plans and IPAs often require that diagnostic information services providers accept discounted fee structures or assume all or a portion of the financial risk associated with providing such services through capitated payment arrangements and discounted fee-for-service arrangements. Under capitated payment arrangements, we provide services at a predetermined monthly reimbursement rate for each covered member, generally regardless of the number or cost of services provided by us.  Health plans offer preferred provider organization (“PPO”) plans, point-of-service (“POS”) plans, consumer driven health plans (“CDHPs”), high deductible plans and other coverage programs. Reimbursement under these programs is typically negotiated on a fee-for-service basis.  To the extent that plans and programs require greater levels of patient cost-sharing, this could negatively impact patient collection experience.



Most of our agreements with major health plans are non-exclusive arrangements. Certain health plans have limited their diagnostics information services network to only a single national provider, seeking to obtain improved pricing. Health plans also are narrowing their provider networks.



We also sometimes are a member of a “complementary network.” A complementary network generally is a set of contractual arrangements that a third party will maintain with various providers that provide discounted fees for the benefit of











its customers. A member of a health plan may choose to access a non-contracted provider that is a member of a complementary network; if so, the provider will be reimbursed at a rate negotiated by the complementary network.



We attempt to strengthen our relationships with health plans and increase the volume of our services for their members by offering to health plans services and programs that leverage our Company's expertise and resources, including our superior access, extensive test menu, medical staff, data, and wellness and disease management capabilities.



Physicians.Physicians, including both primary care physicians and specialists, requiring diagnostic information services for patients are the primary referral source of our services. Physicians determine which laboratory to recommend or use based on a variety of factors, including: service; patient access and convenience, including participation in a health plan network; quality; price; and depth and breadth of test and service offering.



Hospitals.Hospitals generally maintain an on-site laboratory to perform the significant majority of clinical testing for their patients and refer less frequently needed and highly specialized procedures to outside service providers, which typically charge the hospitals on a negotiated fee-for-service basis. Fee schedules for hospital reference testing services often are negotiated on behalf of hospitals by group purchasing organizations. We provide services to hospitals throughout the United States, including esoteric testing services, in some cases helping manage their laboratories and serving as the medical directors of the hospital's histology or clinical laboratory. We believe that we are the industry's leader in servicing hospitals. Hospitals generally continue to look for ways to fully utilize their existing laboratory capacity: they perform testing their patients need and may compete with non-hospital providers for outreach (non-hospital patients) testing. Continuing to obtain referrals from hospitals depends on our ability to provide high quality services that are more cost-effective than if the hospitals were to perform the services themselves.





We also have joint venture arrangements with leading IDNs in several metropolitan areas. These joint venture arrangements, which provide diagnostic information services for affiliated hospitals as well as for unaffiliated physicians and other local healthcare providers, serve as our principal facilities in their service areas. Typically, we have either a majority ownership interest in, or day-to-day management responsibilities for, our joint venture relationships.



IDNs.  An IDN is a network of providers and facilities working together in providing or arranging for the provision of healthcare.  With the passage of 2010 federal healthcare reform legislation, IDNs are increasing in number and becoming more important constituents in delivering healthcare services.  IDNs may exercise operational and financial control over providers across the continuum of care.  IDNs also may function as a payer.  Thus, IDNs may be able to manage the health of a population group within a defined geography, and also may be able to influence the cost and quality of healthcare delivery, for example through owned entities and through ancillary services.  IDNs actively are considering bundled payment models for services that they are purchasing, like diagnostic information services.  The impact of IDNs on the provision of healthcare services to date has varied.  We are actively engaging with IDNs to demonstrate the value that our services can provide to them.



Employers.Employers use tests for drugs of abuse to determine an individual's employability and his or her “fitness for duty.” Companies with high employee turnover, safety conscious environments or regulatory testing requirements provide the highest volumes of testing. Factors such as the general economy and job market can impact the utilization of drugs-of-abuse testing. We seek to grow our employer volumes through offering new and innovative programs to help companies with their goal of maintaining a safe and productive workplace. We also offer employers our Blueprint for Wellness®program, providing wellness screening and analytic services to help employers and their employees manage healthcare costs and capitalize on trends in personalized health.













Other Laboratories and Other Customers. We also provide diagnostic information services to federal, state and local governmental agencies and to other commercial clinical laboratories. These customers are charged on a fee-for-service basis.





GENERAL



Competition.While there has been significant consolidation in the diagnostic information services industry in recent years, our industry remains fragmented and highly competitive. We primarily compete with three types of clinical testing providers: commercial clinical laboratories, hospital-affiliated laboratories and physician-office laboratories.  We also compete with other providers, including anatomic pathology practices and large physician group practices.  In recent years, competition from hospital-affiliated laboratories has increased.  Our largest commercial clinical laboratory competitor is Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings, Inc. In addition, we compete with many smaller regional and local commercial clinical laboratories and specialized esoteric laboratories. In anatomic pathology, additional competitors include anatomic pathology practices, including those in academic institutions. In addition, there has been a trend among specialty physician practices to establish their own histology laboratory capabilities and/or bring pathologists into their practices, thereby reducing referrals from these practices.



We believe that healthcare providers traditionally consider a number of factors when selecting a diagnostic information services provider, including:



•service capability and quality;

•accuracy, timeliness and consistency in reporting test results;

•patient insurance coverage;

•number and type of tests performed;

•pricing;

•access to medical/scientific thought leaders for consultation;

•number, convenience and geographic coverage of patient service centers;

•reputation in the medical community;

•healthcare information technology solutions;

•qualifications of its staff; and

•ability to develop new and useful tests and services.



We believe that offering the most attractive service offering in the industry, including the most comprehensive test menu, innovative test and information technology offerings, a superior customer experience, a staff including medical and scientific experts, strong quality and unparalleled access and distribution, provides us with a competitive advantage.



We believe that large diagnostic information services providers may be able to increase their share of the overall diagnostic information services industry due to their large networks and lower cost structures. These advantages should enable larger providers to more effectively serve customers, including members of large health plans. In addition, we believe that consolidation in the diagnostic information services industry will continue. However, a significant portion of clinical testing is likely to continue to be performed by hospitals, which generally have affiliations with community physicians that refer testing to us.  As a result of these affiliations, we compete against hospital-affiliated laboratories primarily on the basis of service capability and quality as well as pricing. In addition, market activity may increase the competitive environment. For example, health plan actions to exclude large national providers from contracts may enhance the relative competitive position of regional providers.  In addition, increased hospital acquisitions of physician practices enhance the ties of the physicians to hospital-affiliated laboratories, enhancing the competitive position of hospital-affiliated laboratories.



The diagnostic information services industry is faced with changing technology and new product introductions. Competitors may compete using advanced technology, including technology that enables more convenient or cost-effective testing.  Competitors also may offer testing to be performed outside of a commercial clinical laboratory, such as (1) point-of-care testing that can be performed by physicians in their offices; (2) complex testing that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories; and (3) home testing that can be carried out without requiring the services of outside providers.



The diagnostic products, life insurance risk assessment services, clinical trials and healthcare information technology industries are highly competitive. We have many competitors, some of which have much more extensive experience in these industries and some of which have greater resources. We compete in the diagnostic products industry through unique and differentiated products. We compete in the life insurance risk assessment services business by seeking to provide a superior applicant experience, faster services completion and a wider array of integrated services of the highest quality than our competitors. We compete in the clinical trials business by leveraging our strengths as the world's leading diagnostic testing company, including the depth and breadth of our testing menu, our superior scientific expertise, our ability to support complex









global clinical trials and our lab management and information technology solutions. We compete in the healthcare information technology industry by offering solutions that foster better patient care and improve performance for healthcare institutions, patients and physician practices, particularly smaller and medium sized physician practices.



Sales and Marketing.Our Diagnostic Information Services business has a unified commercial organization focused on the sale and downstream marketing of most of our services.  It coordinates closely with our clinical franchise organizations, which are responsible for upstream marketing.  The commercial organization is centrally led, and is organized regionally, in conjunction with our operations organization, to ensure aligned delivery for our customers.  The commercial organization also is organized to support our clinical franchise organizations.  We maintain a separate sales and marketing organization for our employer drugs-of-abuse testing business.



In Diagnostic Solutions, we maintain sales forces devoted to each of our businesses. We have sales organizations that focus on selling diagnostic products and our healthcare information technology solutions. We also have dedicated sales teams that focus on selling risk assessment services in the life insurance industry and clinical trials services.



Information Technology.We use information systems extensively in virtually all aspects of our business, including clinical testing, test reporting, billing, customer service, logistics and management of medical data.  We endeavor to establish systems that create value and efficiencies for our Company and customers. The successful delivery of our services depends, in part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our information technology systems. We have taken precautionary measures to prevent problems that could affect our information technology systems.



Some of our historic growth has come through acquisitions and, as a result, we continue to use multiple information systems. We have implemented some common systems, and are planning to implement more common laboratory information and billing systems across our operations, to standardize our processes. We expect implementation will take several more years to complete, and will result in significantly more centralized systems, improved operating efficiency, more timely and comprehensive information for management and enhanced control over our operational environment.



Quality Assurance.In our diagnostic information services business, our goal is to continually improve the processes for collection, handling, storage and transportation of patient specimens, as well as the precision and accuracy of analysis and result reporting. Our quality assurance efforts focus on pre-analytic, analytic and post-analytic processes, including positive patient identification of specimens, report accuracy, proficiency testing, reference range relevance, process audits, statistical process control and personnel training for all of our laboratories and patient service centers. We also focus on the licensing, credentialing, training and competence of our professional and technical staff. We have implemented a specimen tracking system with global positioning system capabilities that enables us to better track specimens.  To help achieve our goal of becoming recognized as the undisputed quality leader in the diagnostics information services industry, we continue to implement initiatives to enhance our quality and standardization, using our best-in-class business performance tools.  In addition, some of our laboratories have achieved International Organization for Standardization, or ISO, certification for their quality management systems.



As part of our comprehensive quality assurance program, we utilize internal proficiency testing, extensive quality control and rigorous process audits for our diagnostic information services.  For most clinical laboratory tests, quality control samples are processed in parallel with the analysis of patient specimens. The results of tests on these quality control samples are monitored to identify trends, biases or imprecision in our analytical processes.



We participate in external proficiency testing and have accreditation or licenses for our clinical laboratory operations from various regulatory agencies or accrediting organizations, such as the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”), the College of American Pathologists (“CAP”) and certain states. All of our laboratories participate in various external quality surveillance programs. They include, but are not limited to, proficiency testing programs administered by CAP, as well as some state agencies. CAP is an independent, nongovernmental organization of board-certified pathologists approved by CMS to inspect clinical laboratories to determine compliance with the standards required by the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act ("CLIA"). CAP offers an accreditation program to which clinical laboratories may voluntarily subscribe. All of our major regional and esoteric laboratories, including our facility in India, and most of our rapid response laboratories, are accredited by CAP. Accreditation includes on-site inspections and participation in the CAP (or equivalent) proficiency testing program. Also, all of our cytotechnologists and pathologists participate in an individual proficiency testing program.



Our diagnostic products businesses maintain extensive quality assurance programs focused on ensuring that our products are safe and effective and that we comply with applicable regulatory requirements in the United States and other countries. They are regulated by the FDA and are required to be in compliance with the Quality Systems Regulations, 21 CFR part 820, and with applicable standards outside the United States. In addition, our manufacturing sites are certified in









accordance with ISO 13485: 2003 standards. We endeavor to design and manufacture our diagnostics products in compliance with Quality Systems Regulations.



Intellectual Property Rights.We own significant intellectual property, including patents, patent applications, technology, trade secrets, know-how, copyrights and trademarks in the United States and other countries. From time to time, we also license U.S. and non-U.S. patents, patent applications, technology, trade secrets, know-how, copyrights or trademarks owned by others. In the aggregate, these intellectual property assets and licenses are of material importance to our business. We believe, however, that no single patent, technology, trademark, intellectual property asset or license is material to our business as a whole.



Our approach is to manage our intellectual property assets, to safeguard them and to maximize their value to our enterprise. We actively defend our important intellectual property assets and pursue protection of our products, processes and other intellectual property where possible.



Our success in remaining a leading innovator in the diagnostic information services industry by continuing to introduce new tests, technology and services will depend, in part, on our ability to license new and improved technologies on favorable terms. Other companies or individuals, including our competitors, may obtain patents or other property rights on tests or processes that we may be performing, particularly in such emerging areas as gene-based testing and other specialty testing, that could prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to develop, perform or sell our tests or operate our business.



Employees.At December 31, 2013, we employed approximately 41,000 people. This total excludes employees of the joint ventures where we do not have a majority ownership interest.  We have no collective bargaining agreements with unions covering employees in the United States, and we believe that our overall relations with our employees are good.





BILLING AND REIMBURSEMENT



Billing.We generally bill for diagnostic information services on a fee-for-service basis under one of two types of fee schedules. These fees may be negotiated or discounted. The types of fee schedules are:



•“Client” fees charged to physicians, hospitals and institutions for which services are performed on a wholesale basis and which are billed on a monthly basis.

•“Patient” fees charged to individual patients and certain third-party payers on a claim-by-claim basis.



Billing for diagnostic information services is very complicated, and we maintain compliance policies and procedures for our billing. Patients, insurance companies, Medicare, Medicaid, physicians, hospitals, IDNs and employer groups all have different billing requirements. Some billing arrangements require us to bill multiple payers, and there are several other factors that complicate billing (e.g., disparity in coverage and information requirements among various payers; and incomplete or inaccurate billing information provided by ordering physicians). We incur additional costs as a result of our participation in Medicare and Medicaid programs because diagnostic testing services are subject to complex, stringent and frequently ambiguous federal and state laws and regulations, including those relating to coverage, billing and reimbursement. Changes in laws and regulations could further complicate our billing and increase our billing expense. CMS establishes procedures and continuously evaluates and implements changes to the reimbursement process and requirements for coverage.



As an integral part of our billing compliance program, we investigate reported failures or suspected failures to comply with federal and state healthcare reimbursement requirements. Any Medicare or Medicaid overpayments resulting from non-compliance are reimbursed by us.  As a result of these efforts, we have periodically identified and reported overpayments, reimbursed the payers for overpayments and taken appropriate corrective action.



We believe that most of our bad debt expense is primarily the result of missing or incorrect billing information on requisitions and Advance Beneficiary Notices received from healthcare providers and the failure of patients to pay the portion of the receivable that is their responsibility. Increased patient responsibility and deteriorating economic conditions may adversely impact our bad debt expense. In general, due to the nature of our  business, we perform the requested testing and report test results regardless of whether the billing information is correct or complete. We subsequently attempt to contact the healthcare provider or patient to obtain any missing information and to rectify incorrect billing information. Missing or incorrect information on requisitions complicates and slows down the billing process, creates backlogs of unbilled requisitions and generally increases the aging of accounts receivable and bad debt expense. The increased use of electronic ordering reduces the incidence of missing or incorrect information.











Government Coverage and Reimbursements.Government payers, such as Medicare and Medicaid, have taken steps and can be expected to continue to take steps to control the cost, utilization and delivery of healthcare services, including clinical test services. For example, Medicare has adopted policies under which it does not pay for many commonly ordered clinical tests unless the ordering physician has provided an appropriate diagnosis code supporting the medical necessity of the test. Physicians are required by law to provide diagnostic information when they order clinical tests for Medicare and Medicaid patients.



With regard to the clinical testing services performed on behalf of Medicare beneficiaries, we must bill the Medicare program directly and must accept the local Medicare carrier's fee schedule amount for covered services as payment in full. In addition, state Medicaid programs are prohibited from paying more (and in most instances, pay significantly less) than Medicare. Currently, Medicare does not require the beneficiary to pay a co-payment for diagnostic information services reimbursed under the Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule, but generally does require a patient deductible for anatomic pathology services.  Certain Medicaid programs require Medicaid recipients to pay co-payment amounts for diagnostic information services.



Part B of the Medicare program contains fee schedule payment methodologies for clinical testing services performed for covered patients, including a national ceiling on the amount that carriers could pay under their local Medicare clinical testing fee schedules. The Medicare Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule for 2014 is decreased by .75% from 2013 levels.  In addition, reimbursement under the Medicare Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule continues to be reduced by 2% as a result of federal government sequestration.  CMS implemented changes in the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule effective January 1, 2014 that are expected to reduce reimbursement for tissue biopsy, immunohistochemistry and other services.  In December 2013, Congress delayed by three months a potential decrease of approximately 24% in the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule that otherwise would have become effective on January 1, 2014.  The following table sets forth the percentage of our consolidated net revenues reimbursed under Medicare attributable to the clinical testing and physician fee schedules in 2013.

Medicare Part BReimbursements% of our2013 ConsolidatedNet RevenuesClinical Laboratory Fee Schedule12%Physician Fee Schedule2%



Penalties for violations of laws relating to billing government healthcare programs and for violations of federal and state fraud and abuse laws include: (1) exclusion from participation in Medicare/Medicaid programs; (2) asset forfeitures; (3) civil and criminal fines and penalties; and (4) the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business. Civil monetary penalties for a wide range of violations may be assessed on a per violation basis. A parallel civil remedy under the federal False Claims Act provides for penalties on a per violation basis, plus damages of up to three times the amount claimed.



Historically, most Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries were covered under the traditional Medicare and Medicaid programs administered by the federal government. Reimbursement from traditional Medicare and Medicaid programs represented approximately 18% of our consolidated net revenues during 2013. Over the last several years, the federal government has continued to expand its contracts with private health insurance plans for Medicare beneficiaries and has encouraged such beneficiaries to switch from the traditional programs to the private programs, called “Medicare Advantage” programs.  There has been growth of health insurance providers offering Medicare Advantage programs and of beneficiary enrollment in these programs. In recent years, in an effort to control costs, states also have mandated that Medicaid beneficiaries enroll in private managed care arrangements.





REGULATION



Our businesses are subject to or impacted by extensive and frequently changing laws and regulations in the United States (at both the federal and state levels) and the other jurisdictions in which we conduct business. These laws and regulations include regulations particular to our business, and laws and regulations relating to conducting business generally (e.g., export controls laws, U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws of other jurisdictions), including in the United States and in other jurisdictions. We also are subject to inspections and audits by governmental agencies. Set forth below are highlights of the key regulatory schemes applicable to our businesses.











CLIA and State Clinical Laboratory Licensing.All of our laboratories and, where applicable, patient service centers, are licensed and accredited as required by the appropriate federal and state agencies. CLIA regulates virtually all clinical laboratories by requiring that they be certified by the federal government and comply with various technical, operational, personnel and quality requirements intended to ensure that the services provided are accurate, reliable and timely. The cost of CLIA compliance makes it cost prohibitive for many physicians to operate clinical laboratories in their offices.



CLIA does not preempt state laws that are more stringent than federal law. State laws may require additional personnel qualifications, quality control, record maintenance and/or proficiency testing. State laws also may require detailed review of our scientific validations and technical procedures for tests.



Fraud and Abuse.Federal anti-kickback laws and regulations prohibit making payments or furnishing other benefits to influence the referral of tests billed to Medicare, Medicaid or certain other federal or state healthcare programs. The penalties for violation of these laws and regulations may include monetary fines, criminal and civil penalties and/or suspension or exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs. Several states have similar laws.



In addition, federal and state anti-self-referral laws generally prohibit Medicare and Medicaid payments for clinical tests referred by physicians who have a personal investment in, or a compensation arrangement with, the testing laboratory. Some states also have similar laws that are not limited to Medicare and Medicaid referrals and could also affect investment and compensation arrangements with physicians.



FDA.

The FDA has regulatory responsibility over, among other areas, instruments, test kits, reagents and other devices used by clinical laboratories to perform diagnostic testing in the United States. The FDA also regulates clinical trials (and, therefore, may conduct inspections related to testing that we perform for sponsors of those trials), drugs-of-abuse testing for employers, testing for blood bank purposes and testing of donors of human cells for purposes such as

in vitro

fertilization. A number of esoteric tests we develop internally are offered as LDTs. The FDA has claimed regulatory authority over all LDTs, but has exercised enforcement discretion with regard to most LDTs performed by high complexity CLIA-certified laboratories.  The FDA has announced several regulatory and guidance initiatives that may impact the clinical laboratory testing business, including by increasing regulation of LDTs, analyte specific reagents and products labeled "Research Use Only" or "Investigate Use Only" used in laboratories.  These initiatives could have a significant impact on our business.  The regulatory approach adopted by the FDA may lead to an increased regulatory burden on our Company.  The approach may hinder our ability to develop and market new products or services, cause an increase in the cost of our products or services, delay our ability to introduce new tests or hinder our ability to perform testing.  The approach also may result in increased product cost, a delay in obtaining needed supplies or, if a manufacturer withdraws its products from the market, an inability to obtain needed supplies.  These matters could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



Our diagnostic products businesses are subject to regulation by the FDA, as well as by foreign governmental agencies, including countries within the European Union who have adopted the Directive on

In Vitro

Diagnostic Medical Devices (“IVDD”). These agencies enforce laws and regulations that govern the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, advertising, marketing, distribution and post-market surveillance of diagnostic products. Prior to commercially marketing or selling most diagnostic products in the United States, we are required to secure clearance or approval from the FDA. Similarly, we may need to obtain a license or certification such as a CE mark (obtainable where the manufacturer certifies that the device conforms to the regulatory and quality requirements for the device) in order to sell diagnostic products outside of the United States.  Compliance with the IVDD allows us to market in Europe once we obtain a CE mark. Following the introduction of a diagnostic product into the market, the FDA and non-U.S. agencies engage in periodic inspections and reviews of the manufacturing processes and product performance. Compliance with these regulatory controls can affect the time and cost associated with the development, introduction and continued availability of new products. These agencies possess the authority to take various administrative and legal actions against us for non-compliance, such as fines, product suspensions, submission of warning letters, recalls, product seizures, injunctions and other civil and criminal sanctions.



Environmental, Health and Safety.We are subject to laws and regulations related to the protection of the environment, the health and safety of employees and the handling, transportation and disposal of medical specimens, infectious and hazardous waste and radioactive materials. For example, the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”) has established extensive requirements relating specifically to workplace safety for healthcare employers in the U.S. This includes requirements to develop and implement multi-faceted programs to protect workers from exposure to blood-borne pathogens, such as HIV and hepatitis B and C, including preventing or minimizing any exposure through needle stick injuries. For purposes of transportation, some biological materials and laboratory supplies are classified as hazardous materials and are subject to regulation by one or more of the following agencies: the U.S. Department of Transportation, the U.S. Public Health Service, the U.S. Postal Service and the International Air Transport Association. We generally use third-party vendors to









dispose of regulated medical waste, hazardous waste and radioactive materials and contractually require them to comply with applicable laws and regulations.



Physicians.Many of our pathologists enter into an employment agreement. These agreements have varying terms, but generally can be terminated at any time, upon advance notice. Most of the agreements contain covenants generally limiting the activities of the pathologist within a defined geographic area for a limited period of time after termination of employment. The agreements may be subject to limitations under state law that may limit the enforceability of these covenants.



Our pathologists are required to hold a valid license to practice medicine in the jurisdiction in which they practice. If they provide inpatient services, they must become a member of the medical staff at the relevant hospital, with privileges in pathology.



Several states, including some in which our businesses are located, prohibit business corporations from engaging in the practice of medicine. In certain states, business corporations are prohibited from employing licensed healthcare professionals to provide services on behalf of the corporation; these laws vary from state to state. The manner in which licensed physicians can be organized to perform medical services may be governed by the laws of the state in which medical services are provided and by the medical boards or other entities authorized by these states to oversee the practice of medicine. In some states, anatomic pathology services are delivered through physician-owned entities that employ the practicing pathologists.



Privacy and Security of Health and Personal Information.We are required to comply with laws and regulations in the United States (at the federal and state levels) and jurisdictions outside the United States in which we conduct business, including the European Union, India and Mexico, regarding protecting the security and privacy of certain healthcare and personal information. These privacy and security laws include the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, as amended, and the regulations thereunder (collectively, “HIPAA”). The HIPAA security regulations establish requirements for safeguarding protected health information. The HIPAA privacy regulations establish comprehensive federal standards regarding the uses and disclosures of protected health information. Together, these laws and regulations establish a complex regulatory framework on a variety of subjects, provide for penalties for non-compliance, and may require a healthcare provider to notify individuals or the government if the provider discovers certain breaches of personal information or protected health information.  We maintain policies and practices designed to meet applicable requirements.



Drug Testing; Controlled Substances.All U.S. laboratories that perform drug testing for certain public sector employees and employees of certain federally regulated businesses are required to be certified as meeting the detailed performance and quality standards of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. To obtain access to controlled substances used to perform drugs-of-abuse testing in the United States, laboratories must be licensed by the Drug Enforcement Administration. All of our laboratories that perform such testing or that utilize controlled substances are so certified or so licensed, respectively.



Compliance.We seek to conduct our business in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. Many of the laws and regulations applicable to us, however, including many of those relating to billing, reimbursement of tests and relationships with physicians and hospitals, are vague or indefinite or have not been interpreted by the courts. They may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations, including our pricing and/or billing practices. The applicability or interpretation of laws and regulations also may not be clear in light of emerging changes in clinical testing science and healthcare technology. Such occurrences, regardless of their outcome, could, among other things:



•increase our operating costs including but not limited to those costs associated with providing diagnostic information services or manufacturing or distributing products, and administrative requirements related to billing;

•decrease the amount of reimbursement related to diagnostic information services performed;

•damage our reputation; and/or

•adversely affect important business relationships with third parties.



If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties, fines, exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs and the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as incur additional liabilities from third-party claims, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Certain federal and state statutes, regulations and other laws, including thequi tamprovisions of federal and state false claims acts, allow private individuals to bring lawsuits against healthcare companies on behalf of government payers, private payers and/or patients alleging inappropriate billing practices.











The federal or state governments may bring claims based on our current practices, which we believe are lawful. The federal and state governments have substantial leverage in negotiating settlements since the amount of potential damages far exceeds the rates at which we are reimbursed, and the government has the remedy of excluding a non-compliant provider from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs.  We believe that, based on our experience with settlements and public announcements by various government officials, federal and state governments continue to strengthen their enforcement efforts against perceived healthcare fraud. In addition, legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse provide government enforcement personnel substantially increased funding, powers, penalties and remedies to pursue suspected cases of fraud and abuse.



We have a long-standing and well-established compliance program. The Quality, Safety & Compliance Committee of our Board of Directors oversees our compliance program and requires periodic management reports regarding our compliance program. Our program includes detailed policies and procedures and training programs intended to ensure the strict implementation and observance of all applicable laws, regulations and Company policies. Further, we conduct in-depth reviews of procedures and facilities to assure regulatory compliance throughout our operations. We conduct annual training of our employees on these compliance policies and procedures.





AVAILABLE INFORMATION



We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). You may read and copy any document that we file with the SEC at the SEC's public reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549 on official business days during the hours of 10:00 am to 3:00 pm. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for information regarding the public reference room. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information that issuers (including Quest Diagnostics) file electronically with the SEC. Our electronic SEC filings are available to the public at the SEC's internet site, www.sec.gov.



Our internet site is www.QuestDiagnostics.com. You can access Quest Diagnostics' Investor Relations webpage at www.QuestDiagnostics.com/investor. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Report. We make available free of charge, on or through our Investor Relations webpage, our proxy statements, Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), as soon as reasonably practical after such material is filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. We also make available, through our Investor Relations webpage, statements of beneficial ownership of our equity securities filed by our directors, officers and others under Section 16 of the Exchange Act.



We have a corporate governance webpage. You can access information regarding our corporate governance at www.QuestDiagnostics.com/governance. We post the following on our corporate governance webpage:



•Directors

•Management

•Code of Business Ethics

•Integrity Commitment

•Values

•Corporate Governance Guidelines

•Charters for the following committees of our Board of Directors: Audit and Finance; Compensation; Executive; Governance; and Quality, Safety and Compliance

•Certificate of Incorporation

•Bylaws

•Corporate Political Contributions Policy





EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY



The following persons serve as executive officers of the Company.



Stephen H. Rusckowski(56) is President and Chief Executive Officer.  Prior to joining the Company in May 2012, since October 2006, he was Chief Executive Officer of Philips Healthcare, the largest unit of Royal Philips Electronics, and a member of the Board of Management of Royal Philips Electronics and its Executive Committee.  Previously, he was CEO of the Imaging Systems business within Royal Phillips Electronics. Before joining Philips in 2001, Mr. Rusckowski held numerous management positions with the healthcare division of Hewlett-Packard/Agilent Technologies. Mr. Rusckowski has been a director of the Company since May 2012.











Jon R. Cohen, M.D.(59) is Senior Vice President and Chief Medical Officer. Dr. Cohen joined the company in March 2009 and serves as Chief Medical Officer.  From May 2011 to January 2013, he also had responsibility for Hospital Services. In January 2013, Dr. Cohen assumed responsibility for cancer diagnostic, pathology services, sports diagnostics and laboratory professional services.  In February 2014, he also assumed responsibility for our clinical trials business.  He served as the Senior Adviser to New York Governor David Patterson from 2008 to 2009, where he was responsible for all policy and strategic planning. From 2007 to 2008, Dr. Cohen was a managing director, health industries advisory services at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Prior to that, he spent 21 years with North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System, one of the nation's largest not-for-profit health systems, including serving as its Chief Medical Officer from 2000 to 2006.



Everett V. Cunningham(47) is Senior Vice President, Commercial.  Mr. Cunningham is responsible for the commercial organization for the Company's Diagnostic Information Services business. Mr. Cunningham joined the Company in October 2012.  Previously, Mr. Cunningham was with Pfizer, Inc., where he served in a series of sales and leadership and general management roles for 21 years.  From June 2011 to October 2012, he served as Regional President, Established Products, Asia.  From 2009 to 2011, Mr. Cunningham served as Regional President, West Business Unit, Primary Care. From 2007 to 2009, he served as Vice President, Human Resources, Corporate Groups.  From 2003 to 2007, Mr. Cunningham was Vice President, Sales, U.S. Pharmaceuticals, Pain and Musculoskeletal Division.



James E. Davis(51) has been Senior Vice President, Operations since February 2014.  He is responsible for operations for the Company's Diagnostic Information Services business, and for our diagnostic products business.  He joined Quest Diagnostics in April 2013 as Senior Vice President, Diagnostics Solutions, with responsibility for the Company’s healthcare IT, insurer services, clinical trials, diagnostic products and employer solutions businesses.  Prior to joining Quest Diagnostics, from March 2012 to April 2013, Mr. Davis served as Lead Director, and then as Chief Executive Officer, of InSightec, Inc., a medical device company that designs and develops ultrasound ablation devices that are guided by magnetic resonance imaging systems.  Previously, Mr. Davis held a number of senior positions in General Electric’s healthcare business, including from 2007 to 2012 as Vice President and General Manager of GE Healthcare’s magnetic resonance imaging business.  Prior to joining GE Healthcare, Mr. Davis held leadership positions in GE’s aviation business and led the development of strategic and operational improvement initiatives for clients of McKinsey & Company, Inc.



Catherine T. Doherty(51) is Senior Vice President, Clinical Franchises. She is responsible for overseeing the development of clinical franchise solutions in the areas of cardiovascular, infectious disease and immunology, neurology, prescription drug monitoring and toxicology, women's health and general wellness, as well as enterprise-wide strategic marketing and business development.  In February 2014, Ms. Doherty assumed responsibility for our employer solutions, healthcare information technology and life insurer services businesses.  From May 2011 to December 2012, she served as Senior Vice President, Physician Services.  From 2008 through May 2011, Ms. Doherty served as Vice President, Hospital Services.  Prior to 2008, Ms. Doherty held a variety of positions of increasing responsibility since joining the Company in 1990, including Vice President, Office of the Chairman; Vice President, Finance and Administration for the Hospital business; Vice President, Communications and Investor Relations; and Chief Accounting Officer.



Mark J. Guinan(52) is Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.  He joined the Company in July 2013.  From 2010 until joining Quest Diagnostics in 2013, Mr. Guinan served as Chief Financial Officer for Hill-Rom Holdings Inc., a manufacturer and provider of medical technologies and related services for the health care industry. Previously, he had served in a number of finance and operations roles in a long career at Johnson & Johnson including 2009 to 2010 as Vice President, Chief Procurement Officer, and 2005 to 2009 as Vice President, Group Finance Pharmaceuticals.  Before joining Johnson and Johnson in 1997, he held a number of financial roles at Procter & Gamble.



Michael E. Prevoznik(52) is Senior Vice President and General Counsel. Mr. Prevoznik joined the Company as Vice President and General Counsel in August 1999.  In 2003, he assumed responsibility for governmental affairs.  From 1999 until April 2009, Mr. Prevoznik also had responsibility for the Company's Compliance Department.  Since April 2011, in addition to serving as General Counsel, Mr. Prevoznik has had management responsibility for the Company's diagnostic information services activities outside the U.S.  In addition, from April 2011 to January 2013, Mr. Prevoznik had management responsibility for the Company's clinical trials business.  Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Prevoznik served in positions of increasing responsibility within the compliance organization at SmithKline Beecham, most recently as Vice President, Compliance, with responsibility for coordinating all SmithKline Beecham compliance activities worldwide.













