
10-K405
FORM 10-K



 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
 
  FORM 10-K.--ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
                              EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
  (Mark One)
    [X]       ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998
 
                                       OR
 
    [  ]    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
             For the transition period from _________ to _________
 
                         Commission file number 1-3932
 
                             WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
                Delaware                               38-1490038
        (State of Incorporation)          (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
 
 2000 North M-63, Benton Harbor, Michigan              49022-2692
    (Address of principal executive                    (Zip Code)
                offices)
 
       Registrant's telephone number, including area code (616) 923-5000
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
 

 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                      NONE
 
   Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes  X   No
                                       ---     ---
 
   Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K ((S)229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and
will not be contained, to the best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive
proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  X
                                              ---
 
   The aggregate market value of the voting stock of the registrant held by
stockholders not including voting stock held by directors and elected officers
of the registrant and certain employee plans of the registrant (the exclusion
of such shares shall not be deemed an admission by the registrant that any such
person is an affiliate of the registrant) on March 1, 1999, was $3,042,333,004.
 
   On March 1, 1999, the registrant had 76,494,003 shares of common stock
outstanding.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
   Portions of the following documents are incorporated herein by reference
into the Part of the Form 10-K indicated:
 

 
                           Exhibit Index on page: **
 
                           Total number of pages: ***
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
                                    PART I
 
ITEM 1. Business.
 
                                    General
 
   Whirlpool Corporation, the leading worldwide manufacturer and marketer of
major home appliances, was incorporated in 1955 under the laws of Delaware as
the successor to a business that traces its origin to 1898. As used herein,
and except where the context otherwise requires, the term "Company" includes
Whirlpool Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. All currency figures
are in U.S. dollars.
 
                              Recent Developments
 
   1) On March 1, 1999, the Company announced that it intends to repurchase up
to $250 million of the Company's outstanding shares of common stock. The
Company anticipates that purchases will be made from time to time both on the
open market and in private sales over the next 18 months.
 
   2) On January 26, 1999, the Company announced that it anticipated an
adverse effect on its first-quarter 1999 net earnings due to the devaluation
of the Brazilian currency against the U.S. dollar. At that time the Company
announced that it expected for every one percent of devaluation in the
Brazilian currency, its first-quarter 1999 net earnings could potentially be
affected negatively by approximately one and one-half cents per diluted share.
 
   On March 1, 1999, the Company announced that it plans to make a series of
adjustments to its Brazilian balance sheet over the next 30 days in order to
mitigate the exposure to fluctuations in the Brazilian currency to one-half of
the previous levels, thereby reducing future volatility and the potential for
negative impact on its earnings resulting from the currency devaluation. The
Company also said that it is unable to predict the extent of the Brazilian
currency devaluation and its impact on net earnings for the full year. For
additional information see the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results
of Operations and Financial Condition section (the "Management's Discussion
and Analysis") of the Company's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year
ended December 31, 1998 (the "Annual Report"), which is incorporated herein by
reference.
 
   3) On May 15, 1998, Whirlpool and its subsidiary, Brasmotor S.A., announced
that they were exploring a full array of strategic options (including possible
alliances, sale, partnerships, or other alternatives) involving Empressa
Brasileira de Compressores S.A. (Embraco), their hermetic compressor
manufacturing subsidiary. On March 1, 1999, the Company announced that it had
elected to retain Embraco.
 
             Financial Information Relating to Operating Segments,
               Foreign and Domestic Operations and Export Sales
 
   The Company operates predominantly in the business segment classified as
Major Home Appliances. Prior to the sale of WFC assets, which was completed in
1998, the Company also operated in the Financial Services business segment.
 
   During 1998 the Company's U.S. operations sold product into Canada, Mexico,
Latin America, the Carribean, Asia, Europe, Africa, and the Middle East.
However, export sales by the Company's U.S. operations were less than 10
percent of gross revenues.
 
   For certain other financial information concerning the Company's business
segments and foreign and domestic operations, see Notes 1 and 14 of the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.
 

 
                             Products and Services
 
   The Company manufactures and markets a full line of major home appliances
and related products, primarily for home use. The Company's principal products
are: home laundry appliances, home refrigeration and room air conditioning
equipment, home cooking appliances, home dishwashers, and mixers and other
small household appliances. Less than 10% of the Company's unit sales volume
is purchased from other manufacturers for resale by the Company. The Company
also produces hermetic compressors and plastic components, primarily for the
home appliance and electronics industries.
 
   The following table sets forth information regarding the total revenue
contributed by each class of similar products which accounted for 10 percent
or more of the Company's consolidated revenue in 1998, 1997, and 1996:
 

 
   The Company has been the principal supplier of home laundry appliances to
Sears, Roebuck and Co. ("Sears") for over 80 years. The Company is also the
principal supplier to Sears of residential trash compactors and microwave hood
combinations and a major supplier to Sears of dishwashers, free-standing
ranges, and home refrigeration equipment. The Company also supplies Sears with
certain other products for which the Company is not currently a major
supplier. Sales of such other products to Sears are not significant to the
Company's business. The Company supplies products to Sears for sale under
Sears' Kenmore and Sears brand names. Sears has also been a major outlet for
the Company's Whirlpool and KitchenAid brand products since 1989.
 
   Major home appliances are marketed and distributed in the United States
under the Whirlpool, KitchenAid, Roper, Estate, and Coolerator brand names
through Company-owned sales branches primarily to retailers, buying groups,
and builders. KitchenAid portable appliances are sold to retailers either
directly or through an independent representative organization. The Company
sells product to the builder trade both directly and through contract
distributors. Major home appliances are manufactured and/or distributed in
Canada under the Inglis, Admiral, Speed Queen, Whirlpool, Estate, Roper, and
KitchenAid brand names. In Mexico the Company's affiliate, Vitromatic S.A.,
manufactures and markets major home appliances for sale under the Whirlpool,
Acros, and Supermatic brand names. Refrigerator-freezers, laundry products,
room air conditioners, residential trash compactors, residential and component
ice makers, cooking products, dishwashers, and other products are sold in
limited quantities by the Company to other manufacturers and retailers for
resale in North America under their respective brand names.
 
   In Europe Whirlpool markets and distributes, through wholly owned sales
entities, its major home appliances under the Whirlpool, Bauknecht, Ignis,
Algor, and Laden brand names and its portable appliances under the KitchenAid
brand name. In addition to its extensive operations in western Europe, the
Company has sales subsidiaries in Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic,
Slovakia, Greece, Romania, Bulgaria, Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania, and Morocco
and a representative office in Russia. In certain Eastern European countries
and ex-Soviet states, products bearing the Whirlpool and Ignis brand names are
sold through independent distributors. The Company owns a subsidiary in South
Africa which manufactures refrigerators and freezers and through which it
markets a full line of products under the Whirlpool and KIC brand names.
Whirlpool's European operations also sell products carrying the Whirlpool,
Bauknecht, Ignis, Algor, and Fides brand names to the Company's wholly-owned
sales companies in Asia and majority-owned sales companies in Latin America
and to independent distributors and dealers in Africa and the Middle East.
 
   In Asia the Company markets and distributes its major home appliances
through three operating regions: the South Asia Sales region based in Delhi,
which includes India and surrounding markets; the Asia Pacific Sales
 

 
region, which includes the ASEAN countries, Korea, Japan, Australia, New
Zealand, Hong Kong, and Taiwan; and the China Sales region through Whirlpool
Narcissus and SMC. With the exception of the Narcissus and Taiwan joint
ventures, all of these entities are wholly-owned by Whirlpool. The Company
markets and sells its products in Asia under the Whirlpool, KitchenAid, Ignis,
Bauknecht, and SMC brand names, as well as under the Narcissus brand name
(owned by its joint venture partner and used under license).
 
   In Latin America the Company markets and distributes its major home
appliances through regional networks under the Whirlpool, Brastemp, Consul,
and Eslabon de Lujo brand names. Appliance sales and distribution in Brazil,
Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Paraguay, and Peru are managed through subsidiaries
owned by Multibras S.A. Eletrodomesticos ("Multibras"), the Company's
Brazilian subsidiary, and through independent distributors. Appliance sales
and distribution in Central American countries, the Caribbean, Venezuela, and
Ecuador are managed through Whirlpool sales subsidiaries which are part of
Whirlpool's North America Region and through independent distributors. In
Colombia the Company operates a sales branch which sells and distributes
products for the Colombian market.
 
                                  Competition
 
   The major home appliance business is highly competitive. The Company
believes that, in terms of units sold annually, it is the largest United
States manufacturer of home laundry appliances and one of the largest United
States manufacturers of home refrigeration and room air conditioning
equipment, dishwashers, and cooking products. The Company estimates that
during 1998 with respect to U.S. manufacturers, there were approximately five
manufacturers of home laundry appliances, ten manufacturers of room air
conditioning equipment, five manufacturers of home refrigeration equipment,
five manufacturers of dishwashers, and five manufacturers of cooking products.
Competition in the North American major home appliance business is based on a
wide variety of factors, including principally product features, price,
product quality and performance, service, warranty, advertising, and
promotion.
 
   The Company believes that in Europe it is, in terms of units sold annually,
one of the three largest manufacturers and marketers of major home appliance
products. The Company estimates that during 1998 there were approximately 35
European manufacturers of major home appliances, the majority of which
manufacture a limited range of products for a specific geographic region. In
recent years there has been significant merger and acquisition activity as
manufacturers seek to broaden product lines and expand geographic markets, and
the Company believes this trend will continue. The Company believes it is in a
favorable position in Europe relative to its competitors because it has an
experienced European sales network, balanced sales throughout the European
market under well-recognized brand names, manufacturing facilities located in
different countries, and the ability to customize its products to meet the
specific needs of diverse consumer groups. Competition in the European major
home appliance business is based on a wide variety of factors, including
principally product features, price, product quality and performance, service,
warranty, advertising, and promotion. With respect to microwave ovens, Western
European manufacturers face competition from manufacturers in Asia, primarily
China, South Korea, and Japan.
 
   In Asia the major domestic appliance market is characterized by rapid
growth and is dominated primarily by Asian diversified industrial
manufacturers whose significant size and scope of operations enable them to
achieve economies of scale. The Company estimates that during 1998 there were
approximately 50 manufacturers of major home appliances competing in the Asian
market. Competition in the Asian home appliance business is based on a wide
variety of factors including principally local production capabilities,
product features, price, product quality, and performance.
 
   The Company believes that it is well-positioned in the Latin American
appliance market due to its ability to offer a broad range of products under
well-recognized brand names such as Whirlpool, Brastemp, Consul, and Eslabon
de Lujo to meet the specific requirements of consumers in the region. The
Company estimates that during 1998 there were approximately 20 manufacturers
of home appliances in the region. Competition in the
 

 
Latin American home appliance business is based on a wide variety of factors,
including principally product features, price, product quality and
performance, service, warranty, advertising, and promotion. In Latin America
there are trends toward privatization of government-owned businesses and a
liberalization of investment and trade restrictions.
 
   As a result of its global expansion, the Company believes it has a
competitive advantage by reason of its ability to leverage engineering
capabilities across regions, transfer best practices, and economically
purchase raw materials and component parts in large volumes.
 
                                   Employees
 
   The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries had approximately 59,000
employees as of December 31, 1998.
 
                               Other Information
 
   The Company has a controlling equity interest in Brasmotor S.A., the
Company's long-time partner in Latin America and the parent company of certain
Latin American manufacturers of major home appliances and components
(Multibras and Embraco). The Company has a minority equity interest in a
Mexican manufacturer of home appliances and components. In China the Company
has a majority interest in a joint venture company that manufactures automatic
washing machines for sale and distribution in China and for export, and a
minority interest in a joint venture company that manufactures air
conditioners. The Company also has a minority equity interest in China in a
compressor manufacturing joint venture between its Brazilian subsidiary and a
company in China that manufactures refrigeration products. In India the
Company has a majority interest in a company that produces refrigeration
products and washing machines for the Indian market and for export to the rest
of Asia. The Company also has a minority equity interest in a Taiwanese
marketer and distributor of home appliances. The company has a significant
minority equity interest in a major manufacturer of kitchen furniture in
Germany that is also a major trade customer of the Company. In addition, the
Company furnishes engineering, manufacturing, and marketing assistance to
certain foreign manufacturers of home laundry and refrigeration equipment and
other major home appliances for negotiated fees.
 
   On January 1, 1999, eleven member nations of the European Union began the
conversion to a common currency, the "euro." The effects on the Company's
business operations resulting from the introduction of the euro are discussed
in the Management's Discussion and Analysis section of the Annual Report.
 
   The Company's interests outside the United States and Western Europe are
subject to risks which may be greater than or in addition to those risks which
are currently present in the United States and Western Europe. Such risks may
include: currency exchange rate fluctuations; high inflation; the need for
governmental approval of and restrictions on certain financial and other
corporate transactions and new or continued business operations; the
convertibility of local currencies; government price controls; restrictions on
the remittance of dividends, interest, royalties, and other payments;
restrictions on imports and exports; duties; political and economic
developments and instability; the possibility of expropriation; uncertainty as
to the enforceability of commercial rights and trademarks; and various types
of local participation in ownership.
 
   In Brazil the Company's subsidiaries were profitable in 1998 despite a
declining home appliances market depressed by record unemployment levels, high
interest rates and declining consumer income. These results are due in part to
successful new product launches, line extensions, and cost reductions from
restructuring. Nonetheless, high interest rates and contractionary fiscal
policy adopted by the government may lead to a severe recession in the first
half of 1999, indicating another challenging year for the appliance industry,
a trend that began in 1997. For additional information see the Management's
Discussion and Analysis section of the Annual Report.
 
 

 
   The Company is generally not dependent upon any one source for raw
materials or purchased components essential to its business. In those areas
where a single supplier is used, alternative sources are generally available
and can be developed within the normal manufacturing environment, although
some unanticipated costs may be incurred in transitioning to a new supplier
where a prior single supplier is abruptly terminated. While there are pricing
pressures on some materials and significant demand for certain components, the
Company believes such raw materials and components will be available in
adequate quantities to meet anticipated production schedules.
 
   Patents presently owned by the Company are considered, in the aggregate, to
be important to the conduct of the Company's business. The Company is licensed
under a number of patents, none of which individually is considered material
to its business. The Company is the owner of a number of trademarks and the
U.S. and foreign registrations thereof. The most important for its North
American operations are the trademarks Whirlpool, KitchenAid, the KitchenAid
Mixer Shape, Roper, and Inglis. In Europe Whirlpool, through its subsidiaries,
is also the owner of a number of trademarks and the foreign registrations
thereof. The most important trademarks owned by the Company in Europe are
Bauknecht, Ignis, and Laden. The most important trademark for the Company's
European, Asian, and Latin American operations is Whirlpool. Pursuant to the
agreement whereby the Company purchased most of its European business from
Philips, except for certain limited exceptions and subject to certain phase-
out provisions, neither Philips nor any subsidiary of Philips was able to
engage directly or indirectly in the major domestic appliance business
anywhere in the world until after July 31, 1998.
 
   The Company believes that its business, in the aggregate, is not seasonal.
Certain of its products, however, sell more heavily in some seasons than in
others. For example, air conditioners typically sell more heavily during
summer months. Where appropriate, the Company manages its regional
manufacturing operations and product inventories to address seasonal
variations in demand.
 
   Backlogs of the Company's products are filled and renewed relatively
frequently in each year and are not significant in relation to the Company's
annual sales. However, with respect to Asia, marked seasonality of certain
product sales, combined with less efficient modes of distribution in that
region, can result in significant inventory backlogs.
 
   Expenditures for Company-sponsored research and engineering activities
relating to the development of new products and the improvement of existing
products are included in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements in the Annual Report. Customer-sponsored research activities
relating to the development of new products, services or techniques, or the
improvement of existing products, services, or techniques are not material.
 
   The Company's manufacturing facilities are subject to numerous laws and
regulations designed to protect or enhance the environment, many of which
require federal, state, or other governmental licenses and permits with regard
to wastewater discharges, air emissions, and hazardous waste management. These
laws are continually changing and, as a general matter, are becoming more
restrictive. The Company's policy is to seek to comply with all such laws and
regulations.
 
   The Company believes that it is in compliance in all material respects with
all presently applicable federal, state, local, and other governmental
provisions relating to environmental protection in the countries in which it
has manufacturing operations. Capital expenditures and expenses, for
manufacturing operations and product related activities combined, attributable
to compliance with such provisions worldwide amounted to approximately $58
million in 1995, $50 million in 1996, and $48 million in 1997. In 1998 such
capital expenditures and expenses related to manufacturing operations were $30
million, and capital expenditures and expenses for product related
environmental activities were not material. It is estimated that in 1999
environmental capital expenditures and expenses for manufacturing operations
will be $26 million, and that such expenses for product related environmental
activities will again not be material. Much of the decrease from 1995 to 1996
and later years is attributable to the phase-out of chloroflourocarbons (CFCs)
and is associated with the elimination of taxes on CFCs (CFCs were eliminated
from the Company's products in the United States prior to
 

 
December 31, 1995). The anticipated decrease from 1998 to 1999 is attributable
to the completion of air and water pollution control capital improvement
projects in 1998, as well as benefits from previous pollution prevention
projects.
 
   The entire United States home appliance industry, including the Company,
must contend with the adoption of stricter governmental energy and
environmental standards to be phased in over the next several years. These
include the general phase-out of CFCs used in refrigeration and energy
standards rulemakings for other selected major appliances produced by the
Company. Compliance with these various standards as they become effective will
require some product redesign.
 
   As in the United States, Whirlpool's European and Latin American operations
are also dealing with anticipated regulations and rules regarding improved
efficiency and energy usage for its products. The Company believes it is well
positioned to field products that comply with these anticipated regulations.
In most Asian countries the Company has until 2010 to eliminate CFCs from its
products. Whirlpool's Asian operations are also well positioned to meet
anticipated efficiency and energy usage regulations.
 
   The Company has been notified by state and federal environmental protection
agencies of its possible involvement in a number of so-called "Superfund"
sites in the United States. However, the Company does not presently anticipate
any material adverse effect upon the Company's earnings or financial condition
arising out of the resolution of these matters or the resolution of any other
known governmental proceeding regarding environmental protection matters. The
Company has completed environmental assessments of its European facilities
acquired as a result of the Company's purchase of the Major Domestic Appliance
division of Philips in 1989. The Company does not presently anticipate any
material adverse effect upon the Company's earnings or financial condition
arising out of the resolution of these matters. The Company has also evaluated
its facilities in China and India. The Company does not presently anticipate
any material adverse effect upon the Company's earnings or financial condition
from the environmental condition of these facilities.
 
   The Company does not anticipate any material adverse effect on its
operations or performance as a result of the Year 2000 computer software
issue. For more information on Year 2000, see the Management's Discussion and
Analysis section of the Annual Report.
 
   In an effort to enhance productivity and business systems performance, the
Company is implementing an integrated business software package to replace and
consolidate many of its existing stand-alone systems. The new system was
implemented in Austria, Brazil, Canada, Germany, and Switzerland in 1998. The
project is expected to be completed within the next two to three years.
 

 
   The following table sets forth the names of the Company's executive
officers at December 31, 1998, the positions and offices with the Company held
by them at such date, the year they first became officers, and their ages at
December 31, 1998:
 

 
   Each of the executive officers named above was elected to serve in the
office indicated until the first meeting of the Board of Directors following
the annual meeting of stockholders in 1999 and until his successor is chosen
and qualified or until his earlier resignation or removal. William D. Marohn
retired from the Company effective January 1, 1999.
 
   Each of the executive officers of the Company has held the position set
forth in the table above or has served the Company in various executive or
administrative capacities for at least the past five years, except for:
 

 
ITEM 2. Properties.
 
   The principal executive offices of Whirlpool Corporation are located in
Benton Harbor, Michigan. At December 31, 1998, the principal manufacturing and
service operations of the Company were carried on at 44 locations worldwide,
34 of which are located in 12 countries outside the United States. The Company
occupied a total of approximately 41.3 million square feet devoted to
manufacturing, service, administrative offices, warehouse, distribution, and
sales space. Over 12 million square feet of such space is occupied under
lease. In general, all facilities are well maintained, suitably equipped, and
in good operating condition.
 
ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings.
 
   As of, and during the quarter ended, December 31, 1998, there were no
material pending legal proceedings to which the Company or any of its
subsidiaries was a party or to which any of their property was subject.
 

 
ITEM 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
 
   There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders in the fourth
quarter of 1998.
 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters.
 
   The Company's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange and the
Chicago Stock Exchange.
 
   As of March 1, 1999, the number of holders of record of the Company's
common stock was approximately 13,371.
 
   High and low sales prices (as reported on the New York Stock Exchange
composite tape) and cash dividends declared and paid for the Company's common
stock for each quarter during the years 1997 and 1998 are set forth in Note 15
of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.
 
ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data.
 
   The selected financial data for the five years ended December 31, 1998 with
respect to the following line items are shown under the "Eleven Year
Consolidated Statistical Review" in the Annual Report: Total revenues,
earnings from continuing operations before accounting change, earnings from
continuing operations before accounting change per share of common stock,
dividends paid per share of common stock, total assets, and long-term debt.
See the material incorporated herein by reference in response to Item 7 of
this report for a discussion of the effects on such data of business
combinations and other acquisitions, disposition and restructuring activity,
restructuring costs, accounting changes, and earnings of foreign affiliates.
 
ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations.
 
   See the Management's Discussion and Analysis section of the Annual Report.
 
ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
 
   The consolidated financial statements of the Company are contained in the
Annual Report. Supplementary financial information regarding quarterly results
of operations (unaudited) for the years ended December 31, 1998 and 1997 is
set forth in Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. For a
list of financial statements and schedules filed as part of this report, see
the "Index to Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule(s)"
beginning on page F-1.
 
ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure.
 
   The Board of Directors of the Company's subsidiary, Multibras, announced on
February 8, 1999, the engagement of Ernst & Young LLP as its independent
auditors for the fiscal year ending December 31, 1999 to replace the firm of
PricewaterhouseCoopers Auditores Independentes, Brazil, who were dismissed as
auditors of Multibras effective February 8, 1999. Multibras does not have an
audit or similar committee of the Board of Directors.
 
   The reports of PricewaterhouseCoopers Auditores Independentes, Brazil, on
the financial statements of Multibras for the past two fiscal years did not
contain an adverse opinion or a disclaimer of opinion and were not qualified
or modified as to uncertainty, audit scope, or accounting principles.
 
   In connection with the audits of the financial statements of Multibras for
each of the two fiscal years ended December 31, 1998 and through February 8,
1999, there were no disagreements with PricewaterhouseCoopers
 

 
Auditores Independentes, Brazil, on any matters of accounting principles or
practices, financial statement disclosure, or auditing scope and procedures
that, if not resolved to the satisfaction of PricewaterhouseCoopers Auditores
Independentes, Brazil, would have caused PricewaterhouseCoopers Auditores
Independentes, Brazil, to make reference to the matter in their report. For
additional information see the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed
February 8, 1999, as amended on February 25, 1999.
 
                                   PART III
 
ITEM 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.
 
   Information with respect to directors of the Company can be found under the
captions "Directors and Nominees for Election as Directors" in the Company's
proxy statement for the 1999 annual meeting of stockholders (SEC File No.1-
3932) (the "Proxy Statement"), which is incorporated herein by reference.
Information with respect to executive officers of the Company is set forth in
Part I of this report.
 
ITEM 11. Executive Compensation.
 
   Information with respect to compensation of executive officers and
directors of the Company can be found under the captions "Executive
Compensation" and "Compensation of Directors" in the Proxy Statement.
 
ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.
 
   Information with respect to security ownership by the only person(s) known
to the Company to beneficially own more than 5 percent of the Company's stock
and by each director of the Company and all directors and elected officers of
the Company as a group can be found under the caption "Security Ownership" in
the Proxy Statement.
 
ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.
 
   Information with respect to certain transactions with executive officers
and directors of the Company and others can be found under the caption
"Certain Transactions" in the Proxy Statement.
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K.
 
   (a) The following documents are filed as a part of this report:
 
     1. The financial statements listed in the "Index to Financial Statements
  and Financial Statement Schedules."
 
     2. The financial statement schedule listed in the "Index to Financial
  Statements and Financial Statement Schedules."
 
     3. The exhibits listed in the "Exhibit Index."
 
   (b) No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the fourth quarter of 1998.
 
   (c) Exhibits.
 
     See attached "Exhibit Index."
 
   (d) Financial Statement Schedules.
 
     The response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted as a separate
  section of this report.
 

 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
   Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
                                          Whirlpool Corporation
                                          (Registrant)
 
                                                    /s/ Ralph F. Hake
                                          By: _________________________________
                                                        Ralph F. Hake
                                                (Principal Financial Officer)
                                               Senior Executive Vice President
                                                 and Chief Financial Officer
 
   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.
 

 

 

 
    /s/ Daniel F. Hopp
*By: __________________________
        Daniel F. Hopp
       Attorney-in-Fact
 

 
                          ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
 
                       ITEMS 14(a) (1) AND (2) AND 14(d)
 
        INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
 
                         YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998
 
              WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
   The following consolidated financial statements of the registrant and its
consolidated subsidiaries, set forth in the Annual Report, are incorporated
herein by reference in Item 8:
 
     Consolidated balance sheets--December 31, 1998 and 1997
 
     Consolidated statements of earnings--Three years ended December 31, 1998
 
     Consolidated statements of changes in stockholders' equity--Three years
  ended December 31, 1998
 
     Consolidated statements of cash flows--Three years ended December 31,
 
     Notes to consolidated financial statements
 
   The following reports of independent auditors and consolidated financial
statement schedules of the registrant and its consolidated subsidiaries are
submitted herewith in response to Items 14(a) (2) and 14(d):
 

 
   Individual financial statements of the registrant's affiliated foreign
companies, accounted for by the equity method, have been omitted since no such
company individually constitutes a significant subsidiary. Summarized
financial information relating to the affiliated companies is set forth in
Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements incorporated by
reference herein.
 
   Certain schedules for which provisions are made in the applicable
accounting regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission are not
required under the related instructions or are inapplicable, and therefore
have been omitted.
 
 
                                      F-1

 
               REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
 
The Stockholders and Board of Directors
Whirlpool Corporation
Benton Harbor, Michigan
 
   We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Whirlpool
Corporation as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, and the related consolidated
statements of earnings, changes in stockholders' equity and cash flows for each
of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1998. These financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits. We did not audit the financial statements of Brasmotor S.A. and its
consolidated subsidiaries, whose statements reflect total assets of $2,500
million and $2,200 million as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively and
net earnings of $58 million, $41 million and $120 million for the years ended
December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. Those statements were audited
by other auditors whose reports have been furnished to us, and our opinion,
insofar as it relates to data included for Brasmotor S.A. and its consolidated
subsidiaries, is based on the reports of the other auditors.
 
   We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe our audits and the reports of the other
auditors provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
   In our opinion, based on our audits and the reports of the auditors, the
financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the consolidated financial position of Whirlpool Corporation at
December 31, 1998 and 1997, and the consolidated results of its operations and
its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
1998, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.
 
Chicago, Illinois
January 21, 1999
 
                                      F-2

 
                      [PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LETTERHEAD]
 
                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
 
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders
Brasmotor S.A.
 
   We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Brasmotor
S.A. and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 1998 and 1997 and the related
consolidated statements of earnings, of movement in stockholders' equity and of
cash flows for the years then ended, expressed in U.S. dollars (not presented
herein). Such audits were made in conjunction with our audits of the financial
statements expressed in local currency on which we issued an unqualified
opinion dated January 18, 1999. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We did not audit the
financial statements of Whirlpool Argentina S.A. and Sociedade Financeira de
Grandes Aparatos Domesticos S.A., which statements reflect total assets of
US$149,457 thousand and US$119,549 thousand as of December 31, 1998 and 1997,
respectively, and net earnings of US$6,037 thousand and US$9,487 thousand for
the years ended December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively. Those statements were
audited by other auditors whose reports have been furnished to us, and our
opinion, insofar as it relates to data included for Whirlpool Argentina S.A.
and Sociedade Financeira de Grandes Aparatos Domesticos S.A., is based solely
on the reports of the other auditors.
 
   We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits and the reports of the other auditors provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.
 
   As stated in Note 1, Whirlpool Corporation has prescribed that accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America be applied in the
preparation of the consolidated financial statements of Brasmotor S.A. and its
subsidiaries to be included in Whirlpool's consolidated financial statements.
Up to December 31, 1997, Brazil had a highly inflationary economy. Accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America require that
financial statements of a company denominated in the currency of a country with
a highly inflationary economy be remeasured into a more stable currency unit
for purposes of consolidation. Accordingly, the accounts of Brasmotor S.A. and
its Brazilian subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997, which are maintained in
reais, were remeasured and adjusted into U.S. dollars for the financial
statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States of America, on the bases stated in Note 1. As from January
1, 1998, the functional currency, for the purpose of the translation of the
financial statements into U.S. dollars, has been changed from the U.S. dollar
to the local currency (reais).
 
                                      F-3

 
                      [PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LETTERHEAD]
 
Brasmotor S.A.
Page 2
 
   In our opinion, based on our audits and the reports of the other auditors,
the consolidated financial statements expressed in U.S. dollars audited by us
are presented fairly, in all material respects, on the bases stated in Note 1
and discussed in the preceding paragraph.
 
[PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS SIGNATURE]
 
PricewaterhouseCoopers
Auditores Independentes
 
 
Sao Paulo, Brazil
January 18, 1999
 
                                      F-4

 
                      [PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LETTERHEAD]
 
                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
 
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders
Empresa Brasileira de Compressores S.A.--EMBRACO
 
   We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Empresa
Brasileira de Compressores S.A.--EMBRACO and its subsidiaries as of December
31, 1998 and 1997 and the related consolidated statements of earnings, of
movement in stockholders' equity and of cash flows for the years then ended,
expressed in U.S. dollars (not presented herein). Such audits were made in
conjunction with our audits of the financial statements expressed in local
currency on which we issued an unqualified opinion dated January 18, 1999.
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based
on our audits.
 
   We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
   As stated in Note 1, Whirlpool Corporation has prescribed that accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America be applied in the
preparation of the consolidated financial statements of Empresa Brasileira de
Compressores S.A.--EMBRACO and its subsidiaries to be included in Whirlpool's
consolidated financial statements. Up to December 31, 1997, Brazil had a highly
inflationary economy. Accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America require that financial statements of a company denominated in
the currency of a country with a highly inflationary economy be remeasured into
a more stable currency unit for purposes of consolidation. Accordingly, the
accounts of Empresa Brasileira de Compressores S.A.--EMBRACO and its Brazilian
subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997, which are maintained in reais, were
remeasured and adjusted into U.S. dollars for the financial statements prepared
in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America, on the bases stated in Note 1. As from January 1, 1998, the
functional currency, for the purpose of the translation of the financial
statements into U.S. dollars, has been changed from U.S. dollar to the local
currency (reais).
 
                                      F-5

 
                      [PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LETTERHEAD]
 
Empresa Brasileira de Compressores S.A.--EMBRACO
Page 2
 
   In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements expressed in U.S.
dollars audited by us are presented fairly, in all material respects, on the
bases stated in Note 1 and discussed in the preceding paragraph.
 
[PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS SIGNATURE]
 
PricewaterhouseCoopers
Auditores Independentes
 
 
Sao Paulo, Brazil
January 18, 1999
 
                                      F-6

 
                      [PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LETTERHEAD]
 
                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
 
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders
Multibras S.A. Eletrodomesticos
 
   We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Multibras
S.A. Eletrodomesticos and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 1998 and 1997 and
the related consolidated statements of earnings, of movement in stockholders'
equity and of cash flows for the years then ended, expressed in U.S. dollars
(not presented herein). Such audits were made in conjunction with our audits of
the financial statements expressed in local currency on which we issued an
unqualified opinion dated January 18, 1999. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We did not audit the
financial statements of Whirlpool Argentina S.A. and Sociedade Financeira de
Grandes Aparatos Domesticos S.A., which statements reflect total assets of US$
149,457 thousand and US$ 119,549 thousand as of December 31, 1998 and 1997,
respectively, and net earnings of US$ 6,037 thousand and US$ 9,487 thousand for
the years ended December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively. Those statements were
audited by other auditors whose reports hves been furnished to us, and our
opinion, insofar as it relates to data included for Whirlpool Argentina S.A.
and Sociedade Financeira de Grandes Aparatos Domesticos S.A., is based solely
on the report of the other auditors.
 
   We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits and the reports of the other auditors provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.
 
   As stated in Note 1, Whirlpool Corporation has prescribed that accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America be applied in the
preparation of the consolidated financial statements of Multibras S.A.
Eletrodomesticos and its subsidiaries to be included in Whirlpool's
consolidated financial statements. Up to December 31, 1997, Brazil had a highly
inflationary economy. Accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America require that financial statements of a company denominated in
the currency of a country with a highly inflationary economy be remeasured into
a more stable currency unit for purposes of consolidation. Accordingly, the
accounts of Multibras S.A. Eletrodomesticos and its Brazilian subsidiaries as
of December 31, 1997, which are maintained in reais, were remeasured and
adjusted into U.S. dollars for the financial statements prepared in accordance
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America,
on the bases stated in Note 1. As from January 1, 1998, the functional
currency, for the purpose of the translation of the financial statements into
U.S. dollars, has been changed from the U.S. dollar to the local currency
(reais).
 
                                      F-7

 
                      [PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LETTERHEAD]
 
Multibras S.A. Eletrodomesticos
Page 2
 
   In our opinion, based on our audits and the reports of the other auditors,
the consolidated financial statements expressed in U.S. dollars audited by us
are presented fairly, in all material respects, on the bases stated in Note 1
and discussed in the preceding paragraph.
 
[PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS SIGNATURE]
 
PricewaterhouseCoopers
Auditores Independentes
 
 
Sao Paulo, Brazil
January 18, 1999
 
                                      F-8

 
                 SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 
                     WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                 Years Ended December 31, 1998, 1997, and 1996
 
                             (millions of dollars)
 

- --------
   Note A--The amount represents the allowance for doubtful accounts balance on
the balance sheet of Brasmotor S.A. at the time of consolidation in 1997.
   Note B--The amounts represent accounts charged off, less recoveries of $5 in
1998, $15 in 1997, and $7 in 1996, and translation adjustments and transfers.
   Note C--The amount for 1998 represents a transfer to the trade receivable
allowance while the amounts for 1997 and 1996 represent accounts charged off,
less recoveries of $4 and $3, respectively.
   Note D--The amount represents the restructuring provision on the balance
sheet of Brasmotor S.A. at the time of consolidation in 1997.
   Note E--Includes cash payments for employee severance and related costs,
lease terminations, facility dispositions and other cash costs; write-down of
facilities, equipment and other assets; and translation adjustments.
 
                                      F-9

 
                 EXHIBIT 11--COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS PER SHARE
 
                    WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
              (all amounts in millions except earnings per share)
 

- --------
(a) Using the average market price per share of stock for the period; effect
    of stock options precipitates an anti-dilutive calculation in 1997, and
    therefore not included; convertible debt retired in 1997.
 
                                     F-10

 
                 EXHIBIT 12--RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES
 
                     WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
 

 
                                      F-11

 
                           ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
 
                            ITEMS 14(a)(3) and 14(c)
 
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
 
                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998
 
   The following exhibits are submitted herewith or incorporated herein by
reference in response to Items 14(a)(3) and 14(c):
 

 
                                      E-1

 

 
                                      E-2

 

- --------
   *This information appears only in the manually signed originals of the Form
   10-K and conformed copies with exhibits.
 
                                      E-3

