
10-K405
FORM 10-K



 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
     [ X ] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
                SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]
 
                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997
 
                                      OR
 
     [   ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
               SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
 
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-3932
 
                             WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION
            (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
 
                                                         38-1490038
                 DELAWARE                      (I.R.S. EMPLOYER IDENTIFICATION
         (STATE OF INCORPORATION)                           NO.)
 
 
 2000 NORTH M-63, BENTON HARBOR, MICHIGAN                49022-2692
                                                         (ZIP CODE)
 
 (ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES)
       REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE (616) 923-5000
 
SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:
 

 
SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:
 
                                     NONE
 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes  X  No       .
 
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K, or any
amendment to this Form 10-K  X .
 
  The aggregate market value of the voting stock of the registrant held by
stockholders not including voting stock held by directors and elected officers
of the registrant and certain employee plans of the registrant (the exclusion
of such shares shall not be deemed an admission by the registrant that any
such person is an affiliate of the registrant) on March 2, 1998, was
$4,889,641,109.
 
  On March 2, 1998, the registrant had 75,740,288 shares of common stock
outstanding.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
  Portions of the following documents are incorporated herein by reference
into the Part of the Form 10-K indicated:
 

 
                           EXHIBIT INDEX ON PAGE: **
 
                          TOTAL NUMBER OF PAGES: ***
 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
                                    PART I
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS.
 
                                    GENERAL
 
  Whirlpool Corporation, the leading worldwide manufacturer and marketer of
major home appliances, was incorporated in 1955 under the laws of Delaware as
the successor to a business that traces its origin to 1898. As used herein,
and except where the context otherwise requires, the term "Company" includes
Whirlpool Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. All currency figures
are in U.S. dollars.
 
                              RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
 
 Global Restructuring:
 
  On September 18, 1997, the Company announced and began executing an
extensive global restructuring plan that is intended to strengthen its global
business operations. Key features of the restructuring plan are described
below.
 
1) Sale of Whirlpool Financial Corporation assets:
 
  The Company sold the bulk of the assets of its financial services
subsidiary, Whirlpool Financial Corporation ("WFC"). WFC provided inventory
and consumer financing services to the appliance, consumer electronics, lawn &
garden, home heating & air conditioning, and music industries. On September
17, 1997, the Company reached a definitive agreement to sell the majority of
WFC's assets in a series of transactions to Transamerica Distribution Finance
Corporation ("TDF"), subject to TDF obtaining appropriate government
approvals. During the fourth quarter, Whirlpool completed the sale of certain
inventory floor planning financing assets and international factoring assets
to TDF for approximately $927 million. In January 1998, the Company sold to
TDF certain remaining international assets and consumer financing receivable
assets for approximately $370 million. Under an ongoing strategic partnership,
TDF will continue to provide financing services to Whirlpool's trade partners
and customers. In separate transactions during the fourth quarter of 1997, the
Company sold certain consumer financing receivables for $98 million and
entered into an agreement to sell a portion of WFC's aerospace portfolio for
approximately $168 million. In the first two months of 1998, the Company
completed the sale of approximately $144 million of the aerospace assets to be
sold.
 
2) Latin America acquisition:
 
  On November 3, 1997, Whirlpool purchased approximately 33 percent of the
voting shares, as well as certain non-voting shares, of Brasmotor S.A., the
Company's long-time Brazilian partner. The purchase price of the shares was
approximately $217 million. Combined with the Company's existing holdings, the
shares give Whirlpool a controlling interest of approximately 66 percent of
the voting shares of Brasmotor. Brasmotor is the parent company of Multibras
S.A. Eletrodomesticos ("Multibras"), an appliance company with sales of
approximately $1.6 billion and the leading market share position in Latin
America, and Empresa Brasileira de Compressores S.A. ("Embraco"), the world's
second largest hermetic compressor manufacturer with sales of approximately
$790 million.
 
3) Change cost structure:
 
  On September 18, 1997, the Company announced plans to eliminate
approximately 4,700 positions throughout North America, Europe, and Asia
during the next 3 years. The workforce reductions will be realized through the
consolidation of various manufacturing, service, and support activities and
facilities. On January 13, 1998, the Company announced further restructuring
plans to improve efficiency and productivity in its Latin American operations.
The Latin American restructuring should be largely completed during the first
half of 1998,
 

 
and will ultimately result in the elimination of about 3,200 positions which
represents approximately 25% of the Brazilian appliance company's workforce.
The Company took a pre-tax charge of approximately $343 million against 1997
earnings for the restructuring plans. When fully implemented by 2000, the
reductions are expected to result in an annualized savings of approximately
$200 million.
 
4) Refine Asian strategy:
 
  The Company began executing a series of actions intended to improve the cost
structure and performance of its Asian operations. On December 1, 1997, the
Company agreed to sell its interest in Beijing Whirlpool Snowflake Electric
Appliance Co. Ltd., its Chinese joint venture that manufactures refrigerators,
to its joint venture partner for approximately $2 million. On December 15,
1997, the Company agreed to purchase an increased stake in Whirlpool Narcissus
Shanghai Co. Ltd., its Chinese joint venture that manufactures washing
machines, for approximately $12 million. The Company has received governmental
approval for both of these transactions. As previously announced, the Company
continues to explore alternatives, including sale or strategic alliance, with
respect to Shenzhen Whirlpool Raybo Air Conditioner Industrial Co. Ltd., its
joint venture that manufactures air conditioners. In a further effort to
reduce regional costs, the Company began consolidating most of the Asian
support activities into the global network.
 
Other Recent Developments:
 
  In December 1996, a Brazilian federal court issued a favorable ruling
relating to export incentive claims submitted by Multibras and Embraco under a
Brazilian government sponsored program. In April 1997, Multibras and Embraco
submitted tax credit claims of approximately $440 million relating to certain
exports between July 1988 and December 1996. The court must render a final
decision on the amount, timing, and payment method of any final award. The
Company has not recognized any income relating to the claims relating to pre-
1997 sales because the timing and payment amount of such claims are uncertain.
 
  Whirlpool completed construction of a new factory in Pune, India which
produces a line of no-frost refrigerators for the Indian market. The plant is
the first in India dedicated to CFC-free production of refrigerator products.
Pre-production activities were completed and limited production activities
began in December 1997.
 
             FINANCIAL INFORMATION RELATING TO BUSINESS SEGMENTS,
               FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS AND EXPORT SALES
 
  The Company operates predominantly in the business segment classified as
Major Home Appliances. Prior to the sale of WFC assets, the Company also
operated in the Financial Services business segment.
 
  During 1997, the Company's U.S. operations sold product into Canada, Mexico,
Latin America, Asia, Europe, Africa, and the Middle East. However, export
sales by the Company's U.S. operations were less than 10 percent of gross
revenues.
 
  For certain other financial information concerning the Company's business
segments and foreign and domestic operations, see Notes 1 and 15 of the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Company's Annual Report to
Stockholders (the "Annual Report"), which information is incorporated herein
by reference.
 
                             PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
 
  The Company manufactures and markets a full line of major home appliances
and related products for home and commercial use. The Company's principal
products are as follows:
 
 Major Home Appliances:
 
    Home laundry appliances: automatic and semi-automatic washers; automatic
  dryers; coin-operated laundry machines; and stacked washer-dryer units.
 

 
    Home refrigeration and room air conditioning equipment: refrigerator-
  freezers; upright and chest freezers; room air conditioners; dehumidifiers;
  residential, commercial, and component ice makers; compact refrigerators;
  and wine coolers.
 
    Home cooking appliances: free-standing and set-in ranges; built-in ovens
  and surface cooking units; microwave ovens; countertop cooking units; and
  range hoods.
 
    Small household appliances: stand mixers; hand mixers; food processors;
  blenders; and toasters.
 
    Other home appliances, products and services: dishwashers; residential
  trash compactors; food waste disposers; hot water dispensers; water
  filtration products; oil radiators; water heaters; kitchen sinks; component
  parts, replacement parts, repair services and warranty contracts; and
  product kits.
 
 Components:
 
    Hermetic compressors: Embraco supplies hermetic compressors to the
  leading manufacturers of refrigeration systems worldwide, including
  Whirlpool Corporation and Multibras.
 
    Plastic components: Multibras da Amazonia manufactures television
  cabinets and other injection-molded plastic components, primarily for the
  brown-goods industry.
 
  The Company purchases a portion of its product requirements from other
manufacturers for resale by the Company. The Company purchases some of its
requirements of automatic washers, washer/dryers, twin-tub washers, automatic
dryers, dishwashers, free-standing ranges, ovens, cooktops, air conditioners,
dehumidifiers, refrigerators, freezers, microwave ovens & trim kits, and hand
mixers, and all of its requirements of certain cooking products, range hoods,
food waste disposers, wine coolers, food processors, and certain other
miscellaneous products from other manufacturers for resale by the Company.
 
  The following table sets forth information regarding the total revenue
contributed by each class of similar products which accounted for 10 percent
or more of the Company's consolidated revenue in 1997, 1996, and 1995:
 

 
  The Company has been the principal supplier of home laundry appliances to
Sears, Roebuck and Co. ("Sears") for over 80 years. The Company is also the
principal supplier to Sears of residential trash compactors, and a major
supplier to Sears of dishwashers and home refrigeration equipment. The Company
also supplies Sears with certain other products for which the Company is not
currently a major supplier. Sales of such other products to Sears are not
significant to the Company's business. The Company supplies products to Sears
for sale under Sears' KENMORE and SEARS brand names. Sears has also been a
major outlet for the Company's WHIRLPOOL and KITCHENAID brand names since
1989.
 
  Major home appliances are marketed and distributed in the United States
under the WHIRLPOOL, KITCHENAID, ROPER, ESTATE, CHAMBERS, and COOLERATOR brand
names through Company-owned sales branches primarily to retailers, buying
groups, and builders. KITCHENAID portable appliances are sold to retailers
either directly or through an independent representative organization. The
Company sells product to the builder trade both directly and through contract
distributors. Major home appliances are manufactured and/or distributed in
Canada under the INGLIS, ADMIRAL, SPEED QUEEN, WHIRLPOOL, ESTATE, ROPER, and
KITCHENAID brand names. Refrigerator-
 

 
freezers, laundry products, room air conditioners, residential trash
compactors, residential and component ice makers, cooking products,
dishwashers, and other products are sold in limited quantities by the Company
to other manufacturers and retailers for resale in North America under their
respective brand names.
 
  In Europe, Whirlpool Europe markets and distributes its major home
appliances under the WHIRLPOOL, BAUKNECHT, IGNIS, ALGOR, and LADEN brand
names. In certain Eastern European countries, products bearing the WHIRLPOOL
and IGNIS brand names are sold through independent distributors. Whirlpool
Europe also has Company-owned sales subsidiaries in Hungary, Poland, the Czech
Republic, Slovakia, Greece, Romania, Bulgaria, Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania, and
Morocco, and a representative office in Russia. Whirlpool Europe owns a
subsidiary in South Africa through which it markets products under the
WHIRLPOOL and KIC brand names.
 
  Whirlpool Europe also sells products carrying the WHIRLPOOL, BAUKNECHT,
IGNIS, ALGOR, and FIDES brand names to the Company's wholly-owned sales
companies in Asia and Latin America and to independent distributors and
dealers in Africa and the Middle East.
 
  In Asia, the Company markets and distributes its major home appliances
through three operating regions: the Greater China region, based in Hong Kong,
which includes the Peoples Republic of China, Taiwan, and Hong Kong; the South
Asia region, based in Delhi, which includes India, Pakistan and other
surrounding markets; and the Asia Pacific Sales Region, which reports
operationally into Whirlpool Europe, and which includes Southeast Asia, Japan,
Korea, the Philippines, Thailand, Australia, and New Zealand. The Company
markets and sells its products in Asia under the WHIRLPOOL, KITCHENAID, IGNIS,
BAUKNECHT, and NARCISSUS brand names, as well as under the SMC and RAYBO brand
names (owned by its joint venture partners and used under license.) By early
1997, the Company had discontinued its previous licensed use of the KELVINATOR
OF INDIA name, the KELVINATOR brand, and the TVS brand. The Company also
discontinued its use of the SNOWFLAKE brand in 1997.
 
  In Latin America, the Company markets and distributes its major home
appliances through regional networks under the WHIRLPOOL, BRASTEMP, CONSUL,
and ESLABON DE LUJO brand names. Appliance sales and distribution in Brazil,
Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Paraguay, Uruguay, and Peru are managed through
subsidiaries owned by Multibras, the Company's Brazilian subsidiary, and
through independent distributors. Appliance sales and distribution in Central
American countries, the Caribbean, Venezuela, and Ecuador are managed through
Whirlpool sales subsidiaries which are part of Whirlpool's North America
Region and through independent distributors. In Colombia, the Company operates
a sales branch which sells and distributes products for the Colombian market.
 
                                  COMPETITION
 
  The major home appliance business is highly competitive. The Company
believes that, in terms of units sold annually, it is the largest United
States manufacturer of home laundry appliances and one of the largest United
States manufacturers of home refrigeration and room air conditioning
equipment, dishwashers, and cooking products. The Company estimates that
during 1997 with respect to U.S. manufacturers, there were approximately five
manufacturers of home laundry appliances, ten manufacturers of room air
conditioning equipment, five manufacturers of home refrigeration equipment,
five manufacturers of dishwashers, and five manufacturers of cooking products.
Competition in the North American major home appliance business is based on a
wide variety of factors, including principally product features, price,
product quality and performance, service, warranty, advertising, and
promotion.
 
  The Company believes that Whirlpool Europe, in terms of units sold annually,
is one of the three largest manufacturers and marketers of major home
appliance products in Europe. The Company estimates that during 1997 there
were approximately 35 European manufacturers of major home appliances, the
majority of which manufacture a limited range of products for a specific
geographic region. In recent years, there has been significant merger and
acquisition activity as manufacturers seek to broaden product lines and expand
geographic markets, and the Company believes that this trend will continue.
The Company believes that, with Whirlpool
 

 
Europe, it is in a favorable position relative to its competitors because it
has an experienced European sales network, balanced sales throughout the
European market under well-recognized brand names, manufacturing facilities
located in different countries, and the ability to customize its products to
meet the specific needs of diverse consumer groups. Competition in the
European major home appliance business is based on a wide variety of factors,
including principally product features, price, product quality and
performance, service, warranty, advertising, and promotion. With respect to
microwave ovens, Western European manufacturers face competition from
manufacturers in Asia, primarily Japan, China and South Korea.
 
  In Asia, the major domestic appliance market is characterized by rapid
growth and is dominated primarily by Asian diversified industrial
manufacturers whose significant size and scope of operations enable them to
achieve economies of scale. The Company estimates that during 1997 there were
approximately 50 manufacturers of major home appliances competing in the Asian
market. Competition in the Asian home appliance business is based on a wide
variety of factors including principally local production capabilities,
product features, price, product quality, and performance.
 
  The Company believes that it is well-positioned in the Latin American
appliance market due to its ability to offer a broad range of products under
well-recognized brand names such as WHIRLPOOL, BRASTEMP, CONSUL, and ESLABON
DE LUJO to meet the specific requirements of consumers in the region. The
Company estimates that during 1997 there were approximately 65 manufacturers
of home appliances in the region. Competition in the Latin American home
appliance business is based on a wide variety of factors, including
principally product features, price, product quality and performance, service,
warranty, advertising, and promotion. In Latin America there are trends toward
privatization of government-owned businesses and a liberalization of
investment and trade restrictions. In addition, the Company exports products
to the Latin American market under the WHIRLPOOL brand name.
 
  As a result of its global expansion, the Company believes it may have a
competitive advantage by reason of its ability to leverage engineering
capabilities across regions, transfer best practices, and economically
purchase raw materials and component parts in large volumes.
 
                                   EMPLOYEES
 
  The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries had approximately 61,000
employees as of December 31, 1997.
 
                               OTHER INFORMATION
 
  On November 3, 1997, the Company acquired a controlling equity interest in
Brasmotor S.A., the Company's long-time partner in Latin America and the
parent company of certain Latin American manufacturers of major home
appliances and components (Multibras and Embraco). As a result of its
acquisition, the Company now includes Brasmotor in its consolidated financial
statements rather than as an equity interest. The Company has a minority
equity interest in a Mexican manufacturer of home appliances and components.
In China, the Company has majority interests in joint venture companies that
manufacture air conditioners, microwave ovens, and automatic washing machines
for sale and distribution in their home countries and for export. The Company
also has a minority equity interest in China in a compressor manufacturing
joint venture between its Brazilian subsidiary and a company in China which
manufactures refrigeration products. The Company received final government
approval of its exit from its Chinese joint venture company that manufactures
refrigeration products. The Company continues to consider alternatives,
including possible sale or strategic alliance, for its Chinese joint venture
company that manufactures air conditioning products. In India, the Company has
a majority interest in a company that produces refrigeration products and
washing machines for the Indian market and for export to the rest of Asia. The
Company also has a minority equity interest in a Taiwanese marketer and
distributor of home appliances. The company has a significant minority equity
interest in a major manufacturer of kitchen furniture in Germany which is also
a major trade customer of the Company. In addition, the Company furnishes
engineering, manufacturing and marketing assistance to certain foreign
manufacturers of home laundry and refrigeration equipment and other major home
appliances for negotiated fees.
 

 
  The Company's interests outside the United States and Western Europe are
subject to risks which may be greater than or in addition to those risks which
are currently present in the United States and Western Europe. Such risks may
include: high inflation; the need for governmental approval of and
restrictions on certain financial and other corporate transactions and new or
continued business operations; the convertibility of local currencies;
government price controls; restrictions on the remittance of dividends,
interest, royalties, and other payments; restrictions on imports and exports;
duties; political and economic developments and instability; the possibility
of expropriation; uncertainty as to the enforceability of commercial rights
and trademarks; and various types of local participation in ownership.
 
  In Brazil, the Company's subsidiaries were profitable in 1997 despite a
decrease in consumer demand versus 1996. These results are due in part to
successful efforts to control cost and boost productivity. However, issues
such as unemployment, increasing interest rates, limited consumer credit, and
exchange rate changes continue to affect consumer purchasing power and the
appliance industry as a whole.
 
  The recent instability of Asian currencies may adversely affect the
Company's performance in certain Asian markets, primarily due to the reduced
profitability of import product sales and decreased consumer confidence.
Economic growth in the region may be adversely affected through 1998 and
beyond. The Company's exposure to such risks was reduced as a result of its
recent restructuring activities.
 
  The Company is generally not dependent upon any one source for raw materials
or purchased components essential to its business. In those areas where a
single supplier is used, alternative sources are generally available and can
be developed within the normal manufacturing environment, although some
unanticipated costs may be incurred in transitioning to a new supplier where a
prior single supplier is abruptly terminated. While there are pricing
pressures on some materials and significant demand for certain components, it
is believed that such raw materials and components will be available in
adequate quantities to meet anticipated production schedules.
 
  Patents presently owned by the Company are considered, in the aggregate, to
be important to the conduct of the Company's business. The Company is licensed
under a number of patents, none of which individually is considered material
to its business. The Company is the owner of a number of trademarks and the
U.S. and foreign registrations thereof. The most important for its North
American operations are the trademarks WHIRLPOOL, KITCHENAID, the KITCHENAID
Mixer Shape, ROPER, and INGLIS. Whirlpool Europe, through its subsidiaries, is
also the owner of a number of trademarks and the foreign registrations
thereof. The most important trademarks owned by Whirlpool Europe are
BAUKNECHT, IGNIS, and LADEN. The most important trademark for the Company's
European, Asian and Latin American operations is WHIRLPOOL. The most important
trademark licensed to the Company's subsidiaries is the trademark PHILIPS and
the PHILIPS shield emblem, which can be used exclusively on major home
appliances by such subsidiaries until July 31, 1998. In the event of a change
in control of the Company, Philips ("Philips") has the option to terminate the
use by the Company's subsidiaries of the trademark PHILIPS and the PHILIPS
shield emblem. Pursuant to the agreement whereby the Company purchased most of
Whirlpool Europe's business from Philips, except for certain limited
exceptions and subject to certain phase-out provisions, neither Philips nor
any subsidiary of Philips may engage directly or indirectly in the major
domestic appliance business anywhere in the world until July 31, 1998.
 
  The Company believes that its business, in the aggregate, is not seasonal.
Certain of its products, however, sell more heavily in some seasons than in
others. For example, air conditioners typically sell more heavily during
summer months. Where appropriate, the Company manages its regional
manufacturing operations and product inventories to address seasonal
variations in demand.
 
  Backlogs of the Company's products are filled and renewed relatively
frequently in each year and are not significant in relation to the Company's
annual sales. However, with respect to Asia, marked seasonality of certain
product sales, combined with less efficient modes of distribution in that
region, can result in significant inventory backlogs.
 

 
  Expenditures for Company-sponsored research and engineering activities
relating to the development of new products and the improvement of existing
products are included in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements in the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Customer-sponsored research activities relating to the development of new
products, services or techniques, or the improvement of existing products,
services, or techniques are not material.
 
  The Company's manufacturing facilities are subject to numerous laws and
regulations designed to protect or enhance the environment, many of which
require federal, state or other governmental licenses and permits with regard
to wastewater discharges, air emissions, and hazardous waste management. These
laws are continually changing and, as a general matter, are becoming more
restrictive. The Company's policy is to seek to comply with all such laws and
regulations.
 
  The Company believes that it is in compliance in all material respects with
all presently applicable federal, state, local, and other provisions relating
to environmental protection in the countries in which it has manufacturing
operations. Capital expenditures and expenses attributable to compliance with
such provisions worldwide amounted to approximately $58 million in 1995, $50
million in 1996, and $48 million in 1997. The Company anticipates that such
capital expenditures and expenses will aggregate approximately $57 million in
1998. Much of the decrease from 1995 to 1997 is attributable to the phase-out
of chloroflourocarbons ("CFCs") and is associated with the elimination of
taxes on CFC's (CFC's were eliminated from the Company's products in the
United States prior to December 31, 1995). The anticipated increase from 1997
to 1998 is associated with investments related to the phase-out of CFC's in
South America. The Company is using a global environmental management process
to assist in achieving its goals of producing environmentally compatible
products, better integrating environmental considerations into the Company's
product design and employee training, and improving the Company's ability to
monitor its management of environmental, health, and safety affairs.
 
  The entire United States home appliance industry, including the Company,
must contend with the adoption of stricter governmental energy and
environmental standards to be phased in over the next several years. These
include the general phase-out of CFCs used in refrigeration and energy
standards rulemakings for other selected major appliances produced by the
Company. Enactment of federal energy standards is uncertain at this time due
to funding and rulemaking restrictions being considered for the Department of
Energy by the U.S. Congress. Compliance with these various standards as they
become effective will require some product redesign.
 
  As in the United States, Whirlpool Europe is also dealing with anticipated
regulations and rules regarding improved efficiency and energy usage for its
products. The Company believes it is well positioned to field products that
comply with these anticipated regulations. In most Asian and Latin American
countries, the Company has until 2010 to eliminate CFCs from its products.
Whirlpool's Asian operations are also well positioned to meet anticipated
efficiency and energy usage regulations.
 
  The Company has been notified by state and federal environmental protection
agencies of its possible involvement in a number of so-called "Superfund"
sites in the United States. However, the Company does not presently anticipate
any material adverse effect upon the Company's earnings or financial condition
arising out of the resolution of these matters or the resolution of any other
known governmental proceeding regarding environmental protection matters. The
Company has completed environmental assessments of its European facilities
acquired as a result of the Company's purchase of the Major Domestic Appliance
division of Philips. The Company does not presently anticipate any material
adverse effect upon the Company's earnings or financial condition arising out
of the resolution of these matters. The Company has also evaluated several
recently acquired facilities in China and India. The Company does not
presently anticipate any material adverse effect upon the Company's earnings
or financial condition from the environmental condition of these facilities.
 
  The Company does not anticipate any material adverse effect on its
operations or performance as a result of the Year 2000 computer software
issue. The Company is evaluating its products for Year 2000 compliance and
does not anticipate that any significant problems will be experienced due to
the Year 2000 issue. Key internal computer systems have been evaluated for
Year 2000 compliance and regional remediation plans have been
 

 
completed. Work is underway to replace or upgrade key internal systems to
ensure they remain operational up to and beyond December 31, 1999. The Company
anticipates that Year 2000 remediation projects will be successfully completed
according to plan and that the costs of such projects will not be material to
the Company.
 
  In an effort to enhance productivity and business systems performance, the
Company is implementing an integrated business software package to replace and
consolidate many of its existing stand-alone systems. In certain Latin
American and European countries, implementation of the new system is expected
to be completed prior to the end of 1999, while implementation in North
America is scheduled to occur over the next 3 years.
 
  The following table sets forth the names of the Company's executive officers
at December 31, 1997, the positions and offices with the Company held by them
at such date, the year they first became officers, and their ages at December
31, 1997:
 

 
  Each of the executive officers named above was elected to serve in the
office indicated until the first meeting of the Board of Directors following
the annual meeting of stockholders in 1998 and until his successor is chosen
and qualified or until his earlier resignation or removal.
 
  Each of the executive officers of the Company has held the position set
forth in the table above or has served the Company in various executive or
administrative capacities for at least the past five years, except for:
 

 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
 
  The principal executive offices of Whirlpool Corporation are located in
Benton Harbor, Michigan. At December 31, 1997, the principal manufacturing and
service operations of the Company were carried on at 48 locations worldwide,
36 of which are located in 12 countries outside the United States. The Company
occupied a total of approximately 37 million square feet devoted to
manufacturing, service, administrative offices, warehouse, distribution and
sales space. Over 10.5 million square feet of such space is occupied under
lease. In general, all such facilities are well maintained, suitably equipped
and in good operating condition. In 1997, a new manufacturing plant was opened
in Pune, India and began limited operations in December.
 

 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.
 
  As of, and during the quarter ended, December 31, 1997, there were no
material pending legal proceedings to which the Company or any of its
subsidiaries was a party or to which any of their property was subject.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.
 
  There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders in the fourth
quarter of 1997.
 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.
 
  The Company's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange, the
Chicago Stock Exchange, and the London Stock Exchange.
 
  At March 2, 1998, the number of holders of record of the Company's common
stock was approximately  14,468.
 
  High and low sales prices (as reported on the New York Stock Exchange
composite tape) and cash dividends declared and paid for the Company's common
stock for each quarter during the years 1996 and 1997 are set forth in Note 16
of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which
is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.
 
  The selected financial data for the five years ended December 31, 1997 with
respect to the following line items shown under the "Eleven Year Consolidated
Statistical Review" in the Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference
and made a part of this report: Total revenues; earnings from continuing
operations before accounting change; earnings from continuing operations
before accounting change per share of common stock; dividends paid per share
of common stock; total assets; and long-term debt. See the material
incorporated herein by reference in response to Item 7 of this report for a
discussion of the effects on such data of business combinations and other
acquisitions, disposition and restructuring activity, restructuring costs,
accounting changes, and earnings of foreign affiliates.
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.
 
  The Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and
Financial Condition in the Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference
and made a part of this report.
 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.
 
  The consolidated financial statements of the Company in the Annual Report
are incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this report.
Supplementary financial information regarding quarterly results of operations
(unaudited) for the years ended December 31, 1997 and 1996 is set forth in
Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. For a list of
financial statements and schedules filed as part of this report, see the
"Index to Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule(s)" beginning
on page F-1.
 
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
 
  None.
 

 
                                   PART III
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.
 
  Information with respect to directors of the Company is incorporated herein
by reference to the information under the caption "Directors and Nominees for
Election as Directors" in the Company's proxy statement for the 1998 annual
meeting of stockholders (SEC File No. 1-3932) (the "Proxy Statement").
Information with respect to executive officers of the Company is set forth in
Part I of this report.
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.
 
  Information with respect to compensation of executive officers and directors
of the Company is incorporated herein by reference to the information under
the captions "Executive Compensation" and "Compensation of Directors" in the
Proxy Statement.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.
 
  Information with respect to security ownership by the only person(s) known
to the Company to beneficially own more than 5 percent of the Company's stock
and by each director of the Company and all directors and elected officers of
the Company as a group is incorporated herein by reference to the information
under the caption "Security Ownership" in the Proxy Statement.
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
 
  Information with respect to certain transactions with executive officers and
directors of the Company and others is incorporated herein by reference to the
information under the caption "Certain Transactions" in the Proxy Statement.
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.
 
  (a) The following documents are filed as a part of this report:
 
    1. The financial statements listed in the "Index to Financial Statements
  and Financial Statement Schedules."
 
    2. The financial statement schedule listed in the "Index to Financial
  Statements and Financial Statement Schedules."
 
    3. The exhibits listed in the "Index to Exhibits."
 
  (b) Reports on Form 8-K filed during the fourth quarter of 1997.
 
    1. A Current Report on Form 8-K for October 15, 1997 pursuant to Item 5--
  "Other Events" announced the Company's third quarter 1997 earnings, and the
  Company's sale of certain assets of Whirlpool Financial Corporation ("WFC")
  to Transamerica Distribution Finance Corporation ("TDF").
 
    2. A Current Report on Form 8-K for November 1, 1997 pursuant to Item 2--
  "Acquisition or Disposition of Assets" announced the sale of certain
  additional WFC assets to TDF, and pursuant to Item 5--"Other Events"
  announced the acquisition of approximately 33% of the voting shares of
  Brasmotor S.A. Included were an unaudited pro forma condensed balance sheet
  as of September 30, 1997 and unaudited pro forma condensed statements of
  earnings for the year ended December 31, 1996 and for the nine months ended
  September 30, 1997.
 
    3. A Current Report on Form 8-K for December 1, 1997 pursuant to Item 5--
  "Other Events" announced the resignation of Eileen A. Kamerick as Vice
  President and Treasurer, and the naming of Brian F. Peters as her
  successor, and the resignation of Daniel Miller, Executive Vice President,
  Whirlpool Latin America.
 

 
    4. A Current Report on Form 8-K for December 9, 1997 pursuant to Item 5--
  "Other Events" announced the resignation of John P. Cunningham as Executive
  Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and the naming of Ralph F. Hake
  as his successor.
 
  (c) Exhibits.
 
    1. The following exhibits are included herein:
 
      (11) Computation of per share earnings.
 
      (12) Computation of the ratios of earnings to fixed charges.
 
      (27) Financial Data Schedule.
 
    2. The response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted as a separate
  section of this report.
 
  (d) Financial Statement Schedules.
 
    The response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted as a separate
  section of this report.
 

 
                                  SIGNATURES
 
  PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED
ON ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.
 
                                          Whirlpool Corporation
                                          (Registrant)
 
                                                  /s/ Ralph F. Hake
                                          By: _________________________________
                                                      Ralph F. Hake
                                              (Principal Financial Officer)
                                             Senior Executive Vice President
                                            of Operations and Chief Financial
                                                         Officer
 
  PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS
REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE
REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE DATE INDICATED.
 

 
 

 

 
    /s/ Daniel F. Hopp
*By: __________________________
        Daniel F. Hopp
       Attorney-in-Fact
 

 
                          ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
 
                       ITEMS 14(A) (1) AND (2) AND 14(D)
 
       INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE(S)
 
                         YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997
 
              WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
  The following consolidated financial statements of the registrant and its
consolidated subsidiaries, set forth in the Annual Report, are incorporated
herein by reference in Item 8:
 
    Consolidated balance sheets--December 31, 1997 and 1996
 
    Consolidated statements of earnings--Three years ended December 31,
 
    Consolidated statements of cash flows--Three years ended December 31,
 
    Notes to consolidated financial statements
 
  The following reports of independent auditors and consolidated financial
statement schedules of the registrant and its consolidated subsidiaries are
submitted herewith in response to Items 14(a) (2) and 14(d):
 

 
  Individual financial statements of the registrant's affiliated foreign
companies, accounted for by the equity method, have been omitted since no such
company individually constitutes a significant subsidiary. Summarized
financial information relating to the affiliated companies is set forth in
Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements incorporated by
reference herein.
 
  Certain schedules for which provisions are made in the applicable accounting
regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission are not required under
the related instructions or are inapplicable, and therefore have been omitted.
 
                                      F-1

 
                       [LETTERHEAD OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP]


                         Report Of Independent Auditors
                                        


The Stockholders and Board of Directors
Whirlpool Corporation
Benton Harbor, Michigan

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Whirlpool
Corporation as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, and the related consolidated
statements of earnings and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 1997.  These financial statements are the responsibility of
the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.  We did not audit the financial
statements of Brasmotor S.A. and its consolidated subsidiaries, which statements
reflect total assets of $2,200 million and $2,100 million as of December 31,
1997 and 1996, respectively and net earnings of $41 million and $120 million for
the years ended December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively.  Those statements were
audited by other auditors whose reports have been furnished to us, and our
opinion, insofar as it relates to data included for Brasmotor S.A. and its
consolidated subsidiaries, is based solely on the reports of the other auditors.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing 
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe our audits and the reports of the other auditors provide a reasonable
basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, based on our audits and the reports of the other auditors, the
financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects,
the consolidated financial position of Whirlpool Corporation at December 31,
1997 and 1996, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1997, in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles.


/s/ Ernst & Young L.L.P.


Chicago, Illinois
January 26, 1998


                                      F-2
 

 
     Report of Independent Accountants


     January 23, 1998

     To the Board of Directors and Stockholders
     Brasmotor S.A.



1    We have audited the consolidated balance sheets of Brasmotor S.A. and its
     subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997 and 1996 and the related consolidated
     statements of earnings, of movement in stockholders' equity and of cash
     flows for the years then ended, expressed in U.S. dollars (not presented
     herein). Such audits were made in conjunction with our audits of the
     financial statements expressed in local currency on which we issued an
     unqualified opinion dated January 23, 1998. These financial statements are
     the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to
     express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We
     did not audit the financial statements of Whirlpool Argentina S.A., which
     statements reflect total assets of US$ 119,549 thousand and US$ 98,444
     thousand as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively and net earnings of
     US$ 9,487 thousand and US$ 4,710 thousand for the years ended December 31,
     1997 and 1996, respectively. Those statements were audited by other
     auditors whose reports have been furnished to us, and our opinion, insofar
     as it relates to data included for Whirlpool Argentina S.A., is based
     solely on the reports of the other auditors.

2    We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
     accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we
     plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
     financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
     examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures
     in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
     accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as
     well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe
     that our audits and the reports of the other auditors provide a reasonable
     basis for our opinion.


                                      F-3

 
     January 23, 1998
     Brasmotor S.A.
     Page 2


3    As stated in Note 1, Whirlpool Corporation has prescribed that accounting
     principles generally accepted in the United States of America be applied in
     the preparation of the consolidated financial statements of Brasmotor S.A.
     and its subsidiaries to be included in Whirlpool's consolidated financial
     statements. Brazil has a highly inflationary economy. Accounting principles
     generally accepted in the United States of America require that financial
     statements of a company denominated in the currency of a country with a
     highly inflationary economy be remeasured into a more stable currency unit
     for purposes of consolidation. Accordingly, the accounts of Brasmotor S.A.
     and its Brazilian subsidiaries, which are maintained in reais, were
     remeasured and adjusted into U.S. dollars for the financial statements
     prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
     United States of America, on the bases stated in Note 1.

4    In our opinion, based on our audits and the reports of the other auditors,
     the consolidated financial statements expressed in U.S. dollars audited by
     us are presented fairly, in all material respects, on the bases stated in
     Note 1 and discussed in the preceding paragraph.



     /s/ Price Waterhouse



                                      F-4

 
     Report of Independent Accountants


     January 23, 1998

     To the Board of Directors and Stockholders
     Empresa Brasileira de Compressores S.A. - EMBRACO



1    We have audited the consolidated balance sheets of Empresa Brasileira de
     Compressores S.A. - EMBRACO and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997
     and 1996 and the related consolidated statements of earnings, of movement
     in stockholders' equity and of cash flows for the years then ended,
     expressed in U.S. dollars (not presented herein). Such audits were made in
     conjunction with our audits of the financial statements expressed in local
     currency on which we issued an unqualified opinion dated January 23, 1998.
     These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
     management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
     statements based on our audits.

2    We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
     accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we
     plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
     financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
     examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures
     in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
     accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as
     well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe
     that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.



                                      F-5

 
     January 23, 1998
     Empresa Brasileira de Compressores S.A. - EMBRACO
     Page 2


3    As stated in Note 1, Whirlpool Corporation has prescribed that accounting
     principles generally accepted in the United States of America be applied in
     the preparation of the consolidated financial statements of Empresa
     Brasileira de Compressores S.A. - EMBRACO and its subsidiaries to be
     included in Whirlpool's consolidated financial statements. Brazil has a
     highly inflationary economy. Accounting principles generally accepted in
     the United States of America require that financial statements of a company
     denominated in the currency of a country with a highly inflationary economy
     be remeasured into a more stable currency unit for purposes of
     consolidation. Accordingly, the accounts of Empresa Brasileira de
     Compressores S.A. - EMBRACO and its Brazilian subsidiaries, which are
     maintained in reais, were remeasured and adjusted into U.S. dollars for the
     financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles
     generally accepted in the United States of America, on the bases stated in
     Note 1.

4    In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements expressed in U.S.
     dollars audited by us are presented fairly, in all material respects, on
     the bases stated in Note 1 and discussed in the preceding paragraph.



     /s/ Price Waterhouse



                                      F-6

 
     Report of Independent Accountants


     January 23, 1998

     To the Board of Directors and Stockholders
     Multibras S.A. Eletrodomesticos



1    We have audited the consolidated balance sheets of Multibras S.A.
     Eletrodomesticos and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997 and 1996 and
     the related consolidated statements of earnings, of movement in
     stockholders' equity and of cash flows for the years then ended, expressed
     in U.S. dollars (not presented herein). Such audits were made in
     conjunction with our audits of the financial statements expressed in local
     currency on which we issued an unqualified opinion dated January 23, 1998.
     These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
     management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
     statements based on our audits. We did not audit the financial statements
     of Whirlpool Argentina S.A. , which statements reflect total assets of US$
     119,549 thousand as of December 31, 1997 and net earnings of US$ 9,487
     thousand for the year ended December 31, 1997. Those statements were
     audited by other auditors whose report has been furnished to us, and our
     opinion, insofar as it relates to data included for Whirlpool Argentina
     S.A. is based solely on the report of the other auditors.

2    We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
     accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we
     plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
     financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
     examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures
     in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
     accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as
     well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe
     that our audits and the report of the other auditors provide a reasonable
     basis for our opinion.



                                      F-7

 
     January 23, 1998
     Multibras S.A. Eletrodomesticos
     Page 2


3    As stated in Note 1, Whirlpool Corporation has prescribed that accounting
     principles generally accepted in the United States of America be applied in
     the preparation of the consolidated financial statements of Multibras S.A.
     Eletrodomesticos and its subsidiaries to be included in Whirlpool's
     consolidated financial statements. Brazil has a highly inflationary
     economy. Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
     America require that financial statements of a company denominated in the
     currency of a country with a highly inflationary economy be remeasured into
     a more stable currency unit for purposes of consolidation. Accordingly, the
     accounts of Multibras S.A. Eletrodomesticos and its Brazilian subsidiaries,
     which are maintained in reais, were remeasured and adjusted into U.S.
     dollars for the financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting
     principles generally accepted in the United States of America, on the bases
     stated in Note 1.

4    In our opinion, based on our audits and the report of the other auditors, 
     the consolidated financial statements expressed in U.S. dollars audited by
     us are presented fairly, in all material respects, on the bases stated in
     Note 1 and discussed in the preceding paragraph.



     /s/ Price Waterhouse



                                      F-8

 
                 SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 
                     WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                 YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997, 1996, AND 1995
 
                             (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)
 

- --------
Note A--The amount represents the allowance for doubtful accounts balance on
the balance sheet of Brasmotor S.A. at the time of consolidation in 1997.
 
Note B--The amounts represent accounts charged off, less recoveries of $15 in
1997, $7 in 1996, and $5 in 1995, and translation adjustments.
 
Note C--The amounts represent accounts charged off, less recoveries of $4 in
1997, and $3 in 1996 and 1995.
 
Note D--The amount represents the restructuring provision on the balance sheet
of Brasmotor S.A. at the time of consolidation in 1997.
 
Note E--Includes cash payments for employee severance and related costs, lease
terminations, facility dispositions and other cash costs; write-down of
facilities, equipment and other assets; and translation adjustments.
 
                                      F-9

 
                EXHIBIT 11 - COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS PER SHARE
 
                    WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
              (ALL AMOUNTS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT EARNINGS PER SHARE)
 

- --------
(a) Using the average market price per share of stock for the period; effect
    of stock options precipitates an anti-dilutive calculation in 1997, and
    therefore not included; convertible debt retired in 1997.
 
                                     F-10

 
                 EXHIBIT 12--RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES
 
                     WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
 

 
                                      F-11

 
                EXHIBIT 12 - RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES
 
                     WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
 

 
                                      F-12

 
                           ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
 
                            ITEMS 14(A)(3) AND 14(C)
 
                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 
                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997
 
  The following exhibits are submitted herewith or incorporated herein by
reference in response to Items 14(a)(3) and 14(c):
 

 
 
                                      E-1

 

- --------
*  This information appears only in the manually signed originals of the Form
   10-K and conformed copies with exhibits.
 
                                      E-2

