10-K405


w53808e10-k405.htm

CAMPBELL SOUP FORM 10-K

e10-k405


SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

___________________________________________

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D)

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the Fiscal Year Ended

July 29, 2001

Commission File Number

1-3822

New Jersey

State of Incorporation

21-0419870

I.R.S. Employer Identification No.

Campbell Place

Camden, New Jersey 08103-1799

Principal Executive Offices

Telephone Number: (856) 342-4800

___________________________________________

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of Each Class

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered

Capital Stock, par value $.0375

New York Stock Exchange

Philadelphia Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

___________________________________________

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes

No

.

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this
Form 10-K. [

]

As of September 18, 2001, the aggregate market value of capital stock held by
non-affiliates of the Registrant was
$6,533,913,364. There were 409,520,604 shares of capital stock outstanding as
of September 18, 2001.

Portions of the Annual Report to Shareowners for the fiscal year ended
July 29, 2001 are incorporated by reference into Parts I and II. Portions of
the Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement dated October 10, 2001, for
the Annual Meeting of Shareowners to be held on November 16, 2001, are
incorporated by reference into Part III.



PART I

Item 1. Business

The Company

Campbell Soup Company (“Campbell” or the “company”), together with its
consolidated subsidiaries, is a global manufacturer and marketer of high
quality, branded convenience food products. Campbell was incorporated as a
business corporation under the laws of New Jersey on November 23, 1922;
however, through predecessor organizations, it traces its heritage in the food
business back to 1869.

The company operates in three business segments: Soup and Sauces, Biscuits and
Confectionery, and Away From Home. The Soup and Sauces segment includes the
worldwide soup businesses that are comprised of, among others,

Campbell’s

soups
worldwide,

Erasco

soups in Germany,

Liebig

soups in France, the European dry
soup and sauce business under the

Batchelors

,

Oxo

,

Lesieur

,

Royco

,

Liebig

,

Heisse Tasse

,

Blå Band

and

McDonnells

brands,

Prego

spaghetti sauce

,
Franco-American

pastas and gravies,

Pace

Mexican sauces,

Swanson

broths and
canned poultry,

Homepride

sauces in the United Kingdom and the

V8

and

V8 Splash

beverage businesses. The Biscuits and Confectionery segment includes the
Pepperidge Farm cookies and crackers business, the Godiva Chocolatier business
and Arnotts biscuit business. The Away From Home segment represents products,
including

Campbell’s

soups

, Pace

picante sauce and

Campbell’s Specialty
Kitchens

entrees, which are distributed to the food service and home meal
replacement markets.

On July 27, 2001, the company announced that its board of directors approved a
series of investment initiatives aimed at strengthening the company’s position
in the soup, sauces, beverages and indulgent snack categories, both in the
United States and internationally. A majority of this investment is intended
to go to the company’s U.S. soup business and to focus on improved product
quality, increased marketing and accelerated innovation.

Specific elements of this investment plan include:

•

the anticipated increase in total marketing investment by 15%, or
approximately $200 million, to fund new product launches and increased
advertising and consumer promotion;

•

the projected spending of approximately $300 million on capital
improvements in fiscal 2002, an increase in capital improvement spending
of approximately $100 million from fiscal 2001; and

•

the anticipated increase in investments related to research and
development, product and packaging innovation and overall organizational
capabilities.

The company also plans to reduce its dividend by approximately 30%, from
$0.90 to $0.63 per share. The company’s new dividend payout ratio will be
approximately 50%.

The company’s new soup investment plan includes:

•

significant quality upgrades for the company’s eating and cooking soup varieties;

•

the phase-in of easy-open lids across the entire condensed soup line;

•

new “Pop ‘N Pour” lids for

Swanson

broths;

•

increased advertising spending focused on the company’s condensed
soups,

Campbell’s Chunky

and

Campbell’s Select

brands ready-to-serve
soups; and



•

targeted innovation, including testing of a new line of sipping soups
for away from home consumption.

Beyond soup, the company’s additional strategic priorities include:

See also “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and
Financial Condition” and the company’s Consolidated Financial Statements (and
the Notes thereto) at pages 31 to 53 of the company’s 2001 Annual Report to
Shareowners for the fiscal year ended July 29, 2001 (“2001 Annual Report”),
which is incorporated herein by reference.

Ingredients

The ingredients required for the manufacture of the company’s food products are
purchased from various suppliers. The company does not anticipate any material
restrictions on availability or shortages of ingredients that would have a
significant impact on the company’s businesses.

While all such ingredients are available from numerous independent suppliers,
raw materials are subject to fluctuations in price attributable to a number of
factors, including changes in crop size, cattle cycles, government-sponsored
agricultural programs and weather conditions during the growing and harvesting
seasons. Ingredient inventories are at a peak during the late fall and decline
during the winter and spring. Since many ingredients of suitable quality are
available in sufficient quantities only at certain seasons, the company makes
commitments for the purchase of such ingredients during their respective
seasons.

Customers

In the United States, sales solicitation activities are conducted by the
company’s own sales force and through broker and distributor arrangements. The
company’s products are generally resold to
consumers in retail stores, restaurants and other food service establishments.
No material part of the business is dependent upon a single customer.
Shipments are made promptly by the company after receipt and acceptance of
orders.

Trademarks And Technology

Trademarks are considered to be of material importance to the company’s
business. Principal trademarks include

Campbell’s

,

Erasco

,

Liebig

,

Pepperidge
Farm

,

V8

,

V8 Splash

,

Pace

,

Prego

,

Swanson

,

Franco-American

,

Homepride

,

Arnott’s

,

Godiva

,

Batchelors

,

Devos Lemmens, Oxo

,

Lesieur

,

Royco

,

Heisse Tasse

,

Blå Band

, and

McDonnells

. These trademarks are of significant importance to
the company and its subsidiaries within their markets. The company’s rights in
these trademarks
endure for as long as they are used or registered, except with respect to

Lesieur

, which the company has licensed through at least 2014.



Although the company owns a number of valuable patents, it does not regard any
segment of its business as being dependent upon any single patent or any group
of related patents.

Competition

The company experiences vigorous competition for sales of its principal
products in its major markets, both within the United States and abroad, from
numerous competitors of varying sizes. The principal areas of competition are
quality, price, advertising, promotion and service.

Working Capital

For information relating to the company’s cash and other working capital items,
see pages 31 through 37 of the company’s 2001 Annual Report in the section
entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and
Financial Condition”, which are incorporated herein by reference.

Research And Development

During the last three fiscal years, the company’s expenditures on research
activities relating to new products and the improvement of existing products
were approximately $63 million in 2001, $64 million in 2000 and $66 million in
1999.

Employees

At July 29, 2001, there were approximately 24,000 persons employed full-time by
the company.

Financial Information

For information with respect to revenue, operating profitability and
identifiable assets attributable to the company’s business segments and
geographic areas, see pages 43 to 44 of the 2001 Annual Report in the section
of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements entitled “Business and
Geographic Segment Information”, which are incorporated herein by reference.

Forward-Looking Statements

From time to time, the company makes oral and written statements which reflect
the company’s current expectations regarding future results of operations,
economic performance, financial condition and achievements of the company. The
company tries, wherever possible, to identify these forward looking statements
by using words such as “anticipate”, “believe”, “estimate”, “expect” and
similar expressions. These statements reflect the company’s current plans and
expectations and are based on information currently available to it. They rely
on a number of assumptions and estimates which could be inaccurate and which
are subject to risks and uncertainties.

Campbell wishes to caution the reader that the following important factors and
those important factors described in other Securities and Exchange Commission
filings of the company, or in the company’s 2001 Annual Report, could affect
the company’s actual results and could cause such results to vary materially
from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf
of, the company:

•

the impact of strong competitive response to the company’s
efforts to leverage its brand power with product innovation,
promotional programs and new advertising;

•

the inherent risks in the marketplace associated with trade and
consumer acceptance of product improvements and new product
introductions;



This discussion of uncertainties is by no means exhaustive but is designed to
highlight important factors that may impact the company’s outlook. The company
disclaims any obligation or intent to update any forward-looking statements
made by the company in order to reflect events or circumstances after the date
they are made.



Item 2. Properties

The company’s principal executive offices and main research facilities are
company-owned and located in Camden, New Jersey. The following table sets
forth the company’s principal manufacturing facilities:

Principal Manufacturing Facilities

Inside the U.S.

Outside the U.S.

California

Ohio

Australia

Germany

•

Dixon

•

Napoleon

•

Burwood

•

Luebeck

•

Sacramento

•

Wauseon

•

Huntingwood

•

Gerwisch

•

Stockton

•

Willard

•

Marleston

Indonesia

Connecticut

Pennsylvania

•

Shepparton

•

Jawa Barat

•

Norwalk

•

Denver

•

Virginia

Ireland

Florida

•

Downingtown

Belgium

•

Drogheda

•

Lakeland

•

Reading

•

Puurs

Malaysia

Illinois

South
Carolina

Canada

•

Selangor Darul Ehsan

•

Downers Grove

•

Aiken

•

Listowel

Mexico

Michigan

Texas

•

Toronto

•

Villagran

•

Marshall

•

Paris

United
Kingdom

•

Guasave

New Jersey

Utah

•

Ashford

Netherlands

•

South Plainfield

•

Richmond

•

King's Lynn

•

Utrecht

North
Carolina

Washington

•

Worksop

Papua New
Guinea

•

Maxton

•

Woodinville

France

•

Gordons

Wisconsin

•

LePontet

•

Malahang Lae

•

Milwaukee

•

Dunkirk

Sweden

•

Kristianstadt

Each of the foregoing manufacturing facilities is company-owned, except that
the Utrecht, Netherlands facility and portions of the Ashford, United Kingdom
facility are subject to long-term leases. The company also operates retail
confectionery shops in the United States, Canada, Europe and Asia; retail
bakery thrift stores in the United States; and other plants, facilities and
offices at various locations in the United States and abroad.

Management believes that the company’s manufacturing and processing plants are
well maintained and are generally adequate to support the current operations of
the businesses.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

In management’s opinion, there are no pending claims or litigation, the outcome
of which would have a material effect on the consolidated results of
operations, financial position or cash flows of the company.

As previously reported, ten purported class action lawsuits were commenced
against Campbell Soup Company and certain of its officers in the United States
District Court for the District of New Jersey.



The lawsuits were subsequently
consolidated, and an amended consolidated complaint was filed alleging, among
other things, that Campbell and certain of its officers misrepresented the
company’s financial condition between September 8, 1997 and January 8, 1999, by
failing to disclose alleged shipping and revenue recognition practices in
connection with the sale of certain company products at the end of the
company’s fiscal quarters in violation of Section 10 (b) and 20 (a) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Rule 10b-5 promulgated
thereunder. The actions seek compensation and other damages, and costs and
expenses associated with the litigation. Campbell believes the action is
without merit and intends to defend the case vigorously.

As also previously reported, the United States Environmental Protection Agency
(the “EPA”) sent Campbell Soup Company a special notice letter dated September
28, 2000 relating to the Puente Valley Operable Unit of the San Gabriel Valley
Superfund Sites, Los Angeles County, California (the “Superfund Site”) for
property located at 125 N. Orange Avenue, Industry, California, advising that
the EPA considers Campbell to be a potentially responsible party due to the
alleged release or threatened release of hazardous substances, and therefore,
potentially responsible for the costs incurred in connection with contamination
at the Superfund Site. Although the impact of this proceeding cannot be
predicted at this time due to the large number of other potentially responsible
parties and the uncertainty involved in estimating the cost of remediation, the
ultimate disposition is not expected to have a material effect on the
consolidated results of operations, financial position, or cash flows of the
company.

Item 4. Submission Of Matters To A Vote Of Security Holders

None.

Executive Officers Of The Company

The following list of executive officers as of September 18, 2001, is included
as an item in Part III of this Form 10-K:



The company has employed each of the above-named officers in an executive or
managerial capacity for at least five years, except Douglas R. Conant, M. Carl
Johnson, III, Ellen Oran Kaden, Larry S. McWilliams, D. Eric Pogue, Robert A.
Schiffner, Doreen A. Wright, James A. Goldman, Pierre Laubies and Patrick
O’Malley. Douglas R. Conant served as President of Nabisco Foods Company (1995
– 2001) prior to joining Campbell in 2001. M. Carl Johnson, III served as Executive
Vice President and President, New Meals Division, Kraft Foods, N.A. (1997 –
2001), Executive Vice President and General Manager, Meals Division, Kraft
Foods, N.A. (1995 – 1997) and Member of Kraft Foods Operating Committee
(1995 – 2001) prior to joining Campbell in 2001. Ellen Oran Kaden served as
Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary (1994 – 1998) of CBS
Inc. prior to joining Campbell in 1998. Larry S. McWilliams served as Senior
Vice President and General Manager, U.S. Business (1998 – 2001) and Senior Vice
President, Sales (1995 – 1998) of The Minute Maid Company



prior to joining
Campbell in 2001. D. Eric Pogue served as an adjunct faculty member of the
American Management Association and an independent human resource consultant
(2000 – 2001), Senior Vice President – Human Resources, Revlon Worldwide (1998
– 2000), Vice President – Human Resources, Revlon U.S., Revlon, Inc. and Vice
President – Human Resources and Business Services (1994 – 1997) of Marvel
Entertainment Group prior to joining Campbell in 2001. Robert A. Schiffner
served as Senior Vice President and Treasurer, Nabisco Holdings Corp. (1998 –
2001) and Senior Vice President and Controller, Nabisco Holdings Corp. (1995 –
1997) of Nabisco, Inc. prior to joining Campbell in 2001. Doreen A. Wright
served as Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer of Nabisco,
Inc. (1999 – 2001) and Senior Vice President – Operations and Systems,
Prudential Investments (1995 – 1998) prior to joining Campbell in 2001. James
A. Goldman served as President – Lifesavers Candy Company (1998 – 2001) and
President – Nabisco Margarine Company (1996 – 1998) of Nabisco, Inc. prior to
joining Campbell in 2001. Pierre Laubies served as Regional President, CIS
Middle East and Africa (1998 – 1999) and President, Mars CIS (1995 – 1998)
prior to joining Campbell in 2000. Patrick O’Malley served as Senior Vice
President, Operations (1998 – 2001), Vice President, Procurement USFG (1997 –
1998), and Senior Director, Operations, Planters (1996 – 1998) of Nabisco, Inc.
(1998 – 2001) prior to joining Campbell in 2001.

There is no family relationship among any of the company’s executive officers
or between any such officer and any director of Campbell. Executive officers
of Campbell are elected at the November 2001 meeting of the Board of Directors.

PART II

Item 5. Market For Registrant’s Common Stock And Related Shareowner Matters

Campbell’s capital stock is listed and principally traded on the New York Stock
Exchange. Campbell’s capital stock is also listed and traded on the
Philadelphia Stock Exchange, the International Stock Exchange of the United
Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland Limited and the Swiss Exchange. On
September 18, 2001, there were 35,201 holders of record of Campbell’s capital
stock. The market price and dividend information with respect to Campbell’s
capital stock are set forth on page 52 of the 2001 Annual Report in the section
of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements entitled “Quarterly Data
(unaudited)”, which is incorporated herein by reference. Future dividends will
be dependent upon future earnings, financial requirements and other factors.
Additional information regarding the company’s payment of dividends is set
forth in Part I of this report on page 2 under the heading “The Company.”

Item 6. Selected Financial Data

The information presented on page 54 of the 2001 Annual Report in the section
entitled “Five-Year Review — Consolidated” is incorporated herein by reference.
Such information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial
Statements and Notes thereto of the company included in Item 8 of this Report.



Item 7. Management’s Discussion And Analysis Of Results Of Operations And Financial Condition

The information presented on pages 31 through 37 of the 2001 Annual Report in
the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of
Operations and Financial Condition” is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7A. Quantitative And Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

The information presented on pages 34 through 36 of the 2001 Annual Report in
the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of
Operations and Financial Condition – Market Risk
Sensitivity” is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 8. Financial Statements

The information presented on pages 38 through 53 of the 2001 Annual Report is
incorporated herein by reference. With the exception of the aforementioned
information and the information incorporated by reference in Items 1, 5, 6, 7,
and 7A, the 2001 Annual Report is not deemed to be filed as part of this Form
10-K.

Item 9. Changes In And Disagreements With Accountants On Accounting And Financial Disclosure

None.

PART III

Item 10. Directors And Executive Officers Of The Registrant

The sections entitled “Election of Directors” and “Directors and Executive
Officers Stock Ownership Reports” set forth on pages 1 through 4
and page 30 of
Campbell’s Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement dated October 10, 2001
(the “2001 Proxy Statement”) are incorporated herein by reference.

Certain of the information required by this Item relating to the executive
officers of Campbell is set forth in Part I of this Report on pages 7 through 9
under the heading “Executive Officers of the Company.”

Item 11. Executive Compensation

The information presented on pages 15 through 24 of the 2001 Proxy Statement in
the section entitled “Compensation of Executive Officers” and on page 8 of the
2001 Proxy Statement in the section entitled “Director Compensation” is
incorporated herein by reference.



Item 12. Security Ownership Of Certain Beneficial Owners And Management

The information presented on pages 5 through 7 of the 2001 Proxy Statement in
the sections entitled “Security Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers”
and “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners” is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 13. Certain Relationships And Related Transactions

The information presented on page 11 of the 2001 Proxy Statement in the section
entitled “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” is incorporated
herein by reference.

PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules And Reports On Form 8-K

(a)  The following documents are filed as part of this report:

1.

Financial Statements

2.

Financial Statement Schedules

None.

3.

Exhibits


Amended and Restated Business and Share Sale and
Purchase Agreement dated January 29, 2001 among Unilever N.V.,
Unilever PLC and Campbell was filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (“SEC”) with Campbell’s Form 8-K filed on
May 14, 2001, and is incorporated herein by reference.





(b)

Reports on Form 8-K

The company filed a report on Form 8-K on May 14, 2001 pertaining to the
company’s acquisition of several dry soup and sauce businesses in Europe
for a purchase price of approximately one billion euros.

The company filed a report on Form 8-K on September 7, 2001 relating to
its financial results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended July
29, 2001, and the outlook for earnings per share for the first quarter
of fiscal 2002 and for the full fiscal year.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, Campbell has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date: October 10, 2001

CAMPBELL SOUP COMPANY

By:

/s/ Robert A. Schiffner

Robert A. Schiffner

Senior Vice President

and Chief Financial Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of Campbell and
in the capacity and on the date indicated.

Date: October 10, 2001

/s/ Robert A. Schiffner

/s/ Gerald S. Lord

Robert A. Schiffner

Senior Vice President

and Chief Financial Officer

Gerald S. Lord

Vice President — Controller



INDEX OF EXHIBITS



16