
10-K
FORM 10-K, CAMPBELL SOUP COMPANY



================================================================================

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C.   20549

                                   FORM 10-K

                 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

 For the Fiscal Year Ended                           Commission File Number
       July 31, 1994                                        1-3822


                             CAMPBELL SOUP COMPANY


            NEW JERSEY                             21-0419870
      State of Incorporation           I.R.S. Employer Identification No.


                                 CAMPBELL PLACE
                         CAMDEN, NEW JERSEY  08103-1799
                          Principal Executive Offices

                        TELEPHONE NUMBER: (609) 342-4800


          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:

     TITLE OF EACH CLASS             NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE ON WHICH REGISTERED
     -------------------             -----------------------------------------

     CAPITAL STOCK                   NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE
                                     PHILADELPHIA STOCK EXCHANGE

       SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:  NONE


      Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all
   reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
   Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter
   period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2)
   has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

                           Yes    X       No       .
                              ---------      ------


      Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
   Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
   contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or
   information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
   Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. /X/


      As of September 19, 1994, the aggregate market value of Capital Stock
   held by non-affiliates of the Registrant was $4,659,499,637.75.  (The
   exclusion of the market value of shares owned by any person shall not be
   deemed an admission that such person is an "affiliate" of the
   Registrant.)  There were 248,427,876 shares of Capital Stock outstanding
   as of September 19, 1994.


      Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement dated October 7, 1994,
   for the Annual Meeting of Shareowners to be held on November 17, 1994
   are incorporated by reference into Part III.

================================================================================
This Form 10-K contains 57 pages including exhibits.  An index to exhibits
is on page 41.






                                     PART I

ITEM 1.   BUSINESS

                                  THE COMPANY
                                  -----------

Campbell Soup Company, together with its consolidated subsidiaries, is a
leading manufacturer and marketer of high quality, branded convenience food
products.  Campbell was incorporated as a business corporation under the
laws of New Jersey on November 23, 1922; however, through predecessor
organizations, its beginnings in the food business can be traced back to
1869.

Acquisitions in fiscal year 1994 consisted of the Australian mushroom
business, Dandy Mushrooms, and the Australian canned meat business, "Fray
Bentos".  The company sold Campbell Chilled Foods Limited, Campbell Foods
P.L.C., Casera Foods, Inc., La Forest Perigord S.A., Quadelco Limited and
Torres y Ribelles S.A. during the fiscal year.

                                    PRODUCTS
                                    --------

The company produces and sells a wide array of food products including
canned foods such as soups, juices, gravies, pasta, meat and vegetables;
frozen foods such as dinners, breakfasts, entrees, garlic breads and rolls,
sandwiches, meat pies, seafood, vegetables, pastries and cakes; pickles,
olives, peppers and relishes; fresh bread and rolls; croutons and stuffing;
cookies, crackers and snacks; dry soups; refrigerated foods such as salads,
antipasto, salad dressings, cheese spreads and dips, sauces, desserts and
entrees; vinegar, vegetable oils, mayonnaise and mustard; beverage and
dessert mixes; sauces, including spaghetti and barbecue sauces; nuts;
pates; chocolates and other confectionery items; bubble gum; fish; poultry;
and fresh mushrooms.  The company's food products are for the most part
prepared from confidential recipes developed in its experimental kitchens
and research laboratories.  To assure wholesome, attractive, uniform
products, high standards of quality are maintained by a rigorous system of
quality assurance.

                                   TRADEMARKS
                                   ----------

The company markets its food products under a number of significant
trademarks.  The company considers such trademarks, taken as a whole, to be
of material importance to its business and, consequently, aggressively
seeks to protect its rights in them.  In the United States, these include:
Campbell's(R), Pepperidge Farm(R), Godiva(R), Vlasic(R), Swanson(R), Mrs.
Paul's(R), V8(R), Franco-American(R), Prego(R), SpaghettiOs(R), Marie's(R),
Open Pit(R), Healthy Request(R), Home Cookin'(R), Goldfish(R), Hungry-
Man(R), LeMenu(R), Healthy Treasures(R), Early California(R), Great
Starts(R), Chunky(TM), Campbell's Simmer Chef(TM), and others.

Significant trademarks used extensively outside the United States include:
Delacre, Arnott's, Swift, Habitant, Lacroix, Freshbake, Fray Bentos,
Pleyben, Exeter, Plate, Ace, La Patrona, Groko, MacFarms, La Main Bleue,
Royal Mail, Candy Man, Tubble Gum, Roll Up, Beeck, Kattus, Probare,
Granny's, Devos-Lemmens, Imperial, Kwatta, Lutti, Leo and others.

The company's trademarks also include federally registered depictions of
certain characters and designs such as the "Campbell Kids", the
"Campbell's" condensed soup can label, the "Vlasic" stork, the "Godiva"
Gold Ballotin box, the "Goldfish" cracker shape and others.

Advertising slogans which have become important trademarks for the company
include: "M'm! M'm! Good!"(R), "Home Made Taste.  It's in There."(R),
"Chunky.  Soup So Big, It Eats Like a Meal"(R), "Never Underestimate the
Power of Campbell's"(TM) and others.

The company considers that, taken as a whole, the rights under its various
patents are a valuable asset; however, it does not regard its businesses as
being materially dependent upon any single patent or any group of related
patents.


                                     -2-



                                  DISTRIBUTION
                                  ------------

The company distributes its products through direct customers, including
chain stores, wholesalers and distributors that maintain central
warehouses, institutional and industrial customers, convenience stores,
club stores, and certain governmental agencies.  In the United States,
sales solicitation activities are conducted by employees of subsidiaries
and through independent brokers and contract distributors.  No material
part of the business is dependent upon a single customer.  Shipments are
made promptly by the company after receipt and acceptance of orders;
therefore, there is no significant backlog of unfilled orders.

                                  COMPETITION
                                  -----------

The company experiences vigorous competition for sales of all its principal
products in its major markets from numerous competitors of varying sizes.
The principal areas of competition are quality, price, advertising,
promotion, and service.  The company believes that it is the largest
manufacturer in the United States of condensed and ready-to-serve soups,
vegetable juice, tomato juice, pickles, olives, and canned poultry; a major
manufacturer of canned beans, canned gravies, canned pasta products,
spaghetti sauces, frozen meat pies, frozen breakfasts, frozen pastries and
cakes, frozen prepared seafood, frozen prepared dinners and various
specialty food items; and a major producer of fresh mushrooms.


                              INGREDIENTS/SUPPLIES
                              --------------------

The ingredients required for the manufacture of the company's food products
include vegetables, tomatoes and other fruits, mushrooms, poultry, dairy
products, eggs, grain products, meats, seafoods, nuts, spices, and
sweeteners.  The company does not grow or raise ingredients, except for
mushrooms, poultry and beef.  Swift-Armour Sociedad Anonima Argentina, an
Argentine corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary, has been the principal
supplier of cooked beef to the company.

In general, satisfactory sources of supply of ingredients are available.
Raw product inventories are at a peak during the late fall and decline
during the winter and spring.  Since many ingredients of suitable quality
are available in sufficient quantities only at certain seasons, the company
makes heavy purchases of such ingredients during their respective seasons.
The company contracts in advance of growing seasons with growers or
processors for a large part of its ingredient requirements.  As a result of
factors not within the company's control, the prices of ingredients
fluctuate significantly from time to time.

In the United States, the company  manufactures most of the metal containers 
for its canned products and  substantial quantities of plastic containers for 
its frozen products.  The  balance of metal, plastic, all glass and fiberboard
containers are purchased  from independent suppliers.  Outside of the United 
States, packaging is  purchased mainly from independent suppliers.

                                WORKING CAPITAL
                                ---------------

Information relating to the company's cash and other working capital items
is set forth in Part II of this Report on pages F-2 through F-7 in the
section entitled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of
Operations and Financial Condition".

                            RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
                            ------------------------

During the last three fiscal years, the company's expenditures on research
activities relating to new products and the improvement of existing
products were approximately $78 million in 1994, $69 million in 1993, and
$60 million in 1992.  The company conducts this research at the Campbell
Institute for Research and Technology at the company's headquarters in
Camden, New Jersey, and in other locations in the United States and foreign
countries.

                             ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
                             ---------------------

The company has programs for the operation and design of its facilities
which meet or exceed applicable environmental rules and regulations.  The
company's expenditures for capital improvements during fiscal 1994 were
approximately $420.5 million, of which, according to company estimates,
approximately $14.4 million was for compliance with environmental laws and
regulations in the United States.  The company further estimates that
approximately $18.0 million of the capital expenditures anticipated during
fiscal 1995 will be for compliance with such environmental laws and
regulations.  The company believes that continued compliance with existing
environmental laws and regulations will not have a material effect on
capital expenditures, earnings or the competitive position of the company.





                                      -3-



                                   EMPLOYEES
                                   ---------

At July 31, 1994, there were 44,378 persons employed by the company.  The
decrease of 5.4% from 1993 was primarily due to restructuring.

                               FOREIGN OPERATIONS
                               ------------------

Information with respect to the revenue, operating profitability and
identifiable assets attributable to the company's foreign operations is set
forth in Part II of this Report on page F-16 in the section of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements entitled "Geographic Area Information".

The businesses of foreign subsidiaries are subject to the laws of foreign
countries which may place restrictions and controls on such matters as
ownership, imports and exports, prices, products and transfer of funds.
The financial results of such subsidiaries are also affected by the
changing dollar values of the foreign currencies in which the businesses
are conducted.

                             FINANCIAL INFORMATION
                             ---------------------

Information with respect to the revenue, operating profit and identifiable
assets for the company's only industry segment is set forth in Part II
hereof on page F-16 in the section of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements entitled "Geographic Area Information".

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES AT JULY 31, 1994

The company operates numerous manufacturing and processing plants and sales
and distribution centers around the world.  Its principal manufacturing and
processing operations in the United States are located in Arkansas (frozen
foods; ingredients), California (heat processed; dried and frozen foods;
condiments; mushrooms, ingredients), Connecticut (bakery), Delaware
(condiments), Florida (bakery), Georgia (dry and heat processed foods;
ingredients; mushrooms), Hawaii (nuts), Illinois (bakery; mushrooms),
Michigan (condiments; heat processed foods; mushrooms), Nebraska (frozen
foods, ingredients), New Jersey (ingredients), North Carolina (heat
processed foods), Ohio (heat processed, dry foods and biscuit),
Pennsylvania (confectionery, biscuit, bakery and mushrooms), South Carolina
(bakery), Texas (heat processed foods), Utah (biscuit and frozen) and
Wisconsin (ingredients; condiments).

Outside the U.S. the company has manufacturing and distribution facilities
in Argentina (meat products, heat processed and frozen foods), Australia
(biscuit; heat processed foods; juices; mushrooms), Belgium (confectionery;
biscuit; heat processed foods), Canada (heat processed and frozen foods),
England (heat processed and frozen foods), France (confectionery; biscuit;
heat processed foods), Germany (refrigerated and heat processed foods;
distribution), Hong Kong (distribution), Italy (mushrooms; heat processed
foods), Japan (distribution), Mexico (ingredients; heat processed and
frozen foods; distribution), the Netherlands (confectionery; frozen foods;
biscuit; distribution), New Zealand (biscuit; distribution), Papua New
Guinea (biscuit) and Scotland (frozen foods).

The company also operates 120 retail candy shops in the United States,
Canada and Europe; 87 retail bakery thrift stores in the United States; 1
mail order facility; and other plants and facilities at various locations
in the United States and abroad.

The company's manufacturing and processing plants are designed according to
the requirements of the products to be manufactured, and the type of
construction varies from plant to plant.  In the design of plant
facilities, particular emphasis is placed on quality assurance in the
finished products, safety in the operations, and avoidance or abatement of
pollution.  The company maintains its own engineering staff, which aids in
achieving close integration of research, design, construction and
manufacturing functions and facilitates the construction of plants which
will be best suited to their special purposes.

ITEM 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

In management's opinion, there are no pending claims or litigation, the
outcome of which would have a material effect on the consolidated financial
position of the company.  The company has been named as a potentially
responsible party in a number of proceedings brought under the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act,
commonly known as Superfund.  The ultimate impact of these environmental
proceedings cannot be predicted at this time due to the large number of
other potentially responsible parties and the speculative nature of clean-
up cost estimates, but it is not expected to be material either
individually or in the aggregate.





                                      -4-






ITEM 4.    SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

           None.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF CAMPBELL AT OCTOBER 1, 1994
- -------------------------------------------------

The following list of executive officers as of October 1, 1994, is included
herein as an item in Part I of this Form 10-K:







                                      -5-






          EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF CAMPBELL AT OCTOBER 1, 1994 (CONT'D.)
          -------------------------------------------------


Each of the above-named officers has been employed by the company in an
executive or managerial capacity for at least five years, except David W.
Johnson, Frank E. Weise, III, Ronald E. Elmquist, John L. Forbis, Ralph A.
Harris, Gerald S. Lord, Alfred Poe, J. Neil Stalter and Edward F. Walsh.
David W. Johnson served as Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
of Gerber Products Company prior to joining Campbell in 1990.  Frank E.
Weise, III served as Comptroller (chief financial officer), Food and
Beverage Sector, of The Procter & Gamble Company prior to joining Campbell
in 1992.   Ronald E. Elmquist served as Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer of White Swan, Inc. prior to joining Campbell in 1994.  John L.
Forbis was a partner at Arthur D. Little prior to joining Campbell in 1994.
Ralph A. Harris served as Vice President - Business Development of Quaker
Oats Company prior to joining Campbell in 1990.   Gerald S. Lord served as
Vice President Integration and Productivity of Kraft General Foods Canada
prior to joining Campbell in 1990.  Alfred Poe served as Vice President -
Sales (1991) and Vice President - Brands (1988-1991) of M&M/Mars prior to
joining Campbell in 1991.  J. Neil Stalter served as Vice President -
Corporate Communications of Eastman Kodak Company prior to joining Campbell
in 1991.  Prior to joining Campbell in 1993, Edward F. Walsh served as
Senior Vice President - Administration of Nutri-System, Inc. (1990-1993)
and President - Manor Healthcare Division of Manor Health Care, Inc.
(1989-1990).

There is no family relationship between any of the above named officers or
between any such officer and any director of Campbell.  Each officer of
Campbell is elected at the meeting of the Board of Directors next following
the Annual Meeting of Shareowners to serve one year or until his or her
successor is elected and qualified.


                                    PART II

ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED SHAREOWNER
          MATTERS

Campbell's Capital Stock is listed on the New York and Philadelphia Stock
Exchanges, The Stock Exchange-London and the Swiss Stock Exchanges.  On
September 19, 1994, there were 30,680 holders of record of Campbell's
Capital Stock.  The market price and dividend information with respect to
Campbell's Capital Stock are set forth on page F-27 of this Report in the
section of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements entitled
"Quarterly Data (unaudited)".  Future dividends will be dependent upon
future earnings, financial requirements and other factors.

ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The information called for by this Item is set forth on page F-1 of this
Report.  Such information should be read in conjunction with the
Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto of the company included
in Item 8 of this Report.





                                      -6-






ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND
          FINANCIAL CONDITION


Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
Condition is presented on pages F-2 through F-7 of this Report.


              CAMPBELL SOUP COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES


ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The information called for by this Item is contained in a separate section
of this Report.  See Index to Financial Statements and Financial Statement
Schedules on page F-8 of this Report.


ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
          FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

          None.


                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The sections entitled "Election of Directors" and "Compliance with Section
16 of the Exchange Act" set forth on pages 1 through 5 and page 20 of
Campbell's Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement dated October 7,
1994 (the "1994 Proxy Statement") are incorporated herein by reference.

The information required by this Item relating to the executive officers of
Campbell is set forth in Part I of this Report on pages 5 and 6 under the
heading "Executive Officers of Campbell at October 1, 1994".


ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information set forth on pages 7 through 15 of the 1994 Proxy Statement
in the section entitled "Compensation of Executive Officers" is
incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information required by this Item is set forth at pages 4 and 5 and
pages 18 through 20 of the 1994 Proxy Statement in the sections entitled
"Election of Directors" and "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
Owners" and is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

          None.





                                      -7-






                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)   1.  All Financial Statements
          ------------------------

          The Index of Financial Statements is included on page F-8 of this
          Report.

      2.  Financial Statement Schedules
          -----------------------------

          The Index of Financial Statement Schedules is included on page F-8 of 
          this Report.

      3.  Exhibits
          --------

    NO.       DESCRIPTION
    ---       -----------
   3(a)    Campbell's Restated Certificate of Incorporation as amended
           through November 21, 1991, was filed with the SEC with Campbell's
           Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 2, 1992, and is
           incorporated herein by reference.

   3(b)    Campbell's By-Laws, effective as of November 18, 1993.

   4       There is no instrument with respect to long-term debt of the company
           that involves indebtedness or securities authorized thereunder
           exceeding 10 percent of the total assets of the company and its
           subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.  The company agrees to file a
           copy of any instrument or agreement defining the rights of holders of
           long-term debt of the company upon request of the Securities and
           Exchange Commission.

   9       Major Stockholders' Voting Trust Agreement dated June 2, 1990, as
           amended, was filed with the SEC by the Trustees of the Major
           Stockholders' Voting Trust as Exhibit A to Schedule 13D dated June 5,
           1990, and is incorporated herein by reference.

   10(a)   Campbell Soup Company 1984 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended
           on May 27, 1993, was filed with the SEC with Campbell's 10-K for
           the fiscal year ended August 1, 1993, and is incorporated herein
           by reference.*

   10(b)   Campbell Soup Company Management Worldwide Incentive Plan, as
           amended on September 26, 1991, was filed with the SEC with
           Campbell's 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 2, 1992, and is
           incorporated herein by reference.*

   10(c)   Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors, as amended on December
           1, 1991, was filed with the SEC with Campbell's 10- K for the
           fiscal year ended August 2, 1992, and is incorporated herein by
           reference.*

   10(d)   Retirement Benefit Plan for Directors, effective December 1,
           1991, was filed with the SEC with Campbell's 10-K for the fiscal
           year ended August 2, 1992, and is incorporated herein by
           reference.*

   10(e)   Supplemental Retirement Benefit Program for Executives, as
           amended on March 28, 1991, was filed with the SEC with Campbell's
           Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 28, 1991, and is
           incorporated herein by reference.*

   10(f)   Financial Planning Services for Executives was filed with the SEC
           with Campbell's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31,
           1988, and is incorporated herein by reference.*

   10(g)   Supplemental Post Retirement Benefit Plan for Selected Major
           Executives, as amended on January 25, 1990, was filed with the
           SEC with Campbell's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 29,
           1990, and is incorporated herein by reference.*

   10(h)   Employment Agreement dated January 2, 1990, with David W.
           Johnson, President and Chief Executive Officer, was filed with
           the SEC with Campbell's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July
           29, 1990, and is incorporated herein by reference.*





                                      -8-






           3. Exhibits (cont'd.)
              --------

    NO.       DESCRIPTION
    ---       -----------

   10(i)   Severance Protection Agreement dated May 18, 1990, with John M.
           Coleman, Senior Vice President - Law and Public Affairs, was
           filed with the SEC with Campbell's Form 10-K for the fiscal year
           ended August 2, 1992, and is incorporated herein by reference.
           Agreements with nine (9) other Executive Officers are in all
           material respects the same as that with Mr. John M. Coleman.*

   22      Subsidiaries (Direct and Indirect) of Campbell.

   24      Consent of Independent Accountants.

   25(a)   Power of Attorney.

   25(b)   Certified copy of the resolution of Campbell's Board of Directors
           authorizing signatures pursuant to a power of attorney.

   27      Financial Data Schedule


- ---------------------------------------------
* A management contract or compensatory plan required to be filed by Item 14(c) 
  of this Report.


(b)        Reports on Form 8-K
           -------------------

           There were no reports on Form 8-K filed by Campbell during the fourth
           quarter of fiscal 1994.





                                      -9-






                                   SIGNATURES
                                   ----------


Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, Campbell has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.





Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of Campbell
and in the capacity and on the date indicated.







                                      -10-

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
- ------- -----------------------





                                      F-1






ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND
         FINANCIAL CONDITION



              CAMPBELL SOUP COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
              ---------------------------------------------------


RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
- ---------------------

OVERVIEW

Earnings per share rose 14% to $2.51, compared to $2.21, before special
charges, the prior year. Net earnings climbed 13% to a record $630 million
versus $557 million before special charges last year.  Special charges in
fiscal 1993 consisted of $1.19 per share for restructuring and $.99 per
share for adoption of new accounting standards, reducing reported earnings
per share to $.03.  Net sales rose 2% to a record $6.7 billion, from $6.6
billion in fiscal 1993.  Excluding divested businesses and currency
fluctuations, sales were up 4%.

Soup shipments in the U.S. were down 7% from the prior year as the U.S.
Soup unit refocused marketing spending on the retail consumer and initiated
a program to eliminate costly peaks in the manufacturing and shipping
cycles.  Outside the U.S., soup volume increased 12%.

Record earnings are a tribute to a better-balanced worldwide business
portfolio, as both Biscuit and Bakery and International delivered strong
earnings gains while U.S. earnings were relatively flat.


1994 COMPARED TO 1993

RESULTS BY DIVISION

CAMPBELL U.S.A. - Operating earnings for Campbell U.S.A. were $783 million
in 1994 compared to $780 million in 1993, before 1993 special charges of
$175 million.  Net sales were $4.0 billion in 1994, 3% below 1993.

These results reflect decisions by the U.S. Soup unit to level production
and ship to customer demand.  "Swanson" dinners, "Great Starts" breakfasts
and "Prego" spaghetti sauces achieved solid volume growth.  Food service
products continued rapid growth led by frozen entrees and custom packed
products for quick-service restaurants.

CAMPBELL BISCUIT AND BAKERY - Operating earnings rose 45% to $153 million
in 1994 from $106 million in 1993 before special charges of $5 million.
The division achieved net sales of $1.2 billion, a 24% increase.  This
performance reflects a full year of results for Arnotts in Australia, which
was acquired in the third quarter of 1993, and a turnaround at Delacre in
Europe.  Excluding the effect of the additional investment in Arnotts,
earnings increased 17% and sales were flat.





                                      F-2






Pepperidge Farm's frozen pastry products and garlic breads achieved solid
volume gains.  At Arnotts, volume gains were strong in the chocolate
category and flavored snacks.  Sales at Delacre were down due to the
lingering effects of recession in Europe, but earnings were up
significantly on lower manufacturing costs.

CAMPBELL INTERNATIONAL - Operating earnings increased 23% to $136 million
in 1994, from $111 million in 1993 before special charges of $173 million.
Operating earnings improvements were achieved in all International
locations with the United Kingdom, Argentina, Mexico and Campbell's
confectionery business turning in strong performances.

Net sales were $1.55 billion in 1994, a 2% decline from $1.58 billion in
1993.  Net sales before divestitures and currency fluctuations increased
6.5%.  Soup in the United Kingdom, Mexico, Australia and Hong Kong, and
Godiva worldwide achieved very strong volume growth.  Sales in the United
Kingdom also benefited from the 1993 acquisition of "Fray Bentos".

STATEMENT OF EARNINGS

Gross margins improved 1.7 points to 40.5% as a result of higher selling
prices.

Marketing and selling expenses increased to 19.0% of sales from 18.3% in
1993.  Growth in marketing spending was substantially less than in prior
years as a result of company efforts to refocus trade promotional
activities on the consumer and better match shipments to consumption.
Advertising was even with 1993.

Administrative expenses declined to 4.4% of sales from 4.7% a year ago, due
principally to lower management incentive plan expenses and cost controls.

Research and development increased 13% due to new product development and
the opening of a new research and test facility in Camden, New Jersey.

Interest expense decreased 11% principally as a result of a decline in the
company's average effective interest rate to 7.6%.

Other expense increased $13 million because of minority owners' share of
Arnotts' earnings for the full year in 1994 versus five months in 1993.

The effective tax rate declined to 34.6% from 50.5% in 1993.  The higher
rate in 1993 reflected non-deductible divestiture and restructuring
charges.

Net margins increased to 9.4%, the highest level since the company went
public in 1954.

1993 COMPARED TO 1992

RESULTS BY DIVISION

CAMPBELL U.S.A. - Operating earnings for Campbell U.S.A. were $605 million
in 1993 after special charges of $175 million, compared to $741 million in
1992.  Before these charges, operating earnings grew 5% to $780 million.





                                      F-3






Net sales were $4.1 billion in 1993, an increase of 2% over 1992.  Soup
volume was up 2.5% despite one less week in fiscal 1993, with strong
performances by "Home Cookin'" and "Healthy Request" ready-to-serve soups.
In the frozen food business, "Swanson" kids' meals and "Great Start"
breakfast sandwiches turned in impressive volume gains.  The newly
introduced "Pepperidge Farm" gravies delivered strong volume growth as did
Food Service frozen products and "Vlasic" pickles.

CAMPBELL BISCUIT AND BAKERY - The Biscuit and Bakery Division reported
operating earnings of $101 million after special charges of $5 million.
Before the charges, earnings rose 16% to $106 million.  Net sales increased
23% to $999 million.  These increases stem mainly from attaining 58%
ownership of Arnotts in fiscal 1993, which contributed $170 million in
sales in the year.  Previously, the company owned 33% and accounted for its
investment on the equity method.  Arnotts had strong earnings growth in the
year.  Pepperidge Farm volume increased slightly for the year with sales
trends improving significantly in the fourth quarter led by the
introduction of "Goldfish" cookies and frozen garlic bread and rolls.

Earnings of Delacre in Europe were down because of a sluggish European
economy, the costs of starting up new production lines, and the
introduction of the new "Biscuits Maison de Delacre", patterned after
Pepperidge Farm's "American Collection" and Old Fashioned cookies.

CAMPBELL INTERNATIONAL - Campbell International reported an operating loss
of $62 million after special charges of $173 million.  Before these
charges, operating earnings increased 21% over 1992 to $111 million, due
primarily to significant improvements in the United Kingdom and Germany.

Sales increased 3% to $1.58 billion from $1.54 billion.  Both sales and
earnings benefited from the third quarter acquisition of "Fray Bentos", the
leading premium canned-meat brand in the United Kingdom, and from the
company's acquisition of the remaining 50 percent ownership of the Spring
Valley juice business in Australia.

STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS

Gross margins improved 2.1 percentage points to 38.8%, with improvement due
to higher selling prices, which contributed 1.7 points, and lower
manufacturing costs.

Marketing and selling expenses were 18.3% of net sales compared to 16.8% in
1992.  The company continued to spend aggressively in support of its brands
and new product introductions.

Administrative expenses increased to 4.7% of sales from 4.5% a year ago,
principally due to accruals for management incentive programs because
earnings exceeded target levels.

Interest expense decreased in 1993 due principally to lower interest rates.
The increase in other expense resulted primarily from minority interest and
amortization of intangible assets related to Arnotts.  The effective tax
rate was 50.5% compared to 38.6% in 1992.  The principal reason for the
high rate for 1993 was that certain of the divestiture and restructuring
charges were not tax deductible.  Excluding the effects of that program,
the effective tax rate for 1993 was 36.2%.





                                      F-4






SPECIAL CHARGES

On January 28, 1993, the company's Board of Directors approved a
divestiture and restructuring program which specifically identified six
manufacturing plants to be closed and fourteen businesses to be sold.  This
action was taken to consolidate high cost, underutilized plants into more
cost effective locations; and to prune out low return, non-strategic
businesses which were detracting from the company's earnings and returns
and were requiring an inordinate amount of management's time and attention.

At the time of the Board's approval, charges of $353 million, $300 million
after tax or $1.19 per share, were recorded for the estimated loss on
disposition of plant assets, cost of closing each plant and loss on each
business divestiture.

A summary of the original reserve and charges through July 31, 1994 is as
follows:





Of the total charge of $353 million, non-cash charges of $275 million
represent the excess of net book value of plants to be closed and
businesses to be sold over the estimated sales proceeds.  The balance of
the charges represents cash outflows of $78 million which occurred or are
expected to occur as follows:  1993 - $15 million, 1994 - $23 million, and
1995 - $40 million.

Four of the six plant closings have been completed.  In lieu of closing,
one plant was restructured, principally through headcount reductions.  Six
businesses were divested in 1993 and 1994 and the company plans to complete
the restructuring program in fiscal 1995.

The businesses to be divested represent approximately $382 million in
annual sales.  The entire program anticipates an annual improvement in net
earnings of $28 million when fully implemented.  This total includes
savings after tax of $19 million from direct labor and plant overhead
reductions and $6 million in non-cash savings principally from reductions
in depreciation and amortization.  Cash outflows do not adversely affect
the company's liquidity.





                                      F-5






Effective August 3, 1992, the company adopted Statements of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 106, "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement
Benefits Other Than Pensions," No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes," and
No. 112, "Employers' Accounting for Postemployment Benefits".  The
after-tax effect of these accounting changes was a "one- time" charge to
1993 earnings of $249 million or $.99 per share.  These accounting changes
are more fully described in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Consistently strong cash flows, a strong balance sheet and an "AA" credit
rating demonstrate the company's continued superior financial strength.

CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES provided $968 million in 1994, an
increase of $316 million or 48% over 1993.  Over the last three years,
operating cash flow totaled $2.4 billion.  This strong cash generating
capability provides the company substantial financial flexibility in
meeting operating and investing objectives.

CAPITAL EXPENDITURES were $421 million in 1994, up $50 million from the
prior year due to a high level of cost savings projects, including
restructuring programs announced in the second quarter of 1993.  Capital
expenditures are projected to reach $450 million in 1995.

ACQUISITIONS in 1994 totaled $14 million and included the Australian
mushroom business, Dandy Mushrooms, and the Australian canned-meat
business, "Fray Bentos".

LONG-TERM DEBT increased due to issuance of $100 million of notes bearing
an interest rate of 5.625% with a maturity in fiscal 2004.

SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS decreased by $235 million in 1994 due to strong
operating cash flow.  The company retired $100 million of 9.125% notes
classified as current at the end of 1993.

The company has ample financial resources, including unused lines of credit
totaling $615 million  and has ready access to financial markets around the
world.  The pre-tax interest coverage ratio was 12.2 for 1994 compared to
10.0 in 1993, before special charges.

DIVIDEND payments increased $50 million or 23% to $266 million in 1994,
compared to $216 million in 1993.  Dividends declared in 1994 totaled $1.09
per share, up from $.915 per share in 1993.  The 1994 fourth quarter rate
was 28 cents.

COMMON STOCK REPURCHASES for the treasury totaled 4 million shares at a
cost of $145 million during 1994, compared to repurchases of 1.1 million
shares at a cost of $42 million in the same period for 1993.  In July 1994,
the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional 7.5
million shares.

TOTAL ASSETS increased 2% to a record $5 billion during 1994.  Accounts
receivable decreased $68 million as a result of a reduction in year-end
sales promotions and inventories were also down.   However, fixed assets
increased because of heavy capital expenditures.

TOTAL LIABILITIES decreased $191 million or 6% with total borrowings down
$137 million and completion of $89 million of restructuring activities.





                                      F-6






INFLATION

Inflation during recent years has not had a significant effect on the
company.  The company attempts to mitigate the effects of inflation on
sales and earnings by increasing selling prices where appropriate and
aggressively pursuing an ongoing cost- improvement effort which includes
capital investments in more efficient plants and equipment and integrated
business systems.  The divestiture and restructuring programs instituted
since 1988 have made the company a more cost-effective producer.





                                      F-7






INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS







                                      F-8






                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
                       ---------------------------------




To the Shareowners and Directors
of Campbell Soup Company





     In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the
accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of Campbell Soup Company and its subsidiaries at July 31, 1994 and
August 1, 1993, and results of their operations and their cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended July 31, 1994 in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles.  These financial statements
are the responsibility of the company's management; our responsibility is
to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with generally
accepted auditing standards which require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test
basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
basis for the opinion expressed above.

     As discussed in Note 2, the company changed its methods of accounting
for income taxes, postretirement benefits and postemployment benefits in
1993.




PRICE WATERHOUSE LLP




Thirty South Seventeenth Street
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103
September 7, 1994





                                      F-9






Campbell Soup Company
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
(millions, except per share amounts)



The accompanying Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Notes on
pages F-15 to F-27 are an integral part of the financial statements.





                                      F-10






Campbell Soup Company
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(millions)


The accompanying Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Notes on
pages F-15 to F-27 are an integral part of the financial statements.





                                      F-11






Campbell Soup Company
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(millions)



    The accompanying Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Notes on
    pages F-15 to F-27 are an integral part of the financial statements.





                                      F-12

Campbell Soup Company
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREOWNERS' EQUITY
(millions)



The accompanying Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Notes on
pages F-15 to F-27 are an integral part of the financial statements.





                                     F-13






CHANGES IN NUMBER OF SHARES
(thousands)




The accompanying Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Notes on pages
F-15 to F-27 are an integral part of the financial statements.





                                      F-14






CAMPBELL SOUP COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(MILLION DOLLARS)

1.     SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

       CONSOLIDATION - The consolidated financial statements include the
       accounts of the company and its majority-owned subsidiaries.
       Significant intercompany transactions are eliminated in
       consolidation.  Investments of 20% or more in affiliates are
       accounted for by the equity method.

       FISCAL YEAR - The company's fiscal year ends on the Sunday nearest
       July 3l. There were 52 weeks in fiscal 1994 and fiscal 1993 and 53
       weeks in fiscal 1992.

       INVENTORIES - Substantially all domestic inventories are priced at
       the lower of cost or market, with cost determined by the last-in,
       first-out (LIFO) method.  Other inventories are priced at the lower
       of average cost or market.

       INTANGIBLES - The excess of cost of investments over net assets of
       purchased companies is amortized on a straight-line basis over
       periods not exceeding forty years.

       PLANT ASSETS - Plant assets are stated at historical cost.
       Alterations and major overhauls which extend the lives or increase
       the capacity of plant assets are capitalized.  The amounts for
       property disposals are removed from plant asset and accumulated
       depreciation accounts and any resultant gain or loss is included in
       earnings.  Ordinary repairs and maintenance are charged to operating
       costs.

       DEPRECIATION - Depreciation provided in costs and expenses is on the
       straight-line method.  Accelerated methods of depreciation are used
       for income tax purposes in certain jurisdictions.

       PENSION AND RETIREE BENEFIT PLANS - Costs are accrued over
       employees' careers based on plan benefit formulas.

       CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS - All highly liquid debt instruments
       purchased with a maturity of three months or less are classified as
       Cash equivalents.
       
       FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS - In managing interest rate exposure, the
       company at times enters into interest rate swap agreements.  When
       interest rates change, the difference to be paid or received is
       accrued and recognized as interest expense over the life of the
       agreement.  In order to hedge foreign currency exposures on firm
       commitments, the company at times enters into forward foreign
       exchange contracts.  Gains and losses resulting from these
       instruments are recognized in the same period as the underlying
       hedged transaction.  The company also at times enters into foreign
       currency swap agreements which are effective as hedges of net
       investments in foreign subsidiaries.  Realized and unrealized gains
       and losses on these currency swaps are recognized in the Cumulative
       translation adjustments account in Shareowners' equity.  The fair
       values of the company's financial instruments are estimated based on
       quoted market prices for the same or similar issues.
       
       
       
       
       
                                     F-15






       INCOME TAXES - Deferred taxes are provided in accordance with
       Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 109 effective
       in fiscal 1993.  In fiscal 1992, deferred taxes were provided in
       accordance with FAS No. 96.

2.     ACCOUNTING CHANGES

       In 1993, the company adopted Statements of Financial Accounting
       Standards No. 106, "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement
       Benefits Other Than Pensions," No. 109, "Accounting for Income
       Taxes," and No. 112, "Employers' Accounting for Postemployment
       Benefits."

       FAS No. 106 requires accrual of the cost of retiree health and life
       insurance benefits during the years that employees render service.
       These costs were previously expensed as claims were paid.  The
       company elected to recognize the effect of the transition liability
       for past service costs by recording a one-time, non-cash charge
       against 1993 earnings of $230 or $.91 per share.  Adoption of FAS
       No. 106 also decreased 1993 earnings per share by $.07 for the
       pre-tax incremental annual charge and 1994 earnings per share by
       $.08.

       FAS No. 112 requires the company to account for postemployment
       benefits on the accrual basis.  The cumulative effect of this change
       in accounting decreased 1993 net earnings by $22 or $.09 per share.

       FAS No. 109 requires the company to recognize the benefit of certain
       deferred tax assets,  increasing 1993 net earnings by $3 or $.01 per
       share.

3.     GEOGRAPHIC AREA INFORMATION

       The company is predominantly engaged in the manufacture and sale of
       prepared convenience foods.  The following presents information
       about operations in different geographic areas:







                                     F-16








       Transfers between geographic areas are recorded at cost plus markup or
       at market.  1993 divestiture and restructuring charges of $353 were
       allocated to geographic areas as follows:  United States - $126, Europe -
       $210 and Other - $17.

4.     INTEREST EXPENSE




5.     OTHER EXPENSE
       Included in other expense are the following:




6.     DIVESTITURE AND RESTRUCTURING CHARGES

       On January 28, 1993, the company's Board of Directors approved a
       divestiture and restructuring program which specifically identified
       six manufacturing plants to be closed and fourteen businesses to be
       sold.  At the time of the Board's approval, charges of $353, $300
       after tax or $1.19 per share, were recorded for the estimated loss
       on disposition of plant assets, cost of closing each plant and loss
       on each business divestiture.





                                     F-17






Components of the original reserve and charges through July 31, 1994 are as 
follows:




       Four of the six plant closings have been completed.  In lieu of closing,
       one plant was restructured, principally through headcount reductions. 
       Six businesses were divested in 1993 and 1994.  The company plans to
       complete the program in fiscal 1995.


7.     ACQUISITIONS

       During 1994, 1993 and 1992 the company made several acquisitions.
       These acquisitions were accounted for as purchase transactions, and
       operations of the acquired companies are included in the financial
       statements from the dates the acquisitions were recorded.  The costs
       of these acquisitions were allocated as follows:



       Acquisitions in 1994 consisted of the Australian mushroom business,
       Dandy Mushrooms, and the Australian canned-meat business, "Fray Bentos".

       During 1993, the company increased its ownership of Arnotts Limited,
       Australia's leading biscuit manufacturer, to 58% from 33% prior to fiscal
       1993.  Therefore, beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 1993, Arnotts'
       results were consolidated.  Prior to this time, Campbell's investment in
       Arnotts was accounted for by the equity method.  Net sales and net
       earnings for 1993 would have increased by $295 and $3, respectively, had
       the increase in ownership of Arnotts occurred at August 3, 1992.





                                     F-18






8.     PENSION PLANS AND RETIREMENT BENEFITS

       Pension Plans - Substantially all of the company's U.S. and certain
       non-U.S. employees are covered by noncontributory defined benefit
       pension plans.  Plan benefits are generally based on years of
       service and employees' compensation during the last years of
       employment.  Benefits are paid from funds previously provided to
       trustees and insurance companies or are paid directly by the
       company.  Actuarial assumptions and plan provisions are reviewed
       regularly by the company and its independent actuaries to ensure
       that plan assets will be adequate to provide pension and survivor
       benefits.  Plan assets consist primarily of investments in common
       stock, fixed income securities, real estate and money market funds.
       Pension expense included the following:


       Pension coverage for employees of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries and
       other supplemental pension benefits of the company are provided to the
       extent determined appropriate through their respective plans. Obligations
       under such plans are systematically provided for by depositing funds with
       trusts or under insurance contracts.  The assets and obligations of these
       plans are not material.





                                     F-19






        Savings Plans - The company sponsors employee savings plans which    
        cover substantially all U.S. employees.  After one year of           
        continuous service the company generally matches 50% of employee     
        contributions up to five percent of compensation.  In fiscal 1994,    
        1993 and 1992 the company increased its contribution to 60% because   
        earnings goals were achieved.  Amounts charged to costs and expenses  
        were $14 in 1994, $13 in 1993, and $12 in 1992.                       
                                                                              
        Retiree Benefits -  The company provides certain health care and      
        life insurance benefits (postretirement benefits) to substantially   
        all retired U.S. employees and their dependents.  Employees who have 
        10 years of service after the age of 45 and retire from the company  
        are eligible to participate in the postretirement benefit plans.     
                                                                             
        Postretirement benefit expense was comprised of the following:       



        Healthcare claims and death benefits paid totaled $18 in 1994, $18  
        in 1993 and $16 in 1992.                                            



        The discount rate used to determine the accumulated postretirement  
        benefit obligation was 8.25% in 1994 and 7.5% in 1993.  The assumed 
        initial healthcare cost trend rate used to measure the accumulated  
        postretirement benefit obligation was 11.5%, declining to 6.0% over 
        a period of 11 years and continuing at 6.0% thereafter.  A          
        one-percentage-point increase in the assumed healthcare cost trend  
        rate would have increased the 1994 accumulated postretirement       
        benefit obligation by $50 and postretirement benefit expense by $7. 
                                                                            
        Obligations related to non-U.S. postretirement benefit plans are not
        significant since these benefits are generally provided through     
        government-sponsored plans.                                         
        Postretirement benefits payable in fiscal 1995 of $19 are included  
        in "Accrued liabilities."                                           
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                     F-20






9.     TAXES ON EARNINGS

       The provision for income taxes consists of the following:

       

       The increases in the Non-U.S. current tax provision is primarily      
       attributable to the consolidation of Arnotts beginning in March        
       1993.  The deferred tax credit in 1993 resulted principally from       
       charges for restructuring and other postretirement benefits.           
                                                                              
       The following is a reconciliation of effective income tax rates with  
       the U.S. Federal statutory income tax rate:                            







                                     F-21






           Deferred tax liabilities and assets are comprised of the following
           at July 31, 1994:



       For income tax purposes, subsidiaries of the company have tax loss
       carryforwards of approximately $286 of which $7 relate to periods prior
       to acquisition of the subsidiaries by the company.  Of these
       carryforwards, $215 expire in 1999, $28 expire through 2005 and $43 may
       be carried forward indefinitely.  The current statutory tax rates in
       these countries range from 30% to 52%.

       Income taxes have not been accrued on undistributed earnings of non-U.S.
       subsidiaries of $344 which are invested in operating assets and are not
       expected to be remitted.  If remitted, tax credits are available to
       substantially reduce any resultant additional taxes.

10.    SUPPLEMENTARY STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS INFORMATION



       Future minimum lease payments under operating leases are $76.

11.    CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

       Cash and cash equivalents includes cash equivalents of $30 at July
       31, 1994 and $17 at August 1, 1993.

12.    ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE







                                     F-22






13.    INVENTORIES



       Inventories for which the LIFO method of determining cost is used
       represented approximately      70% of consolidated inventories in
       1994 and 68% in 1993.

14.    PREPAID EXPENSES



15.    PLANT ASSETS



       Depreciation provided in costs and expenses was $237 in 1994, $223
       in 1993, and $200 in 1992.  Approximately $215 of capital
       expenditures are required to complete projects in progress at July
       31, 1994.

16.    INTANGIBLE ASSETS



17.    OTHER ASSETS







                                     F-23






18.    NOTES PAYABLE AND LONG-TERM DEBT

       Notes payable consists of the following:



       The amount of unused lines of credit at July 31, 1994 approximates
       $615.  The lines of credit are unconditional and generally cover
       loans for a period of one year at prime commercial interest rates.

       Long-term debt consists of the following:



       The cost to retire the company's long-term debt would have been $585
       and $537 at July 31, 1994 and August 1, 1993, respectively.

       Principal amounts of long-term debt mature as follows:  1995 - $12
       (in current liabilities); 1996 - $24; 1997 - $4; 1998 - $105; 1999 -
       $3; and beyond - $425.

       Future minimum capital lease payments are $63, including implicit
       interest of $27.


       Information on financial instruments follows:

       The company has two primary objectives in using derivative financial
       instruments.  The first is to minimize interest expense within an
       acceptable range of fixed to variable rate debt ratios.  To meet
       this objective, the company may enter into interest rate swaps which
       effectively readjust the fixed to variable rate ratio in response to
       changes in interest rates or the overall level of debt.  The second
       objective is to hedge economic exposures on specific foreign
       currency transactions.
       
       The company uses a mix of equity, intercompany debt and local
       currency borrowings to finance its international subsidiaries.  The
       risk associated with currency exposure is balanced against the
       objective of minimizing the overall cost of financing.
       
       
       


                                     F-24






       The company has entered into interest rate swap agreements with
       financial institutions having a total notional principal of $300 at
       July 31, 1994 and $200 at  August 1, 1993.  These were entered into
       in order to reduce interest expense.
       
       In addition, the company has several swap agreements with financial
       institutions which cover both interest rates and foreign currencies.
       These agreements had a total notional principal of $10 and $35 at
       July 31, 1994 and August 1, 1993, respectively, and were entered
       into to hedge Australian and European currency exposures arising
       from strategies which replaced local currency debt with lower cost
       financing from the U.S.
       
       The cost to settle all interest and foreign currency swaps was $20
       at July 31, 1994, of which $8 was accrued at year end.  The company
       is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the
       counter parties; however, the company does not anticipate any
       nonperformance.  The company's credit risk on swap transactions is
       minimized by its policy of dealing only with leading, credit-worthy
       financial institutions having long-term credit ratings of "A" or
       better.
       
       At July 31, 1994, the company had contracts to purchase or sell
       approximately $31 in foreign currency versus $49 at August 1, 1993.
       The contracts are mostly for Canadian and European currencies and
       have maturities through 1995.
       
19.    OTHER LIABILITIES



       As of July 31, 1994, restructuring reserves are classified as
       current liabilities.

20.    SHAREOWNERS' EQUITY

       The company has authorized 280 million shares of Capital Stock of
       $.075 par value and 40 million shares of Preferred Stock, issuable
       in one or more classes, with or without par as may be authorized by
       the Board of Directors.  No Preferred Stock has been issued.
       
       The Board of Directors authorized a 2-for-1 split of the company's
       Capital Stock effective December 2, 1991.  All shares and per share
       amounts have been adjusted to reflect the stock split.
       
       
       
       

                                     F-25






       The following summarizes the activity in the company's 1984
       long-term incentive plan:






       As of July 31, 1994, 5.3 million shares remain available for grant
       under the long-term incentive plan.

       All net earnings per share data is based on the weighted average
       shares outstanding during the applicable periods.  The potential
       dilution from the exercise of stock options is not material.


21.    STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS







                                     F-26






22.    QUARTERLY DATA (UNAUDITED)











                                     F-27






FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
- -----------------------------




                                   SCHEDULE V

              CAMPBELL SOUP COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES

                     Property, Plant and Equipment at Cost
                     -------------------------------------

                                   (millions)









*See "Acquisitions" in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.





                                      S-1






                                  SCHEDULE VI
                                       
              CAMPBELL SOUP COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
                                       
  Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization of Property, Plant and Equipment
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                  (millions)
                                       
                                       







                                      S-2






                                  SCHEDULE IX
                                       
                                       
              CAMPBELL SOUP COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
                                       
                             Short-term Borrowings
                             ---------------------

                                  (millions)
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       






    See footnote 18 for a description of the general terms of short-term
borrowings.





                                      S-3






                                                           INDEX OF EXHIBITS
                                                           -----------------






                                      I-1






                          INDEX OF EXHIBITS (cont'd.)
                          -----------------







                                      I-2

