ITEM 1. BUSINESS

General Development of Business

ConAgra Foods, Inc. (“ConAgra Foods”, “Company”, “we”, “us”, or “our”) is one of North America’s largest packaged food companies with branded and private branded food found in 99% of America's households, as well as a strong commercial foods   business serving restaurants and foodservice operations globally. Consumers can find recognized brands such asBanquet®, Chef Boyardee®, Egg Beaters®, Healthy Choice®, Hebrew National®, Hunt's®, Marie Callender's®,Orville Redenbacher's®, PAM®,Peter Pan®,Reddi-wip®,Slim Jim®,Snack Pack®, and many other ConAgra Foods brands, along with food sold by ConAgra Foods under private brand labels, in grocery, convenience, mass merchandise, club, and drug stores. Additionally, we make frozen potato and sweet potato items as well as other vegetable, spice, bakery goods, and grain products for our commercial and foodservice customers.

At ConAgra Foods, we strive to provide food that delivers outstanding taste, nutrition, and value. We are also committed to finding better ways to be a good steward of our environment and giving back to the communities where we live and work.

We began as a Midwestern flour-milling company and entered other commodity-based businesses throughout our history. We were initially incorporated as a Nebraska corporation in 1919 and were reincorporated as a Delaware corporation in December 1975. Over time, through various acquisitions and divestitures, we changed the make-up of our company and focused on growing our branded food businesses to become the leading food company we are today. Making this shift involved acquiring a number of consumer food brands such asBanquet®,Chef Boyardee®,Marie Callender’s®, andAlexia®. Businesses we divested include dehydrated and fresh vegetable operations, a trading and merchandising business, packaged meat and cheese operations, and poultry, beef, and pork businesses, among others. Growing our food businesses has also been fueled by our innovation pipeline and organic growth of our brands. We are focused on delivering sustainable, profitable growth with strong and improving returns on our invested capital.

In 2012, we introduced our Recipe for Growth - our strategic roadmap for operating our business and delivering shareholder value. We established five strategic areas of focus for our business - Core/Adjacencies, International, Private Brands, People, and Citizenship. In January 2013, we took a big step forward in delivering on our Recipe for Growth by completing the acquisition of Ralcorp Holdings, Inc. ("Ralcorp"), a manufacturer of private branded food. The Ralcorp acquisition was a transformational move for our company making us the largest private brand packaged food business in North America.

With the acquisition of Ralcorp, we have established a portfolio that is value-focused and competitive. We are working to create a more successful, customer-centric, effective, and efficient company. As a result, process changes and new ways of working are being implemented.

As part of continually strengthening our operating foundation, our major profit-enhancing initiatives have centered on and continue to include:

•Growing our branded and private branded portfolios through innovation;

•Creating a more customer-focused company; becoming a strategic partner and influencer for the branded and private branded needs of our customers;

•Making food that resonates with consumers; establishing or further developing qualities that differentiate us from other food companies and capabilities that are critical to our success; and expanding our presence in desired geographies or market segments;

•Implementing high-impact, insights-based marketing programs for our customers and consumers;

•Improving our trade spending effectiveness, enterprise business planning, and pricing analytics;

•Achieving cost savings targets throughout our supply chain and creating a seamless technical organization to drive productivity, total delivered cost, and customized solutions; and

•Implementing cost-reducing initiatives throughout the selling, general, and administrative functions.

Our efficiency and effectiveness initiatives continue to be implemented with a high degree of customer focus, food safety and  quality, and commitment to our people.










Financial Information about Reporting Segments

As a result of the Ralcorp acquisition, we implemented organizational changes during the second quarter of fiscal 2014 that resulted in new reporting segments. We began reporting our operations in three reporting segments: Consumer Foods, Commercial Foods, and Private Brands. We believe this recent operating structure will enhance our focus on profitability, coordinated business execution, and resource allocation across our business. Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the revised segment presentation. Prior to this change in organizational structure, we had four operating and reportable segments. The contributions of each reporting segment to net sales, operating profit, and identifiable assets are set forth in Note 20 “Business Segments and Related Information” to the consolidated financial statements.

Narrative Description of Business

We compete throughout the food industry and focus on adding value for our customers who operate in the retail food, foodservice, and ingredients channels.

Our operations, including our reporting segments, are described below. Our locations, including manufacturing facilities, within each reporting segment, are described in Item 2, Properties.

Consumer Foods

The Consumer Foods reporting segment includes branded food sold in various retail channels primarily in North America. Our food products are found in a variety of categories (meals, entrees, condiments, sides, snacks, and desserts) throughout grocery and convenience stores across frozen, refrigerated, and shelf-stable temperature classes. The Consumer Foods reporting segment no longer includes results for store brands (store brands are now part of the recently created Private Brands segment) or foodservice  results (the foodservice business is now part of the Commercial Foods segment). The Consumer Foods reporting segment now includes additional international sales which were previously part of the Ralcorp Food Group segment.

Major brands include:Alexia®,ACT II®,Banquet®,Blue Bonnet®,Chef Boyardee®,DAVID®,Egg Beaters®,Healthy Choice®,Hebrew National®,Hunt’s®,Marie Callender’s®,Odom’s Tennessee Pride®,Orville Redenbacher’s®,PAM®, Peter Pan®,Reddi-wip®,Slim Jim®,Snack Pack®,Swiss Miss®,Van Camp’s®, andWesson®.

Commercial Foods

The Commercial Foods reporting segment includes commercially branded and private branded food and ingredients, which are sold primarily to commercial, foodservice, food manufacturing, and industrial customers. The segment's primary food items include: frozen potato and sweet potato items and a variety of vegetable, spice and frozen bakery goods which are sold under brands such asLamb Weston®andSpicetec Flavors & Seasonings®. The Commercial Foods reporting segment now includes foodservice results which were previously part of the Consumer Foods segment, as well as frozen bakery foodservice results, which were previously part of the Ralcorp Frozen Bakery Products segment. Our milling business was included in the Commercial Foods segment for the periods covered by this report but was contributed to Ardent Mills shortly after the end of fiscal 2014.

Private Brands

The Private Brands reporting segment includes private branded and customized food items sold in various retail channels, primarily in North America. Our Private Brands are sold in a variety of categories in grocery and convenience stores including: hot and ready-to-eat cereal; snacks; condiments; bars and coordinated categories; pasta; and retail bakery goods. The recently created Private Brands reporting segment includes a significant portion of results from the former Ralcorp businesses and the store brands results which were previously part of the Consumer Foods segment.

Unconsolidated Equity Investments

We have a number of unconsolidated equity investments. Significant affiliates produce and market potato products for retail and foodservice customers.

Acquisitions

In September 2013, we acquired frozen dessert production assets from Harlan Bakeries. The purchase included machinery, operating systems, warehousing/storage, and other assets associated with making frozen fruit pies, cream pies, pastry shells, and loaf cakes. This business is included in the Consumer Foods segment.










In January 2013, we acquired Ralcorp. The results from our Ralcorp acquisition are included in each of our reporting segments, primarily Private Brands.

In August 2012, we acquired theP.F. Chang's®andBertolli®brands frozen meal business. This business is included in the Consumer Foods segment.

Divestitures

In April 2014, we completed the sale of a small snack business, Medallion Foods. We previously reflected the results of this business within the Private Brands segment. We reflected the results of these operations as discontinued operations for all periods presented.

In September 2013, we completed the sale of the assets of theLightlife®business. We previously reflected the results of this business within the Consumer Foods segment. We reflected the results of these operations as discontinued operations for all periods presented.

Formation of Ardent Mills

On May 29, 2014, subsequent to the end of fiscal 2014, the Company, Cargill, Incorporated ("Cargill"), and CHS Inc. ("CHS") (collectively, the “Owners”), completed the formation of the previously announced Ardent Mills flour milling joint venture, which combined the North American flour milling operations and related businesses operated through the ConAgra Mills division of ConAgra Foods and the Horizon Milling joint venture of Cargill and CHS.

General

The following comments pertain to all of our reporting segments.

ConAgra Foods is a food company that operates in many sectors of the food industry, with a significant focus on the sale of branded, private branded, and value-added consumer food, as well as foodservice items and ingredients. We use many different raw materials, the bulk of which are commodities. The prices paid for raw materials used in making our food generally reflect factors such as weather, commodity market fluctuations, currency fluctuations, tariffs, and the effects of governmental agricultural programs. Although the prices of raw materials can be expected to fluctuate as a result of these factors, we believe such raw materials to be in adequate supply and generally available from numerous sources. From time to time, we have faced increased costs for many of our significant raw materials, packaging, and energy inputs. We seek to mitigate higher input costs through productivity and pricing initiatives, and through the use of derivative instruments used to economically hedge a portion of forecasted future consumption.

We experience intense competition for sales of our food items in our major markets. Our food items compete with widely advertised, well-known, branded food, as well as private branded and customized food items. Some of our competitors are larger and have greater resources than we have. We compete primarily on the basis of quality, value, customer service, brand recognition, and brand loyalty.

Demand for certain of our food items may be influenced by holidays, changes in seasons, or other annual events.

We manufacture primarily for stock and fill our customer orders from finished goods inventories. While at any given time there may be some backlog of orders, such backlog is not material in respect to annual net sales, and the changes of backlog orders from time to time are not significant.

Our trademarks are of material importance to our business and are protected by registration or other means in the United States and most other markets where the related food items are sold. Some of our food items are sold under brands that have been licensed from others. We also actively develop and maintain a portfolio of patents, although no single patent is considered material to the business as a whole. We have proprietary trade secrets, technology, know-how, processes, and other intellectual property rights that are not registered.

Many of our facilities and food items we make are subject to various laws and regulations administered by the United States Department of Agriculture, the Federal Food and Drug Administration, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and other federal, state, local, and foreign governmental agencies relating to the food safety and quality, sanitation, safety and health matters, and environmental control. We believe that we comply with such laws and regulations in all material respects, and that continued compliance with such regulations will not have a material effect upon capital expenditures, earnings, or our competitive position.










Our largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, accounted for approximately17%of consolidated net sales for each of fiscal2014,2013, and2012.

AtMay 25, 2014, ConAgra Foods and its subsidiaries had approximately32,800employees, primarily in the United States. Approximately41%of our employees are parties to collective bargaining agreements. Of the employees subject to collective bargaining agreements, approximately16%are parties to collective bargaining agreements scheduled to expire during fiscal2015. We believe our relationships with employees and their representative organizations are good.

Research and Development

We employ processes at our principal manufacturing locations that emphasize applied research and technical services directed at product improvement and quality control. In addition, we conduct research activities related to the development of new products. Research and development expense was $103.5 million, $93.1 million, and $86.0 millionin fiscal2014,2013, and2012, respectively.



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT AS OF JULY 16, 2014

NameTitle & CapacityAgeYear FirstAppointed anExecutiveOfficerGary M. RodkinPresident and Chief Executive Officer622005John F. GehringExecutive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer532004Colleen R. BatchelerExecutive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary402008Albert D. BollesExecutive Vice President, Chief Technical and Operations Officer562014Paul T. MaassPresident, Private Brands and Commercial Foods482010Thomas M. McGoughPresident, Consumer Foods492013Scott E. MesselSenior Vice President, Treasurer and Assistant Corporate Secretary552001Andrew G. RossExecutive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer462011Nicole B. TheophilusExecutive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer442013Robert G. WiseSenior Vice President, Corporate Controller462012

Gary M. Rodkin has been our Chief Executive Officer and a member of our Board of Directors since October 1, 2005. Previously, he was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of PepsiCo Beverages and Foods North America (food and beverage company) from February 2003 to June 2005. He also served as President and Chief Executive Officer of PepsiCo Beverages and Foods North America in 2002, and President and Chief Executive Officer of Pepsi-Cola North America from 1999 to 2002. Mr. Rodkin has served as a director of Avon Products, Inc. (beauty and related products company) since 2007, and is also Chair of the Board of Boys Town (charitable organization) and Chair of the Omaha Chamber of Commerce's Prosper Omaha economic development campaign. He is past Chairman of the Grocery Manufacturers of America (consumer product company trade association).

John F. Gehring has served as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer since January 2009. Mr. Gehring joined ConAgra Foods as Vice President of Internal Audit in 2002, became Senior Vice President in 2003, and most recently served as Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller from July 2004 to January 2009. He served as ConAgra Foods' interim Chief Financial Officer from October 2006 to November 2006. Prior to joining ConAgra Foods, Mr. Gehring was a partner at Ernst & Young LLP (an accounting firm) from 1997 to 2001.

Colleen R. Batcheler has served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since September 2009 and Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary from February 2008. Ms. Batcheler joined ConAgra Foods in June 2006 as Vice President, Chief Securities Counsel and Assistant Corporate Secretary. In September 2006, she was named Corporate Secretary. From 2003 until joining ConAgra Foods, Ms. Batcheler was Vice President and Corporate Secretary of Albertson's, Inc. (a retail food and drug chain). Previously, she was Associate Counsel with The Cleveland Clinic Foundation and an associate with Jones Day (a law firm).

Albert D. Bolles, Ph.D., was named Executive Vice President, Chief Technical and Operations Officer in May 2014. Dr. Bolles joined ConAgra Foods in 2006 as Executive Vice President, Research, Quality & Innovation. Prior to joining ConAgra Foods, he led Worldwide Research and Development for PepsiCo Beverages and Foods.










Paul T. Maass has served as President of the Private Brands and Commercial Foods segments since September 2013. He served as President of Commercial Foods since October 2010 and served as interim President of the Lamb Weston operations from 2010 until January 2013. Since joining ConAgra Foods in 1988 as a commodity merchandiser in the trading business, Mr. Maass quickly progressed in several roles at ConAgra Foods, including being named President and General Manager ofConAgra Mills®in 2003 and assuming responsibility forJ.M. Swank®in 2007 and forSpicetec Flavors & Seasonings®in 2010.

Thomas M. McGough has served as President of the Consumer Foods segment since May 2013. Mr. McGough joined ConAgra Foods in 2007 as Vice President in the Consumer Foods organization and has provided leadership for many brand teams within ConAgra Foods, includingBanquet®,Hunt's®, andReddi-wip®. He most recently served as President, Grocery Products since 2011, leading the largest business within the Consumer Foods segment. Mr. McGough has over twenty years of experience in the branded packaged foods industry, beginning his career at H.J. Heinz in 1990.

Scott E. Messel has served as Senior Vice President, Treasurer and Assistant Corporate Secretary since July 2004. Mr. Messel joined ConAgra Foods in August 2001 as Vice President and Treasurer. Prior to joining ConAgra Foods, Mr. Messel served in various treasury leadership roles at Lennox International (a provider of climate control solutions), Flowserve Corporation (a manufacturer of flow management products and services), and Ralston Purina Company (a former manufacturer of cereals, packaged foods, pet food, and livestock feed).

Andrew G. Ross joined ConAgra Foods as Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer in November 2011. Prior to joining ConAgra Foods, he was a principal at McKinsey & Company, Inc. (consulting firm) from May 2002 until November 2011, where he led the firm's global consumer, retail, and marketing practices. Prior to that, he worked for William Grant & Sons, Ltd.

Nicole B. Theophilus has served as Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer since May 2013.  Ms. Theophilus joined ConAgra Foods as Vice President, Chief Employment Counsel in April 2006. In addition to her legal duties, she assumed the role of Vice President, Human Resources for Commercial Foods in 2008, and most recently served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources from November 2009 until May 2013. Prior to joining ConAgra Foods, she was an attorney and partner with Blackwell Sanders Peper Martin LLP (a law firm).

Robert G. Wise has served as Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller since December 2012.  Mr. Wise joined ConAgra Foods in March 2003 and has held various positions of increasing responsibility with ConAgra Foods, including Vice President, Assistant Corporate Controller from March 2006 until January 2012 and most recently served as Vice President, Corporate Controller from January 2012 until December 2012. Prior to joining ConAgra Foods, Mr. Wise served in various roles at KPMG LLP (an accounting firm) from October 1995 to March 2003.

OTHER SENIOR OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT AS OF JULY 16, 2014

NameTitle & CapacityAgeJoan K. ChowExecutive Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer53Allen J. CooperVice President, Internal Audit50Derek De La MaterExecutive Vice President and President, Sales47

Joan K. Chow joined ConAgra Foods in February 2007 as Executive Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer. Prior to joining ConAgra Foods, she served Sears Holding Corporation (retailing) as Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer, Sears Retail from July 2005 until January 2007, and as Vice President, Marketing Services from April 2005 until July 2005. From 2002 until April 2005, Ms. Chow served Sears, Roebuck and Co. as Vice President, Home Services Marketing.

Allen J. Cooper joined ConAgra Foods in March 2003 and has held various finance and internal audit leadership positions with the Company, including Director, Internal Audit from 2003 until 2005; Vice President, Supply Chain Finance from 2005 until 2007; Senior Director, Finance; and most recently as Senior Director, Internal Audit. He was named to his current position in February 2009. Prior to joining the Company, he was with Ernst & Young LLP (an accounting firm).

Derek De La Mater joined ConAgra Foods in 1993 and has held various leadership roles in sales and business development within the Company. He was named to his current position in March 2014. He previously served the Company as President, Customer Development, from 2013 to 2014, Senior Vice President, Sales, from 2011 to 2013, and Vice President, Sales from 2006 to 2011.



Foreign Operations

Foreign operations information is set forth in Note 20 “Business Segments and Related Information”to the consolidated financial statements.












Available Information

We make available, free of charge through the “Investors—Financial Reports & Filings” link on our Internet website at http://www.conagrafoods.com, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. We use our Internet website, through the “Investors” link, as a channel for routine distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations, and financial information.

We have also posted on our website our (1) Corporate Governance Principles, (2) Code of Conduct, (3) Code of Ethics for Senior Corporate Officers, and (4) Charters for the Audit/Finance Committee, Nominating, Governance and Public Affairs Committee, and Human Resources Committee. Shareholders may also obtain copies of these items at no charge by writing to: Corporate Secretary, ConAgra Foods, Inc., One ConAgra Drive, Omaha, NE, 68102-5001.



