ITEM 1. BUSINESS

General Development of Business

ConAgra Foods, Inc. (“ConAgra Foods”, “Company”, “we”, “us”, or “our”) is one of North America’s largest packaged food companies with branded and private branded food found in 99 percent of America's households, as well as a strong commercial foods business serving restaurants and foodservice operations globally. Consumers can find recognized brands such asBanquet®, Chef Boyardee®, Egg Beaters®, Healthy Choice®, Hebrew National®, Hunt's®, Marie Callender's®,Orville Redenbacher's®, PAM®,Peter Pan®,Reddi-wip®,Slim Jim®,Snack Pack®, and many other ConAgra Foods brands, along with food sold by ConAgra Foods under private brand labels, in grocery, convenience, mass merchandise, club, and drug stores. Additionally, ConAgra Foods supplies frozen potato and sweet potato products, as well as other vegetable, spice, bakery, and grain products, to restaurants, commercial, and foodservice customers.

We began as a Midwestern flour-milling company and entered other commodity-based businesses throughout our history. We were initially incorporated as a Nebraska corporation in 1919 and were reincorporated as a Delaware corporation in December 1975. Over time, through various acquisitions and divestitures, we changed the make-up of our company and focused on growing our branded food businesses to become the leading food company we are today. Making this shift involved acquiring a number of consumer food brands such asBanquet®,Chef Boyardee®,Marie Callender’s®, andAlexia®. Businesses we divested include our milling business, dehydrated and fresh vegetable operations, a trading and merchandising business, packaged meat and cheese operations, and poultry, beef, and pork businesses, among others. Growing our food businesses has also been fueled by innovation, organic growth of our brands, and expansion into adjacent categories. We are focused on delivering sustainable, profitable growth with strong and improving returns on our invested capital.

In January 2013, we acquired Ralcorp Holdings, Inc. ("Ralcorp"), a manufacturer of private branded food. Since the acquisition of Ralcorp, we focused on addressing executional shortfalls and customer service issues intended to improve operating performance for the Private Brands business. However, after further review of the Private Brands business, we announced a change to our strategic direction on June 30, 2015. In pursuit of our underlying objective of creating and maximizing long-term shareholder value, we announced our intent to divest the Private Brands business for greater focus on the best opportunities for growth in our branded and Commercial Foods businesses. We also plan to aggressively pursue cost reductions through our selling, general and administrative functions and productivity improvements to drive margin expansion, and to maintain our balanced capital allocation philosophy.

Our efficiency and effectiveness initiatives continue to be implemented with a high degree of customer focus, food safety and quality, and commitment to our people.

Financial Information about Reporting Segments

We report our operations in three reporting segments: Consumer Foods, Commercial Foods, and Private Brands. The contributions of each reporting segment to net sales, operating profit, and identifiable assets are set forth in Note 21 “Business Segments and Related Information” to the consolidated financial statements.

Narrative Description of Business

We compete throughout the food industry and focus on adding value for our customers who operate in the retail food, foodservice, and ingredients channels.

Our operations, including our reporting segments, are described below. Our locations, including manufacturing facilities, within each reporting segment, are described in Item 2, Properties.

Consumer Foods

The Consumer Foods reporting segment includes branded food sold in various retail channels primarily in North America. Our food products are sold in a variety of categories (meals, entrees, condiments, sides, snacks, and desserts) in various retail channels across frozen, refrigerated, and shelf-stable temperature classes. Major brands include:ACT II®,Banquet®,Blue Bonnet®,Chef Boyardee®,DAVID®,Egg Beaters®,Healthy Choice®,Hebrew National®,Hunt’s®,Marie Callender’s®,Orville Redenbacher’s®,PAM®, Peter Pan®,Reddi-wip®,Slim Jim®,Snack Pack®,Swiss Miss®,Van Camp’s®, andWesson®.










Commercial Foods

The Commercial Foods reporting segment includes commercially branded and private branded food and ingredients, which are sold primarily to commercial, restaurants, foodservice, food manufacturing, and industrial customers. The segment's primary food items include: frozen potato and sweet potato items, as well as a variety of vegetable, spice, bakery, and grain products which are sold under brands such asAlexia®,Lamb Weston®andSpicetec Flavors & Seasonings®.

Private Brands

The Private Brands reporting segment principally includes private brand and customized food products which are sold in various retail channels, primarily in North America. The products include a variety of categories including: bars, cereal, snacks, condiments, pasta, and retail bakery products. Subsequent to fiscal 2015, on June 30, 2015, we announced our plan to exit the Private Brands operations.

Unconsolidated Equity Investments

We have a number of unconsolidated equity investments. Our significant equity method investments include a milling business (see "Formation of Ardent Mills" below) and other domestic and international investments that produce and market potato products for retail and foodservice customers.

Acquisitions

On May 12, 2015, we acquired Blake's All Natural Foods, a family-owned company specializing in all natural and organic frozen meals, including pot pies, casseroles, pasta dishes and other entrees. This business is included in the Consumer Foods segment.

In July 2014, we acquired TaiMei Potato Industry Limited, a potato processor in China. The purchase included property and equipment associated with making frozen potato products. This business is included in the Commercial Foods segment.

In September 2013, we acquired frozen dessert production assets from Harlan Bakeries. The purchase included machinery, operating systems, warehousing/storage, and other assets associated with making frozen fruit pies, cream pies, pastry shells, and loaf cakes. This business is included in the Consumer Foods segment.

Discontinued Operations

In April 2014, we completed the sale of a small snack business, Medallion Foods. We previously reflected the results of this business within the Private Brands segment. We reflected the results of these operations as discontinued operations for all periods presented.

In September 2013, we completed the sale of the assets of theLightlife®business. We previously reflected the results of this business within the Consumer Foods segment. We reflected the results of these operations as discontinued operations for all periods presented.

Formation of Ardent Mills

On May 29, 2014, the Company, Cargill, Incorporated ("Cargill"), and CHS Inc. ("CHS") (collectively, the “Owners”), completed the formation of Ardent Mills, which combined the North American flour milling operations and related businesses operated through the ConAgra Mills division of ConAgra Foods and the Horizon Milling joint venture of Cargill and CHS. We reflected the operating results of our legacy milling business as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Our equity in the earnings of Ardent Mills is reflected in our continuing operations.










General

The following comments pertain to all of our reporting segments.

ConAgra Foods is a food company that operates in many sectors of the food industry, with a significant focus on the sale of branded, private branded, and value-added consumer food, as well as foodservice items and ingredients. We use many different raw materials, the bulk of which are commodities. The prices paid for raw materials used in making our food generally reflect factors such as weather, commodity market fluctuations, currency fluctuations, tariffs, and the effects of governmental agricultural programs. Although the prices of raw materials can be expected to fluctuate as a result of these factors, we believe such raw materials to be in adequate supply and generally available from numerous sources. From time to time, we have faced increased costs for many of our significant raw materials, packaging, and energy inputs. We seek to mitigate higher input costs through productivity and pricing initiatives, and through the use of derivative instruments used to economically hedge a portion of forecasted future consumption.

We experience intense competition for sales of our food items in our major markets. Our food items compete with widely advertised, well-known, branded food, as well as private branded and customized food items. Some of our competitors are larger and have greater resources than we have. We compete primarily on the basis of quality, value, customer service, brand recognition, and brand loyalty.

Demand for certain of our food items may be influenced by holidays, changes in seasons, or other annual events.

We manufacture primarily for stock and fill our customer orders from finished goods inventories. While at any given time there may be some backlog of orders, such backlog is not material in respect to annual net sales, and the changes of backlog orders from time to time are not significant.

Our trademarks are of material importance to our business and are protected by registration or other means in the United States and most other markets where the related food items are sold. Some of our food items are sold under brands that have been licensed from others. We also actively develop and maintain a portfolio of patents, although no single patent is considered material to the business as a whole. We have proprietary trade secrets, technology, know-how, processes, and other intellectual property rights that are not registered.

Many of our facilities and products we make are subject to various laws and regulations administered by the United States Department of Agriculture, the Federal Food and Drug Administration, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and other federal, state, local, and foreign governmental agencies relating to the food safety and quality, sanitation, safety and health matters, and environmental control. We believe that we comply with such laws and regulations in all material respects, and that continued compliance with such regulations will not have a material effect upon capital expenditures, earnings, or our competitive position.

Our largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, accounted for approximately18%,19%, and20%of consolidated net sales for fiscal2015,2014, and2013, respectively.

AtMay 31, 2015, ConAgra Foods and its subsidiaries had approximately32,900employees, primarily in the United States. Approximately32%of our employees are parties to collective bargaining agreements. Of the employees subject to collective bargaining agreements, approximately25%are parties to collective bargaining agreements scheduled to expire during fiscal2016. We believe our relationships with employees and their representative organizations are good.

Research and Development

We employ processes at our principal manufacturing locations that emphasize applied research and technical services directed at product improvement and quality control. In addition, we conduct research activities related to the development of new products. Research and development expense was$90.4 million,$101.8 million, and$91.1 millionin fiscal2015,2014, and2013, respectively.














EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT AS OF JULY 17, 2015

NameTitle & CapacityAgeYear FirstAppointed anExecutiveOfficerSean M. ConnollyPresident and Chief Executive Officer492015John F. GehringExecutive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer542004Colleen R. BatchelerExecutive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary412008Albert D. BollesExecutive Vice President, Chief Technical and Operations Officer572014Thomas M. McGoughPresident, Consumer Foods502013Scott E. MesselSenior Vice President, Treasurer and Assistant Corporate Secretary562001Andrew G. RossExecutive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer472011Nicole B. TheophilusExecutive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer452013Thomas P. WernerPresident, Commercial Foods492015Robert G. WiseSenior Vice President, Corporate Controller472012

Sean M. Connolly has served as our Chief Executive Officer and a member of our Board since April 6, 2015. Previously, he was President and Chief Executive Officer and a director of The Hillshire Brands Company (brand name food products from June 2012 to August 2014; Executive Vice President of Sara Lee Corporation (the former name of Hillshire) and Chief Executive Officer, Sara Lee North American Retail and Foodservice, from January 2012 to June 2012. Prior to joining Hillshire, Mr. Connolly served as President of Campbell North America, the largest division of Campbell Soup Company (branded convenience food products), from October 2010 to December 2011; President, Campbell USA from 2008 to 2010; and President, North American Foodservice from 2007 to 2008. Before joining Campbell in 2002, he served in various marketing and brand management roles at Procter & Gamble (branded consumer product goods).

John F. Gehring has served as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer since January 2009. Mr. Gehring joined ConAgra Foods as Vice President of Internal Audit in 2002, became Senior Vice President in 2003, and most recently served as Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller from July 2004 to January 2009. He served as ConAgra Foods' interim Chief Financial Officer from October 2006 to November 2006. Prior to joining ConAgra Foods, Mr. Gehring was a partner at Ernst & Young LLP (an accounting firm) from 1997 to 2001.

Colleen R. Batcheler has served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since September 2009 and Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary from February 2008 until September 2009. Ms. Batcheler joined ConAgra Foods in June 2006 as Vice President, Chief Securities Counsel and Assistant Corporate Secretary. In September 2006, she was named Corporate Secretary. From 2003 until joining ConAgra Foods, Ms. Batcheler was Vice President and Corporate Secretary of Albertson's, Inc. (a retail food and drug chain). Previously, she was Associate Counsel with The Cleveland Clinic Foundation and an associate with Jones Day (a law firm).

Albert D. Bolles, Ph.D., was named Executive Vice President, Chief Technical and Operations Officer in May 2014. Dr. Bolles joined ConAgra Foods in 2006 as Executive Vice President, Research, Quality & Innovation. Prior to joining ConAgra Foods, he led Worldwide Research and Development for PepsiCo Beverages and Foods. From 1993 to 2002, he was Senior Vice President, Global Technology and Quality for Tropicana Products Incorporated (a beverage company). Dr. Bolles has served as a member of the Board of Directors of Landec Corporation (food products technologies and biomedical materials manufacturer) since May 2014.

Thomas M. McGough has served as President of the Consumer Foods segment since May 2013. Mr. McGough joined ConAgra Foods in 2007 as Vice President in the Consumer Foods organization and has provided leadership for many brand teams within ConAgra Foods, includingBanquet®,Hunt's®, andReddi-wip®. He most recently served as President, Grocery Products since 2011, leading the largest business within the Consumer Foods segment. Mr. McGough has over twenty years of experience in the branded packaged foods industry, beginning his career at H.J. Heinz in 1990.

Scott E. Messel has served as Senior Vice President, Treasurer and Assistant Corporate Secretary since July 2004. Mr. Messel joined ConAgra Foods in August 2001 as Vice President and Treasurer. Prior to joining ConAgra Foods, Mr. Messel served in various treasury leadership roles at Lennox International (a provider of climate control solutions), Flowserve












Corporation (a manufacturer of flow management products and services), and Ralston Purina Company (a former manufacturer of cereals, packaged foods, pet food, and livestock feed).

Andrew G. Ross joined ConAgra Foods as Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer in November 2011. Prior to joining ConAgra Foods, he was a principal at McKinsey & Company, Inc. (consulting firm) from May 2002 until November 2011, where he led the firm's global consumer, retail, and marketing practices. Prior to that, he worked for William Grant & Sons, Ltd.

Nicole B. Theophilus has served as Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer since May 2013. Ms. Theophilus joined ConAgra Foods as Vice President, Chief Employment Counsel in April 2006. In addition to her legal duties, she assumed the role of Vice President, Human Resources for Commercial Foods in 2008, and most recently served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources from November 2009 until May 2013. Prior to joining ConAgra Foods, she was an attorney and partner with Blackwell Sanders Peper Martin LLP (a law firm).

Thomas P. Werner was named President of Commercial Foods in May 2015. Prior to that, Mr. Werner served as Senior Vice President of Finance for our Private Brands and Commercial Foods operating segments from June 2013 to April 2015, Senior Vice President of Finance for the Lamb Weston operations within our Commercial Foods segment from May 2011 until June 2013, and Vice President of Supply Chain from December 2009 until May 2011. Mr. Werner originally joined ConAgra Foods in 1999 and has been in finance roles of increasing responsibility throughout his career across all three of ConAgra Foods' operating segments-Commercial Foods, Consumer Foods and Private Brands.

Robert G. Wise has served as Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller since December 2012.  Mr. Wise joined ConAgra Foods in March 2003 and has held various positions of increasing responsibility with ConAgra Foods, including Vice President, Assistant Corporate Controller from March 2006 until January 2012 and most recently served as Vice President, Corporate Controller from January 2012 until December 2012. Prior to joining ConAgra Foods, Mr. Wise served in various roles at KPMG LLP (an accounting firm) from October 1995 to March 2003.

OTHER SENIOR OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT AS OF JULY 17, 2015

NameTitle & CapacityAgeJoan K. ChowExecutive Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer54Randy D. HarveyVice President, Internal Audit53Derek De La MaterExecutive Vice President and President, Sales48

Joan K. Chow joined ConAgra Foods in February 2007 as Executive Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer. Prior to joining ConAgra Foods, she served Sears Holding Corporation (retailing) as Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer, Sears Retail from July 2005 until January 2007, and as Vice President, Marketing Services from April 2005 until July 2005. From 2002 until April 2005, Ms. Chow served Sears, Roebuck and Co. as Vice President, Home Services Marketing.

Randy Harvey joined ConAgra Foods in 2005. He was named to his current position in March 2015. He previously served the Company as Vice President, Corporate Tax from 2005 to 2015.

Derek De La Mater joined ConAgra Foods in 1993 and has held various leadership roles in sales and business development within the Company. He was named to his current position in March 2014. He previously served the Company as President, Customer Development, from 2013 to 2014, Senior Vice President, Sales, from 2011 to 2013, and Vice President, Sales from 2006 to 2011.





Foreign Operations

Foreign operations information is set forth in Note 21 “Business Segments and Related Information”to the consolidated financial statements.














Available Information

We make available, free of charge through the “Investors—Financial Reports & Filings” link on our Internet website at http://www.conagrafoods.com, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. We use our Internet website, through the “Investors” link, as a channel for routine distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations, and financial information.

We have also posted on our website our (1) Corporate Governance Principles, (2) Code of Conduct, (3) Code of Ethics for Senior Corporate Officers, and (4) Charters for the Audit/Finance Committee, Nominating, Governance and Public Affairs Committee, and Human Resources Committee. Shareholders may also obtain copies of these items at no charge by writing to: Corporate Secretary, ConAgra Foods, Inc., One ConAgra Drive, Omaha, NE, 68102-5001.





