ITEM 1.BUSINESS



a)General
    Development of Business



ConAgra Foods, Inc. (“ConAgra Foods”,
    “Company”, “we”, “us”, or
    “our”) is one of North America’s leading food
    companies, with brands in 96% of America’s households.
    ConAgra Foods also has a strongbusiness-to-businesspresence, supplying frozen potato and sweet potato products, as
    well as other vegetable, spice, and grain products to a variety
    of well-known restaurants, foodservice operators, and commercial
    customers.



ConAgra Foods is focused on growing sales, expanding profit
    margins, and improving returns on capital over time. To that
    end, we have significantly changed our portfolio of businesses
    over a number of years, focusing on branded, value-added
    opportunities, while divesting commodity-based and lower-margin
    businesses. Executing this strategy has involved the acquisition
    over time of a number of brands such asBanquet®,Chef
    Boyardee®,PAM®,

    andAlexia®,

    and more recently, has focused on product innovations such asHealthy
    Choice®Café
    Steamerstm,Healthy
    Choice®Fresh
    Mixerstm,Healthy
    Choice®All Natural Entrées,Marie
    Callender’s®Pasta Al Dente, and others. More notable divestitures have
    included a trading and merchandising business, packaged meat
    operations, a poultry business, beef and pork businesses, and
    various other businesses. For more information about our more
    recent acquisitions and divestitures, see
    “Acquisitions” and “Divestitures” below.



As part of this strategy, we have also prioritized improving our
    overall operational effectiveness, focusing on better innovation
    and marketing programs, reducing manufacturing and selling,
    general, and administrative costs, and enhancing our business
    processes, which are intended to drive profitable sales growth,
    expand profit margins, and improve returns on capital.



Currently we are focusing on the following initiatives, designed
    to enhance the performance of our five strategic product groups:
    convenient meals, potatoes, snacks, meal enhancers, and
    specialty businesses:



•World-class and high-impact marketing;•Innovation focused on “fewer, bigger, and better”
    initiatives;•Sales growth initiatives focused on penetrating the fastest
    growing channels, achieving better returns on customer trade
    arrangements, optimizing shelf placement for our most profitable
    brands, and aligning with customers to leverage consumer
    insights;•Reducing costs throughout the supply chain and the general and
    administrative functions; and•Delivering consistent customer service and high standards of
    food safety and quality.



We were initially incorporated as a Nebraska corporation in 1919
    and were reincorporated as a Delaware corporation in December
    1975.



b)Financial
    Information about Reporting Segments



We report our operations in two reporting segments: Consumer
    Foods and Commercial Foods. The contributions of each reporting
    segment to net sales, operating profit, and the identifiable
    assets are set forth in Note 22 “Business Segments
    and Related Information” to the consolidated financial
    statements.



c)Narrative
    Description of Business



We compete throughout the food industry and focus on adding
    value for customers who operate in the retail food, foodservice,
    and ingredients channels.



Our operations, including our reporting segments, are described
    below. Our locations, including distribution facilities, within
    each reporting segment, are described in Item 2.






Consumer
    Foods



The Consumer Foods reporting segment includes branded, private
    label, and customized food products, which are sold in various
    retail and foodservice channels, principally in North America.
    The products include a variety of categories (meals,
    entrées, condiments, sides, snacks, and desserts) across
    frozen, refrigerated, and shelf-stable temperature classes.



Major brands include:Alexia®,ACT
    II®,Banquet®,Blue
    Bonnet®,Chef
    Boyardee®,DAVID®,Egg
    Beaters®,Healthy
    Choice®,Hebrew
    National®,Hunt’s®,Marie
    Callender’s®,Orville
    Redenbacher’s®,PAM®,

    Peter
    Pan®,Reddi-wip®,Slim
    Jim®,Snack
    Pack®,Swiss
    Miss®,Van
    Camp’s®,

    andWesson®.



Commercial
    Foods



The Commercial Foods reporting segment includes commercially
    branded foods and ingredients, which are sold principally to
    foodservice, food manufacturing, and industrial customers. The
    segment’s primary products include: specialty potato
    products, milled grain ingredients, a variety of vegetable
    products, seasonings, blends, and flavors which are sold under
    brands such asConAgra
    Mills®,Lamb
    Weston®,

    andSpicetec®.



Unconsolidated
    Equity Investments



We have a number of unconsolidated equity investments.
    Significant affiliates produce and market potato products for
    retail and foodservice customers.



Acquisitions



In June 2010, subsequent to the end of our fiscal 2010, we
    acquired the assets of American Pie, LLC, a manufacturer of
    frozen fruit pies, thaw and serve pies, fruit cobblers, and pie
    crusts under the licensedMarie
    Callender’s®andClaim
    Jumper®trade names, as well as frozen dinners, pot pies, and appetizers
    under theClaim
    Jumper®trade name. This business is included in the Consumer Foods
    segment.



On April 12, 2010, we acquired Elan Nutrition, Inc.
    (“Elan”), a privately held formulator and manufacturer
    of snack and nutrition bars. This business is included in the
    Consumer Foods segment.



During fiscal 2009, we acquired Saroni Sugar & Rice,
    Inc., a distribution company included in the Commercial Foods
    segment.



Also during fiscal 2009, we acquired a 49.99% interest in Lamb
    Weston BSW, LLC (“Lamb Weston BSW” or the
    “venture”), a potato processing joint venture with
    Ochoa Ag Unlimited Foods, Inc. (“Ochoa”). This venture
    is considered a variable interest entity for which we are the
    primary beneficiary and is consolidated in our financial
    statements. This business is included in the Commercial Foods
    segment.



During fiscal 2008, we acquired:



•Alexia Foods, Inc. (“Alexia Foods”), a privately held
    natural food company, headquartered in Long Island City, New
    York. Alexia Foods offers premium natural and organic food items
    including potato products, appetizers, and artisan breads. This
    business is included in the Commercial Foods segment.•Lincoln Snacks Holding Company, Inc. (“Lincoln
    Snacks”), a privately held company located in Lincoln,
    Nebraska. Lincoln Snacks offers a variety of snack food brands
    and private label products. This business is included in the
    Consumer Foods segment.•The manufacturing assets of Twin City Foods, Inc. (“Twin
    City Foods”), a potato processing business. This business
    is included in the Commercial Foods segment.•Watts Brothers, a privately held group which owns and operates
    agricultural and farming businesses. This business is included
    in the Commercial Foods segment.








Divestitures



In July 2010, subsequent to the end of our fiscal 2010, we
    completed the sale of substantially all of the assets ofGilroy Foods &
    Flavorstmdehydrated garlic, onion, capsicum and Controlled
    Moisturetm,

    GardenFrost®,Redi-Madetm,

    and fresh vegetable operations for $250 million in cash,
    subject to final working capital adjustments. We reflected the
    results of these operations as discontinued operations for all
    periods presented. The assets and liabilities of the
    discontinuedGilroy Foods &
    Flavorstmdehydrated vegetable business have been reclassified as assets
    and liabilities held for sale within our consolidated balance
    sheets for all periods presented.



In the first quarter of fiscal 2010, we completed the
    divestiture of theFernando’s®foodservice brand. We reflected the results of these operations
    as discontinued operations for all periods presented. The assets
    and liabilities of the divestedFernando’s®business have been reclassified as assets and liabilities held
    for sale within our consolidated balance sheets for all periods
    prior to the divestiture.



During fiscal 2009, we completed the sale of ourPemmican®beef jerky business. Due to our continuing involvement with the
    business through providing sales and distribution support to the
    buyer, the results of operations of thePemmican®business have not been reclassified as discontinued operations.



During fiscal 2009, we completed the sale of our trading and
    merchandising operations (previously principally reported as the
    Trading and Merchandising segment). We reflected the results of
    these operations as discontinued operations for all periods
    presented. The assets and liabilities of the divested trading
    and merchandising operations are classified as assets and
    liabilities held for sale within our consolidated balance sheets
    for all periods prior to divestiture.



During fiscal 2008, we completed the divestiture of theKnott’s Berry
    Farm®(“Knott’s”) operations. We reflected the results
    of these operations as discontinued operations for all periods
    presented. The assets and liabilities of the divested
    Knott’s business are classified as assets and liabilities
    held for sale within our consolidated balance sheets for all
    periods prior to divestiture.



General



The following comments pertain to both of our reporting segments.



ConAgra Foods is a food company that operates in many sectors of
    the food industry, with a significant focus on the sale of
    branded and value-added consumer products. We also manufacture
    and sell private label products. We use many different raw
    materials, the bulk of which are commodities. The prices paid
    for raw materials used in our products generally reflect factors
    such as weather, commodity market fluctuations, currency
    fluctuations, tariffs, and the effects of governmental
    agricultural programs. Although the prices of raw materials can
    be expected to fluctuate as a result of these factors, we
    believe such raw materials to be in adequate supply and
    generally available from numerous sources. We have faced
    increased costs for many of our significant raw materials,
    packaging, and energy inputs. We seek to mitigate the higher
    input costs through productivity and pricing initiatives, and
    through the use of derivative instruments used to economically
    hedge a portion of forecasted future consumption.



We experience intense competition for sales of our principal
    products in our major markets. Our products compete with widely
    advertised, well-known, branded products, as well as private
    label and customized products. Some of our competitors are
    larger and have greater resources than we have. We compete
    primarily on the basis of quality, value, customer service,
    brand recognition, and brand loyalty.



We employ processes at our principal manufacturing locations
    that emphasize applied research and technical services directed
    at product improvement and quality control. In addition, we
    conduct research activities related to the development of new
    products. Research and development expense was $78 million,
    $78 million, and $67 million in fiscal 2010, 2009, and
    2008, respectively.



Demand for certain of our products may be influenced by
    holidays, changes in seasons, or other annual events.



We manufacture primarily for stock and fill customer orders from
    finished goods inventories. While at any given time there may be
    some backlog of orders, such backlog is not material in respect
    to annual net sales, and the changes of backlog orders from time
    to time are not significant.






Our trademarks are of material importance to our business and
    are protected by registration or other means in the United
    States and most other markets where the related products are
    sold. Some of our products are sold under brands that have been
    licensed from others. We also actively develop and maintain a
    portfolio of patents, although no single patent is considered
    material to the business as a whole. We have proprietary trade
    secrets, technology, know-how, processes, and other intellectual
    property rights that are not registered.



Many of our facilities and products are subject to various laws
    and regulations administered by the United States Department of
    Agriculture, the Federal Food and Drug Administration, the
    Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and other
    federal, state, local, and foreign governmental agencies
    relating to the quality and safety of products, sanitation,
    safety and health matters, and environmental control. We believe
    that we comply with such laws and regulations in all material
    respects, and that continued compliance with such regulations
    will not have a material effect upon capital expenditures,
    earnings, or our competitive position.



Our largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates,
    accounted for approximately 18%, 17%, and 15% of consolidated
    net sales for fiscal 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively.



At May 30, 2010, ConAgra Foods and its subsidiaries had
    approximately 24,400 employees, primarily in the United
    States. Approximately 53% of our employees are parties to
    collective bargaining agreements. Of the employees subject to
    collective bargaining agreements, approximately 25% are parties
    to collective bargaining agreements that are scheduled to expire
    during fiscal 2011. We believe that our relationships with
    employees and their representative organizations are good.

EXECUTIVE
    OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT AS OF JULY 22, 2010



Year FirstAppointed anExecutiveNameTitle & CapacityAgeOfficerGary M. RodkinPresident and Chief Executive Officer582005John F. GehringExecutive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer492004Colleen R. BatchelerExecutive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary362008André J. HawauxPresident, Consumer Foods492006Patrick D. LinehanSenior Vice President, Corporate Controller422009Scott E. MesselSenior Vice President, Treasurer and Assistant Corporate
    Secretary512001Robert F. Sharpe, Jr.Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer and
    President, Commercial Foods582005





The foregoing executive officers have held the specified
    positions with ConAgra Foods for the past five years, except as
    follows:



Gary M. Rodkin joined ConAgra Foods as Chief Executive Officer
    in October 2005. Prior to joining ConAgra Foods, he was Chairman
    and Chief Executive Officer of PepsiCo Beverages and Foods North
    America (a division of PepsiCo, Inc., a global snacks and
    beverages company) from February 2003 to June 2005. He was named
    President and Chief Executive Officer of PepsiCo Beverages and
    Foods North America in 2002. Prior to that, he was President and
    Chief Executive Officer of Pepsi-Cola North America from 1999 to
    2002, and President of Tropicana North America from 1995 to 1998.



John F. Gehring has served ConAgra Foods as Executive Vice
    President, Chief Financial Officer since January 2009.
    Mr. Gehring joined ConAgra Foods as Vice President of
    Internal Audit in 2002, became Senior Vice President in 2003,
    and most recently served as Senior Vice President and Corporate
    Controller from July 2004 to January 2009. He served as ConAgra
    Foods’ interim Chief Financial Officer from October 2006 to
    November 2006. Prior to joining ConAgra Foods, Mr. Gehring
    was a partner at Ernst & Young LLP (an accounting
    firm) from 1997 to 2001.



Colleen R. Batcheler joined ConAgra Foods in June 2006 as Vice
    President, Chief Securities Counsel and Assistant Corporate
    Secretary. In September 2006, she was appointed Corporate
    Secretary, in February 2008, she






was named Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate
    Secretary, and in September 2009, she was named Executive Vice
    President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary. From 2003
    until joining ConAgra Foods, Ms. Batcheler was Vice
    President and Corporate Secretary of Albertson’s, Inc. (a
    retail food and drug chain).



André J. Hawaux joined ConAgra Foods in November 2006 as
    Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer. Prior to
    joining ConAgra Foods, Mr. Hawaux served as Senior Vice
    President, Worldwide Strategy & Corporate Development,
    PepsiAmericas, Inc. (a manufacturer and distributor of a broad
    portfolio of beverage products) from May 2005. Previously, from
    2000 until May 2005, Mr. Hawaux served as Vice President
    and Chief Financial Officer for Pepsi-Cola North America (a
    division of PepsiCo, Inc.).



Patrick D. Linehan has served ConAgra Foods as Senior Vice
    President, Corporate Controller since January 2009.
    Mr. Linehan joined ConAgra Foods in August 1999 and held
    various positions of increasing responsibility, including
    Director, Financial Reporting, Vice President, Assistant
    Corporate Controller, and most recently as Vice President,
    Finance from September 2006 until January 2009. Mr. Linehan
    briefly left ConAgra Foods to serve as Controller of a financial
    institution in April 2006 and returned to ConAgra Foods in
    September 2006. Prior to joining ConAgra Foods, Mr. Linehan
    was with Deloitte LLP (an accounting firm).



Scott E. Messel joined ConAgra Foods in August 2001 as Vice
    President and Treasurer, and in July 2004 was named to his
    current position.



Robert F. Sharpe, Jr. has served ConAgra Foods as Executive
    Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer and President,
    Commercial Foods since October of 2009. Previously, he served
    ConAgra Foods as Executive Vice President, External Affairs and
    President, Commercial Foods from June 2008 until October 2009;
    Executive Vice President, Legal and Regulatory Affairs from
    November 2005 to December 2005; and Executive Vice President,
    Legal and External Affairs from December 2005 to May 2008. He
    also served as Corporate Secretary from May 2006 until September
    2006. From 2002 until joining ConAgra Foods, he was a partner at
    the Brunswick Group LLC (an international financial public
    relations firm).



OTHER
    SENIOR OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT AS OF JULY 22, 2010



NameTitle & CapacityAgeAlbert D. BollesExecutive Vice President, Research, Quality & Innovation52Douglas A. KnudsenPresident, ConAgra Foods Sales55Gregory L. SmithExecutive Vice President, Supply Chain46Joan K. ChowExecutive Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer50Allen J. CooperVice President, Internal Audit46Nicole B. TheophilusSenior Vice President, Human Resources40





Albert D. Bolles joined ConAgra Foods in March 2006 as Executive
    Vice President, Research & Development, and Quality.
    He was named to his current position in June 2007. Prior to
    joining the Company, he was Senior Vice President, Worldwide
    Research and Development for PepsiCo Beverages and Foods from
    2002 to 2006. From 1993 to 2002, he was Senior Vice President,
    Global Technology and Quality for Tropicana Products
    Incorporated.



Douglas A. Knudsen joined ConAgra Foods in 1977. He was named to
    his current position in May 2006. He previously served the
    Company as President, Retail Sales Development from 2003 to
    2006, President, Retail Sales from 2001 to 2003, and President,
    Grocery Product Sales from 1995 to 2001.



Gregory L. Smith joined ConAgra Foods in August 2001 as Vice
    President, Manufacturing. He previously served the Company as
    President, Grocery Foods Group, Executive Vice President,
    Operations, Grocery Foods Group, and Senior Vice President,
    Supply Chain. He was named to his current position in December
    2007. Prior to joining ConAgra Foods, he served as Vice
    President, Supply Chain for United Signature Foods from 1999 to
    2001 and Vice President for VDK Frozen Foods from 1996 to 1999.
    Before that, he was with The Quaker Oats Company for eleven
    years in various operations, supply chain, and marketing
    positions.



Joan K. Chow joined ConAgra Foods in February 2007 as Executive
    Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer. Prior to joining
    ConAgra Foods, she served Sears Holding Corporation (retailing)
    as Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer, Sears
    Retail from July 2005 until January 2007 and as Vice President,
    Marketing Services






from April 2005 until July 2005. From 2002 until April 2005,
    Ms. Chow served Sears, Roebuck and Co. as Vice President,
    Home Services Marketing.



Allen J. Cooper joined ConAgra Foods in March 2003 and has held
    various finance and internal audit leadership positions with the
    Company, including Director, Internal Audit from 2003 until
    2005; Vice President, Finance from 2005 until 2006; Vice
    President, Supply Chain Finance from 2006 until 2007; Senior
    Director, Finance; and most recently as Senior Director,
    Internal Audit. He was named to his current position in February
    2009. Prior to joining the Company, he was with
    Ernst & Young LLP (an accounting firm).



Nicole B. Theophilus joined ConAgra Foods in April 2006 as Vice
    President, Chief Employment Counsel. In 2008, in addition to her
    legal duties, she assumed the role of Vice President, Human
    Resources for Commercial Foods. In November 2009, she was named
    to her current position. Prior to joining ConAgra Foods, she was
    an attorney and partner with Blackwell Sanders Peper Martin LLP
    (a law firm) from 1999 until 2006.



d)Foreign
    Operations



Foreign operations information is set forth in Note 22
    “Business Segments and Related Information” to
    the consolidated financial statements.



e)Available
    Information



We make available, free of charge through the “Company
    Information-Investor Information” link on our Internet web
    site athttp://www.conagrafoods.com,our annual report onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,current reports onForm 8-K,and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is
    electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and
    Exchange Commission. We use our Internet website, through the
    “Company Information-Investor Information” link, as a
    channel for routine distribution of important information,
    including news releases, analyst presentations, and financial
    information.



We have also posted on our website our (1) Corporate
    Governance Principles, (2) Code of Conduct, (3) Code
    of Ethics for Senior Corporate Officers, and (4) Charters
    for the Audit Committee, Nominating and Governance Committee,
    and Human Resources Committee. Shareholders may also obtain
    copies of these items at no charge by writing to: Corporate
    Secretary, ConAgra Foods, Inc., One ConAgra Drive, Omaha, NE,68102-5001.






