ITEM 1.BUSINESS

a)  General Development of
Business

ConAgra Foods, Inc. (“ConAgra Foods”, “Company”, “we”, “us”, or
“our”) is one of North America’s leading food companies, with consumer brands in 97% of America’s households sold in grocery, convenience, mass merchandise, and club stores. ConAgra Foods also has a strong business-to-business
presence, supplying frozen potato and sweet potato products, as well as other vegetable, spice, and grain products to a variety of well-known restaurants, foodservice operators, and commercial customers.

The Company began as a flour-milling company and entered other commodity-based businesses. Over time, through various
acquisitions and divestitures, we significantly changed our portfolio of businesses, focusing on adding branded, value-added opportunities, while strategically divesting commodity-based businesses to become one of North America’s leading food
companies. Executing this strategy involved the acquisition over time of a number of brands such asBanquet®,Chef Boyardee®,PAM®,Marie
Callender’s®, andAlexia®. More notable divestitures have included a dehydrated garlic, onion, capsicum, and fresh vegetable operation, a trading and merchandising business, packaged meat and
cheese operations, a poultry business, beef and pork businesses, and various other businesses. For more information about our more recent acquisitions and divestitures, see “Acquisitions” and “Divestitures” below. Our development
over time has also been aided by innovation and organic growth.

We are focused on growing our core operations, expanding into
adjacent categories, and increasing our presence in private label and international operations. Our core operations include the strategic product groups of convenient meals, potatoes, snacks, meal enhancers, and specialty items. We are also focused
on sustainable sales and profit growth with strong and improving returns on invested capital. As part of continually strengthening our operating foundation, our major profit-enhancing initiatives have centered on and continue to include:



•Enhancing our portfolio by developing through innovation;



•Acquiring products that resonate with consumers, establish or further develop our desired operating platforms, or which expand our presence in desired
geographies or market segments;



•Implementing high-impact, insights-based marketing programs;



•Partnering strategically with customers to improve linkage, strengthen relationships, and capitalize on growth opportunities;



•Improving trade spending effectiveness and pricing analytics;



•Achieving cost savings throughout the supply chain with continuous efficiency improvement programs; and



•Implementing efficiency initiatives throughout the selling, general, and administrative functions.

The Company’s growth, efficiency, and portfolio improvement initiatives continue to be implemented with high standards of customer
service, product safety, and product quality.

We were initially incorporated as a Nebraska corporation in 1919 and were
reincorporated as a Delaware corporation in December 1975.

b)  Financial Information about Reporting Segments

We report our operations in two reporting segments: Consumer Foods and Commercial Foods. The contributions of each reporting segment to
net sales, operating profit, and identifiable assets are set forth in Note 22 “Business Segments and Related Information” to the consolidated financial statements.







c)  Narrative Description of Business

We compete throughout the food industry and focus on adding value for customers who operate in the retail food, foodservice, and
ingredients channels.

Our operations, including our reporting segments, are described below. Our locations, including
distribution facilities, within each reporting segment, are described in Item 2, Properties.

Consumer Foods

The Consumer Foods reporting segment includes branded, private label, and customized food products, which are sold in various retail and
foodservice channels, principally in North America. The products include a variety of categories (meals, entrées, condiments, sides, snacks, and desserts) across frozen, refrigerated, and shelf-stable temperature classes.

Major brands include:Alexia®,ACT II®,Banquet®,Blue Bonnet®,Chef Boyardee®,DAVID®,Egg Beaters®,Healthy Choice®,Hebrew National®,Hunt’s®,Marie
Callender’s®,Odom’s Tennessee Pride®,Orville
Redenbacher’s®,PAM®, Peter Pan®,Reddi-wip®,Slim Jim®,Snack Pack®,Swiss
Miss®,Van Camp’s®, andWesson®.

Commercial Foods

The Commercial Foods reporting segment includes commercially branded foods and ingredients, which are sold principally to foodservice, food manufacturing, and industrial customers. The segment’s
primary products include: specialty potato products, milled grain ingredients, a variety of vegetable products, seasonings, blends, and flavors which are sold under brands such asConAgra
Mills®,Lamb Weston®, andSpicetec Flavors & SeasoningsTM.

Unconsolidated Equity Investments

We have a number of unconsolidated equity investments. Significant affiliates produce and market potato products for retail and foodservice customers.

Acquisitions

In May 2012, we acquired Kangaroo Brands’ pita chip operations. The business, which manufactures private label andKangaroo®brand pita chip snacks, is included in the Consumer Foods segment.

In May 2012, we acquired Odom’s Tennessee Pride. The business manufacturesOdom’s Tennessee Pride®frozen breakfast products and other sausage products. This business is included in the Consumer Foods segment.

In March 2012, we acquired Del Monte Canada. The acquisition includes allDel Monte®branded packaged fruit, fruit snacks, and vegetable products in Canada, as well asAylmer®brand tomato products. This business is included in the Consumer Foods segment.

In November 2011, we acquired National Pretzel Company. National Pretzel Company is a private label supplier and branded producer of
pretzels and related products. This business is included in the Consumer Foods segment.

In November 2011, we acquired an
additional equity interest in Agro Tech Foods Limited (“ATFL”). ATFL is a publicly traded company in India that markets food and food ingredients to consumers and institutional customers in India. As a result of this additional investment,
we now have a majority interest (approximately 52%) in ATFL. Consolidated financial results of ATFL are included in the Consumer Foods segment.

In June 2011, we purchased theMarie Callender’s®brand
trademark from Marie Callender Pie Shops, Inc.

During fiscal 2011, we acquired the assets of American Pie,
LLC, a manufacturer of frozen fruit pies, thaw and serve pies, fruit cobblers, and pie crusts under the licensedMarie Callender’s®andClaim Jumper®trade names, as well as frozen dinners, pot pies, and appetizers under theClaim Jumper®trade name. This
business is included in the Consumer Foods segment.







Divestitures

In fiscal 2011, we completed the sale of substantially all of the assets of our frozen handhelds operations. We reflected the results of these operations as discontinued operations for all periods
presented.

In fiscal 2011, we completed the sale of substantially all of the assets ofGilroy
Foods & FlavorsTMdehydrated garlic, onion,
capsicum andControlled MoistureTM,GardenFrost®,Redi-MadeTM, and fresh vegetable operations. We reflected the results of these operations as discontinued operations for all
periods presented.

General

The following comments pertain to both of our reporting segments.

ConAgra Foods
is a food company that operates in many sectors of the food industry, with a significant focus on the sale of branded and value-added consumer products, as well as foodservice products and ingredients. We also manufacture and sell private label
products. We use many different raw materials, the bulk of which are commodities. The prices paid for raw materials used in our products generally reflect factors such as weather, commodity market fluctuations, currency fluctuations, tariffs, and
the effects of governmental agricultural programs. Although the prices of raw materials can be expected to fluctuate as a result of these factors, we believe such raw materials to be in adequate supply and generally available from numerous sources.
We have faced increased costs for many of our significant raw materials, packaging, and energy inputs. We seek to mitigate the higher input costs through productivity and pricing initiatives, and through the use of derivative instruments used to
economically hedge a portion of forecasted future consumption.

We experience intense competition for sales of our principal
products in our major markets. Our products compete with widely advertised, well-known, branded products, as well as private label and customized products. Some of our competitors are larger and have greater resources than we have. We compete
primarily on the basis of quality, value, customer service, brand recognition, and brand loyalty.

Demand for certain of our
products may be influenced by holidays, changes in seasons, or other annual events.

We manufacture primarily for stock and
fill customer orders from finished goods inventories. While at any given time there may be some backlog of orders, such backlog is not material in respect to annual net sales, and the changes of backlog orders from time to time are not significant.

Our trademarks are of material importance to our business and are protected by registration or other means in the United
States and most other markets where the related products are sold. Some of our products are sold under brands that have been licensed from others. We also actively develop and maintain a portfolio of patents, although no single patent is considered
material to the business as a whole. We have proprietary trade secrets, technology, know-how, processes, and other intellectual property rights that are not registered.

Many of our facilities and products are subject to various laws and regulations administered by the United States Department of Agriculture, the Federal Food and Drug Administration, the Occupational
Safety and Health Administration, and other federal, state, local, and foreign governmental agencies relating to the quality and safety of products, sanitation, safety and health matters, and environmental control. We believe that we comply with
such laws and regulations in all material respects, and that continued compliance with such regulations will not have a material effect upon capital expenditures, earnings, or our competitive position.

Our largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, accounted for approximately 17%, 18%, and 18% of consolidated net sales
for fiscal 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively.

At May 27, 2012, ConAgra Foods and its subsidiaries had approximately
26,100 employees, primarily in the United States. Approximately 42% of our employees are parties to collective bargaining agreements. Of the employees subject to collective bargaining agreements, approximately 43% are parties to collective
bargaining agreements that are scheduled to expire during fiscal 2013. We believe that our relationships with employees and their representative organizations are good.

Research and Development

We employ processes at our principal
manufacturing locations that emphasize applied research and technical services directed at product improvement and quality control. In addition, we conduct research







activities related to the development of new products. Research and development expense was $86 million, $81 million, and $78 million in fiscal 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT AS OF JULY 20, 2012



NameTitle & CapacityAgeYear
FirstAppointed 
anExecutiveOfficerGary M. RodkinPresident and Chief Executive Officer602005John F. GehringExecutive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer512004Colleen R. BatchelerExecutive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary382008André J. HawauxPresident, Consumer Foods512006Brian L. KeckExecutive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer592010Paul T. MaassPresident, Commercial Foods462010Scott E. MesselSenior Vice President, Treasurer and Assistant Corporate Secretary532001Andrew G. RossExecutive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer442011Robert G. WiseVice President, Corporate Controller442012

Gary M. Rodkin joined ConAgra Foods as President and Chief Executive Officer in October 2005. Previously,
he was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of PepsiCo Beverages and Foods North America (consumer products and manufacturing) from February 2003 to June 2005. He also served as President and Chief Executive Officer of PepsiCo Beverages and Foods
North America in 2002, and President and Chief Executive Officer of Pepsi-Cola North America from 1999 to 2002. Mr. Rodkin is a director of Avon Products, Inc., the Grocery Manufacturers of America, and Boys Town.

John F. Gehring has served ConAgra Foods as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer since January 2009. Mr. Gehring joined
ConAgra Foods as Vice President of Internal Audit in 2002, became Senior Vice President in 2003, and most recently served as Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller from July 2004 to January 2009. He served as the ConAgra Foods’ interim
Chief Financial Officer from October 2006 to November 2006. Prior to joining ConAgra Foods, Mr. Gehring was a partner at Ernst & Young LLP (an accounting firm) from 1997 to 2001.

Colleen R. Batcheler joined ConAgra Foods in June 2006 as Vice President, Chief Securities Counsel and Assistant Corporate Secretary. In
September 2006, she was appointed Corporate Secretary, in February 2008, she was named Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary and in September 2009, she was named Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate
Secretary. From 2003 until joining ConAgra Foods, Ms. Batcheler was Vice President and Corporate Secretary of Albertson’s, Inc. (a retail food and drug chain).

André J. Hawaux has served ConAgra Foods as President, Consumer Foods since January 2009. Previously, he served ConAgra Foods as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer from November 2006
to January 2009. Prior to joining ConAgra Foods, Mr. Hawaux served as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Strategy & Corporate Development, PepsiAmericas, Inc. (a manufacturer and distributor of a broad portfolio of beverage
products) from May 2005. Previously, from 2000 until May 2005, Mr. Hawaux served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for Pepsi-Cola North America (a division of PepsiCo, Inc.). Mr. Hawaux currently serves as a member of the Board
of Trustees for Southern New Hampshire University.

Brian L. Keck joined ConAgra Foods as Executive Vice President and Chief
Administrative Officer in September 2010. In this role, he is responsible for Human Resources, Facilities and Real Estate, and Communication & External Relations. Prior to joining ConAgra Foods, Mr. Keck was president and chief







operating officer of Macy’s Inc.’s Midwest Division (retail department stores) where he was responsible for sales, customer service, store operations, finance, distribution, human
resources, IT, design and construction, and community affairs. Prior to that, Mr. Keck held multiple senior leadership responsibilities at the May Department Stores Company (acquired by Macy’s) in both operating divisions and
corporate-wide roles. From 2000 to 2005, Brian led May’s HR function after having served as chairman of Meier & Frank Department Stores, a division of May.

Paul T. Maass was named President of the Commercial Foods business for ConAgra Foods in October 2010. Mr. Maass joined ConAgra Foods in 1988 as a commodity merchandiser in the trading business and
quickly progressed in several roles at the company. In 2003, Mr. Maass was named President and General Manager of ConAgra Mills. He assumed responsibility for J.M. Swank in 2007 and for Spicetec Flavors & Seasonings in 2010.

Scott E. Messel has served ConAgra Foods as Senior Vice President, Treasurer and Assistant Corporate Secretary since July
2004. Mr. Messel joined ConAgra Foods in August 2001 as Vice President and Treasurer. Prior to joining ConAgra Foods, Mr. Messel served in various treasury leadership roles at Lennox International (a provider of climate control solutions),
Flowserve Corporation (a manufacturer of flow management products and services) and Ralston Purina Company (a former manufacturer of cereals, packaged foods, pet food, and livestock feed).

Andrew G. Ross was named Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer for ConAgra Foods in November 2011. Mr. Ross leads the
company’s strategic planning process, with specific responsibility for developing strategies that align with the company’s growth ambitions. Prior to joining ConAgra Foods, he was a partner at McKinsey & Company, Inc. (consulting
firm), where he led the firm’s global consumer, retail and marketing practices. Prior to that, he worked for William Grant & Sons, Ltd. in Glasgow, Scotland and McKinsey & Company in London.

Robert G. Wise has served ConAgra Foods as Vice President, Corporate Controller since January 2012. Mr. Wise joined ConAgra Foods in
March 2003 and has held various positions of increasing responsibility with ConAgra Foods, including Director, Financial Reporting, and most recently served as Vice President, Assistant Corporate Controller since March 2006. Prior to joining ConAgra
Foods, Mr. Wise served in various roles at KPMG LLP (an accounting firm).

OTHER SENIOR OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT AS OF JULY 20, 2012



NameTitle & CapacityAgeAlbert D. BollesExecutive Vice President, Research, Quality & Innovation54Douglas A. KnudsenPresident, ConAgra Foods Sales57Joan K. ChowExecutive Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer52Allen J. CooperVice President, Internal Audit48Nicole B. TheophilusSenior Vice President, Human Resources42

Albert D. Bolles joined ConAgra Foods in March 2006 as Executive Vice President, Research &
Development, and Quality. He was named to his current position in June 2007. Prior to joining the Company, he was Senior Vice President, Worldwide Research and Development for PepsiCo Beverages and Foods from 2002 to 2006. From 1993 to 2002, he was
Senior Vice President, Global Technology and Quality for Tropicana Products Incorporated.

Douglas A. Knudsen joined ConAgra
Foods in 1977. He was named to his current position in May 2006. He previously served the Company as President, Retail Sales Development from 2003 to 2006, President, Retail Sales from 2001 to 2003, and President, Grocery Product Sales from 1995 to
2001.

Joan K. Chow joined ConAgra Foods in February 2007 as Executive Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer. Prior to
joining ConAgra Foods, she served Sears Holding Corporation (retailing) as Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer, Sears Retail from July 2005 until January 2007 and as Vice President, Marketing Services from April 2005 until July 2005.
From 2002 until April 2005, Ms. Chow served Sears, Roebuck and Co. as Vice President, Home Services Marketing.







Allen J. Cooper joined ConAgra Foods in March 2003 and has held various finance and internal
audit leadership positions with the Company, including Director, Internal Audit from 2003 until 2005; Vice President, Supply Chain Finance from 2005 until 2007; Senior Director, Finance; and most recently as Senior Director, Internal Audit. He was
named to his current position in February 2009. Prior to joining the Company, he was with Ernst & Young LLP (an accounting firm).

Nicole B. Theophilus joined ConAgra Foods in April 2006 as Vice President, Chief Employment Counsel. In 2008, in addition to her legal duties, she assumed
the role of Vice President, Human Resources for Commercial Foods. In November 2009, she was named to her current position. Prior to joining ConAgra Foods, she was an attorney and partner with Blackwell Sanders Peper Martin LLP (a law firm) from 1999
until 2006.

d)  Foreign Operations

Foreign operations information is set forth in Note 22 “Business Segments and Related Information”to the consolidated financial statements.

e)  Available Information

We make available, free of charge through the “Our Company—Investors—Financial Reports & Filings” link on our Internet website at http://www.conagrafoods.com, our annual
report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable
after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. We use our Internet website, through the “Our Company—Investors” link, as a channel for routine distribution of important
information, including news releases, analyst presentations, and financial information.

We have also posted on our website our
(1) Corporate Governance Principles, (2) Code of Conduct, (3) Code of Ethics for Senior Corporate Officers, and (4) Charters for the Audit/Finance Committee, Nominating, Governance and Public Affairs Committee, and Human
Resources Committee. Shareholders may also obtain copies of these items at no charge by writing to: Corporate Secretary, ConAgra Foods, Inc., One ConAgra Drive, Omaha, NE, 68102-5001.







