ITEM 1. BUSINESS

General Development of Business

ConAgra Foods, Inc. (“ConAgra Foods”, “Company”, “we”, “us”, or “our”) is one of North America’s largest packaged food companies. Its balanced portfolio includes consumer brands found in 97% of America's households, the largest private brand packaged food business in North America, and a strong commercial and foodservice business. Consumers can find recognized brands such asBanquet®, Chef Boyardee®, Egg Beaters®, Healthy Choice®, Hebrew National®, Hunt's®, Marie Callender's®, Odom's Tennessee Pride®,Orville Redenbacher's®, PAM®,Peter Pan®,Reddi-wip®,Slim Jim®,Snack Pack®, and many other ConAgra Foods brands and products, along with food sold by ConAgra Foods under private brands, in grocery, convenience, mass merchandise, club stores, and drugstores. We also have a strong commercial foods presence, supplying frozen potato and sweet potato products, as well as other vegetable, spice, bakery, and grain products to a variety of well-known restaurants, foodservice operators, and commercial customers.

The Company began as a flour-milling company and entered other commodity-based businesses. Over time, through various acquisitions and divestitures, we significantly changed our portfolio of businesses, focusing on adding branded, value-added opportunities, while strategically divesting commodity-based businesses to become one of North America’s leading food companies. Executing this strategy involved the acquisition over time of a number of brands such asBanquet®,Chef Boyardee®,PAM®,Marie Callender’s®, andAlexia®. Notable divestitures have included a dehydrated garlic, onion, capsicum, and fresh vegetable operation, a trading and merchandising business, packaged meat and cheese operations, a poultry business, beef and pork businesses, and various other businesses. Our development over time has also been aided by innovation and organic growth. We are also focused on sustainable sales and profit growth with strong and improving returns on invested capital.

In 2012, we announced a strategic roadmap focused on growing our core operations, expanding into adjacent categories, and increasing our presence in private label and international operations. Our core operations include the strategic product groups of convenient meals, potatoes, snacks, meal enhancers, and specialty items. In January 2013, we completed the acquisition of Ralcorp Holdings, Inc. ("Ralcorp"), a manufacturer of private brand products, thereby becoming the largest private brand packaged business in North America.

For more information about our more recent acquisitions, see “Acquisitions” below.

We are focused on growing our core operations, expanding into adjacent categories, and increasing our presence in private brand and international operations. Our core operations include the strategic product groups of convenient meals, potatoes, snacks, meal enhancers, and specialty items. We are also focused on sustainable sales and profit growth with strong and improving returns on invested capital. As part of continually strengthening our operating foundation, our major profit-enhancing initiatives have centered on and continue to include:

•Enhancing our portfolio by developing through innovation;

•Acquiring products that resonate with consumers, establish or further develop our desired operating platforms, or which expand our presence in desired geographies or market segments;

•Implementing high-impact, insights-based marketing programs;

•Partnering strategically with customers to improve linkage, strengthen relationships, and capitalize on growth opportunities;

•Improving trade spending effectiveness and pricing analytics;

•Achieving cost savings throughout the supply chain with continuous efficiency improvement programs; and

•Implementing efficiency initiatives throughout the selling, general, and administrative functions.

The Company’s growth, efficiency, and portfolio improvement initiatives continue to be implemented with high standards of customer service, product safety, and product quality.

We were initially incorporated as a Nebraska corporation in 1919 and were reincorporated as a Delaware corporation in December 1975.









Financial Information about Reporting Segments

We report our operations in four reporting segments: Consumer Foods, Commercial Foods, Ralcorp Food Group, and Ralcorp Frozen Bakery Products. The contributions of each reporting segment to net sales, operating profit, and identifiable assets are set forth in Note 22 “Business Segments and Related Information” to the consolidated financial statements.

Narrative Description of Business

We compete throughout the food industry and focus on adding value for customers who operate in the retail food, foodservice, and ingredients channels.

Our operations, including our reporting segments, are described below. Our locations, including distribution facilities, within each reporting segment, are described in Item 2, Properties.

Consumer Foods

The Consumer Foods reporting segment includes branded, private brand, and customized food products, which are sold in various retail and foodservice channels, principally in North America. The products include a variety of categories (meals, entrées, condiments, sides, snacks, and desserts) across frozen, refrigerated, and shelf-stable temperature classes.

Major brands include:Alexia®,ACT II®,Banquet®,Blue Bonnet®,Chef Boyardee®,DAVID®,Egg Beaters®,Healthy Choice®,Hebrew National®,Hunt’s®,Marie Callender’s®,Odom’s Tennessee Pride®,Orville Redenbacher’s®,PAM®, Peter Pan®,Reddi-wip®,Slim Jim®,Snack Pack®,Swiss Miss®,Van Camp’s®, andWesson®.

Commercial Foods

The Commercial Foods reporting segment includes commercially branded foods and ingredients, which are sold principally to foodservice, food manufacturing, and industrial customers. The segment’s primary products include: specialty potato products, milled grain ingredients, and a variety of vegetable products, seasonings, blends, and flavors, which are sold under brands such asConAgra Mills®,Lamb Weston®, andSpicetec Flavors & Seasonings®.

Ralcorp Food Group

The Ralcorp Food Group reporting segment principally includes private brand food products that are sold in various retail and foodservice channels, primarily in North America. The products include a variety of categories including cereal products; snacks, sauces, and spreads; and pasta.

Ralcorp Frozen Bakery Products

The Ralcorp Frozen Bakery Products reporting segment principally includes private brand frozen bakery products that are sold in various retail and foodservice channels, primarily in North America. The segment's primary products include: frozen griddle products, including pancakes, waffles, and French toast; frozen biscuits and other frozen pre-baked products such as breads and rolls; and frozen and refrigerated dough products.

Unconsolidated Equity Investments

We have a number of unconsolidated equity investments. Significant affiliates produce and market potato products for retail and foodservice customers.

Acquisitions

In January 2013, we acquired Ralcorp. Ralcorp manufactures private brand  products including cereal products; snacks, sauces, and spreads; pasta; frozen griddle products, including pancakes, waffles, and French toast; frozen biscuits and other frozen pre-baked products such as breads and rolls; and frozen and refrigerated dough products. We present the results of operations of the acquired Ralcorp business in two segments: Ralcorp Food Group and Ralcorp Frozen Bakery Products.

In August 2012, we acquired theP.F. Chang's®andBertolli®brands frozen meal business. This business is included in the Consumer Foods segment.

In May 2012, we acquired Kangaroo Brands’ pita chip operations. The business, which manufactures private label andKangaroo®brand pita chip snacks, is included in the Consumer Foods segment.









In May 2012, we acquired Odom’s Tennessee Pride. The business manufacturesOdom’s Tennessee Pride®frozen breakfast products and other sausage products. This business is included in the Consumer Foods segment.

In March 2012, we acquired Del Monte Canada. The acquisition includes allDel Monte®branded packaged fruit, fruit snacks, and vegetable products in Canada, as well asAylmer®brand tomato products. This business is included in the Consumer Foods segment.

In November 2011, we acquired National Pretzel Company. National Pretzel Company is a private label supplier and branded producer of pretzels and related products. This business is included in the Consumer Foods segment.

In November 2011, we acquired an additional equity interest in Agro Tech Foods Limited (“ATFL”). ATFL is a publicly traded company in India that markets food and food ingredients to consumers and institutional customers in India. As a result of this additional investment, we own a majority interest (approximately 52%) in ATFL. Consolidated financial results of ATFL are included in the Consumer Foods segment.

In June 2011, we purchased theMarie Callender’s®brand trademark from Marie Callender Pie Shops, Inc.

General

The following comments pertain to all of our reporting segments.

ConAgra Foods is a food company that operates in many sectors of the food industry, with a significant focus on the sale of branded, private brand, and value-added consumer products, as well as foodservice products and ingredients. We use many different raw materials, the bulk of which are commodities. The prices paid for raw materials used in our products generally reflect factors such as weather, commodity market fluctuations, currency fluctuations, tariffs, and the effects of governmental agricultural programs. Although the prices of raw materials can be expected to fluctuate as a result of these factors, we believe such raw materials to be in adequate supply and generally available from numerous sources. From time to time, we have faced increased costs for many of our significant raw materials, packaging, and energy inputs. We seek to mitigate the higher input costs through productivity and pricing initiatives, and through the use of derivative instruments used to economically hedge a portion of forecasted future consumption.

We experience intense competition for sales of our principal products in our major markets. Our products compete with widely advertised, well-known, branded products, as well as private brand and customized products. Some of our competitors are larger and have greater resources than we have. We compete primarily on the basis of quality, value, customer service, brand recognition, and brand loyalty.

Demand for certain of our products may be influenced by holidays, changes in seasons, or other annual events.

We manufacture primarily for stock and fill customer orders from finished goods inventories. While at any given time there may be some backlog of orders, such backlog is not material in respect to annual net sales, and the changes of backlog orders from time to time are not significant.

Our trademarks are of material importance to our business and are protected by registration or other means in the United States and most other markets where the related products are sold. Some of our products are sold under brands that have been licensed from others. We also actively develop and maintain a portfolio of patents, although no single patent is considered material to the business as a whole. We have proprietary trade secrets, technology, know-how, processes, and other intellectual property rights that are not registered.

Many of our facilities and products are subject to various laws and regulations administered by the United States Department of Agriculture, the Federal Food and Drug Administration, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and other federal, state, local, and foreign governmental agencies relating to the quality and safety of products, sanitation, safety and health matters, and environmental control. We believe that we comply with such laws and regulations in all material respects, and that continued compliance with such regulations will not have a material effect upon capital expenditures, earnings, or our competitive position.

Our largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, accounted for approximately17%,17%, and18%of consolidated net sales for fiscal2013,2012, and2011, respectively.

AtMay 26, 2013, ConAgra Foods and its subsidiaries had approximately34,840employees, primarily in the United States. Approximately40%of our employees are parties to collective bargaining agreements. Of the employees subject to collective bargaining agreements, approximately31%are parties to collective bargaining agreements that are scheduled to expire during fiscal2014. We believe that our relationships with employees and their representative organizations are good.









Research and Development

We employ processes at our principal manufacturing locations that emphasize applied research and technical services directed at product improvement and quality control. In addition, we conduct research activities related to the development of new products. Research and development expense was $93.1 million, $86.0 million, and $81.4 millionin fiscal2013,2012, and2011, respectively.



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT AS OF JULY 19, 2013

NameTitle & CapacityYear FirstAppointed anExecutiveOfficerGary M. RodkinPresident and Chief Executive Officer612005John F. GehringExecutive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer522004Colleen R. BatchelerExecutive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary392008Brian L. KeckExecutive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer602010Paul T. MaassPresident, Commercial Foods472010Thomas M. McGoughPresident, Consumer Foods482013Scott E. MesselSenior Vice President, Treasurer and Assistant Corporate Secretary542001Andrew G. RossExecutive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer452011Nicole B. TheophilusExecutive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer432013Robert G. WiseSenior Vice President, Corporate Controller452012

Gary M. Rodkin has been our Chief Executive Officer and a member of our Board of Directors since October 1, 2005. Previously, he was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of PepsiCo Beverages and Foods North America (consumer products and manufacturing company) from February 2003 to June 2005. He also served as President and Chief Executive Officer of PepsiCo Beverages and Foods North America in 2002, and President and Chief Executive Officer of Pepsi-Cola North America from 1999 to 2002.  Mr. Rodkin has served as a director of Avon Products, Inc. (beauty and related products company) since 2007, and is also Chair of the Board of Boys Town (charitable organization) and the Omaha Chamber of Commerce's Prosper Omaha economic development campaign. He is past Chairman of the Grocery Manufacturers of America (consumer product company trade association).

John F. Gehring has served as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer since January 2009. Mr. Gehring joined ConAgra Foods as Vice President of Internal Audit in 2002, became Senior Vice President in 2003, and most recently served as Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller from July 2004 to January 2009. He served as the ConAgra Foods' interim Chief Financial Officer from October 2006 to November 2006. Prior to joining ConAgra Foods, Mr. Gehring was a partner at Ernst & Young LLP (an accounting firm) from 1997 to 2001.

Colleen R. Batcheler has served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since September 2009. Ms. Batcheler joined ConAgra Foods as Vice President, Chief Securities Counsel and Assistant Corporate Secretary in June 2006, was named Corporate Secretary in September 2006, and most recently served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary from February 2008 to September 2009.  From 2003 until joining ConAgra Foods, Ms. Batcheler was Vice President and Corporate Secretary of Albertson's, Inc. (a retail food and drug chain).  Previously, she was Associate Counsel with The Cleveland Clinic Foundation and an associate with Jones Day (a law firm).

Brian L. Keck joined ConAgra Foods as Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer in September 2010. Prior to joining ConAgra Foods, Mr. Keck was President and Chief Operating Officer of Macy's Inc.'s Midwest Division (retail department stores) where he was responsible for sales, customer service, store operations, finance, distribution, human resources, IT, design and construction, and community affairs. Prior to that, Mr. Keck held multiple senior leadership responsibilities at the May Department Stores Company (acquired by Macy's) in both operating divisions and corporate-wide roles. From 2000 to 2005, he led May's HR function after having served as Chairman of Meier & Frank Department Stores, a division of May.

Paul T. Maass has served as President of the Commercial Foods segment since October 2010 and served as interim President of the Lamb Weston operations from 2010 until January 2013.  In May 2013, when the organization was realigned after the acquisition of Ralcorp, he assumed responsibility for the Private Brands and Foodservice operations (that also includes the Consumer Foods segment) of ConAgra Foods.  Since joining ConAgra Foods in 1988 as a commodity merchandiser in the trading business, Mr. Maass quickly progressed in several roles at ConAgra Foods, including being named President and General Manager ofConAgra Mills®in 2003 and assuming responsibility forJ.M. Swank®in 2007 and forSpicetec Flavors & Seasonings®in 2010.









Thomas M. McGough has served as President of the Consumer Foods segment since May 2013.  Mr. McGough joined ConAgra Foods in 2007 as Vice President in the Consumer Foods organization and has provided leadership for many brand teams within ConAgra Foods, includingBanquet®,Hunt's®, andReddi-wip®.  He most recently served as President, Grocery Products since 2011, leading the largest business within the Consumer Foods segment.  Mr. McGough has over twenty years of experience in the branded packaged foods industry, beginning his career at H.J. Heinz in 1990.

Scott E. Messel has served as Senior Vice President, Treasurer and Assistant Corporate Secretary since July 2004.  Mr. Messel joined ConAgra Foods in August 2001 as Vice President and Treasurer.  Prior to joining ConAgra Foods, Mr. Messel served in various treasury leadership roles at Lennox International (a provider of climate control solutions), Flowserve Corporation (a manufacturer of flow management products and services), and Ralston Purina Company (a former manufacturer of cereals, packaged foods, pet food, and livestock feed).

Andrew G. Ross joined ConAgra Foods as Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer in November 2011. Prior to joining ConAgra Foods, he was a principal at McKinsey & Company, Inc. (consulting firm) from May 2002 until November 2011, where he led the firm's global consumer, retail, and marketing practices. Prior to that, he worked for William Grant & Sons, Ltd. and McKinsey & Company.

Nicole B. Theophilus has served as Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer since May 2013.  Ms. Theophilus joined ConAgra Foods as Vice President, Chief Employment Counsel in April 2006.  In addition to her legal duties, she assumed the role of Vice President, Human Resources for Commercial Foods in 2008, and most recently served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources from November 2009 until May 2013.  Prior to joining ConAgra Foods, she was an attorney and partner with Blackwell Sanders Peper Martin LLP (a law firm).

Robert G. Wise has served as Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller since December 2012.  Mr. Wise joined ConAgra Foods in March 2003 and has held various positions of increasing responsibility with ConAgra Foods, including Vice President, Assistant Corporate Controller from March 2006 until January 2012 and most recently served as Vice President, Corporate Controller from January 2012 until December 2012.  Prior to joining ConAgra Foods, Mr. Wise served in various roles at KPMG LLP (an accounting firm) from October 1995 to March 2003.

OTHER SENIOR OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT AS OF JULY 19, 2013

NameTitle & CapacityAgeAlbert D. BollesExecutive Vice President, Research, Quality & Innovation55Joan K. ChowExecutive Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer53Allen J. CooperVice President, Internal Audit49Douglas A. KnudsenPresident, ConAgra Foods Sales58

Albert D. Bolles joined ConAgra Foods in March 2006 as Executive Vice President, Research & Development, and Quality. He was named to his current position in June 2007. Prior to joining the Company, he was Senior Vice President, Worldwide Research and Development for PepsiCo Beverages and Foods from 2002 to 2006. From 1993 to 2002, he was Senior Vice President, Global Technology and Quality for Tropicana Products Incorporated.

Joan K. Chow joined ConAgra Foods in February 2007 as Executive Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer. Prior to joining ConAgra Foods, she served Sears Holding Corporation (retailing) as Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer, Sears Retail from July 2005 until January 2007, and as Vice President, Marketing Services from April 2005 until July 2005. From 2002 until April 2005, Ms. Chow served Sears, Roebuck and Co. as Vice President, Home Services Marketing.

Allen J. Cooper joined ConAgra Foods in March 2003 and has held various finance and internal audit leadership positions with the Company, including Director, Internal Audit from 2003 until 2005; Vice President, Supply Chain Finance from 2005 until 2007; Senior Director, Finance; and most recently as Senior Director, Internal Audit. He was named to his current position in February 2009. Prior to joining the Company, he was with Ernst & Young LLP (an accounting firm).

Douglas A. Knudsen joined ConAgra Foods in 1977. He was named to his current position in May 2006. He previously served the Company as President, Retail Sales Development from 2003 to 2006, President, Retail Sales from 2001 to 2003, and President, Grocery Product Sales from 1995 to 2001.











Foreign Operations

Foreign operations information is set forth in Note 22 “Business Segments and Related Information”to the consolidated financial statements.



Available Information

We make available, free of charge through the “Investors—Financial Reports & Filings” link on our Internet website at http://www.conagrafoods.com, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. We use our Internet website, through the “Investors” link, as a channel for routine distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations, and financial information.

We have also posted on our website our (1) Corporate Governance Principles, (2) Code of Conduct, (3) Code of Ethics for Senior Corporate Officers, and (4) Charters for the Audit/Finance Committee, Nominating, Governance and Public Affairs Committee, and Human Resources Committee. Shareholders may also obtain copies of these items at no charge by writing to: Corporate Secretary, ConAgra Foods, Inc., One ConAgra Drive, Omaha, NE, 68102-5001.













