
10-K405
FORM 10-K405



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                            ------------------------
                                   FORM 10-K

/X/ ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
    OF 1934 (FEE REQUIRED)

                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994
                                       OR

/ / TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
    ACT OF 1934 (NO FEE REQUIRED)
FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM _________ TO _________
COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-7221
                                 MOTOROLA, INC.

             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)



              1303 EAST ALGONQUIN ROAD, SCHAUMBURG, ILLINOIS 60196

                    (ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES)

                  REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER (708) 576-5000

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:



SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:

                                      NONE
                            ------------------------

    Indicate  by check  mark whether  the registrant  (1) has  filed all reports
required to be filed by  Section 13 or 15(d) of  the Securities Exchange Act  of
1934  during  the preceding  12  months (or  for  such shorter  period  that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to  such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.
                                 Yes _X_ No ___

    Indicate  by check mark if disclosure  of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's  knowledge, in definitive  proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ X ]

    The  aggregate market  value of voting  stock held by  non-affiliates of the
registrant as of  January 31,  1995 was  approximately $34.9  billion (based  on
closing  sale  price of  $59.25 per  share as  reported for  the New  York Stock
Exchange-Composite Transactions).

    The number of  shares of  the registrant's Common  Stock, $3  par value  per
share, outstanding as of January 31, 1995 was 588,266,574.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                     PART I


Item 1:  Business

(a)  General development of business.

Motorola, Inc. is a corporation organized under the laws of the State of
Delaware as the successor to an Illinois corporation organized in 1928.
Motorola's principal executive offices are located at 1303 East Algonquin Road,
Schaumburg, Illinois 60196 (telephone number:  708-576-5000).

Motorola, Inc., one of the world's leading providers of electronic equipment,
systems, components and services for worldwide markets, is engaged in the
design, manufacture and sale, principally under the Motorola brand, of a
diversified line of such products.  These products include two-way land mobile
communication systems, paging and wireless data systems and other forms of
electronic communication systems; subscriber and infrastructure equipment for
the telephone market; cellular mobile and portable telephones and systems;
semiconductors, including integrated circuits, discrete devices and
microprocessor units; information systems products such as modems, multiplexers
and network processors; electronic equipment for military and aerospace use;
electronic engine controls, and other automotive and industrial electronic
equipment; and multifunction computer systems for distributed data processing
and office automation applications.  Motorola also provides services for paging,
cellular telephone, shared mobile radio and wireless data.

The term "Motorola" as used hereinafter means Motorola, Inc. or Motorola, Inc.
and its subsidiaries, as the context requires.

(b)  Financial information about industry segments.

The response to this section of Item 1 is incorporated by reference to  Note 7
of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of Motorola's 1994 Annual
Report to Stockholders.

(c)  Narrative description of business.



                                      - 2 -


 SEMICONDUCTOR PRODUCTS


Semiconductors control and amplify electrical signals and are used in a broad
range of electronic products, including television receivers and other consumer
electronic products, solid-state ignition systems and other automotive
electronic products, major home appliances, industrial controls, robotics,
aircraft, missiles, space vehicles, communications equipment, computers,
calculators and automatic controls.

The semiconductor products manufactured by Motorola's Semiconductor Products
Sector include integrated circuit devices (metal-oxide semiconductor and
bipolar) such as dynamic and static random access memories, microcontrollers,
microprocessors, microcomputers, gate arrays, standard cells, digital signal
processors, mixed signal and other logic and analog components. In addition, the
Sector manufactures a wide variety of discrete devices including zener and
tuning diodes, RF devices, power and small signal transistors, field effect
transistors, microwave devices, optoelectronics, rectifiers and thyristors.

The Sector sells its products worldwide to original equipment manufacturers
through its own sales force.  Products also are sold through a network of
industrial distributors in the United States.  Sales outside the United States
are made through the Sector's own sales staff and through independent
distributors.  Products manufactured by the Sector are also supplied to other
operating units of Motorola.  The Sector is affected by the cyclical nature of
the semiconductor industry.  Available capacity, cyclical customer demands, new
product introduction and aggressive pricing can have a significant impact on its
business.  The Sector's capacity is being increased to meet current strong
market demand, but the Sector is still experiencing capacity constraints.  In
addition to the Sector's factory expansion program, it is actively pursuing
additional capacity through the sourcing of products from outside vendors.
Because of the strong market demand, the available quantity of some products
have been allocated among customers, including other Motorola operating units,
from time to time.



                                      - 3 -

The semiconductor industry is subject to rapid changes in technology, requires a
high level of capital spending and an extensive research, development and design
program to maintain state-of-the-art technology.  Accordingly, the Sector
maintains an extensive research and development program in advanced
semiconductor technology.

The Sector's backlog amounted to $2.68 billion at December 31, 1994 and $2.12
billion at December 31, 1993.  The 1994 backlog amount is believed to be
generally firm, and approximately 100% of that amount is expected to be shipped
during 1995.  However, in the past, the Sector has experienced abrupt and
repeated rescheduling of previously firm and even expedited orders.  The
estimate of the firmness of such orders is subject to future events which may
cause the percentage of the 1994 backlog actually shipped to change.

The Semiconductor Products Sector experiences intense competition from numerous
competitors, including Japanese companies and several other companies around the
world, ranging from large companies offering a full range of products to small
companies specializing in certain segments of the market.  The competitive
environment is also changing as a result of increased alliances between
competitors.  The Sector competes in many markets, including the
telecommunications, personal computer/work stations, industrial, automotive,
consumer, computer, government and distributor markets.  The Sector announced
that it will withdraw from its military business, which is expected to take
approximately eighteen months.  Due to the multitude of competitors, price,
service, technology and product quality are important factors in competition.
The ability to develop new products to meet customer requirements and to meet
customer delivery schedules are also competitive factors.  Management believes
that Motorola's commitment to research and development of new products combined
with utilization of state-of-the-art technology should allow the Sector to
remain competitive.

The Sector is not currently experiencing, nor does it anticipate, any shortages
in obtaining raw materials.  However, it is experiencing some extended lead
times on certain raw materials due to strong industry demand, but this is not
currently expected to have any material impact on the Sector's business.  A
significant portion of certain materials and



                                      - 4 -

parts used by the Sector is supplied from a single country.  The Sector is
actively seeking new sources of supply to decrease this dependency.  With
respect to other materials, the Sector is constantly seeking new sources of
supply to minimize the risk of obtaining materials from only a few
sources.  Electricity, oil and natural gas are used extensively in the Sector's
operations.  All of these energy sources are available in adequate quantities
for current and foreseeable future needs.  Electricity and oil are the primary
energy sources for the Sector's foreign operations, and presently, there are no
shortages of these sources although the reliability of electrical power has been
a problem from time to time.

Reference is made to the material under the heading "General" for information
relating to patents and trademarks and seasonality of business with respect to
this industry segment.

The Semiconductor Products Sector's headquarters are in Phoenix, Arizona, with
manufacturing facilities in Phoenix, Mesa, Tempe and Chandler, Arizona;  Irvine,
California; Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, Austin, Texas; Tianjin,
China; Toulouse, France; Munich, Germany; Kwai Chung and Tai Po, Hong Kong; Aizu
and Sendai, Japan; Seoul, Korea; Kuala Lumpur and Seremban, Malaysia;
Guadalajara, Mexico; Singapore; East Kilbride, Scotland; Carmona and Manila, the
Philippines; and Chung-Li, Taiwan.


COMMUNICATIONS PRODUCTS


Communications products are designed, manufactured and sold by Motorola's Land
Mobile Products Sector ("LMPS") and its Paging Products and Wireless Data Groups
("PWDG").  In 1994, both operations comprised the Company's Communications
Products segment.  Also, in January 1994, Motorola's Information Systems Group
(consisting of Codex Corporation and Universal Data Systems, Inc.) was combined
with PWDG to form the Messaging, Information and Media Sector.  During 1994,
this new Sector did not constitute a separate reportable industry segment, and
the results of operations of the Information Systems Group were reported under



                                      - 5 -

"Other Products".  For 1995, the Messaging, Information and Media Sector will be
reported as a separate industry segment.

As a principal supplier of mobile and portable FM two-way radio and radio paging
and wireless data systems, LMPS and PWDG provide equipment and systems to meet
the communications needs of individuals and many different types of business,
institutional and governmental organizations.  Products of LMPS and certain
products of PWDG provide voice and data communication between vehicles, persons
and base stations.  PWDG designs, manufactures and distributes paging, data and
gateway communications products on a worldwide basis.  PWDG also provides
network services for paging and data subscribers through wholly-owned and
operated businesses and domestic and international joint ventures.  LMPS
provides network services for two-way radio subscribers in international markets
through joint ventures.

The principal customers for two-way radio and radio paging products include
public safety agencies, such as police, fire, highway maintenance departments
and forestry services; petroleum companies; gas, electric and water utilities;
telephone companies; diverse industrial companies; mining companies;
transportation companies such as railroads, airlines, taxicab operations and
trucking firms; institutions, such as schools and hospitals; and companies in
the construction, vending machine and service businesses.  Also, there is a
growing base of paging and wireless data customers using the products for
personal and family communication needs.  These products are also sold and
leased to various federal agencies for many uses.  No one customer or a few
customers represent a material part of the business of the Communications
Products segment.  However, PWDG and LMPS each has a few customers that
collectively may be material to their respective businesses.

Users of two-way radios are regulated by a variety of governmental and other
regulatory agencies throughout the world.  In the United States, users of
two-way radios are licensed by the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC")
which has broad authority to make rules and regulations and prescribe
restrictions and conditions to carry out the provisions of the Communications
Act of 1934.  The FCC's authority includes, among other things, the power to
classify radio stations,



                                      - 6 -

prescribe the nature of the service to be rendered by each class of station,
assign frequencies to the various classes of stations and regulate the kinds of
equipment which may be used.  Regulatory agencies in other countries have
similar types of authority.  Consequently, the business of this segment and
other segments may be affected by the rules and regulations adopted by the FCC
or regulatory agencies in other countries from time to time.

Motorola has developed products using trunking and data communications
technologies to enhance spectral efficiencies.  The growth of the two-way radio
communications industry may be affected, however, by the regulations of the FCC
or other regulatory agencies relating to the allocation of frequencies for land
mobile communications users, especially in urban areas where such frequencies
are heavily used.

LMPS also manufactures and sells signaling and control systems and communication
control centers used in two-way radio operations.

This segment carries on an extensive product development program.  Its products
make substantial use of solid-state semiconductor components, including large-
scale integrated circuits.

The products manufactured and marketed by LMPS are sold directly through its own
distribution force, or through independent authorized distributors and dealers,
commercial radio service operators and independent commission sales
representatives.  Leasing and conditional sale arrangements are also made
available to customers.  The direct distribution force also provides systems
engineering and technical services to meet the customer's particular needs.  The
customer may choose to install and maintain the equipment with its own
employees, or may obtain installation, service and parts from a network of
Motorola authorized service stations (most of whom are also authorized dealers)
or from other non-Motorola service stations.  The majority of the leases and
conditional sale contracts entered into by LMPS are sold to several unaffiliated
finance companies and banks on terms which, in most instances, provide recourse
to Motorola with certain limitations.  Some leases and conditional sale
contracts are sold to a Motorola finance subsidiary.   Subscriber units are sold
directly and through indirect



                                      - 7 -

distribution channels.  Personal wireless communicators in the U.S. market are
distributed through resellers and computer retailers.  Pagers are sold directly
and to service providers.

This segment's backlog amounted to $2.02 billion at December 31, 1994 and $1.71
billion at December 31, 1993.  The 1994 backlog amount is believed to be
generally firm, and approximately 96% of that amount is expected to be shipped
during 1995.  The estimate of the firmness of such orders is subject to future
events which may cause the percentage of the 1994 backlog actually shipped to
change.

This segment experiences widespread, intense competition from numerous
competitors ranging from some of the world's largest, diversified companies to
foreign state-owned telecommunications companies to many small, specialized
firms.  The principal manufacturing operations of many competitors are located
outside of the United States.  Competitive factors for LMPS include:  price,
product performance, product quality, quality and availability of service, and
quality and availability of systems engineering, and for PWDG include:  price,
quality, volume, service and technology, with no one factor being dominant.
Management believes that Motorola's commitment to research and development
programs for improving existing products and developing new products and its
utilization of state-of-the-art technology should allow this segment to remain
competitive.

Availability of materials and components required by this segment is relatively
dependable and certain, but normal fluctuations in market demand and supply
could cause temporary, selective shortages.  Direct sourcing of materials and
components from foreign suppliers is becoming more extensive.  LMPS operates
certain offshore subassembly plants, the loss of one or more of which could
constrain its production capabilities.  Natural gas, electricity and, to a
lesser extent, oil, are the primary sources of energy.  Current supplies of
these forms of energy are considered to be adequate for this segment's United
States and foreign operations.  PWDG carries significant amounts of paging
production inventory to help reduce delivery cycle time.  LMPS provides custom
products based on assembling basic units into a large variety of models or
combinations.  This requires stocking of inventories and large varieties of



                                      - 8 -

piece parts as well as a variety of basic level assemblies to meet short
delivery requirements.

Reference is made to the material under the heading "General" for information
relating to patents and trademarks with respect to this segment.

Information with respect to transfer of LMPS's 800 MHz specialized mobile radio
service businesses, systems and licenses in the United States is incorporated by
reference to the information under "Communications Products" under the caption
"Financial Review" and in Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements of Motorola's 1994 Annual Report to Stockholders.

This segment's headquarters are located in Schaumburg, Illinois, with
manufacturing facilities in Schaumburg, Illinois; Boynton Beach and Plantation,
Florida; Mount Pleasant, Iowa; Ft. Worth, Texas; Tianjin, China; Bangalore,
India; Dublin, Ireland; Arad, Israel; Penang, Malaysia; Vega Baja, Puerto Rico;
Taunusstein, Germany; and Singapore.


GENERAL SYSTEMS PRODUCTS


General systems products are designed, manufactured and sold by Motorola's
General Systems Sector which includes the Cellular Subscriber Group, the
Cellular Infrastructure Group, the Network Ventures Division, Personal
Communications Systems Division ("PCS") and the Motorola Computer Group.

The Cellular Subscriber and Infrastructure Groups manufacture, sell, install and
service cellular infrastructure and radiotelephone equipment.  In addition, the
Cellular Subscriber Group resells cellular line service in the U.S., New
Zealand, Germany, France and the U.K. markets.  The Network Ventures Division is
a joint venture partner in cellular and telepoint operating systems in
Argentina, Uruguay, Hong Kong, Israel, Chile, Mexico, Thailand, Pakistan,
Nicaragua, Dominican Republic, Russia, Honduras, Jordan, Lithuania and Japan.
The Cellular Infrastructure Group products



                                      - 9 -

include electronic exchanges (i.e., telephone switches), base site controllers
and radio base stations.  Radiotelephone products include mobile, portable,
personal and transportable radiotelephones with various options, personal
communications equipment and cordless telephones.  PCS products include
subscriber and infrastructure equipment for the telephone market.  Products are
marketed worldwide through original equipment manufacturers, carriers,
distributors, dealers, retailers and, in certain countries, through a direct
sales force.  Financing of cellular and personal communications infrastructure
equipment is sometimes offered to qualifying customers.

Radio frequencies are required to provide cellular service.  The allocation of
frequencies is regulated in the United States and other countries throughout the
world, and limited spectrum space is allocated for cellular  services.  The
growth of the cellular and personal communications industry may be affected if
adequate frequencies are not allocated for its use, or alternatively, if new
technology is not developed to increase capacity on presently allocated
frequencies.

The Motorola Computer Group develops, manufactures, sells and services multi-
function computer systems and board level products, together with operating
systems and system enablers based on the Motorola 68000, 88000 and Power PC
series microprocessors.  These products are sold worldwide to a variety of
customers, some of whom produce computer products which compete with the Group.
The Computer Group's products are marketed to end-users, original equipment
manufacturers, value added resellers and distributors throughout the world.  The
Motorola Computer Group also markets computer products and peripherals that it
does not manufacture.

General Systems products are subject to constant changes in technology.
Consequently, the Sector has an extensive research and development program.

The Sector's backlog amounted to $1.7 billion at December 31, 1994 and $1.2
billion at December 31, 1993.  The 1994 backlog is believed to be generally
firm, and approximately 100% of that amount is expected to be shipped during
1995.  The estimate of the firmness of such orders is



                                     - 10 -

subject to future events which may cause the percentage of the 1994 backlog
actually shipped to change.

The General Systems Sector experiences intense competition from numerous
competitors ranging from some of the world's largest companies to small,
specialized firms.  The Sector competes in markets worldwide.  Competitive
factors in the market for the products are price, service, delivery,
technological capability, product quality and product and system performance.
An additional factor for the Motorola Computer Group products is the
availability of software products to address specific user applications.
Participation in a very competitive industry requires a continuing high level of
investment in technology.  Management believes that Motorola's commitment to
research and development programs for improving existing products and developing
new products and its utilization of state-of-the-art technology should allow the
General Systems Sector to remain competitive.

Materials used in the Sector's operations are generally second-sourced to ensure
a continuity of supply.  Occasionally, there are shortages of required purchased
components.  Energy necessary for the Sector's operations consists of
electricity, natural gas and gasoline, all of which are currently adequate in
supply.  The Sector's factories are highly automated and therefore, dependent
upon a steady supply of electrical power.

Patent protection is very important to the cellular business.  Also, reference
is made to the material under the heading "General" for information relating to
patents and trademarks and seasonality of business with respect to this industry
segment.

The General Systems Sector's headquarters are located in Arlington Heights,
Illinois.  The Sector operates manufacturing facilities in Tempe, Arizona;
Arlington Heights, Grayslake, Harvard and Libertyville, Illinois; Swindon,
England; Penang, Malaysia; Easter Inch, Scotland; Flensburg, Germany; Arad,
Israel; and Tianjin, China.  The Sector also has a joint venture manufacturing
operation in Austria.



                                     - 11 -

GOVERNMENT AND SPACE TECHNOLOGY PRODUCTS


The Government and Space Technology Group (formerly the Government and Systems
Technology Group) is engaged in the design, development and production of
electronic systems and products, and it competes for a variety of United States
Government projects and commercial business.  The Group is attempting to expand
the application of its core capabilities to support global growth opportunities
within other Motorola businesses.  The Group produces products related to
electronic and communications equipment that has various applications based upon
customer requirements of the Group's three business segments: government,
commercial and Satellite Communications.  The government business segment, known
as the Government Electronics Division, primarily does research, development and
production work under contracts with governmental agencies, but also conducts
independent research and development programs.  The government business segment
produces products such as diversified military and space electronic equipment,
including aerospace telecommunications systems, military communications
equipment, radar systems, data links, display systems, positioning and
navigation systems, instrumentation products, countermeasures systems, missile
guidance equipment, electronic ordnance devices and drone electronic systems.
The government business segment has been predominantly dependent upon the United
States Government as its main customer, acting as either a prime contractor or a
subcontractor to other prime contractors.  The total loss of all of this
business could have a material adverse effect on the Group.  Contracts are
secured from United States Government agencies and their suppliers by
negotiation and competitive bidding.  The government procurement environment is
becoming more competitive and is highly regulated.  Competition has increased
substantially in all aspects of the government business due to a slowdown in
procurement resulting from a lower defense budget.  Competitors include large
and small technically competent firms.  Some competitors from whom the segment
procured subcontract work in the past are becoming more vertically integrated
and are performing the work previously subcontracted.  This segment currently
expects to continue to meet competition on the basis of price and quality of
product performance.



                                     - 12 -


The Group diversified by applying its core technologies to other non-federal
government and commercial opportunities.  During 1993, the Group organized its
commercial business thrusts into the Diversified Technologies Division ("DTD")
which marketed products in the secure telecommunications and commercial test
equipment markets.  It also developed products for positioning and navigation
systems, and personal alarm and reporting systems markets.  However, these
businesses have not grown as rapidly as expected and will be pursued less
actively in 1995.  The resources within DTD are expected to be re-deployed to
meet the growing need for design and development services within other Motorola
Sectors beginning in 1995.  DTD had in place during 1994 distribution agreements
with the Land Mobile Products Sector ("LMPS") for the commercial test equipment
and secure telecommunications markets.  However, during 1994, DTD was able to
expand its own distribution network for commercial test equipment to reduce
reliance on LMPS.

The Group's Satellite Communications Division (SATCOM) is developing the
IRIDIUM[REGISTERED TRADEMARK] satellite-based communication system.  The IRIDIUM
system is a space-based wireless communications system that is being designed to
provide global digital service to hand-held telephones and related equipment.
The IRIDIUM system involves four components: (1) a constellation of low earth
orbit satellites, (2) a centralized system control center, (3) gateways
distributed throughout the world and (4)  individual subscriber units including,
for example, voice, data, facsimile and paging.  SATCOM is the prime contractor
under contracts with Iridium, Inc. to provide and launch the satellites, control
the ground stations and maintain the system. During the last three years, this
contract for development effort has become a significant portion of the Group's
business and is expected to remain a major contributor to the Group's sales for
the next few years.  The loss of these contracts could have a material adverse
effect on the Group.  SATCOM has entered into significant subcontracts for
portions of the system for which it will generally remain obligated even if
Iridium, Inc. is unable to satisfy the terms of its contracts with SATCOM,
including funding.  IRIDIUM is a registered trademark and service mark of
Iridium, Inc.



                                     - 13 -

Total sales for the Group include sales made to a number of free world
governments and corporations.  Products of the Group are marketed outside the
United States by a few distributors, by independent representatives and by the
Group's own sales force.  In 1994, a small percentage of the Group's business
was conducted internationally, primarily through the government business sector.

The Group's backlog amounted to $1.1 billion at December 31, 1994 and $634
million at December 31, 1993.  The 1994 backlog is believed to be generally firm
and approximately 73% of that amount is expected to be shipped during 1995.  All
contracts with the United States Government are subject to cancellation at the
convenience of the Government, and the contracts with Iridium, Inc. may be
terminated by Iridium, Inc. pursuant to the terms set forth in the contracts.
The estimate of the firmness of the 1994 backlog is subject to future events
which may cause the percentage actually shipped to change.

Materials used by the Group in its operations are generally available.  Natural
gas and electricity are the principal types of energy used, and availability of
both to the Group is currently more than adequate.

Patents are becoming more important as competition increases in a declining U.S.
Government market and as the Group expands quasi-government and commercial
opportunities.  Also, reference is made to the material under the heading
"General" for information relating to patents and trademarks with respect to
this industry segment.

The Group has its headquarters in Scottsdale, Arizona, with manufacturing
facilities in Scottsdale and Chandler, Arizona.


INFORMATION SYSTEMS PRODUCTS


Information systems products are designed, manufactured and sold by the
Information Systems Group ("ISG"), which consisted of Codex Corporation and
Universal Data Systems, Inc., which were wholly owned subsidiaries



                                     - 14 -

of Motorola.  These two corporations have been dissolved and their businesses
have been combined with other operations of Motorola.

ISG manufactures and sells high-speed leased-line and dial modems, digital
transmission devices, data/voice, time division and statistical multiplexers,
network management and control systems, X.25 networking equipment and local area
network interconnection products.  These products are offered alone, and
increasingly in systems, which have been configured to transmit information
among personal computers, terminals, other peripheral devices and host
computers. ISG also manufactures and sells a broad line of analog and digital
data communications equipment, including modems and DDS (Digital Dataphone
Services) service units for dedicated and switched networks, multiplexers, ISDN
(Integrated Services Digital Network) terminal adaptors, network management
systems and LAN (Local Area Network) products.  ISG markets a few data
communication products it does not manufacture.

ISG products are sold through both domestic and international sales
organizations which sell through direct and indirect channels, such as
distributors and value added resellers.

Information systems products are subject to constant changes in technology.
Consequently, the Group has an extensive research and development program.

ISG experiences intense competition from numerous competitors ranging from some
of the world's largest companies, including AT&T and IBM, to small, specialized
firms.  Competitive factors in the market for these products are product quality
and performance, customer service and price.  Management believes that
Motorola's commitment to research and development programs for improving
existing products and developing new technologies and its utilization of
state-of-the-art technology should allow the Group to remain competitive.

Materials used in the Group's business consist primarily of electronic
components and assemblies which are generally available from multiple sources.
Occasionally, shortages or extended delivery periods occur in various component
parts, the effects of which have been industry-wide



                                     - 15 -

and short in duration.  The Group requires commercially available electrical
energy for manufacturing and administrative operations.  Facilities are
temperature controlled with oil or gas heat and electrical power.  These types
of energy are currently readily available.

Reference is made to the material under the heading "General" for information
relating to patents and trademarks with respect to this industry segment.

ISG is headquartered in Mansfield, Massachusetts where it has separate product
engineering and marketing facilities.  Manufacturing operations are located in
Mansfield, Massachusetts and Huntsville, Alabama.


AUTOMOTIVE, ENERGY AND CONTROLS PRODUCTS


The Automotive, Energy and Controls Group manufactures and sells products in
three major categories:  automotive and industrial electronics; energy storage
products and systems; and ceramic and quartz electronic components.  The Group
also includes operations which manufacture electronic ballasts for fluorescent
lighting and radio frequency identification devices.  The Group is involved in
several joint ventures.  Manufacturing facilities are located at both domestic
and foreign locations.

The Group sells its automotive and industrial electronics products to original
equipment manufacturers, including foreign and domestic automobile
manufacturers, heavy vehicle manufacturers, farm equipment manufacturers and
industrial customers.  A large part of its business is dependent upon two
customers, the loss of either of which could have a material adverse effect on
the business of the Group.  Demand for products is linked to automobile sales in
the United States and other countries where the Group sells its products.  The
Group experiences competition from numerous global competitors including
automobile manufacturers.



                                     - 16 -

The energy storage products business and the ceramic and quartz products
business sell primarily to other industry segments within Motorola, principally
the Communications and General Systems Products segments.

All materials used by the Group have good availability at this time.  The Group
uses electricity and gas in its operations, which are currently adequate in
supply.

Competitive factors in the sale of all of the Group's products include price,
product quality and performance, supply integrity, quality reputation,
experience, responsiveness and design and manufacturing technology.

Reference is made to the material under the heading "General" for information
relating to patents and trademarks with respect to this industry segment.

The Group's headquarters is located in Northbrook, Illinois.  It has
manufacturing operations located in Scottsdale, Arizona; San Jose, California;
Atlanta, Georgia; Northbrook, Buffalo Grove, Schaumburg and Vernon Hills,
Illinois; Albuquerque, New Mexico; Elma, New York; Carlisle, Pennsylvania;
Seguin, Texas; Angers, France; Stotfold, England; Tuas, Singapore; Tianjin,
China; Chung-Li, Taiwan; Penang, Malaysia; Vega Baja, Puerto Rico; Dublin,
Ireland; and San Jose, Costa Rica.


GENERAL

CUSTOMERS.  Motorola is not dependent for a material part of its business upon a
single or a very few customers.  Approximately 3% of Motorola's total sales and
revenues in 1994 were received from various branches and agencies, including the
armed services, of the United States Government.

All contracts with the United States Government are subject to cancellation at
the convenience of the Government.

Government contractors, including Motorola, are routinely subjected to numerous
audits and investigations, which may be either civil or criminal



                                     - 17 -

in nature.  The consequences of these audits and investigations may include
administrative action to suspend business dealings with the contractor and to
exclude it from receiving new business.  In addition,  Motorola, like other
contractors, is internally reviewing aspects of its government contracting
operations, and, where appropriate, taking corrective actions and making
voluntary disclosures to the Government.  From time to time, these audits and
investigations may adversely affect Motorola.

BACKLOG.  Motorola's aggregate backlog position, including the backlog position
of subsidiaries through which some of its business units operate, as of the end
of the last two fiscal years, was approximately as follows:

          December 31, 1994. . .   $7.594 billion
          December 31, 1993. . .   $6.006 billion

The orders supporting the 1994 backlog amounts shown in the foregoing table are
believed to be generally firm, and approximately 95% of orders on hand at
December 31, 1994 are expected to be shipped during 1995.  However, future
events may cause the percentage actually shipped to change.

Motorola has a general policy of including in its reported orders only those
contracts or commitments which are written and firm, and which it believes will
result in a sale within one year.  For long-term contracts, only the portion to
be funded within a year generally is recorded as an order.  For products and
contracts involving certain new technologies, and some new combinations of
technologies, Motorola's general practice is to defer recognition of either
revenues or profits or both revenues and profits until technological feasibility
is established or customer acceptance is obtained.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.  Throughout its history, Motorola has relied, and
continues to rely primarily on its research and development programs for the
development of new products and its production engineering capabilities for the
improvement of existing products.  Technical data and product application ideas
are exchanged among Motorola's industry segments on a regular basis.  Research
and development expenditures



                                     - 18 -

relating to new product development or product improvement, other than
customer-sponsored contracts, were approximately $1,860 million in 1994, $1,521
million in 1993 and $1,306 million in 1992.

In addition, research funded under customer-sponsored contracts amounted to
approximately $601 million in 1994, $324 million in 1993 and $37 million in
1992.

Approximately 16,500 professional employees were engaged in such research
activities (including customer-sponsored) during 1994.

PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS.  Motorola owns 6,604 patents in the United States and
5,177 in foreign countries.  These foreign patents are counterparts of
Motorola's United States patents.  Many of the patents owned by Motorola are
licensed to others, and Motorola is licensed to use certain patents owned by
others.  In some instances, certain of the patents licensed by Motorola to
others have generated significant amounts of revenue to Motorola.

During 1994, Motorola was granted 940 United States patents.  Many of Motorola's
patents are used in its operations or licensed for use by others.

Motorola considers its trademark "MOTOROLA" and the "M" symbol to be valuable
assets.  These are protected through trademark registrations.  Other trademarks
of Motorola are protected and registered in the relevant markets, but are used
only on limited product lines.

CORPORATE MISSION.  Motorola's corporate mission is to grow rapidly, in each of
its chosen arenas of the electronics industry, by providing its worldwide
customers what they want, when they want it, with six sigma quality (virtually
zero defects, i.e., no more than 3.4 parts per million defective) and best-in-
class cycle time, as it strives to achieve its fundamental objective of total
customer satisfaction and to achieve its stated goals of increased global market
share; best-in-class people, marketing, manufacturing, technology, service and
product software, hardware and systems; and superior financial results.  To try
to fulfill this mission, Motorola has concentrated on five key operational
initiatives:  first, designing products that will accept reasonable



                                     - 19 -

variation in component parts, developing manufacturing processes that will
produce minimum variation in final output product and designing systems that
will achieve six sigma performance; second, examining the total product system
to reduce the cycle time from when an order is placed or a product is conceived
until it is delivered; third, emphasizing the need for product development,
environmental and manufacturing disciplines to work together; fourth, attempting
to improve profits through implementing a long-term, customer-driven approach
that shows it where to commit its resources to give customers what they want;
and fifth, empowerment for all, in a participative, cooperative and creative
workplace to achieve more synergy, greater efficiency and improved quality
within and among organizations.  In addition, it has tried to develop the
following key attributes or elements of a successful quality program:
leadership; communications; training; establishing high goals and high
expectations; providing for recognition; and developing a participative,
cooperative, creative and receptive culture.  Motorola strives to build on the
skills of its people and its growing portfolio of technologies to create the
platforms upon which whole new global industries are born.  In doing so,
Motorola draws on the creativity and wealth of experience of its people in all
cultures.

ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY.  Motorola operations are from time to time the subjects
of investigations, conferences, discussions and negotiations with various
federal, state and local environmental agencies with respect to the discharge or
cleanup of hazardous waste and compliance by those operations with environmental
laws and regulations.  The balance of the response to this section of Item 1 is
incorporated by reference to Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements under the caption "Environmental and Legal" and the information
contained in Motorola Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations under the caption "Environmental Matters" in
Motorola's 1994 Annual Report to Stockholders.

MISCELLANEOUS.  At December 31, 1994, there were approximately 132,000 employees
of Motorola and its subsidiaries.  The business of Motorola and its industry
segments is not seasonal to any significant extent overall, although the
Semiconductor Products Sector has tended to have stronger, seasonally-adjusted
sales in the first half of the year, and sales of



                                     - 20 -

products in consumer markets tend to increase in the fourth quarter.  Also, as
the market for paging products in China has matured, a seasonal pattern has
developed in which orders decline in the fourth and first quarters.  The
increase in large system orders in the Cellular Infrastructure Group and the
Land Mobile Products Sectors could increase the volatility of orders, revenues
and profits recognized in any particular period.  Radio frequencies are required
to use many of Motorola's products and services.  These frequencies and their
use are regulated by a variety of agencies throughout the world.  The growth in
cellular and other wireless communications products could be affected if
adequate frequencies are not allocated for their use, or through regulation or
regulatory changes.  In the United States, the Federal Communications Commission
has broad authority to make the rules and regulations and prescribe restrictions
and conditions on the use of radio frequencies.  Many countries, including the
United States, are currently in the process of making available a significant
number of additional licensed radio frequencies.

(d)  Financial information about foreign and domestic operations and export
     sales.

Domestic export sales to third parties were $2.97 billion in 1994, $1.83 billion
in 1993 and $1.14 billion in 1992.  Domestic export sales to affiliates were
$4.40 billion in 1994, $3.16 billion in 1993 and $2.32 billion in 1992.

The remainder of the response to this section of Item 1 is incorporated by
reference to Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and the
"Results of Operations" section of Motorola's 1994 Annual Report to
Stockholders.


Item 2:  Properties

Motorola's principal executive offices are located at 1303 East Algonquin Road,
Schaumburg, Illinois 60196.  Its other major facilities in the United States are
located in Arlington Heights, Buffalo Grove, Grayslake, Libertyville,
Northbrook, Schaumburg and Vernon Hills, Illinois; Elma, New



                                     - 21 -

York; Phoenix, Chandler, Scottsdale, Mesa and Tempe, Arizona; Boynton Beach and
Plantation, Florida; Atlanta, Georgia; Austin, Ft. Worth and Seguin, Texas;
Mount Pleasant, Iowa; Mansfield, Massachusetts; Huntsville, Alabama; Research
Triangle Park, North Carolina; Albuquerque, New Mexico; Carlisle, Pennsylvania;
and Irvine and San Jose, California.  Motorola also operates manufacturing
facilities or sales offices in 39 other countries.  (See "Narrative Description
of Business" for information regarding the location of the principal
manufacturing facilities for each industry segment.)  The United States
facilities (both manufacturing and administrative) owned by Motorola contain
approximately 16.9 million square feet.  Motorola also leases facilities in the
United States containing approximately 4.5 million square feet.  Motorola's
facilities outside the United States contain approximately 8.3 million square
feet of which approximately 3.1 million square feet are leased.

Motorola generally considers the productive capacity of the plants operated by
each of its industry segments adequate and suitable for the requirements of each
of such segments, except for the Semiconductor Products Sector which is engaged
in a factory expansion program to meet the strong market demand for its
products.  Motorola is also adding production capacity for its General Systems
Sector and its Paging Products Group.

The extent of utilization of such manufacturing facilities varies from plant to
plant and from time to time during the year.


Item 3:  Legal Proceedings

Motorola is a named defendant in six cases arising out of alleged groundwater,
soil and air pollution in Phoenix and Scottsdale, Arizona.  MCINTIRE ET AL. V.
MOTOROLA and CAMELHEAD EQUITIES ET AL. V. MOTOROLA ET AL. are pending in the
U.S. District Court for the District of Arizona, and BAKER ET AL. V. MOTOROLA ET
AL., LOFGREN ET AL. V. MOTOROLA ET AL., BENTANCOURT ET AL. V. MOTOROLA ET AL.
and FORD ET AL. V. MOTOROLA ET AL. are pending in the Arizona Superior Court,
Maricopa County.  The MCINTIRE lawsuit, filed on December 20, 1991, involves
over 900 plaintiffs who allege that the operations of Motorola at several
facilities in Phoenix and Scottsdale,



                                     - 22 -

Arizona have caused property damage and health problems by contaminating the
soil, groundwater and air in the area surrounding those facilities.  CAMELHEAD
EQUITIES, filed on June 1, 1993, is a suit for business losses by four failed
real estate development limited partnerships alleging that groundwater
contamination caused property damage and the failure of their real estate
development.  The BAKER lawsuit, filed on February 11, 1992, is also a class
action, involving six representative individual named plaintiffs, alleging that
Motorola and other defendants contaminated the soil, air and groundwater in the
Phoenix/Scottsdale area, diminishing property values and exposing members of the
class to possible adverse health effects.  On August 24, 1994, the BAKER court
certified two classes, a property damage class consisting of all persons who
were residents, property owners or lessees of property which overlies, or is
adjacent to, the alleged groundwater pollution, and a medical monitoring class
consisting of all persons who resided in Phoenix and/or Scottsdale for more than
one year continuously during the years between 1955 and 1989, and who received
potable drinking water containing trichloroethylene at a level equal to or
exceeding 2.0 parts per billion, on average.  The LOFGREN, BENTANCOURT and FORD
lawsuits, filed on April 6, 1993, July 16, 1993 and June 10, 1994, respectively,
have been consolidated.  The consolidated cases involve approximately 190
plaintiffs, alleging that Motorola and other defendants contaminated the soil,
air and groundwater in the Phoenix/Scottsdale area, causing health problems.

All six lawsuits seek compensatory and punitive damages.  The MCINTIRE complaint
includes personal injury and property damage claims and seeks injunctive relief.
The BAKER complaint seeks damages for medical monitoring and alleges claims for
property, business and economic loss and seeks declaratory and injunctive
relief.

In December 1994, an agreement in principal was reached to settle the FELDMAN ET
AL. V. MOTOROLA, INC. ET AL., securities law class action, subject to court
approval.  FELDMAN was filed on May 1, 1991 in the U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of Illinois as a class action against Motorola and several of
its officers for alleged violations of Section 10(b), 20(a) and 20A of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and SEC Rule 10b-5.



                                     - 23 -

Motorola's declaratory judgment action filed on October 8, 1993 against
InterDigital Communications Corporation ("IDC") is being tried by jury trial in
the United States District Court for the District of Delaware.  IDC claims that
Motorola's TDMA technology (used in cellular products, MIRS and other areas)
infringes one or more of IDC's patents.  Motorola believes that the IDC patents
are invalid; and if valid, that Motorola does not infringe them.  If Motorola
loses, the jury could award damages for past infringement.  The amount of such
an award cannot be predicted but could be significant.  The jury could also
impose royalties on future sales.  Also, Motorola could be enjoined from selling
infringing products.  A number of Motorola's competitors have now signed
licenses with IDC.

Motorola and several of its directors and officers are named defendants in three
alleged class actions for alleged violations of Section 10(b) and 20(a) of the
Securities Exchange Act and SEC Rule 10b-5, KAUFMAN, ET AL. V. MOTOROLA, INC. ET
AL.; HOFFMAN IRA ROLLOVER ACCOUNT ET AL. V. MOTOROLA, INC., ET AL.; and MILLER
V. MOTOROLA, INC., ET AL.  Each proposed action is pending in the U.S. District
Court for the Northern District of Illinois, and each maintains that Motorola
and the individual defendants committed a fraud on the securities market by
artificially inflating the price of Motorola stock.  Plaintiffs propose a class
period of January 9, 1995 through February 17, 1995, and seek an unspecified
amount of damages.

Motorola is a defendant in several cases arising out of the Company's
manufacture and sale of portable cellular telephones.  VERB, ET AL. V. MOTOROLA,
INC., ET AT., Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois, 93 CH 00969, is a
purported class action by purchasers of portable cellular phones against the
Company and seven other corporate defendants, alleging economic loss; the trial
court's dismissal of the case on legal grounds is on appeal to the Illinois
Court of Appeals.  SCHIFFNER V. MOTOROLA, INC., Circuit Court of Cook County,
Illinois, 95 CH 1879, is another economic loss purported class action by
portable cellular phone purchasers.  CRIST V. MOTOROLA, INC. ET AL., Circuit
Court of Cook County, Illinois, 93 CH 00969, HOFFMAN V. MOTOROLA, INC., ET AL.,
Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois, 94 L 13713, WARD V. MOTOROLA, INC., ET
AL., State Court of Fulton County, Georgia, 94 VS 91470 A, and WRIGHT V.
MOTOROLA, INC., ET AL., Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois, 95 L 04929, are
individual personal injury cases




                                     - 24 -

alleging portable cellular telephone use caused and/or aggravated the
plaintiffs' brain cancers.  KANE V. MOTOROLA, INC., ET AL., Circuit Court of
Cook County, Illinois, 93 L 15256, is an individual personal injury case brought
by a Motorola employee alleging that testing of a prototype cellular telephone
antenna caused his brain cancer.

The information contained in Motorola Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the caption "Environmental
Matters" and in Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under
the caption "Environmental and Legal" in Motorola's 1994 Annual Report to
Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference.

Motorola is a defendant in various other suits, claims and investigations which
arise in the normal course of business.  In the opinion of management, the
ultimate disposition of these matters, including those matters described above
in this Item 3, will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated
financial position, liquidity or results of operations of Motorola.


Item 4:  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

Not applicable.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

Following are the persons who were the executive officers of Motorola as of
December 31, 1994, their ages as of December 31, 1994 and their current titles
and positions held during the last five years:

Gary L. Tooker; age 55; Vice Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
since December 1993; President and Acting Chief Executive Officer from October
1993 to December 1993; President and Chief Operating Officer from January 1990
to October 1993; and Chief Operating Officer and Senior Executive Vice President
from January 1988 to January 1990.



                                     - 25 -

Christopher B. Galvin; age 44; President and Chief Operating Officer since
December 1993; Senior Executive Vice President and Assistant Chief Operating
Officer from January 1990 to December 1993; and Executive Vice President and
Chief Corporate Staff Officer from May 1989 to January 1990.

Robert W. Galvin; age 72; Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Board of
Directors since January 1990; and Chairman of the Board of Directors from
November 1959 to January 1990.

John F. Mitchell; age 66; Vice Chairman of the Board and Officer of the Board
since January 1988.

Keith J. Bane; age 55; Executive Vice President and Chief Corporate Staff
Officer since February 1995; Senior Vice President and Chief Corporate Staff
Officer from August 1994 to February 1995; Senior Vice President and Motorola
Director of Strategy, Technology and External Relations from October 1993 to
August 1994; and Senior Vice President and Motorola Director of Strategy from
November 1988 to October 1993.

Arnold S. Brenner; age 57; Executive Vice President and General Manager, Japan
Group since November 1988.

James Donnelly; age 55; Executive Vice President and Motorola Director of Human
Resources (name changed from Personnel to Human Resources in 1993) since
December 1987.

Thomas D. George; age 54; Executive Vice President, and President and General
Manager, Semiconductor Products Sector since April 1993; Executive Vice
President and Assistant General Manager, Semiconductor Products Sector from
November 1992 to April 1993; and Senior Vice President and Assistant General
Manager, Semiconductor Products Sector from July 1986 to November 1992.

Merle L. Gilmore; age 46; Executive Vice President, President and General
Manager, Land Mobile Products Sector ("LMPS"), since July 1994; Senior Vice
President and President and General Manager, LMPS, from June 1994 to July 1994;
Senior Vice President and Assistant General Manager, LMPS,



                                     - 26 -

from July 1992 to June 1994; Senior Vice President and General Manger, Worldwide
Radio Products Group, LMPS, from May 1991 to July 1992; Corporate Vice President
and General Manager, Worldwide Radio Products Group, Communications Sector, from
January 1991 to May 1991; and Corporate Vice President and General Manager,
Portable Products Division, Communications Sector, from April 1989 to January
1991.

Robert L. Growney; age 52; Executive Vice President, and President and General
Manager, Messaging, Information and Media Sector since January 1994; Executive
Vice President and General Manager, Paging and Wireless Data Group from
September 1992 to January 1994; Senior Vice President and General Manager,
Paging and Telepoint Systems Group from January 1991 to September 1992; and
Senior Vice President and General Manager, Radio Technologies Group,
Communications Sector from May 1989 to January 1991.

Carl F. Koenemann; age 56; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
since December 1991; Senior Vice President and Assistant Chief Financial Officer
from May 1990 to December 1991; Corporate Vice President and Assistant Chief
Financial Officer from January 1990 to May 1990; and Corporate Vice President
and Director of Finance, General Systems Group, from May 1987 to January 1990.

James A. Norling; age 52; Executive Vice President, and President, Motorola
Europe, Middle East and Africa since April 1993; and Executive Vice President,
and President and General Manager, Semiconductor Products Sector from December
1989 to April 1993.

Edward F. Staiano; age 58; Executive Vice President, and President and General
Manager, General Systems Sector since December 1989.

Frederick T. Tucker; age 54; Executive Vice President and General Manager,
Automotive, Energy and Controls Group (name changed from Automotive and
Industrial Electronics Group in 1993) since September 1992; and Senior Vice
President and General Manager, Automotive and Industrial Electronics Group from
April 1988 to September 1992.



                                     - 27 -

Richard H. Weise; age 59; Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
since November 1985.

David G. Wolfe; age 59; Executive Vice President and General Manager, Government
and Space Technology Group (name changed from Government and Systems Technology
Group in 1994) since November 1990; and Senior Vice President and General
Manager, Government Electronics Group from January 1988 to November 1990.

Richard W. Younts; age 55; Executive Vice President and Corporate Executive
Director International-Asia and Americas since December 1993; Senior Vice
President and Corporate Executive Director, International-Asia and Americas from
July 1991 to December 1993; Senior Vice President and President, Nippon Motorola
Ltd., Japanese Group from May 1991 to July 1991; and Corporate Vice President
and President, Nippon Motorola Ltd. from August 1987 to May 1991.

The above executive officers will serve as officers of Motorola until the
regular meeting of the Board of Directors in May 1995 or until their respective
successors shall have been elected.  Christopher B. Galvin is a son of Robert W.
Galvin.  There is no family relationship between any of the other executive
officers listed above.


                                     PART II

Item 5:   Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

Motorola's Common Stock is listed on the New York, Chicago, London and Tokyo
Stock Exchanges.  The remainder of the response to this Item is incorporated by
reference to the information under the caption "Quarterly and Other Financial
Data" of Motorola's 1994 Annual Report to Stockholders.



                                     - 28 -

Item 6:   Selected Financial Data

The response to this Item is incorporated by reference to the information under
the caption "Five Year Financial Summary" of Motorola's 1994 Annual Report to
Stockholders.


Item 7:   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
          Results of Operations

The response to this Item is incorporated by reference to the information under
the captions "Financial Review", the "Financial Results" section of the Letter
to Stockholders and "Review of Operations" of Motorola's 1994 Annual Report to
Stockholders.


Item 8:  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The response to this Item is incorporated by reference to the information  under
the captions "Management's Responsibility For Financial Statements",
"Independent Auditors' Report", "Statements of Consolidated Earnings",
"Statements of Consolidated Stockholders' Equity", "Consolidated Balance
Sheets", "Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows", "Supplemental Cash Flow
Information", "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements", "Quarterly and Other
Financial Data" and "Five Year Financial Summary" of Motorola's 1994 Annual
Report to Stockholders.


Item 9:   Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and
          Financial Disclosure

None.

                                    PART III

Item 10:  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant



                                     - 29 -

The response to this Item required by Item 401 of Regulation S-K, with respect
to directors, is incorporated by reference to the information under the caption
"Nominees" on pages 2 through 12 of Motorola's Proxy Statement for the 1995
annual meeting of stockholders and with respect to executive officers, is
contained in Part I hereof under the caption "Executive Officers of the
Registrant".


Item 11:  Executive Compensation

The response to this Item is incorporated by reference to the information under
the caption "Director Compensation" on pages 14 and 15 of Motorola's Proxy
Statement for the 1995 annual meeting of stockholders and "Summary Compensation
Table," "Stock Option Grants in 1994," "Aggregated Option Exercises in Last
Fiscal Year and FY-End Option Values," "Long-Term Incentive Plans - Awards in
Last Fiscal Year," "Pension and Supplementary Retirement Plans," and
"Termination of Employment and Change in Control Arrangements" on pages 19
through 23 of Motorola's Proxy Statement for the 1995 annual meeting of
stockholders.


Item 12:  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

The response to this Item is incorporated by reference to the information under
the captions "Security Ownership of Management of the Company" and "Principal
Shareholders" on pages 17, 18 and 19 of Motorola's Proxy Statement for the 1995
annual meeting of stockholders.


Item 13:  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

The response to this Item is incorporated by reference to the information under
the caption "Director Compensation" on pages 14 and 15 of Motorola's Proxy
Statement for the 1995 annual meeting of stockholders.



                                     - 30 -

                                     PART IV

Item 14:  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)  1.   Financial Statements

          See Part II, Item 8 hereof.

     2.   Financial Statement Schedule and Auditors' Report

          Title                                         Schedule
          -----                                         --------

          Valuation and Qualifying Accounts. . . . . . . . II

     All schedules omitted are inapplicable or the information required is shown
     in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.  The auditors'
     report of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP with respect to the Financial Statement
     Schedule is located at page 32.

     3.   Exhibits

     Exhibits required to be attached by Item 601 of Regulation S-K are listed
     in the Exhibit Index attached hereto, which is incorporated herein by this
     reference.  Following is a list of management contracts and compensatory
     plans and arrangements required to be filed as exhibits to this form by
     Item 14(c) hereof:

     Motorola Executive Incentive Plan ("MEIP")
     Motorola Long Range Incentive Plan of 1994
     Share Option Plan of 1982
     Share Option Plan of 1991
     Motorola Elected Officers Supplementary Retirement Plan
     Officers Supplemental Medical Plan
     Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance for MEIP
        Participants
     Arrangement for Directors' Fees
     Retirement Plan for Non-employee Directors



                                     - 31 -

     Deferred Fee Plan for Outside Directors
     Officers' Group Life Insurance Policy
     Consultant Agreements with William J. Weisz, John T. Hickey,
        Gardiner L. Tucker, Donald R. Jones and Erich Bloch
     Form of Termination Agreement
     Policy Protecting Salary and Medical Benefits
     Insurance Policy for Non-employee Directors

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K.  Motorola filed no reports on Form 8-K during the last
     quarter of 1994.

(c)  Exhibits      See Item 14(a)3 above.



                                     - 32 -

KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP

Certified Public Accountants

Peat Marwick Plaza
303 East Wacker Drive
Chicago, IL 60601-9973


                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT


The Board of Directors and Stockholders
of Motorola, Inc.:


Under date of January 9, 1995, we reported on the consolidated balance sheets of
Motorola, Inc. and consolidated subsidiaries as of December 31, 1994 and 1993,
and the related consolidated statements of earnings, stockholders' equity, and
cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31,
1994, as contained in the 1994 annual report to stockholders.  These
consolidated financial statements and our report thereon are incorporated by
reference in the annual report on Form 10-K for the year 1994.  In connection
with our audits of the aforementioned consolidated financial statements, we also
have audited the related financial statement schedule as listed in Part IV, Item
14(a)2.  The financial statement schedule is the responsibility of the Company's
management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial
statement schedule based on our audits.

In our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation
to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly,
in all material respects, the information set forth therein.

                                   /s/  KPMG Peat Marwick LLP

January 9, 1995



                                     - 33 -

                         Motorola, Inc. and Subsidiaries         Schedule II

                        Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
                       Three Years Ended December 31, 1994
                                  (In millions)




                                     - 34 -

KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP

Certified Public Accountants

Peat Marwick Plaza
303 East Wacker Drive
Chicago, IL 60601-9973


                         CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS


The Board of Directors
of Motorola, Inc.:


We consent to incorporation by reference in the registration statements on Form
S-8 (Nos. 33-40876 and 33-58714) and Form S-3 (Nos. 33-30662, 33-59252, 33-50207
and 33-56055) of Motorola, Inc. and consolidated subsidiaries of our reports
dated January 9, 1995, relating to the consolidated balance sheets of Motorola,
Inc. and consolidated subsidiaries as of December 31, 1994 and 1993 and the
related statements of consolidated earnings, stockholders' equity, and cash
flows and related financial statement schedule for each of the years in the
three-year period ended December 31, 1994, which reports appear in or are
incorporated by reference in the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Motorola, Inc.
for the year ended December 31, 1994.


                                   /s/  KPMG Peat Marwick LLP

March 22, 1995



                                     - 35 -


                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, Motorola, Inc. has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

March 3, 1995
                              MOTOROLA, INC.


                              By:     /s/  Gary L. Tooker
                                 -----------------------------------------
                                   Gary L. Tooker
                                   Vice Chairman of the Board
                                   and Chief Executive Officer



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of Motorola, Inc. and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


     SIGNATURE                          TITLE                              DATE
     ---------                          -----                              ----

    /s/  Gary L. Tooker                 Director and Principal            3/3/95
------------------------------          Executive Officer
Gary L. Tooker


    /s/  Carl F. Koenemann              Principal Financial              3/20/95
------------------------------          Officer
Carl F. Koenemann


   /s/  Kenneth J. Johnson              Principal Accounting              3/1/95
------------------------------          Officer
Kenneth J. Johnson



                                     - 36 -



     SIGNATURE                          TITLE                              DATE
     ---------                          -----                              ----

   /s/  Erich Bloch                     Director                          3/2/95
------------------------------
Erich Bloch


  /s/  David R. Clare                   Director                          3/5/95
------------------------------
David R. Clare


  /s/  Wallace C. Doud                  Director                          3/2/95
------------------------------
Wallace C. Doud


  /s/  H. Laurance Fuller               Director                          3/6/95
------------------------------
H. Laurance Fuller


  /s/  Christopher B. Galvin            Director                          3/3/95
------------------------------
Christopher B. Galvin


  /s/  Robert W. Galvin                 Director                          3/3/95
------------------------------
Robert W. Galvin


  /s/  John T. Hickey                   Director                          3/3/95
------------------------------
John T. Hickey


  /s/  Anne P. Jones                    Director                         3/10/95
------------------------------
Anne P. Jones


  /s/  Donald R. Jones                  Director                          3/5/95
------------------------------
Donald R. Jones



                                     - 37 -


     SIGNATURE                          TITLE                              DATE
     ---------                          -----                              ----

  /s/  Walter E. Massey                 Director                          3/4/95
------------------------------
Walter E. Massey


  /s/  John F. Mitchell                 Director                          3/6/95
------------------------------
John F. Mitchell


  /s/  Thomas J. Murrin                 Director                          3/6/95
------------------------------
Thomas J. Murrin


  /s/  John E. Pepper, Jr.              Director                         3/21/95
------------------------------
John E. Pepper, Jr.


  /s/  Samuel C. Scott III              Director                          3/2/95
------------------------------
Samuel C. Scott III


  /s/  Gardiner L. Tucker               Director                          3/9/95
------------------------------
Gardiner L. Tucker


  /s/  William J. Weisz                 Director                          3/3/95
------------------------------
William J. Weisz


  /s/  B. Kenneth West                  Director                          3/1/95
------------------------------
B. Kenneth West



                                     - 38 -

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

EXHIBIT NO.                        EXHIBIT
-----------                        -------

3(i)   Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Motorola, Inc., including
       Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights for Junior
       Participating Preferred Stock, Series A (incorporated by reference to
       Exhibit 3(i)(b) to Motorola's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
       fiscal quarter ended April 2, 1994).

3(ii)  By-Laws of Motorola, Inc., revised as of May 3, 1994 (incorporated by
       reference to Exhibit 3(ii) to Motorola's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
       for the fiscal quarter ended April 2, 1994).

4.1    Rights Agreement dated November 9, 1988 (incorporated by reference to
       Exhibit (1) to Motorola's Registration Statement on Form 8-A dated
       November 15, 1988).

4.2    Amendment to Rights Agreement dated August 7, 1990 (incorporated by
       reference to Exhibit 2 to Motorola's Form 8 dated August 9, 1990 amending
       Motorola's Registration Statement on Form 8-A dated November 15, 1988).

4.3    Amendment No. 2 on Form 8 dated December 2, 1992 amending Motorola's
       Registration Statement on Form 8-A dated November 15, 1988 (incorporated
       by reference to Motorola's Form 8 dated December 2, 1992).

4.3(a) Amendment No. 3 on Form 8-A/A dated February 28, 1994 amending Motorola's
       Registration Statement on Form 8-A dated November 15, 1988 (incorporated
       by reference to Motorola's Amendment No. 3 Form 8-A/A dated February 28,
       l994).

4.4    LYONs Indenture dated September 1, 1989 (incorporated by reference to
       Exhibit 4(a) to Motorola's Registration Statement on Form S-3,
       Registration No. 33-30662).



                                     - 39 -


EXHIBIT NO.                        EXHIBIT
-----------                        -------

4.5    Indenture dated as of March 15, 1985 between Motorola, Inc. and Harris
       Trust and Savings Bank, as Trustee, and specimen of 8.40% Debentures due
       August 5, 2031 under the Indenture (incorporated by reference to Exhibits
       4(C) and 4(B), respectively, to Motorola's Current Report on Form 8-K
       dated August 12, 1991).

4.6    Indenture dated as of October 1, 1991 between Motorola, Inc. and Harris
       Trust and Savings Bank, as Trustee (incorporated by reference
       to Exhibit 4.5 to Motorola's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
       year ended December 31, 1991).

4.7    Specimen of 7.60% Notes due January 1, 2007 (incorporated by reference to
       Exhibit 4.6 to Motorola's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
       ended December 31, 1991).

4.8    Specimen of 6 1/2% Notes due March 1, 2008 (incorporated by reference to
       Exhibit 4(B) to Motorola's Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 1,
       1993).

4.9    LYONs Indenture dated September 1, 1993 (incorporated by reference to
       Exhibit 4(v) to Motorola's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
       ended October 2, 1993.

10.1   Motorola Executive Incentive Plan, as amended through November 23, 1993,
       including the Long Range Incentive Program (incorporated by reference to
       Exhibit 10.1 to Motorola's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
       ended December 31, 1993).

10.2   Motorola Long Range Incentive Plan of 1994 (incorporated by reference to
       Exhibit 10.2 to Motorola's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
       ended December 31, 1993).

10.3   Share Option Plan of 1982, as amended through March 24, 1992
       (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Motorola's Annual



                                     - 40 -


EXHIBIT NO.                        EXHIBIT
-----------                        -------

       Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1990, Exhibit
       10.2(a) to Motorola's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
       ended December 31, 1991 and Exhibit 10.3 to Motorola's Annual Report on
       Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1992).

10.4   Share Option Plan of 1991, as amended through December 16, 1993
       (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Motorola's Annual Report on
       Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993).

10.5   Motorola Elected Officers Supplementary Retirement Plan, as amended
       through February 6, 1995.

10.6   Officers supplemental medical plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
       10.6 to Motorola's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
       December 31, 1990).

10.7   Accidental death and dismemberment insurance for MEIP participants
       (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to
       Motorola's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
       31, 1990).

10.8   Arrangement for directors' fees and retirement plan for non-employee
       directors (description incorporated by reference from page 14 of
       Motorola's Proxy Statement for the 1995 annual meeting of stockholders).

10.9   Deferred Fee Plan for Outside Directors.

10.10  Officers' Group Life Insurance Policy (incorporated by reference to
       Exhibit 10.10 to Motorola's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
       year ended December 31, 1990).



                                     - 41 -


EXHIBIT NO.                        EXHIBIT
-----------                        -------

10.11  Consultant Agreement dated February 15, 1994 between Motorola, Inc. and
       William J. Weisz (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to
       Motorola's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
       31, 1993).

10.12  Consultant Agreement dated January 27, 1994 between Motorola, Inc. and
       John T. Hickey (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to Motorola's
       Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993).

10.13  Consultant Agreement dated January 27, 1994 between Motorola, Inc. and
       Dr. Gardiner L. Tucker (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to
       Motorola's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
       31, 1993).

10.14  Consultant Agreement dated January 27, 1994 between Motorola, Inc. and
       Donald R. Jones (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 to Motorola's
       Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993).

10.15  Consultant Agreement dated January 27, 1994 between Motorola, Inc. and
       Erich Bloch (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15 to Motorola's
       Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993).

10.16  Form of Termination Agreement in respect of a change in control
       (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15 to Motorola's Annual Report
       on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1989).

10.17  Policy protecting salary and medical benefits of employees in the event
       of an unsolicited change in control (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
       10.16 to Motorola's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
       December 31, 1990).



                                     - 42 -


EXHIBIT NO.                        EXHIBIT
-----------                        -------

10.18  Insurance policy covering non-employee Directors (incorporated by
       reference to the description on pages 14 and 15 of Motorola's Proxy
       Statement for the 1995 annual meeting of stockholders and to Exhibit
       10.16 to Motorola's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
       December 31, 1989).

10.19  Iridium Space System Contract between Motorola, Inc. and Iridium, Inc.,
       as amended to date, and Iridium Communications Systems Operations and
       Maintenance Contract between Motorola, Inc. and Iridium, Inc., as amended
       to date (incorporated by reference to Exhibits 99.2 and 99.3,
       respectively, to Motorola's Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 2,
       1993 and Exhibits 99(a) and 99(b), respectively, to Motorola's Quarterly
       Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 1, 1994).

11     Motorola, Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries Primary and Fully Diluted
       Earnings Per Common and Common Equivalent Share.

13     Portions of Motorola's 1994 Annual Report to Stockholders.

21     Subsidiaries of Motorola.

23     Consent of KPMG Peat Marwick.  See page 34 of the Annual Report on Form
       10-K of which this Exhibit Index is a part.

27     Financial Data Schedule (filed only electronically with SEC).

99.1   Agreement and Plan of Contribution and Merger Among Nextel
       Communications, Inc., Motorola, Inc., ESMR, Inc. and ESMR Sub, Inc. dated
       August 4, 1994 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 5.1 to Motorola's
       Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 5, 1994).

99.2   Amendment to Agreement and Plan of Contribution and Merger among Nextel
       Communications, Inc., Motorola, Inc., ESMR, Inc. and ESMR Sub, Inc. dated
       February 12, 1995.


