Item 1.Business

This Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated herein by reference contain forward-looking statements based on expectations, estimates, and projections as of the date of this filing. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements. See Item 1A of Part I—“Risk Factors.”

Amazon.com, Inc. was incorporated in 1994 in the state of Washington and reincorporated in 1996 in the state of Delaware. Our principal corporate offices are located in Seattle, Washington. We completed our initial public offering in May 1997 and our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “AMZN.”

As used herein, “Amazon.com,” “we,” “our,” and similar terms include Amazon.com, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise.

General

Amazon.com opened its virtual doors on the World Wide Web in July 1995. We seek to be Earth’s most customer-centric company. We are guided by four principles: customer obsession rather than competitor focus, passion for invention, commitment to operational excellence, and long-term thinking. In each of our two geographic segments, we serve our primary customer sets, consisting of consumers, sellers, enterprises, and content creators. In addition, we provide services, such as advertising services and co-branded credit card agreements.

We manage our business primarily on a geographic basis. Accordingly, we have organized our operations into two segments: North America and International. While each reportable operating segment provides similar products and services, a majority of our technology costs are incurred in the U.S. and included in our North America segment. Additional information on our operating segments and product information is contained in Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 12—Segment Information.” See Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Supplemental Information” for supplemental information about our net sales. Our company-sponsored research and development expense is set forth within “Technology and content” in Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Consolidated Statements of Operations.”

Consumers

We serve consumers through our retail websites and focus on selection, price, and convenience. We design our websites to enable millions of unique products to be sold by us and by third parties across dozens of product categories. Customers access our websites directly and through our mobile websites and apps. We also manufacture and sell electronic devices, including Kindle e-readers, Fire tablets, Fire TVs, Echo, and Fire phones. We strive to offer our customers the lowest prices possible through low everyday product pricing and shipping offers, and to improve our operating efficiencies so that we can continue to lower prices for our customers. We also provide easy-to-use functionality, fast and reliable fulfillment, and timely customer service. In addition, we offer Amazon Prime, an annual membership program that includes unlimited free shipping on millions of items, access to unlimited instant streaming of thousands of movies and TV episodes, and access to hundreds of thousands of books to borrow and read for free on a Kindle device.

We fulfill customer orders in a number of ways, including through: North America and International fulfillment and delivery networks that we operate; co-sourced and outsourced arrangements in certain countries; and digital delivery. We operate customer service centers globally, which are supplemented by co-sourced arrangements. See Item 2 of Part I, “Properties.”

Sellers

We offer programs that enable sellers to sell their products on our websites and their own branded websites and to fulfill orders through us. We are not the seller of record in these transactions, but instead earn fixed fees, revenue share fees, per-unit activity fees, or some combination thereof.

Enterprises

We serve developers and enterprises of all sizes through Amazon Web Services (“AWS”), which offers a broad set of global compute, storage, database, analytics, applications, and deployment services that enable virtually any type of business.









Content Creators

We serve authors and independent publishers with Kindle Direct Publishing, an online platform that lets independent authors and publishers choose a 70% royalty option and make their books available in the Kindle Store, along with Amazon’s own publishing arm, Amazon Publishing. We also offer programs that allow authors, musicians, filmmakers, app developers, and others to publish and sell content.

Competition

Intellectual Property

We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technologies, and similar intellectual property as critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright, and patent law, trade-secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license agreements with our employees, customers, partners, and others to protect our proprietary rights. We have registered, or applied for the registration of, a number of U.S. and international domain names, trademarks, service marks, and copyrights. Additionally, we have filed U.S. and international patent applications covering certain of our proprietary technology. We have licensed in the past, and expect that we may license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights to third parties.

Seasonality

Our business is affected by seasonality, which historically has resulted in higher sales volume during our fourth quarter, which ends December 31. We recognized33%, 34%, and 35% of our annual revenue during the fourth quarter of2014,2013, and2012.

Employees

We employed approximately154,100full-time and part-time employees as ofDecember 31, 2014. However, employment levels fluctuate due to seasonal factors affecting our business. Additionally, we utilize independent contractors and temporary personnel to supplement our workforce. We have works councils, statutory employee representation obligations, and union agreements in certain countries outside the United States. We consider our employee relations to be good. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry has historically been intense, particularly for software engineers, computer scientists, and other technical staff.

Available Information

Our investor relations website is www.amazon.com/ir and we encourage investors to use it as a way of easily finding information about us. We promptly make available on this website, free of charge, the reports that we file or furnish with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), corporate governance information (including our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics), and select press releases and social media postings.









Executive Officers and Directors

The following tables set forth certain information regarding our Executive Officers and Directors as ofJanuary 16, 2015:

Executive Officers of the Registrant



NameAgePositionJeffrey P. Bezos51President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman of the BoardJeffrey M. Blackburn45Senior Vice President, Business DevelopmentAndrew R. Jassy47Senior Vice President, Amazon Web ServicesDiego Piacentini54Senior Vice President, International Consumer BusinessShelley L. Reynolds50Vice President, Worldwide Controller, and Principal Accounting OfficerThomas J. Szkutak54Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerJeffrey A. Wilke48Senior Vice President, Consumer BusinessDavid A. Zapolsky51Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary

Jeffrey P. Bezos.Mr. Bezos has been Chairman of the Board of Amazon.com since founding it in 1994 and Chief Executive Officer since May 1996. Mr. Bezos served as President of the Company from founding until June 1999 and again from October 2000 to the present.

Jeffrey M. Blackburn.Mr. Blackburn has served as Senior Vice President, Business Development, since April 2006.

Andrew R. Jassy.Mr. Jassy has served as Senior Vice President, Amazon Web Services, since April 2006.

Diego Piacentini.Mr. Piacentini has served as Senior Vice President, International Consumer Business, since February 2012, and as Senior Vice President, International Retail, from January 2007 until February 2012.

Shelley L. Reynolds.Ms. Reynolds has served as Vice President, Worldwide Controller, and Principal Accounting Officer since April 2007.

Thomas J. Szkutak.Mr. Szkutak has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since joining Amazon.com in October 2002. Mr. Szkutak plans to retire in June 2015.

Jeffrey A. Wilke.Mr. Wilke has served as Senior Vice President, Consumer Business, since February 2012, and as Senior Vice President, North America Retail, from January 2007 until February 2012.

David A. Zapolsky.Mr. Zapolsky has served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary since May 2014, Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary from September 2012 to May 2014, and as Vice President and Associate General Counsel for Litigation and Regulatory matters from April 2002 until September 2012.

Board of Directors



NameAgePositionJeffrey P. Bezos51President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman of the BoardTom A. Alberg74Managing Director, Madrona Venture GroupJohn Seely Brown74Visiting Scholar and Advisor to the Provost, University of Southern CaliforniaWilliam B. Gordon64Partner, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & ByersJamie S. Gorelick64Partner, Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLPJudith A. McGrath62President, Astronauts Wanted * No experience necessaryAlain Monié64Chief Executive Officer, Ingram Micro Inc.Jonathan J. Rubinstein58Former Chairman and CEO, Palm, Inc.Thomas O. Ryder70Retired, Former Chairman, Reader’s Digest Association, Inc.Patricia Q. Stonesifer58President and Chief Executive Officer, Martha’s Table













