Item 1.Business

This Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated herein by reference contain forward-looking statements based on expectations, estimates, and projections as of the date of this filing.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements. See Item 1A of Part I—“Risk Factors.”

Amazon.com, Inc. was incorporated in 1994 in the state of Washington and reincorporated in 1996 in the state of Delaware. Our principal corporate offices are located in Seattle, Washington. We completed
our initial public offering in May 1997 and our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “AMZN.”

As used herein, “Amazon.com,” “we,” “our” and similar terms include Amazon.com, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise.

General

Amazon.com
opened its virtual doors on the World Wide Web in July 1995 and offers Earth’s Biggest Selection. We seek to be Earth’s most customer-centric company for three primary customer sets: consumers, sellers, and enterprises. In addition, we
generate revenue through other marketing and promotional services, such as online advertising, and co-branded credit card agreements.

We have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. See Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 10—Segment
Information.” See Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Supplemental Information” for supplemental information about
our net sales.

Consumers

We serve consumers through our retail websites, and focus on selection, price, and convenience. We design our websites to enable millions of unique products to be sold by us and by third parties across
dozens of product categories. We also manufacture and sell the Kindle e-reader. We strive to offer our customers the lowest prices possible through low everyday product pricing and free shipping offers, including through membership in Amazon Prime,
and to improve our operating efficiencies so that we can continue to lower prices for our customers. We also provide easy-to-use functionality, fast and reliable fulfillment, and timely customer service.

We fulfill customer orders in a number of ways, including through the U.S. and international fulfillment centers and warehouses that we
operate, through co-sourced and outsourced arrangements in certain countries, and through digital delivery. We operate customer service centers globally, which are supplemented by co-sourced arrangements. See Item 2 of Part I,
“Properties.”

Sellers

We offer programs that enable sellers to sell their products on our websites and their own branded websites and to fulfill orders through us. We are not the seller of record in these transactions, but
instead earn fixed fees, revenue share fees, per-unit activity fees, or some combination thereof.

Enterprises

We serve developers and enterprises of all sizes through Amazon Web Services (“AWS”), which provides access to technology
infrastructure that enables virtually any type of business.







Competition

Intellectual Property

We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights,
patents, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technologies, and similar intellectual property as critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright and patent law, trade-secret protection, and confidentiality and/or
license agreements with our employees, customers, partners, and others to protect our proprietary rights. We have registered, or applied for the registration of, a number of U.S. and international domain names, trademarks, service marks, and
copyrights. Additionally, we have filed U.S. and international patent applications covering certain of our proprietary technology. We have licensed in the past, and expect that we may license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights to third
parties.

Seasonality

Our business is affected by seasonality, which historically has resulted in higher sales volume during our fourth quarter, which ends December 31. We recognized 38%, 39%, and 35% of our annual
revenue during the fourth quarter of 2010, 2009, and 2008.

Employees

We employed approximately 33,700 full-time and part-time employees at December 31, 2010. However, employment levels fluctuate due to
seasonal factors affecting our business. Additionally, we utilize independent contractors and temporary personnel to supplement our workforce, particularly on a seasonal basis. Although we have works councils and statutory employee representation
obligations in certain countries, our employees are not represented by a labor union and we consider our employee relations to be good. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry has historically been intense, particularly for software
engineers, computer scientists, and other technical staff.

Available Information

Our investor relations website is www.amazon.com/ir and we encourage investors to use it as a way of easily finding information about us.
We promptly make available on this website, free of charge, the reports that we file or furnish with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), corporate governance information (including our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics), and
select press releases and social media postings.







Executive Officers and Directors

The following tables set forth certain information regarding our Executive Officers and Directors as of January 19, 2011:

Executive Officers



NameAgePositionJeffrey P. Bezos47President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman of the BoardJeffrey M. Blackburn41Senior Vice President, Business DevelopmentSebastian J. Gunningham48Senior Vice President, Seller ServicesAndrew R. Jassy43Senior Vice President, Web ServicesSteven Kessel45Senior Vice President, Worldwide Digital MediaMarc A. Onetto60Senior Vice President, Worldwide OperationsDiego Piacentini50Senior Vice President, International RetailShelley L. Reynolds46Vice President, Worldwide Controller, and Principal Accounting OfficerThomas J. Szkutak50Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerH. Brian Valentine51Senior Vice President, Ecommerce PlatformJeffrey A. Wilke44Senior Vice President, North America RetailL. Michelle Wilson47Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary

Jeffrey P. Bezos.Mr. Bezos has been Chairman of the Board of Amazon.com since founding it in 1994 and Chief Executive Officer since May 1996. Mr. Bezos served as
President of the Company from founding until June 1999 and again from October 2000 to the present.

Jeffrey M.
Blackburn.Mr. Blackburn has served as Senior Vice President, Business Development, since April 2006. From June 2004 to April 2006, he was Vice President, Business Development.

Sebastian J. Gunningham.Mr. Gunningham has served as Senior Vice President, Seller Services, since
joining Amazon.com in March 2007. Prior to joining Amazon.com, Mr. Gunningham was President of First Data Utilities from August 2006 to February 2007, following First Data’s acquisition of Peace Software, Inc., where he was Chief Executive
Officer from February 2004 to August 2006.

Andrew R. Jassy.Mr. Jassy has served as Senior
Vice President, Web Services, since April 2006. From January 2005 to April 2006, he was Vice President, Web Services.

Steven Kessel.Mr. Kessel has served as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Digital Media, since April
2006. From April 2004 to April 2006, he was Vice President, Digital.

Marc A.
Onetto.Mr. Onetto has served as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations, since joining Amazon.com in December 2006. Prior to joining Amazon.com, Mr. Onetto was Executive Vice President, Worldwide Operations,
at Solectron Corporation, an electronics manufacturing and technology company, from June 2003 to June 2006.

Diego
Piacentini.Mr. Piacentini has served as Senior Vice President, International Retail, since January 2007. From November 2001 to December 2006, Mr. Piacentini served as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Retail and
Marketing.

Shelley L. Reynolds.Ms. Reynolds has served as Vice President, Worldwide
Controller, and Principal Accounting Officer since April 2007. From February 2006 to April 2007, she was Vice President, Finance and Controller. Prior to joining Amazon.com, Ms. Reynolds was a partner at Deloitte & Touche LLP since
1998.

Thomas J. Szkutak.Mr. Szkutak has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer since joining Amazon.com in October 2002.







H. Brian Valentine.Mr. Valentine has served as Senior
Vice President, Ecommerce Platform, since joining Amazon.com in September 2006. Prior to joining Amazon.com, Mr. Valentine held various positions with Microsoft Corporation, including Senior Vice President, Windows Core Operating System
Division, from January 2004 to September 2006.

Jeffrey A. Wilke.Mr. Wilke has served as Senior
Vice President, North America Retail, since January 2007. From January 2002 to December 2006, he was Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations.

L. Michelle Wilson.Ms. Wilson has served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary since July 2003.

Board of Directors



NameAgePositionJeffrey P. Bezos47President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman of the BoardTom A. Alberg70Managing Director, Madrona Venture GroupJohn Seely Brown70Visiting Scholar and Advisor to the Provost, University of Southern CaliforniaWilliam B. Gordon60Partner, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & ByersAlain Monié60Chief Executive Officer, APRIL Pte. Ltd.Jonathan J. Rubinstein54Senior Vice President and General Manager, Palm Global Business Unit, Hewlett-Packard CompanyThomas O. Ryder66Retired, Former Chairman, Reader’s Digest Association, Inc.Patricia Q. Stonesifer54Chair, Board of Regents, Smithsonian Institution



