Item 1.Business

This Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated herein by reference contain forward-looking statements based on expectations, estimates, and projections as of the date of this filing.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements. See Item 1A of Part I—“Risk Factors.”

Amazon.com, Inc. was incorporated in 1994 in the state of Washington and reincorporated in 1996 in the state of Delaware. Our principal corporate offices are located in Seattle, Washington. We completed
our initial public offering in May 1997 and our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “AMZN.”

As used herein, “Amazon.com,” “we,” “our” and similar terms include Amazon.com, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise.

General

Amazon.com
opened its virtual doors on the World Wide Web in July 1995 and offers Earth’s Biggest Selection. We seek to be Earth’s most customer-centric company for four primary customer sets: consumers, sellers, enterprises, and content creators. In
addition, we generate revenue through other marketing and promotional services, such as online advertising, and co-branded credit card agreements.

We have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. See Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 11—Segment
Information.” See Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Supplemental Information” for supplemental information about
our net sales.

Consumers

We serve consumers through our retail websites, and focus on selection, price, and convenience. We design our websites to enable millions of unique products to be sold by us and by third parties across
dozens of product categories. We also manufacture and sell Kindle devices. We strive to offer our customers the lowest prices possible through low everyday product pricing and shipping offers, including through membership in Amazon Prime, and to
improve our operating efficiencies so that we can continue to lower prices for our customers. We also provide easy-to-use functionality, fast and reliable fulfillment, and timely customer service.

We fulfill customer orders in a number of ways, including through the U.S. and international fulfillment centers and warehouses that we
operate, through co-sourced and outsourced arrangements in certain countries, and through digital delivery. We operate customer service centers globally, which are supplemented by co-sourced arrangements. See Item 2 of Part I,
“Properties.”

Sellers

We offer programs that enable sellers to sell their products on our websites and their own branded websites and to fulfill orders through us. We are not the seller of record in these transactions, but
instead earn fixed fees, revenue share fees, per-unit activity fees, or some combination thereof.

Enterprises

We serve developers and enterprises of all sizes through Amazon Web Services (“AWS”), which provides access to technology
infrastructure that enables virtually any type of business.







Content Creators

We serve authors and independent publishers with Kindle Direct Publishing, an online platform that lets independent authors and publishers choose a 70% royalty option and make their books available in the
Kindle Store. Amazon’s own publishing arm, Amazon Publishing, offers authors another outlet to publish their books. We also serve authors, musicians, filmmakers and other content creators through CreateSpace, which provides on-demand publishing
and manufacturing for independent content creators, publishers, film studios, and music labels.

Competition

Intellectual Property

We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technologies, and
similar intellectual property as critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright and patent law, trade-secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license agreements with our employees, customers, partners, and others to protect our
proprietary rights. We have registered, or applied for the registration of, a number of U.S. and international domain names, trademarks, service marks, and copyrights. Additionally, we have filed U.S. and international patent applications covering
certain of our proprietary technology. We have licensed in the past, and expect that we may license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights to third parties.

Seasonality

Our business is affected by seasonality, which historically
has resulted in higher sales volume during our fourth quarter, which ends December 31. We recognized 36%, 38%, and 39% of our annual revenue during the fourth quarter of 2011, 2010, and 2009.

Employees

We employed
approximately 56,200 full-time and part-time employees at December 31, 2011. However, employment levels fluctuate due to seasonal factors affecting our business. Additionally, we utilize independent contractors and temporary personnel to
supplement our workforce, particularly on a seasonal basis. Although we have works councils and statutory employee representation obligations in certain countries, our employees are not represented by a labor union and we consider our employee
relations to be good. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry has historically been intense, particularly for software engineers, computer scientists, and other technical staff.







Available Information

Our investor relations website is www.amazon.com/ir and we encourage investors to use it as a way of easily finding information about us. We promptly make available on this website, free of charge, the
reports that we file or furnish with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), corporate governance information (including our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics), and select press releases and social media postings.

Executive Officers and Directors

The following tables set forth certain information regarding our Executive Officers and Directors as of January 19, 2012:

Executive Officers



NameAgePositionJeffrey P. Bezos48President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman of the BoardJeffrey M. Blackburn42Senior Vice President, Business DevelopmentSebastian J. Gunningham49Senior Vice President, Seller ServicesAndrew R. Jassy44Senior Vice President, Web ServicesSteven Kessel46Senior Vice President, Worldwide Digital MediaMarc A. Onetto61Senior Vice President, Worldwide OperationsDiego Piacentini51Senior Vice President, International RetailShelley L. Reynolds47Vice President, Worldwide Controller, and Principal Accounting OfficerThomas J. Szkutak51Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerH. Brian Valentine52Senior Vice President, Ecommerce PlatformJeffrey A. Wilke45Senior Vice President, North America RetailL. Michelle Wilson48Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary

Jeffrey P. Bezos.Mr. Bezos has been Chairman of the Board of Amazon.com
since founding it in 1994 and Chief Executive Officer since May 1996. Mr. Bezos served as President of the Company from founding until June 1999 and again from October 2000 to the present.

Jeffrey M. Blackburn.Mr. Blackburn has served as Senior Vice President, Business Development,
since April 2006.

Sebastian J. Gunningham.Mr. Gunningham has served as Senior Vice
President, Seller Services, since joining Amazon.com in March 2007. Prior to joining Amazon.com, Mr. Gunningham was President of First Data Utilities from August 2006 to February 2007.

Andrew R. Jassy.Mr. Jassy has served as Senior Vice President, Web Services, since April 2006.

Steven Kessel.Mr. Kessel has served as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Digital Media,
since April 2006.

Marc A. Onetto.Mr. Onetto has served as Senior Vice President,
Worldwide Operations, since joining Amazon.com in December 2006.

Diego Piacentini.Mr.
Piacentini has served as Senior Vice President, International Retail, since January 2007.

Shelley L.
Reynolds.Ms. Reynolds has served as Vice President, Worldwide Controller, and Principal Accounting Officer since April 2007. From February 2006 to April 2007, she was Vice President, Finance and Controller.







Thomas J. Szkutak.Mr. Szkutak has served as Senior Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer since joining Amazon.com in October 2002.

H. Brian
Valentine.Mr. Valentine has served as Senior Vice President, Ecommerce Platform, since joining Amazon.com in September 2006.

Jeffrey A. Wilke.Mr. Wilke has served as Senior Vice President, North America Retail, since January 2007.

L. Michelle Wilson.Ms. Wilson has served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary since
July 2003.

Board of Directors



NameAgePositionJeffrey P. Bezos48President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman of the BoardTom A. Alberg71Managing Director, Madrona Venture GroupJohn Seely Brown71Visiting Scholar and Advisor to the Provost, University of Southern CaliforniaWilliam B. Gordon61Partner, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & ByersBlake G. Krikorian44Founder and Chief Executive Officer, id8 Group Productions, Inc.Alain Monié61President and Chief Executive Officer, Ingram Micro Inc.Jonathan J. Rubinstein55Former Chairman and CEO, Palm, Inc.Thomas O. Ryder67Retired, Former Chairman, Reader’s Digest Association, Inc.Patricia Q. Stonesifer55Vice Chair, Board of Regents, Smithsonian Institution



