Item 1. Business



HISTORY
    AND ORGANIZATION



History

Northrop Grumman Corporation (herein referred to as
    “Northrop Grumman”, the “company”,
    “we”, “us”, or “our”) is an
    integrated enterprise consisting of businesses that cover the
    entire global security spectrum, from undersea to outer space
    and into cyberspace. The companies that are part of today’s
    Northrop Grumman have achieved historic accomplishments, from
    transporting Charles Lindbergh across the Atlantic to carrying
    astronauts to the moon’s surface and back.



The company was originally formed as Northrop Corporation in
    California in 1939 and was reincorporated in Delaware in 1985.
    From 1994 through 2002, we entered a period of significant
    expansion through acquisitions of other businesses, most notably:



nIn 1994, Northrop Corporation acquired Grumman Corporation
    (Grumman) and was renamed Northrop Grumman Corporation. Grumman
    was a premier military aircraft systems integrator and builder
    of the Lunar Module that first delivered men to the surface
    of the moon.nIn 1996, we acquired the defense and electronics businesses of
    Westinghouse Electric Corporation, a world leader in the
    development and production of sophisticated radar and other
    electronic systems for the nation’s defense, civil
    aviation, and other international and domestic applications.nIn 2001, we acquired Litton Industries (Litton), a global
    electronics and information technology enterprise, and one of
    the nation’s leading full-service design, engineering,
    construction, and life cycle supporters of major surface ships
    for the United States (U.S.) Navy, U.S. Coast Guard, and
    international navies.nAlso in 2001, we acquired Newport News Shipbuilding (Newport
    News). Newport News is the nation’s sole designer, builder
    and refueler of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers and one of
    only two companies capable of designing and building
    nuclear-powered submarines.nIn 2002, we acquired TRW Inc. (TRW), a leading developer of
    military and civil space systems and satellite payloads, as well
    as a leading global integrator of complex, mission-enabling
    systems and services.



Since 2002, other notable acquisitions include Integic
    Corporation (2005), an information technology provider
    specializing in enterprise health and business process
    management solutions and Essex Corporation (2007), a signal
    processing product and services provider to
    U.S. intelligence and defense customers. In addition, we
    divested our Advisory Services Division, TASC, Inc., in 2009.



These and other transactions have shaped us into our present
    position as a premier provider of technologically advanced,
    innovative products, services and solutions in aerospace,
    electronics, information and services and shipbuilding. As prime
    contractor, principal subcontractor, partner, or preferred
    supplier, we participate in many high-priority defense and
    commercial technology programs in the U.S. and abroad. We
    conduct most of our business with the U.S. Government,
    principally the Department of Defense (DoD). We also conduct
    business with local, state, and foreign governments and domestic
    and international commercial customers. For a discussion of
    risks associated with our DoD and foreign operations, see Risk
    Factors in Part I, Item 1A.



Organization

From time to time, we acquire or dispose of businesses, and
    realign contracts, programs or business areas among and within
    our operating segments that possess similar customers,
    expertise, and capabilities. Internal realignments are designed
    to more fully leverage existing capabilities and enhance
    development and delivery of products and services. The operating
    results for all periods presented have been revised to reflect
    these changes made through December 31, 2009.

-1-






NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION



In January 2009, we streamlined our organizational structure by
    reducing the number of operating segments from seven to five.
    The five segments are Aerospace Systems, which combines the
    former Integrated Systems and Space Technology segments;
    Electronic Systems; Information Systems, which combines the
    former Information Technology and Mission Systems segments;
    Shipbuilding; and Technical Services. Creation of the Aerospace
    Systems and Information Systems segments was intended to
    strengthen our alignment with customers, improve our ability to
    execute on programs and win new business, and enhance cost
    competitiveness.



During the first quarter of 2009, we realigned certain
    logistics, services, and technical support programs and
    transferred assets from the Information Systems and Electronic
    Systems segments to the Technical Services segment. This
    realignment was intended to strengthen our core capability in
    aircraft and electronics maintenance, repair and overhaul, life
    cycle optimization, and training and simulation services.



During the first quarter of 2009, we transferred certain optics
    and laser programs from the Information Systems segment to the
    Aerospace Systems segment. The prior year sales and segment
    operating income were not reclassified to reflect this business
    transfer as the operating results of this business were not
    considered material.



In December 2009, we sold our Advisory Services Division (ASD),
    for $1.65 billion in cash to an investor group led by
    General Atlantic LLC and affiliates of Kohlberg Kravis
    Roberts & Co. L.P., and recognized a gain of
    $15 million, net of taxes. ASD was a business unit
    comprised of the assets and liabilities of TASC, Inc., its
    wholly-owned subsidiary TASC Services Corporation, and certain
    contracts carved out from other businesses also in our
    Information Systems segment that provide systems engineering
    technical assistance (SETA) and other analysis and advisory
    services.



In January 2008, we realigned the Newport News and Ship Systems
    businesses into a single operating segment called Northrop
    Grumman Shipbuilding. Previously, these businesses were separate
    operating segments which were aggregated into a single reporting
    segment for financial reporting purposes. In addition, we
    transferred certain Electronic Systems businesses to the former
    Mission Systems segment during the first quarter of 2008.



During the second quarter of 2008, we transferred certain
    programs and assets from the missiles business in the
    Information Systems segment to the Aerospace Systems segment.
    This transfer allowed Information Systems to focus on the
    rapidly growing command, control, communications, computing,
    intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (C4ISR) business.
    The missiles business became an integrated element of our
    Aerospace business growth strategy.



AEROSPACE
    SYSTEMS



Aerospace Systems, headquartered in Redondo Beach, California,
    is a premier developer, integrator, producer and supporter of
    manned and unmanned aircraft, spacecraft, high-energy laser
    systems, microelectronics and other systems and subsystems
    critical to maintaining the nation’s security and
    leadership in technology. Aerospace Systems’ customers,
    primarily government agencies, use these systems in many
    different mission areas including intelligence, surveillance and
    reconnaissance; communications; battle management; strike
    operations; electronic warfare; missile defense; earth
    observation; space science; and space exploration. The segment
    consists of four business areas: Strike & Surveillance
    Systems, Space Systems, Battle Management & Engagement
    Systems, and Advanced Programs & Technology.



Strike & Surveillance Systems –designs, develops, manufactures and integrates tactical and
    long-range strike aircraft systems, unmanned systems, and
    missile systems. These include the RQ-4 Global Hawk unmanned
    reconnaissance system, B-2 stealth bomber, F-35
    Lightning II joint strike fighter,F/A-18Super
    Hornet strike fighter, Minuteman III Intercontinental
    Ballistic Missile (ICBM), MQ-8B Fire Scout unmanned aircraft
    system, Multi-Platform Radar Technology Insertion Program
    (MP-RTIP), and aerial targets.



Space Systems– designs, develops,
    manufactures, and integrates spacecraft systems, subsystems and
    electronic and communications payloads. Major programs include
    the National Polar-orbiting Operational Environmental

-2-






NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION



Satellite System (NPOESS), the James Webb Space Telescope
    (JWST), Advanced Extremely High Frequency (AEHF) payload, Space
    Tracking and Surveillance System (STSS) and many restricted
    programs.



Battle Management & Engagement Systems –designs, develops, manufactures, and integrates airborne
    early warning, surveillance, battlefield management, and
    electronic warfare systems. Key programs include theE-2Hawkeye,
    Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (Joint STARS),
    Broad Area Maritime Surveillance (BAMS) unmanned aircraft
    system, the EA-6B Prowler, and its next generation platform, the
    EA-18G Growler.



Advanced Programs & Technology –creates advanced technologies and concepts to satisfy
    existing and emerging customer needs. It matures these
    technologies and concepts to create and capture new programs
    that other Aerospace Systems business areas can execute.
    Existing programs include the Navy Unmanned Combat Air System
    (N-UCAS), the Airborne Laser (ABL), and other directed energy
    and advanced concepts programs.



ELECTRONIC
    SYSTEMS



Electronic Systems, headquartered in Linthicum, Maryland, is a
    leading designer, developer, manufacturer and integrator of a
    variety of advanced electronic and maritime systems for national
    security and select non-defense applications. Electronic Systems
    provides systems to U.S. and international customers for
    such applications as airborne surveillance, aircraft fire
    control, precision targeting, electronic warfare, automatic test
    equipment, inertial navigation, integrated avionics, space
    sensing, intelligence processing, air and missile defense,
    communications, mail processing, biochemical detection, ship
    bridge control and radar, ship machinery controls, and shipboard
    components. The segment is composed of seven business areas:
    Aerospace Systems; Defensive Systems; Government Systems; Land
    Forces; Naval & Marine Systems; Navigation Systems;
    and Space & Intelligence, Surveillance &
    Reconnaissance (ISR) Systems.



Aerospace Systems– provides sensors, sensor
    processing, integrated sensor suites, and radar countermeasure
    systems for military surveillance and precision-strike; missile
    tracking and warning; and radio frequency electronic warfare.
    Fire control radars include systems for the F-16, F-22A, F-35,
    and B-1B. Navigation radars include commercial and military
    systems for transport and cargo aircraft. Surveillance products
    include the Airborne Warning and Control System radar, the
    Multi-role Electronically Scanned Array (MESA) radar, the
    MP-RTIP, the ship-board Cobra Judy Replacement radar, and
    multiple payloads on theP-8A.Radio
    frequency electronic warfare products include radar warning
    receivers, self-protection jammers, and integrated electronic
    warfare systems for aircraft such as the EA-6B, EA-18, F-16, and
    F-15.



Defensive Systems– provides systems that
    support combat aviation by protecting aircraft and helicopters
    from attack, by providing capabilities for precise targeting and
    tactical surveillance, by improving mission availability through
    automated test systems, and by improving mission skills through
    advanced simulation systems. A wide variety of fixed wing and
    helicopter protection systems include threat detection and
    laser-based countermeasures systems to defeat ground-launched
    infrared-guided missiles. Defensive Systems’
    countermeasures systems are currently installed on over 40 types
    of aircraft, many of which are conducting combat operations in
    Iraq and Afghanistan. Targeting systems utilize lasers for
    target designation and precision weapon delivery, image
    processing, and target acquisition, identification, and
    tracking. The LITENING targeting pod system is combat-proven on
    the AV-8B,A-10A/C,B-52H, F-15E, F-16, andF/A-18A/C/D.Test systems include systems to test electronic components of
    combat aircraft on the flight line and in repair facilities.
    Defensive Systems also provides advanced simulators for use on
    test ranges and training facilities to emulate threats of
    potential adversaries. Customers include the
    U.S. government and a wide variety of international allies.



Government Systems –provides products and
    services to meet the needs of governments for improvements in
    the effectiveness of their civil and military infrastructure and
    of their combat and counter-terrorism operations. This includes
    systems and system integration of products and services for
    postal automation, for the detection and alert of chemical,
    biological, radiological, nuclear, and explosive material, and
    for homeland defense, communications, and enterprise management.
    Key programs include: Flats Sequencing System; International
    Sorting Centers;

-3-






NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION



U.S. Postal Service bio-detection systems; and national
    level command and control, integrated air and missile defense
    and homeland defense systems for international customers.



Land Forces– provides a full range of
    warfighting system solutions for the “digital
    battlefield,” including fire control systems for airborne
    and tracked vehicles, air and ground sensors to detect enemy
    movement, tactical range finding and precise laser designation,
    and systems that detect and defend against enemy fire. These
    solutions include laser designators and rangefinders,
    ground-based tactical radars for warning of missile and
    artillery attack, situational awareness sensors, unattended
    sensor systems, ground vehicle communication networks, precision
    guided munitions and compact lightweight Synthetic Aperture
    Radar /Ground Moving Target Indicator (SAR/GMTI) radars for
    unmanned/rotary wing aircraft. Sensor technologies provided
    include radio frequency, infrared, and electro-optical.
    Principal programs include the Longbow Weapons System for the
    Apache attack helicopter, the Lightweight Laser Designator
    Rangefinder, the Vehicular Intercommunication System –
    Extended (VIS-X), the Firefinder counter-battery integrated
    radar system, the Ground/Air Task Oriented Radar System
    (G/ATOR), and the lightweight STARLite SAR/GMTI for unmanned air
    vehicles.



Naval & Marine Systems –provides
    major subsystems and subsystem integration for sensors, sensor
    processing, missile launching, ship controls and power
    generation. It provides systems to military surface and
    subsurface platforms, and bridge and machinery control systems
    for commercial maritime applications. Principal programs
    include: radars for navigation; radars for gun fire control and
    cruise missile defense; bridge management and control systems;
    power generation systems for aircraft carriers; power,
    propulsion, and launch systems forVirginia-class
    submarines; launch systems for Trident submarines; and unmanned
    semi-autonomous naval systems.



Navigation Systems –provides advanced
    navigation, avionics systems, and command and control centers
    for military and commercial applications. Its products are used
    in military air, land, sea, and space systems as well as
    commercial space and aircraft in both U.S. and
    international markets. Its subsidiaries, Northrop Grumman LITEF
    (Freiburg, Germany) and Northrop Grumman Italia (Pomezia,
    Italy), are leading European inertial sensors and systems
    suppliers. Key Navigation Systems programs and applications
    include: integrated avionics for the U.S. Marine Corps
    attack and utility helicopters and U.S. NavyE-2aircraft; military navigation and positioning systems for the
    F-16 fighter, F-22A fighter/attack aircraft, Eurofighter, and
    U.S. Navy MH-60 helicopter; navigation systems for
    commercial aircraft; navigation systems for military and civil
    space satellites and deep space exploration. Navigation Systems
    also develops and produces fiber-optic acoustic systems for
    underwater surveillance forVirginia-class submarines and
    the AN/TYQ-23 multi-service mobile tactical command centers for
    the U.S. Marine Corps and U.S. Air Force.



Space & ISR Systems– provides
    space-based sensor and exploitation systems for civil, military,
    and U.S. intelligence community customers, as well as
    ground/surface based command, control, communications,
    computers, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance
    (C4ISR) solutions to process, exploit, and disseminate
    multi-sensor data. Capabilities include space-based payloads,
    radar, Overhead Non-Imaging Infrared sensors,
    electro-optic & multi/hyper-spectral sensors, passive
    microwave sounders, mission processing solutions, and
    Service-Oriented open architecture C4ISR systems. The current
    portfolio of programs includes the Spaced-Based Infrared System
    as the lead for the payload and mission processing systems, the
    Distributed Common Ground System-Army as the system integrator,
    as well as a variety of civil space and restricted programs.



INFORMATION
    SYSTEMS



Information Systems, headquartered in Reston, Virginia, is a
    leading global provider of advanced solutions for the DoD,
    national intelligence, federal civilian, state and local
    agencies, and commercial customers. Products and services are
    focused on the fields of command, control, communications,
    computers and intelligence; air and missile defense; airborne
    reconnaissance; intelligence processing; decision support
    systems; cybersecurity; information technology; and systems
    engineering and systems integration. The segment consists of
    three business areas: Defense Systems; Intelligence Systems; and
    Civil Systems.

-4-






NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION



Defense Systems –is a major end-to-end
    provider of net-enabled Battle Management C4ISR systems,
    decision superiority, and mission-enabling solutions and
    services in support of the national defense and security of our
    nation and its allies. The division is a prime developer and
    integrator of many of DoD’s programs-of-record,
    particularly for command and control and communications for the
    Air Force, the Army, the Navy, and Joint Forces. Major product
    and services include Enterprise Infrastructure and Applications,
    Mission Systems Integration, Military Communications &
    Networks, BMC2 and Decision Support Systems, Global and
    Operational C2, Ground and Maritime Combat Systems, Air and
    Missile Defense, Combat Support Solutions and Services, Defense
    Logistics Automation, and Force and Critical Infrastructure
    Protection. Systems are installed in operational and command
    centers world-wide and across all DoD services and joint command.



Intelligence Systems –is focused on the
    delivery of world-class systems and services to the
    U.S. intelligence community. Major offerings include
    Studies & Analysis, Systems Development, Enterprise
    IT, Prime Systems Integration, Products, Sustainment, and
    Operations and Maintenance. Customer focus addresses several
    mission areas including Airborne ISR, Geospatial Intelligence,
    Ground Systems, Integrated Intelligence and dynamic Cyber
    defense. Sustaining and growing the business in today’s
    market mandates sharing meaningful information across agencies
    through development of cost effective systems that are
    responsive to mutual requirements. Intelligence Systems is also
    creating new responsive capabilities leveraging existing systems
    to provide solutions to customer needs through labs and
    integration centers.



Civil Systems –provides specialized
    information systems and services in support of critical
    government civil missions, such as homeland security, public
    health, cyber security, air traffic management and public
    safety. Primary customers are federal civilian agencies, with
    state and local customers and the U.S. Postal Service also
    being served. Civil Systems develops and implements solutions
    that combine a deep understanding of civil government domains
    with core expertise in prime systems integration, enterprise
    applications development, and high value IT services including
    cyber security, identity management and advanced network
    communications.



SHIPBUILDING



Shipbuilding, headquartered in Newport News, Virginia, is the
    nation’s sole industrial designer, builder, and refueler of
    nuclear-powered aircraft carriers and one of only two companies
    capable of designing and building nuclear-powered submarines for
    the U.S. Navy. Shipbuilding is also one of the
    nation’s leading full service systems providers for the
    design, engineering, construction, and life cycle support of
    major programs for the surface ships of the U.S. Navy,
    U.S. Coast Guard, and international navies. The segment
    includes the following areas of business: Aircraft Carriers;
    Expeditionary Warfare; Surface Combatants; Submarines; Coast
    Guard & Coastal Defense; Fleet Support; and
    Services & Other.



Aircraft Carriers– The U.S. Navy’s
    newest carrier and the last of the Nimitz class, theUSS
    George H. W. Bush, was delivered in May 2009. Design work on
    the next generation carrier, theFordclass has been
    underway for over eight years. TheFordclass
    incorporates transformational technologies including an enhanced
    flight deck with increased sortie rates, improved weapons
    movement, a redesigned island, a new nuclear power plant design,
    flexibility to incorporate future technologies, and reduced
    manning. In 2008, Shipbuilding was awarded a $5.1 billion
    contract for construction of the first ship of the class, theGerald R. Ford, which is scheduled for delivery in 2015.
    The segment also provides ongoing maintenance for the
    U.S. Navy aircraft carrier fleet through overhaul,
    refueling, and repair work. In 2009, the completion of the
    refueling and complex overhaul of the USSCarl Vinsonwas
    followed by the arrival of the USSTheodore Roosevelt,which is expected to be redelivered to the U.S. Navy
    following its refueling in early 2013. Shipbuilding is also
    currently performing a multi-year maintenance service of the
    first nuclear-powered carrier, USSEnterprise, with
    redelivery anticipated in early 2010.



Expeditionary Warfare– Shipbuilding is the
    sole provider of amphibious assault ships for the
    U.S. Navy. In 2009, construction of theWaspclass
    multipurpose amphibious assault ship was concluded with the
    delivery of LHD 8. Construction of theSan Antonioclass continues, with five ships delivered from 2005 to 2009
    and four currently in construction. In 2007, Shipbuilding was
    awarded the construction contract for LHA 6, the first in a new
    class

-5-






NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION



of enhanced amphibious assault ships. The first ship of theAmericaclass ships is currently under construction and
    is expected to join the fleet in 2013.



Surface Combatants– Shipbuilding designs and
    constructsArleigh Burkeclass Aegis guided missile
    destroyers, as well as major components for theZumwaltclass, a land attack destroyer. Shipbuilding has delivered 26Arleigh Burkedestroyers to the U.S. Navy, currently
    has two under construction, and was awarded a long lead time
    material contract for a restart of theArleigh Burkeclass in December 2009. Shipbuilding’s participation in theZumwaltprogram includes detailed design and construction
    of the ships’ integrated composite deckhouses, as well as
    portions of the ships’ peripheral vertical launch systems.
    The U.S. Navy expects to build threeZumwaltclass
    destroyers.



Submarines– Northrop Grumman is one of only
    two U.S. companies capable of designing and building
    nuclear-powered submarines. In February 1997, the company and
    Electric Boat, a wholly owned subsidiary of General Dynamics
    Corporation, reached an agreement to cooperatively buildVirginiaclass nuclear attack submarines. The initial
    four submarines in the class were delivered in 2004, 2006, and
    2008. Shipbuilding and Electric Boat were awarded a construction
    contract in August 2003 for the second block of sixVirginiaclass submarines, the first two of which were delivered in
    2008 and 2009, respectively. Construction on the remaining four
    submarines is underway, with the last scheduled to be delivered
    in 2014. In December 2008, Shipbuilding and Electric Boat were
    awarded a construction contract for the third block of eightVirginiaclass submarines. The multi-year contract allows
    Shipbuilding and its teammate to proceed with the construction
    of one submarine per year in 2009 and 2010, and two submarines
    per year from 2011 to 2013. The eighth submarine to be procured
    under this contract is scheduled for delivery in 2019.



Coast Guard & Coastal Defense–
    Shipbuilding is a joint venture partner along with Lockheed
    Martin for the Coast Guard’s Deepwater Modernization
    Program. Shipbuilding has design and production responsibility
    for surface ships. In 2006, the Shipbuilding/Lockheed Martin
    joint venture was awarded a43-monthcontract extension for the Deepwater program. The first National
    Security Cutter (NSC), USCGCBerthoff, was delivered to
    the Coast Guard in 2008 followed by theWaesche(NSC2) in
    2009. Currently, theStratton(NSC3) is in construction,
    and long lead procurement is underway for NSC4.



Fleet Support– Fleet Support provides
    after-market services, including on-going maintenance and repair
    work, for a wide array of naval and commercial vessels. The
    segment has ship repair facilities in the U.S. Navy’s
    largest homeports of Norfolk, Virginia, and San Diego,
    California.



Services & Other– Shipbuilding
    provides various services to commercial nuclear and non-nuclear
    industrial customers. In January 2008, Savannah River Nuclear
    Solutions, a joint venture among Shipbuilding, Fluor
    Corporation, and Honeywell, was awarded a contract for site
    management and operations of the U.S. Department of
    Energy’s Savannah River Site in Aiken, South Carolina. In
    October 2008, Shipbuilding announced the formation of a joint
    venture with AREVA NP to build a new manufacturing and
    engineering facility in Newport News, Virginia, to help supply
    the growing American nuclear energy sector.



TECHNICAL
    SERVICES



Technical Services, headquartered in Herndon, Virginia, is a
    leading provider of logistics, infrastructure, and sustainment
    support, while also providing a wide array of technical services
    including training and simulation. The segment consists of three
    areas of business: Systems Support; Training &
    Simulation; and Life Cycle Optimization & Engineering.



Systems Support– provides infrastructure and
    base operations management, including base support and civil
    engineering work, military aerial and ground range operations,
    support functions which include space launch services,
    construction, combat vehicle maintenance, protective and
    emergency services, and range-sensor-instrumentation operations.
    Primary customers include the Department of Energy, the DoD, the
    Department of Homeland Security, and the U.S. intelligence
    community, in both domestic and international locations.

-6-






NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION



Training and Simulation– provides realistic
    and comprehensive training to senior military leaders and
    peacekeeping forces, designs and develops future conflict
    training scenarios, and provides U.S. warfighters and
    international allies with live, virtual, and constructive
    training programs. This business area also offers diverse
    training applications ranging from battle command to
    professional military education. Primary customers include the
    DoD, Department of State and Department of Homeland Security.



Life Cycle Optimization and Engineering–
    provides complete life cycle product support and weapons system
    sustainment. This business area is focused on providing
    Performance Based Logistical support to the warfighter including
    supply chain management services, warehousing and inventory
    transportation, field services and mobilization, sustaining
    engineering, maintenance, repair and overhaul supplies, and
    on-going weapon maintenance and technical assistance. The group
    specializes in performing Contractor Logistics Support of both
    original equipment manufacturer (OEM) and third party aviation
    platforms involving maintenance and modification, and rebuilding
    essential parts and assemblies. Primary customers include the
    DoD as well as international military and commercial customers.



Corporate

Our principal executive offices are located at 1840 Century Park
    East, Los Angeles, California 90067. Our telephone number is(310) 553-6262and our home page on the Internet is www.northropgrumman.com.
    References to our website in this report are provided as a
    convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as,
    incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or
    available through, the website. Therefore, such information
    should not be considered part of this report. See Properties in
    Part I, Item 2.



SUMMARY
    SEGMENT FINANCIAL DATA



For a more complete understanding of our segment financial
    information, see Segment Operating Results in Part II,
    Item 7, and Note 6 to the consolidated financial
    statements in Part II, Item 8.



CUSTOMERS
    AND REVENUE CONCENTRATION



Our primary customer is the U.S. Government.
    U.S. Government revenue (which includes Foreign Military
    Sales) accounted for approximately 91 percent of total
    revenues in 2009, 2008, and 2007. No single product or service
    accounted for more than 10 percent of total revenue during
    any period presented. See Risk Factors in Part I,
    Item 1A.



PATENTS



The following table summarizes the number of patents we own or
    have pending as of December 31, 2009:



OwnedPendingTotalU.S. patents3,1444053,549Foreign patents2,1885562,744Total5,3329616,293





Patents developed while under contract with the
    U.S. Government may be subject to use by the
    U.S. Government. We license intellectual property to, and
    from, third parties. We believe our ability to conduct
    operations would not be materially affected by the loss of any
    particular intellectual property right.



SEASONALITY



No material portion of our business is considered to be
    seasonal. Our revenue recognition timing is based on several
    factors, including the timing of contract awards, the incurrence
    of contract costs, cost estimation, and unit deliveries. See
    Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates, and Judgments- Revenue
    Recognition in Part II, Item 7.

-7-






NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION



BACKLOG



At December 31, 2009, total backlog was $69.2 billion
    compared with $76.4 billion at the end of 2008.
    Approximately 37 percent of backlog at December 31,
    2009, is expected to be converted into sales in 2010.



Total backlog includes both funded backlog (firm orders for
    which funding is contractually obligated by the customer) and
    unfunded backlog (firm orders for which funding is not currently
    contractually obligated by the customer). Unfunded backlog
    excludes unexercised contract options and unfunded indefinite
    delivery indefinite quantity (IDIQ) orders. For multi-year
    services contracts with non-federal government customers having
    no stated contract values, backlog includes only the amounts
    committed by the customer. For backlog by segment see Backlog in
    Part II, Item 7.



RAW
    MATERIALS



The most significant raw material we require is steel, used
    primarily for shipbuilding. We have mitigated supply risk by
    negotiating long-term agreements with a number of steel
    suppliers. In addition, we have mitigated price risk related to
    steel purchases through certain contractual arrangements with
    the U.S. Government. While we have generally been able to
    obtain key raw materials required in our production processes in
    a timely manner, a significant delay in supply deliveries could
    have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial
    position, results of operations, or cash flows. See Risk Factors
    in Part I, Item 1A and Overview- Outlook in
    Part II, Item 7.



GOVERNMENT
    REGULATION



Our businesses are affected by numerous laws and regulations
    relating to the award, administration and performance of
    U.S. Government contracts. See Risk Factors in Part I,
    Item 1A.



The U.S. Government generally has the ability to terminate
    our contracts, in whole or in part, without prior notice, for
    convenience or for default based on performance. If any of our
    government contracts were to be terminated for convenience, we
    are normally protected by provisions covering reimbursement for
    costs incurred and profit on those costs. Termination resulting
    from our default could require us to pay for re-procurement
    costs in excess of the original contract price, net of the value
    of work accepted from the original contract. The
    U.S. Government could also hold us liable for damages
    resulting from the default. In the event that appropriations for
    one of our programs becomes unavailable, or is reduced or
    delayed, our contract or subcontract under such program may be
    terminated or adjusted by the U.S. Government. See Risk
    Factors in Part I, Item 1A.



Certain programs with the U.S. Government that are
    prohibited by the customer from being publicly discussed in
    detail are referred to as “restricted” in thisForm 10-K.The consolidated financial statements and financial information
    in thisForm 10-Kreflect the operating results of restricted programs under
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
    America (GAAP). See Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A.



RESEARCH
    AND DEVELOPMENT



Our research and development activities primarily include
    independent research and development (IR&D) efforts related
    to government programs. IR&D expenses are included in
    general and administrative expenses and are generally allocated
    to U.S. Government contracts. IR&D expenses totaled
    $610 million, $564 million, and $522 million in
    2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. We charge expenses for
    research and development sponsored by the customer directly to
    the related contracts.



EMPLOYEE
    RELATIONS



We maintain good relations with our 120,700 employees, of
    which approximately 20 percent are covered by
    32 collective bargaining agreements. We re-negotiated 17 of
    our collective bargaining agreements in 2009. These negotiations
    had no material adverse effect on our results of operations. For
    risks associated with collective bargaining agreements, see Risk
    Factors in Part I, Item 1A.

-8-






NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION



ENVIRONMENTAL
    MATTERS



Our manufacturing operations are subject to and affected by
    federal, state, foreign, and local laws and regulations relating
    to the protection of the environment. We provide for the
    estimated cost to complete environmental remediation where we
    determine it is probable that we will incur such costs in the
    future to address environmental impacts at currently or formerly
    owned or leased operating facilities, or at sites where we are
    named a Potentially Responsible Party (PRP) by the
    U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or similarly
    designated by other environmental agencies. These estimates may
    change given the inherent difficulty in estimating environmental
    cleanup costs to be incurred in the future due to the
    uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup,
    determination of legally responsible parties, and the status of
    laws, regulations, and their interpretations.



We assess the potential impact on our financial statements by
    estimating the possible remediation costs that we could
    reasonably incur on asite-by-sitebasis. These estimates consider our environmental
    engineers’ professional judgment and, when necessary, we
    consult with outside environmental specialists. In most
    instances, we can only estimate a range of reasonably possible
    costs. We accrue our best estimate when determinable or the
    minimum amount when no single amount is more probable. We record
    accruals for environmental cleanup costs in the accounting
    period in which it becomes probable we have incurred a liability
    and the costs can be reasonably estimated. We record insurance
    recoveries only when we determine that collection is probable
    and we do not include any litigation costs related to
    environmental matters in our environmental remediation accrual.



We estimate that at December 31, 2009, the range of
    reasonably possible future costs for environmental remediation
    sites is $239 million to $483 million, of which we
    accrued $115 million in other current liabilities and
    $168 million in other long term liabilities in the
    consolidated statements of financial position. We record
    environmental accruals on an undiscounted basis. At sites
    involving multiple parties, we provide environmental accruals
    based upon our expected share of liability, taking into account
    the financial viability of other jointly liable parties. We
    expense or capitalize environmental expenditures as appropriate.
    Capitalized expenditures relate to long-lived improvements in
    currently operating facilities. We may have to incur costs in
    addition to those already estimated and accrued if other PRPs do
    not pay their allocable share of remediation costs, which could
    have a material effect on our consolidated financial position,
    results of operations, or cash flows. We have made the
    investments we believe necessary to comply with environmental
    laws. Although we cannot predict whether information gained as
    projects progress will materially affect the estimated accrued
    liability, we do not anticipate that future remediation
    expenditures will have a material adverse effect on our
    consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash
    flows.



We could be affected by future laws or regulations, including
    those enacted in response to climate change concerns and other
    actions known as “green initiatives.” We recently
    established a goal of reducing our greenhouse gas emissions
    during the next five years. To comply with current and future
    environmental laws and regulations and to meet this goal, we
    expect to incur capital and operating costs, but at this time we
    do not expect that such costs will have a material adverse
    effect upon our financial position, results of operations or
    cash flows.



COMPETITIVE
    CONDITIONS



We compete with many companies in the U.S. defense industry
    for a number of programs, both large and small, but primarily
    with Lockheed Martin Corporation, The Boeing Company, Raytheon
    Company, General Dynamics Corporation, L-3 Communications
    Corporation, SAIC, and BAE Systems. Intense competition and long
    operating cycles are both key characteristics of our business
    and the defense industry. It is common in this industry for work
    on major programs to be shared among a number of companies. A
    company competing to be a prime contractor may, upon ultimate
    award of the contract to another party, turn out to be a
    subcontractor for the ultimate prime contracting party. It is
    not uncommon to compete for a contract award with a peer company
    and, simultaneously, perform as a supplier to or a customer of
    such competitor on other contracts. The nature of major defense
    programs, conducted under binding contracts, allows companies
    that perform well to benefit from a level of program continuity
    not common in many industries.

-9-






NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION



Our success in the competitive defense industry depends upon our
    ability to develop and market our products and services, as well
    as our ability to provide the people, technologies, facilities,
    equipment, and financial capacity needed to deliver those
    products and services with maximum efficiency. We must continue
    to maintain sources for raw materials, fabricated parts,
    electronic components, and major subassemblies. In this
    manufacturing and systems integration environment, effective
    oversight of subcontractors and suppliers is as vital to success
    as managing internal operations.



Similarly, there is intense competition among many companies in
    the information and services markets, which are generally more
    labor intensive with competitive margin rates over contract
    periods of shorter duration. Competitors in the information and
    services markets include the defense industry participants
    mentioned above as well as many other large and small entities
    with expertise in various specialized areas. Our ability to
    successfully compete in the information and services markets
    depends on a number of factors; most important is the capability
    to deploy skilled professionals, many requiring security
    clearances, at competitive prices across the diverse spectrum of
    these markets. Accordingly, we have implemented various
    workforce initiatives to ensure our success in attracting,
    developing and retaining sufficient resources to maintain or
    improve our competitive position within these markets.



EXECUTIVE
    OFFICERS



See Part III, Item 10, for information about our
    executive officers.



AVAILABLE
    INFORMATION



Throughout thisForm 10-K,we incorporate by reference information from parts of other
    documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
    (SEC). The SEC allows us to disclose important information by
    referring to it in this manner, and you should review this
    information in addition to the information contained in this
    report.



Our annual report onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,current reports onForm 8-K,and proxy statement for the annual shareholders’ meeting,
    as well as any amendments to those reports, are available free
    of charge through our web site as soon as reasonably practicable
    after we file them with the SEC. You can learn more about us by
    reviewing our SEC filings in the investor relations page on our
    web site atwww.northropgrumman.com.



The SEC also maintains a web site atwww.sec.govthat
    contains reports, proxy statements and other information about
    SEC registrants, including Northrop Grumman. You may also obtain
    these materials at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at
    100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You
    can obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference
    Room by calling the SEC at1-800-SEC-0330.

