Item 1. Business



HISTORY AND ORGANIZATION

History

Northrop Grumman Corporation (herein referred to as “Northrop Grumman,” the “company,” “we,” “us,” or “our”) is a leading global security company. We provide innovative systems, products and solutions in unmanned systems; cybersecurity; command, control, communications and computers (C4) intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (C4ISR); and logistics and modernization to government and commercial customers worldwide through our four segments: Aerospace Systems, Electronic Systems, Information Systems and Technical Services. We participate in many high-priority defense and government services programs in the United States (U.S.) and abroad. We offer a broad portfolio of capabilities and technologies that enable us to deliver innovative systems and solutions for applications that range from undersea to outer space and into cyberspace. We conduct most of our business with the U.S. Government, principally the Department of Defense (DoD) and intelligence community. We also conduct business with local, state, and foreign governments and domestic and international commercial customers. For a discussion of risks associated with our operations, see Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A.

The company originally was formed in Hawthorne, California in 1939, as Northrop Aircraft Incorporated and was reincorporated in Delaware in 1985, as Northrop Corporation. Northrop Aircraft Incorporated was a principal developer of the flying wing technology, including the B-2 Stealth Bomber. The company developed into one of the largest defense contractors in the world through a series of acquisitions, as well as organic growth. In 1994, we acquired Grumman Corporation (Grumman), after which time the company was renamed Northrop Grumman Corporation. Grumman was a premier military aircraft systems integrator and builder of the Lunar Module that first delivered men to the surface of the moon. In 1996, we acquired the defense and electronics businesses of Westinghouse Electric Corporation (Westinghouse), a world leader in the development and production of sophisticated radar and other electronic systems for the nation’s defense, civil aviation, and other international and domestic applications. In 2001, we acquired Litton Industries, a global electronics and information technology company, and one of the nation's leading full service shipbuilders. In 2002, we acquired TRW Inc. (TRW), a leading developer of military and civil space systems and satellite payloads, as well as a leading global integrator of complex, mission-enabling systems and services.

Effective as of March 31, 2011, the company completed the spin-off to its shareholders of Huntington Ingalls Industries, Inc. (HII). HII operates our former Shipbuilding business, which was acquired in 2001, through the acquisition of Newport News Shipbuilding and a portion of the Litton acquisition. As a result of the spin-off, assets, liabilities and results of operations for the former Shipbuilding segment have been reclassified as discontinued operations for all periods presented. See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 for further information.

Organization

From time to time, we acquire or dispose of businesses and realign contracts, programs or business areas among and within our operating segments, such as where they possess similar customers, expertise, and capabilities. Internal realignments are designed to more fully leverage existing capabilities and enhance development and delivery of products and services. The operating results for all periods presented have been revised to reflect these changes made throughDecember 31, 2013. We are currently aligned into four operating segments: Aerospace Systems, Electronic Systems, Information Systems and Technical Services. See Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 for further information.



AEROSPACE SYSTEMS

Aerospace Systems, headquartered in Redondo Beach, California, is a leader in the design, development, integration and production of manned aircraft, unmanned systems, spacecraft, high-energy laser systems, microelectronics and other systems and subsystems. Aerospace Systems' customers, primarily U.S. government agencies, use these systems in mission areas including intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR), communications, battle management, strike operations, electronic warfare, earth observation, satellite communications, space science and space exploration. The segment consists of four business areas: Unmanned Systems, Military Aircraft Systems, Space Systems, and Strategic Programs & Technology.

Unmanned Systems -designs, develops, manufactures, and integrates ISR unmanned systems for tactical and strategic systems. Key ISR programs include the RQ-4 Global Hawk reconnaissance system, a proven high-altitude long-endurance system providing near real-time high resolution imagery of large geographical areas; the Triton



-1-



NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION



aircraft system providing real-time ISR over vast ocean and coastal regions; the trans-Atlantic NATO Alliance Ground Surveillance system for multinational theater operations, peacekeeping missions, and disaster relief efforts; the Fire Scout aircraft system providing unprecedented situational awareness and precision targeting support; and the Navy Unmanned Combat Air System for the demonstration unmanned combat air vehicle for carrier based operations.

Military Aircraft Systems -designs, develops, manufactures, and integrates airborne C4ISR, electronic warfare mission systems, and long range strike and tactical aircraft systems. Key airborne C4ISR programs include the E-2D Advanced Hawkeye and Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (JSTARS). Electronic warfare includes the EA-18G Growler and EA-6B Prowler airborne electronic attack weapon systems in addition to the design, development, and integration of laser weapon systems for air, sea, and ground platforms. This business area also designed, developed and manufactured the B-2 Spirit bomber and now provides sustainment and upgrade services for the B-2, the nation's most advanced long range strike aircraft system. Tactical aircraft includes the design, development, manufacture and integration of F/A-18 aft sections and F-35 center sections.

Space Systems- designs, develops, manufactures, and integrates spacecraft systems, subsystems, sensors and communications payloads in support of space science and C4ISR. Key programs include the James Webb Space Telescope (JWST), a large infrared telescope being built for NASA that will be deployed in space to study the origins of the universe; Advanced Extremely High Frequency (AEHF) payloads providing survivable, protected communications to U.S. forces; and restricted programs.

Strategic Programs & Technology -creates and matures advanced technologies and innovative concepts to provide affordable solutions addressing current and future customer needs. The Strategic Programs & Technology business area maintains a broad portfolio of contracts ranging from development of components to prototypes to initial operational systems across the air, land and space domains.

ELECTRONIC SYSTEMS

Electronic Systems, headquartered in Linthicum, Maryland, is a leader in the design, development, manufacture and support of solutions for sensing, understanding, anticipating and controlling the operating environment for our global military, civil and commercial customers. Electronic Systems provides a variety of defense electronics and systems, airborne fire control radars, situational awareness systems, early warning systems, airspace management systems, navigation systems, communications systems, marine power and propulsion systems, space systems and logistics services. The segment consists of three business areas: Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance & Targeting Systems, Land & Self Protection Systems, and Navigation & Maritime Systems.

Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance & Targeting Systems- delivers products and services for space satellite applications, airborne and ground-based surveillance, multi-sensor processing, analysis and dissemination for combat units and national agencies, both domestic and international. These systems provide battle space awareness, missile defense, command and control, combat avionics (fire control radars, multi-function apertures and pods), airborne electro-optical/infrared (EO/IR) targeting systems and postal automation systems. Key programs include airborne fire control radars such as the Scalable Agile Beam Radar (SABR), which provides affordable Active Electronically Scanned Array (AESA) capabilities for domestic and international fighters; the F-35 fire control radar, a multi-function AESA radar for the U.S. Armed Forces and a large number of international partners; EO/IR systems such as the LITENING targeting pod and the Distributed Aperture System (DAS), a 360 degree spherical situational awareness system; airborne surveillance radars such as the Multirole Electronically Scanned Array (MESA) for Airborne Early Warning & Control (AEW&C), which provides air-to-air and air-to-surface coverage; and space systems such as the Space-Based Infrared System (SBIRS), which provides data for missile surveillance, missile defense, technical intelligence and battlespace characterization.

Land & Self Protection Systems- delivers products, systems and services that support ground-based, helicopter and fixed wing platforms (manned and unmanned) with sensor and protection systems. A major product line of this business area consists of systems that perform threat detection and countermeasures that defeat infrared and radio frequency (RF) guided missile and tracking systems. This business area also provides integrated electronic warfare capability, communications and intelligence systems, unattended ground sensors, automatic test equipment, advanced threat simulators, ground-based air defense and multi-function radars, situational awareness systems and laser/electro-optical systems. Key programs include the Ground/Air Task Oriented Radar (G/ATOR), which is a ground-based multi-mission radar designed to detect and track a wide variety of threats; the TPS-78 ground-based radar, which provides air defense and air surveillance for the global market; the Large Aircraft Infrared Countermeasures (LAIRCM), which is an infrared countermeasure system designed to protect aircraft against man-



-2-



NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION



portable (shoulder-launched) infrared-guided surface-to-air missiles; and the AN/APR-39, which provides rapid identification and continuous radar threat warning for today's complex battlefields.

Navigation & Maritime Systems- delivers products and services to domestic and international defense, civil and commercial customers supporting smart navigation, shipboard radar surveillance, ship control, machinery control and integrated combat management systems for naval surface ships; high-resolution undersea sensors for mine hunting, situational awareness and other applications; unmanned marine vehicles; shipboard missile and encapsulated payload launch systems, propulsion and power generation systems, nuclear reactor instrumentation and control and acoustic sensors for submarines and aircraft carriers; inertial navigation systems for all domains (air, land, sea, and space); and embedded Global Positioning Systems. Key programs include the AN/SPQ-9B Anti-Ship Missile Defense radar, which provides the US Navy’s cruisers and destroyers with situational awareness and contact information from aircraft, cruise missiles, surface vessels and periscope detection; inertial navigation and positioning products for a range of platforms including ships, aircraft, spacecraft and weapons systems.

In addition to the product and service lines discussed above, our Electronic Systems segment also includes an Advanced Concepts & Technologies Division (AC&TD), which develops next-generation systems to position the segment in key developing markets. AC&TD focuses on understanding customer mission needs; conceiving affordable, innovative and open solutions; and demonstrating the readiness and effectiveness of Electronic Systems' products. AC&TD focuses on the following enterprise-wide and cross cutting technology development thrust areas: RF systems; EO/IR systems; multi-function systems; modular open systems architectural approaches and designs; precision navigation and timing capabilities; and secure and trusted solutions.

INFORMATION SYSTEMS

Information Systems, headquartered in McLean, Virginia, is a leading global provider of advanced solutions for the DoD, national intelligence, federal civilian and state agencies, commercial and international customers. Products and services focus on the fields of command and control (C2), communications, cybersecurity, air and missile defense, intelligence processing, civil security, health information technology, government support systems and systems engineering and integration.

Within C4ISR, we are a major end-to-end provider of net-enabled C2, net-enabled Battle Management, communications and network gateway systems, mission-enabling solutions and decision superiority. Our systems are installed in operational and command centers world-wide and across DoD services, joint commands and the international security community. We also deliver intelligence-related systems and services to the U.S. Government in several mission areas including Signals Intelligence (SIGINT) systems, geospatial intelligence and multi-source intelligence data fusion.

Cybersecurity offerings span intelligence, defense, federal, civilian, state and international customers, providing dynamic cyber defense and specialized cyber systems and services in support of critical government missions. Applications are predominantly for high end intelligence and defense missions, but also include health, homeland security, public safety, civil, financial and commercial applications. Most intelligence community programs are restricted. Defense and civil cybersecurity customers include the DoD, intelligence community, Department of Homeland Security, Centers for Disease Control and select state and international agencies.

The segment consists of four business areas: Cyber Solutions, Defense Systems, Federal & Defense Technologies, and Intelligence Systems.

Cyber Solutions -provides cyber defense, exploitation and full spectrum solutions that address cybersecurity threats, cyber mission management, cross function/agency cyber management and special cyber systems that target our nation’s adversaries.

Defense Systems -is a major end-to-end provider of net-enabled C2, communications, networks and gateways, decision support systems, command center integration, combat support systems and critical infrastructure protection systems.

Federal & Defense Technologies -is an integrator of air and missile defense systems and a major provider of net-enabled Battle Management C4 systems, defense enterprise information technology (IT) and civilian IT solutions.

Intelligence Systems -is focused on the delivery of intelligence-related systems and services in airborne reconnaissance, SIGINT, geospatial and multi-source data fusion.

Key programs include the Joint National Integration Center Research and Development Contract (JRDC), which supports the technical infrastructure, modeling and simulation, test and evaluation, and management of the Missile Defense Agency network at multiple sites; the Battlefield Airborne Communications Node (BACN), a high-altitude,



-3-



NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION



airborne communications and information gateway system that provides situational awareness and C2 coordination between warfighters and commanders; and the Consolidated Afloat Networks and Enterprise Services (CANES) program, which consolidates US Navy C4 intelligence, computing and network infrastructure for ships, submarines and shore C2 facilities.

TECHNICAL SERVICES

Technical Services, headquartered in Herndon, Virginia, is a leader in innovative and affordable logistics, modernization and sustainment support and also provides an array of other advanced technology and engineering services, including space, missile defense, nuclear security, training and simulation. The segment consists of three business areas: Integrated Logistics and Modernization, Defense and Government Services, and Training Solutions.

Integrated Logistics and Modernization -provides complete life cycle support and weapon system sustainment and modernization products and services, and provides direct support to warfighters while delivering aircraft and subsystem maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO). Competencies include aircraft and electronics sustaining engineering, supply chain management services, manned and unmanned weapons systems deployed logistics support, field services and on-going maintenance and technical assistance, and delivering rapid response in support of global customers. Key programs include KC-10 Contractor Logistics Support (CLS), which provides total weapons systems CLS to the Air Force for the entire fleet of 59 KC-10 aircraft; UK Airborne Warning and Control System (AWACS), which provides through life management of the UK Royal Air Force fleet of E-3D AWACS aircraft; and AAQ24 Large Aircraft Infrared Counter Measures (LAIRCM), which provides repair, testing, component spare procurement, logistics, and data collection related to directional infrared counter measures systems used on multiple fixed and rotary wing aircraft.

Defense and Government Services -provides sustainment and modernization of tactical vehicles, high technology and engineering services in the areas of nuclear security, space and launch services, civil engineering and military range-sensor-instrumentation operations. Key programs include Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) Systems, which provides systems engineering and integration for the land-based leg of the United States nuclear deterrent force; Fort Irwin Logistics Services Support; and Combined Tactical Training Ranges (CTTR), which provides engineering, operations and maintenance support to facilitate a live and virtual multi-service aircrew tactical training requirement as defined by the Fleet Response Training Plan (FRTP).

Training Solutions -provides realistic and comprehensive training through live, virtual and constructive domains, ranging from senior military leadership to warfighters, for both U.S. and international peacekeeping forces. The business area designs and develops future conflict training scenarios and provides warfighters and allies with live, virtual and constructive training programs. The business area has supported the training of America’s senior battlefield commanders for every major contingency beginning with Gulf War I through operations today. The business area also offers innovative and diverse training applications ranging from battle command to professional military education. Key programs include the Saudi Arabian National Guard (SANG), which provides equipment fielding, training and maintenance, simulator training and operations, tactical exercise development, logistics and operations support and English language training to the Saudi Arabian National Guard; the Joint Coalition Warfighting Center (JWFC), which designs and executes distributed joint and multinational exercises and training events, joint doctrine development and joint training analysis for the Joint and Coalition Warfighting Center; and the Mission Command Training Program (MCTP), the Army's premier leadership and staff training exercise program at the tactical and operational level.



SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA AND SEGMENT OPERATING RESULTS

For a more complete understanding of our business, see Selected Financial Data in Part II, Item 6. For a more complete understanding of our segment financial information, see Segment Operating Results in Part II, Item 7, and Note4to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.

CUSTOMER CONCENTRATION

Our primary customer is the U.S. Government. Revenue from the U.S. Government (which excludes foreign military sales - a method to sell U.S. defense equipment and services to foreign governments through the DoD) accounted for86 percentor more of total revenues in each of the years endedDecember 31, 2013,2012and2011. International sales (which include foreign military sales) accounted for$2.5 billion,$2.1 billionand$2.1 billion, or10 percent,8 percentand8 percent, of total revenue for the years endedDecember 31, 2013,2012and2011, respectively. No single program accounted for more than ten percent of total revenue during any period presented. See Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A.



-4-



NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION



COMPETITIVE CONDITIONS

We compete with many companies in the defense, intelligence and federal markets. Airbus Group, BAE Systems, Boeing, Booz Allen Hamilton, Finmeccanica, General Dynamics, L-3 Communications, Leidos, Lockheed Martin, Raytheon and Thales are some of our primary competitors. Key characteristics of our industry include long operating cycles and intense competition, which is evident through the number of bid protests (competitor protests of U.S. government procurement awards) and the number of competitors bidding on program opportunities.

It is common in the defense industry for work on major programs to be shared among a number of companies. A company competing to be a prime contractor may, upon ultimate award of the contract to another competitor, become a subcontractor for the ultimate prime contracting company. It is not unusual to compete for a contract award with a peer company and, simultaneously, perform as a supplier to or a customer of that same competitor on other contracts, or vice versa.

SEASONALITY

No material portion of our business is considered to be seasonal.

BACKLOG

Total backlog includes both funded backlog (firm orders for which funding is authorized and appropriated) and unfunded backlog. Unexercised contract options and indefinite delivery indefinite quantity (IDIQ) contracts are not included in backlog until the time the option or IDIQ task order is exercised or awarded. For multi-year service contracts with non-U.S. Government customers having no stated contract values, backlog includes only the amounts committed by the customer. Backlog is converted into sales as costs are incurred or deliveries are made. AtDecember 31, 2013, total backlog was$37.0 billion, compared with$40.8 billionat the end of2012. Of the backlog atDecember 31, 2013, approximately$19.6 billionis expected to be converted into sales in2014. For backlog by segment, see Backlog in Part II, Item 7.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

Our research and development activities primarily include independent research and development (IR&D) efforts related to U.S. Government programs. Company-sponsored IR&D efforts are included in general and administrative expenses and are generally allocated to U.S. Government contracts, while customer-sponsored research and development efforts are charged directly to the related contracts. Company-sponsored IR&D expenses totaled$507 million,$520 millionand$543 millionin2013,2012and2011, respectively. See Note1to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.

PATENTS

We routinely apply for and own a number of U.S. and foreign patents related to the products and services we provide. In addition to owning a large portfolio of proprietary intellectual property, we license some intellectual property rights to and from third parties. The U.S. Government generally holds licenses to patents developed in the performance of U.S. Government contracts and may use or authorize others to use the inventions covered by these patents. Although these intellectual property rights are important to the operation of our business, no existing patent, license or other intellectual property right is of such importance that its loss or termination would, in our opinion, have a material adverse effect on our financial position, annual results of operations and/or cash flows. See Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A.

RAW MATERIALS

We have not experienced significant delays in the supply or availability of raw materials, nor have we experienced a significant price increase for raw materials, that would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, annual results of operations and/or cash flows. See Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A and Overview in Part II, Item 7.

EMPLOYEE RELATIONS

We believe that we maintain good relations with our65,300employees, of which approximately3,300are covered by16collective bargaining agreements. We negotiated renewals ofthreeof our collective bargaining agreements in2013and expect to negotiate renewals oftwoof our collective bargaining agreements in2014. These negotiations did not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, annual results of operations and/or cash flows. For risks associated with collective bargaining agreements, see Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A.



-5-



NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION



REGULATORY MATTERS

Government Contract Regulation

Certain programs with the U.S. Government that are prohibited by the customer from being publicly discussed in detail are referred to as “restricted” in this Form 10-K. The consolidated financial statements and financial information in this Form 10-K reflect the operating results of our entire company, including such restricted programs under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP).

Contracts

We generate the majority of our business from long-term contracts with the U.S. Government for development, production, and support activities. Due to the long-term nature of our contracts with the U.S. Government and the products and services covered by these contracts, we generally recognize revenue using the percentage of completion method of accounting. Under the percentage of completion method of accounting, revenues are generally recognized as costs are incurred (cost-to-cost method) or as units are delivered (units-of-delivery method). Unless otherwise specified in a contract, allowable and allocable costs are billed to contracts with the U.S. Government under the requirements of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) and Cost Accounting Standards (CAS) regulations. Examples of costs incurred by us and not billed to the U.S. Government in accordance with the requirements of the FAR and CAS regulations include, but are not limited to, lobbying costs, certain legal costs, charitable donations, advertising costs and interest expense. Our long-term contracts typically fall into one of two broad categories:

Cost-type contracts– Cost-type contracts include cost plus fixed fee, award fee, and incentive fee contracts. Cost-type contracts provide for reimbursement of the contractor’s allowable costs incurred plus a fee. Cost-type contracts generally require that the contractor use its best efforts to accomplish the scope of the work within some specified time and some stated dollar limitation. Fees on cost-type contracts can be fixed in terms of dollar value or percentage of costs. Award and incentive fees are based on performance criteria such as cost, schedule, quality, and technical performance. Award fees are determined and earned based on customer evaluation of the company's performance against negotiated criteria, and are intended to provide motivation for excellence in contract performance. Incentive fees that are based on cost provide for an initially negotiated fee to be adjusted later, typically using a formula to measure performance against the associated criteria, based on the relationship of total allowable costs to total target costs. Award and incentive fees that can reasonably be estimated and are deemed reasonably assured are recorded over the performance period of the contract.

Fixed-price contracts– A firm fixed-price contract is a contract in which the specified scope of work is agreed to for a price that is a pre-determined, negotiated amount and not generally subject to adjustment regardless of costs incurred by the contractor, absent changes in scope by the customer. Certain fixed-price incentive fee contracts provide for reimbursement of the contractor’s allowable costs plus a fee up to a ceiling amount, typically through a cost-sharing limit that affects profitability. These types of fixed-price incentive fee contracts effectively become firm fixed-price contracts once the cost-share limit is reached. Time-and-materials contracts are considered fixed-price contracts as they specify a fixed hourly rate for each labor hour charged.



-6-



NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION



The following table summarizes sales for the year endedDecember 31, 2013, recognized by contract type and customer:

($ in millions)U.S.GovernmentOtherCustomers(1)TotalPercentof TotalCost-type contracts$12,523$476$12,99953%Fixed-price contracts8,7552,90711,66247%Total sales$21,278$3,383$24,661100%

(1)Other customer sales include foreign military sales.

Profit margins may vary materially depending on, among other things, the negotiated contract fee arrangements, the achievement of performance objectives and the stage of performance at which the right to receive fees, particularly under incentive and award fee contracts, is finally determined.

We monitor our policies and procedures with respect to our contracts on a regular basis to enhance consistent application under similar terms and conditions, as well as compliance with all applicable government regulations and laws. In addition, costs incurred and allocated to contracts with the U.S. Government are routinely audited by the Defense Contract Audit Agency.

Environmental

Our manufacturing operations are subject to and affected by federal, state, foreign, and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. The estimated cost to complete remediation is accrued when it is probable that the company will incur costs to address environmental impacts and the costs are estimable. To assess the potential impact on the company’s financial statements, management estimates the range of reasonably possible remediation costs that could be incurred by the company, taking into account the facts currently available to the company regarding each site, as well as the current state of technology and prior experience. These estimates are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect changes in facts and circumstances. See Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A, as well as Note12to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.

In 2009, we established a goal of reducing our greenhouse gas emissions over a five-year period through December 31, 2014. In 2010, we established goals for water usage and solid waste generation. We have exceeded our goal for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and are on track to achieve our goals on water usage and solid waste generation.

We have incurred and expect to continue to incur capital and operating costs to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations and satisfy green initiatives, including our goals. At this time, these costs have not had, and we do not expect that these costs will have, a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, annual results of operations and/or cash flows.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

See Part III, Item 10, for information about our executive officers.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Our principal executive offices are located at 2980 Fairview Park Drive, Falls Church, Virginia 22042. Our telephone number is (703) 280-2900 and our home page on the Internet is www.northropgrumman.com.

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and proxy statement for the annual shareholders’ meeting, as well as any amendments to those reports, are available free of charge through our Web site as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). You can learn more about us by reviewing our SEC filings on the investor relations page of our Web site.

The SEC also maintains a Web site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information about SEC registrants, including Northrop Grumman Corporation. You may also obtain these materials at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You can obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.

References to our Web site and the SEC’s Web site in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available



-7-



NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION



through, such Web sites. Such information should not be considered a part of this report, unless otherwise expressly incorporated by reference in this report.



