Item 1.Business



HISTORY
    AND ORGANIZATION



History

Northrop Grumman Corporation (herein referred to as
    “Northrop Grumman”, the “company”,
    “we”, “us”, or “our”) is an
    integrated enterprise consisting of businesses that address the
    global security spectrum, from undersea to outer space and into
    cyberspace. The companies that are part of today’s Northrop
    Grumman have achieved historic accomplishments, from
    transporting Charles Lindbergh across the Atlantic to carrying
    astronauts to the moon’s surface and back.



The company was originally formed as Northrop Corporation in
    California in 1939 and was reincorporated in Delaware in 1985.
    From 1994 through 2002, we entered a period of significant
    expansion through acquisitions of other businesses, most notably:



nIn 1994, Northrop Corporation acquired Grumman Corporation
    (Grumman) and was renamed Northrop Grumman Corporation. Grumman
    was a premier military aircraft systems integrator and builder
    of the Lunar Module that first delivered men to the surface of
    the moon.nIn 1996, we acquired the defense and electronics businesses of
    Westinghouse Electric Corporation, a world leader in the
    development and production of sophisticated radar and other
    electronic systems for the nation’s defense, civil
    aviation, and other international and domestic applications.nIn 2001, we acquired Litton Industries (Litton), a global
    electronics and information technology enterprise, and one of
    the nation’s leading full-service design, engineering,
    construction, and life cycle supporters of major surface ships
    for the United States (U.S.) Navy, U.S. Coast Guard, and
    international navies.nAlso in 2001, we acquired Newport News Shipbuilding (Newport
    News). Newport News is the nation’s sole designer, builder
    and refueler of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers and one of
    only two companies designing and building nuclear-powered
    submarines.nIn 2002, we acquired TRW Inc. (TRW), a leading developer of
    military and civil space systems and satellite payloads, as well
    as a leading global integrator of complex, mission-enabling
    systems and services.



Since 2002, other notable acquisitions include Integic
    Corporation (2005), an information technology provider
    specializing in enterprise health and business process
    management solutions and Essex Corporation (2007), a signal
    processing product and services provider to
    U.S. intelligence and defense customers. In addition, we
    divested our Advisory Services Division, TASC, Inc., in 2009.
    See Business Acquisitions and Business Dispositions in
    Part II. Item 7.



These and other transactions have shaped us into our present
    position as a premier provider of technologically advanced,
    innovative products, services and solutions in aerospace,
    electronics, information and services and shipbuilding. As prime
    contractor, principal subcontractor, partner, or preferred
    supplier, we participate in many high-priority defense and
    commercial technology programs in the U.S. and abroad. We
    conduct most of our business with the U.S. Government,
    principally the Department of Defense (DoD). We also conduct
    business with local, state, and foreign governments, and
    domestic and international commercial customers. For a
    discussion of risks associated with our DoD and foreign
    operations, see Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A.



Organization

From time to time, we acquire or dispose of businesses, and
    realign contracts, programs or business areas among and within
    our operating segments that possess similar customers,
    expertise, and capabilities. Internal realignments are designed
    to more fully leverage existing capabilities and enhance
    development and delivery of products and services. The operating
    results for all periods presented have been revised to reflect
    these changes made through December 31, 2010.

-1-






NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION



As of December 31, 2010, we are aligned into five operating
    segments: Aerospace Systems, Electronic Systems, Information
    Systems, Shipbuilding, and Technical Services. See Note 8
    to our consolidated financial statements in Part II,
    Item 8.



Strategic
    Actions

In July 2010, we announced that we would evaluate whether a
    separation of the Shipbuilding segment would be in the best
    interests of shareholders, customers, and employees by allowing
    both the company and Shipbuilding to more effectively pursue
    their respective opportunities to maximize long-term value. As
    of December 31, 2010, management anticipates that a
    spin-off of the Shipbuilding segment to our shareholders will
    likely occur in 2011. Since any final decision remains subject
    to approval by our Board of Directors, Shipbuilding’s
    financial results are reported in continuing operations. See
    Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8.



AEROSPACE
    SYSTEMS



Aerospace Systems, headquartered in Redondo Beach, California,
    is a leading designer, developer, integrator and producer of
    manned and unmanned aircraft, spacecraft, high-energy laser
    systems, microelectronics and other systems and subsystems
    critical to maintaining the nation’s security and
    leadership in technology. Aerospace Systems’ customers,
    primarily government agencies, use these systems in many
    different mission areas including intelligence, surveillance and
    reconnaissance; communications; battle management; strike
    operations; electronic warfare; missile defense; earth
    observation; space science; and space exploration. The segment
    consists of four business areas: Strike & Surveillance
    Systems, Space Systems, Battle Management & Engagement
    Systems, and Advanced Programs & Technology.



Strike & Surveillance Systems –designs, develops, manufactures and integrates tactical and
    long-range strike aircraft systems, unmanned systems, and
    missile systems. These include the RQ-4 Global Hawk unmanned
    reconnaissance system, B-2 stealth bomber, F-35 Lightning II,F/A-18Super
    Hornet strike fighter, Minuteman III Intercontinental
    Ballistic Missile (ICBM), MQ-8B Fire Scout unmanned aircraft
    system, Multi-Platform Radar Technology Insertion Program
    (MP-RTIP), and aerial targets.



Space Systems –designs, develops,
    manufactures, and integrates spacecraft systems, subsystems and
    electronic and communications payloads.  Major
    programs include the James Webb Space Telescope (JWST), Advanced
    Extremely High Frequency (AEHF) payload, Space Tracking and
    Surveillance System (STSS) and many restricted programs.



Battle Management & Engagement Systems –designs, develops, manufactures, and integrates airborne
    early warning, surveillance, battlefield management, and
    electronic warfare systems. Key programs include theE-2Hawkeye,
    Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (Joint STARS),
    Broad Area Maritime Surveillance (BAMS) unmanned aircraft
    system, Long Endurance Multi Intelligence Vehicle (LEMV), the
    EA-6B Prowler, and its next generation platform, the EA-18G
    Growler.



Advanced Programs & Technology –creates advanced technologies and concepts to satisfy
    existing and emerging customer needs. This business area matures
    these technologies and concepts to create and capture new
    programs that other Aerospace Systems business areas can
    execute. Existing programs include the Navy Unmanned Combat Air
    System (N-UCAS), the Airborne Laser Test Bed (ALTB), and other
    directed energy and advanced concepts programs.



ELECTRONIC
    SYSTEMS



Electronic Systems, headquartered in Linthicum, Maryland, is a
    leader in the design, development, manufacture, and support of
    solutions for sensing, understanding, anticipating, and
    controlling the environment for our global military, civil, and
    commercial customers and their operations. Electronic Systems
    provides a variety of defense electronics and systems, airborne
    fire control radars, situational awareness systems, early
    warning systems, airspace management systems, navigation
    systems, communications systems, marine systems, space systems,
    and logistics

-2-






NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION



services. The segment consists of five business areas:
    Intelligence, Surveillance, & Reconnaissance Systems;
    Land & Self Protection Systems; Naval &
    Marine Systems; Navigation Systems; and Targeting Systems.



Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance (ISR)
    Systems –delivers products and services for space
    satellite applications, airborne and ground based surveillance,
    multi-sensor processing and analysis to provide battlespace
    awareness, missile defense, and command and control. The
    division also develops advanced space-based radar and
    electro-optical early warning and surveillance systems for
    strategic, tactical, and weather operations along with systems
    for enhancing the discovery, sharing, and exploitation of ISR
    data. Key products include the Space Based Infrared System
    (SBIRS), Defense Meteorological Satellite Program (DMSP),
    Defense Support Program (DSP), ground processing, exploitation
    and dissemination systems, the TPS-78/703 family of ground based
    surveillance radars, and the Multi-role Electronically Scanned
    Array (MESA) radar.



Land & Self Protection Systems –delivers products, systems, and services that support
    ground-based, helicopter and fixed wing platforms (manned and
    unmanned) with sensor and protection systems. These systems
    perform threat detection and countermeasures that defeat
    infrared and radio frequency (RF) guided missile and tracking
    systems. The division also provides integrated electronic
    warfare capability, communications, and intelligence systems;
    unattended ground sensors; automatic test equipment; and
    advanced threat simulators. Key programs include the
    U.S. Marine Corps Ground/Air Task Oriented Radar (G/ATOR)
    multi-mission radar; the Large Aircraft Infrared Countermeasures
    (LAIRCM) system for the U.S. Air Force, U.S. Navy, and
    strategic international and NATO allies; the AN/ALQ-131(V)
    electronic countermeasures pods; the LR-100 high-performance
    radar warning receiver (RWR)/electronic support measures
    (ESM)/electronic intelligence (ELINT) receiver system; the
    U.S. Army’s STARLite synthetic aperture radar for
    Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs); the U.S. Army Vehicle
    Intercom Systems (VIC 3 and VIC-5); the U.S. Army Next
    Generation Automated Test System (NGATS); the U.S. Air
    Force Joint Threat Emitter (JTE) training range system; and the
    Vehicle and Dismount Exploitation Radar (VADER) system that
    enables UAVs to track individual persons or vehicles.



Naval & Marine Systems –delivers
    products and services to defense, civil, and commercial markets
    supporting smart navigation, shipboard radar surveillance, ship
    control, machinery control, integrated combat management systems
    for naval surface ships, high-resolution undersea sensors (for
    mine hunting, situational awareness, and other applications),
    unmanned marine vehicles, shipboard missile and encapsulated
    payload launch systems, propulsion and power generation systems,
    and nuclear reactor instrumentation and control. Key products
    include integrated bridge and navigation systems, voyage
    management system, integrated platform management systems,
    integrated combat Management System, AN/WSN 7 Gyro Navigator,
    anti-ship missile defense and surveillance radars (Cobra Judy,
    AN/SPQ 9B, AN/SPS 74), and propulsion equipment and missile
    launch systems for theVirginia-class submarines.



Navigation Systems –delivers products and
    services to defense, civil, and commercial markets supporting
    situational awareness, inertial navigation in all domains (air,
    land, sea, and space), embedded Global Positioning Systems,
    Identification Friend or Foe (IFF) systems, acoustic sensors,
    cockpit video monitors, mission computing, and integrated
    avionics and electronics systems. Key products include the
    Integrated Avionics System, theAN/TYQ-23Aircraft Command and Control System, Fiber Optic Acoustic
    Sensors, and a robust portfolio of inertial sensors and
    navigation systems.



Targeting Systems –delivers products and
    services supporting airborne combat avionics (fire control
    radars, multi-function apertures and pods), airborne
    electro-optical/infrared targeting systems, and
    laser/electro-optical systems including hand-held,
    tripod-mounted, and ground or air vehicle mounted systems. Key
    products include fire control radars for the B-1B, F-16
    (worldwide), F-22 U.S. Air Force, and F-35; the AN/APN 241
    navigation/weather radar; the AN/AAQ 28(V) LITENING family of
    targeting pods; Distributed Aperture EO/IR systems; and the
    Lightweight Laser Designator Rangefinder (LLDR).



In addition to the product and service lines discussed above,
    the Electronic Systems segment includes the Advanced
    Concepts & Technologies Division (AC&TD), an
    organization that develops next-generation systems,
    technologies, and architectures to position the segment in key
    developing markets. AC&TD focuses on

-3-






NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION



understanding customer mission needs, conceiving affordable
    solutions, and demonstrating the readiness and effectiveness of
    Electronic Systems’ products, including all types of
    sensors, microsystems, and associated information systems. The
    segment uses a “Product Ownership” approach, which
    guides the transition of new technology from laboratory to
    market and implements multi-function modular open systems
    architecture product families that are readily reconfigurable
    and scalable to support new requirements, new products or
    component obsolescence.



INFORMATION
    SYSTEMS



Information Systems, headquartered in McLean, Virginia, is a
    leading global provider of advanced solutions for the DoD,
    national intelligence, federal civilian, state and local
    agencies, and commercial customers. Products and services are
    focused on the fields of command, control, communications,
    computers and intelligence; air and missile defense; airborne
    reconnaissance; intelligence processing; decision support
    systems; cybersecurity; information technology; and systems
    engineering and integration. The segment consists of three
    business areas: Defense Systems; Intelligence Systems; and Civil
    Systems.



Defense Systems –is a majorend-to-endprovider of net-enabled Battle Management C4ISR systems,
    decision superiority, and mission-enabling solutions and
    services in support of the national defense and security of our
    nation and its allies. The division is a prime developer and
    integrator of many of the DoD’sprograms-of-record,particularly for command and control and communications for the
    U.S. Air Force, U.S. Army, U.S. Navy, and Joint
    Forces. Major products and services include Enterprise
    Infrastructure and Applications, Mission Systems Integration,
    Military Communications & Networks, Battle Management
    C2 and Decision Support Systems, Global and Operational C2,
    Ground and Maritime Combat Systems, Air and Missile Defense,
    Combat Support Solutions and Services, Defense Logistics
    Automation, and Force and Critical Infrastructure Protection.
    Systems are installed in operational and command centers
    world-wide and across all DoD services and joint commands.



Intelligence Systems –is focused on the
    delivery of world-class systems and services to the
    U.S. intelligence community. Major offerings include
    Studies & Analysis, Systems Development, Enterprise
    IT, Prime Systems Integration, Products, Sustainment, and
    Operations and Maintenance. The division focuses on several
    mission areas including Airborne ISR, Geospatial Intelligence,
    Ground Systems, Integrated Intelligence and dynamic Cyber
    defense. Sustaining and growing the business in today’s
    market mandates sharing meaningful information across agencies
    through development of cost effective systems that are
    responsive to mutual requirements. Intelligence Systems is also
    creating new responsive capabilities leveraging existing systems
    to provide solutions to customer needs through labs and
    integration centers.



Civil Systems –provides specialized
    information systems and services in support of critical
    government civil missions, such as homeland security, public
    health, cyber security, air traffic management and public
    safety. Primary customers are federal civilian, state and local
    agencies, and the U.S. Postal Service. Civil Systems
    develops and implements solutions that combine a deep
    understanding of civil government domains with core expertise in
    prime systems integration, enterprise applications development,
    and high value IT services including cyber security, identity
    management and advanced network communications.



SHIPBUILDING



Shipbuilding, headquartered in Newport News, Virginia, is the
    nation’s sole industrial designer, builder and refueler of
    nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, the sole supplier and builder
    of amphibious assault and expeditionary warfare ships to the
    U.S. Navy, the sole builder of National Security Cutters
    for the U.S. Coast Guard, and one of only two companies
    that builds the U.S. Navy’s current fleet of DDG-51Arleigh Burke-class destroyers. Shipbuilding is also a
    full-service systems provider for the design, engineering,
    construction and life cycle support of major programs for
    surface ships and a provider of fleet support and maintenance
    services for the U.S. Navy. The segment consists of seven
    business areas: Aircraft Carriers; Expeditionary Warfare;
    Surface Combatants; Submarines; Coast Guard & Coastal
    Defense; Fleet Support; and Services & Other.

-4-






NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION



Aircraft Carriers –Shipbuilding is the
    nation’s sole industrial designer, builder, and refueler of
    nuclear-powered aircraft carriers. The U.S. Navy’s
    newest carrier and the last of theNimitz-class, the USSGeorge H. W. Bush, was delivered in May 2009. Design work
    on the next generation carrier, theFord-class has been
    underway for over eight years. TheFord-class
    incorporates transformational technologies including an enhanced
    flight deck with increased sortie rates, improved weapons
    movement, a redesigned island, a new nuclear power plant design,
    flexibility to incorporate future technologies, and reduced
    manning. In 2008, Shipbuilding was awarded a $5.1 billion
    contract for construction of the first ship of the class, theGerald R. Ford, which is scheduled for delivery in 2015.
    The segment also provides ongoing maintenance for the
    U.S. Navy aircraft carrier fleet through overhaul,
    refueling, and repair work. In 2009, the completion of the
    refueling and complex overhaul of the USSCarl Vinsonwas
    followed by the arrival of the USSTheodore Roosevelt,which is expected to be redelivered to the U.S. Navy
    following its refueling in early 2013.



Expeditionary Warfare –Shipbuilding is the
    sole provider of amphibious assault ships for the
    U.S. Navy. In 2009, construction of theWaspclass
    multipurpose amphibious assault ship was concluded with the
    delivery of LHD 8. Construction of theSan Antonio-class continues, with five ships
    delivered from 2005 to 2009 and four currently in construction.
    In 2007, Shipbuilding was awarded the construction contract for
    LHA 6, the first in a new class of enhanced amphibious assault
    ships. The first ship of theAmerica-class ships is
    currently under construction and is expected to join the fleet
    in 2013.



Surface Combatants –Shipbuilding designs and
    constructsArleigh
    Burke-class Aegis-guidedmissile destroyers, as well as major components for theZumwalt-class, a land attack destroyer. Shipbuilding has
    delivered 26Arleigh Burkedestroyers to the
    U.S. Navy, currently has one under construction, and was
    awarded a long-lead time material contract for a restart of theArleigh Burke-class in December 2009. Shipbuilding’s
    participation in theZumwaltprogram includes detailed
    design and construction of the ships’ integrated composite
    deckhouses, as well as portions of the ships’ peripheral
    vertical launch systems.



Submarines –Shipbuilding is one of only two
    U.S. companies that designs and builds nuclear-powered
    submarines. In February 1997, the company and Electric Boat, a
    wholly owned subsidiary of General Dynamics Corporation, reached
    an agreement to cooperatively buildVirginia-class
    nuclear attack submarines. The initial four submarines in the
    class were delivered in 2004, 2006, and 2008. The construction
    contract for the second block of sixVirginia-class
    submarines was awarded in August 2003 and the first two
    submarines under this contract were delivered in 2008 and 2009.
    Construction on the remaining four submarines is underway, with
    the last scheduled to be delivered in 2014. In December 2008,
    the construction contract for the third block of eightVirginia-class submarines was awarded. The multi-year
    contract allowed Shipbuilding and its teammate to proceed with
    the construction of one submarine per year in 2009 and 2010, and
    allows for the construction of two submarines per year from 2011
    to 2013. The eighth submarine to be procured under this contract
    is scheduled for delivery in 2019.



Coast Guard & Coastal Defense –Shipbuilding is a joint venture partner along with Lockheed
    Martin for the Coast Guard’s Deepwater Modernization
    Program. Shipbuilding has design and production responsibility
    for surface ships. In 2006, the Shipbuilding/Lockheed Martin
    joint venture was awarded a43-monthcontract extension for the Deepwater program. The first National
    Security Cutter (NSC), USCGCBerthoff, was delivered to
    the Coast Guard in 2008 followed by the USCGCWaesche(NSC-2) in 2009. TheStratton(NSC-3) is currently in
    construction. The construction contract for NSC-4 was awarded in
    November 2010.



Fleet Support –Fleet Support provides
    after-market services, including on-going maintenance and repair
    work, for a wide array of naval and commercial vessels.
    Shipbuilding has ship repair facilities in the
    U.S. Navy’s largest homeports of Norfolk, Virginia,
    and San Diego, California.



Services & Other –Shipbuilding
    provides various services to commercial nuclear and non-nuclear
    industrial customers. In January 2008, Savannah River Nuclear
    Solutions, a joint venture among Shipbuilding, Fluor
    Corporation, and Honeywell, was awarded a contract for site
    management and operations of the U.S. Department of
    Energy’s Savannah River Site in Aiken, South Carolina. In
    October 2008, Shipbuilding

-5-






NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION



announced the formation of a joint venture with AREVA NP to
    build a new manufacturing and engineering facility in Newport
    News, Virginia to help supply the growing American nuclear
    energy sector.



TECHNICAL
    SERVICES



Technical Services, headquartered in Herndon, Virginia, is a
    provider of logistics, infrastructure, and sustainment support,
    while also providing a wide array of technical services
    including training and simulation. The segment consists of three
    business areas: Defense and Government Services; Training
    Solutions, and Integrated Logistics and Modernization.



Defense and Government Services –provides
    logistics, maintenance and reconstitution services, as well as
    civil engineering work, aerial and ground range operations in
    support of the military, technical support functions which
    include space launch services, construction, protective and
    emergency services, and range-sensor-instrumentation operations.
    Primary customers include the Department of Energy (DoE), the
    DoD, the Department of Homeland Security, and the
    U.S. intelligence community, in both domestic and
    international locations.



Training Solutions –provides training across
    the live, virtual and constructive domains to both the
    U.S. military and International peacekeeping forces,
    designs and develops future conflict training scenarios, and
    provides U.S. warfighters and allies with tactics,
    techniques and procedures to be successful on the battlefield.
    This business area also offers diverse training applications
    ranging from battle command to professional military education.
    Primary customers include the DoD, Department of State, and
    Department of Homeland Security.



Integrated Logistics and Modernization –provides life cycle product support and weapons system
    sustainment. This business area is focused on providing
    Performance Based Logistical support to the warfighter including
    supply chain management services, warehousing and inventory
    transportation, field services and mobilization, sustaining
    engineering, maintenance, repair and overhaul, and ongoing
    weapon maintenance and technical assistance. The group
    specializes in performing Contractor Logistics Support of both
    original equipment manufacturer (OEM) and third party aviation
    platforms involving maintenance, modification, modernization and
    rebuilding essential parts and assemblies. Primary customers
    include the DoD as well as international military and commercial
    customers.



Corporate

Our principal executive offices are located at 1840 Century Park
    East, Los Angeles, California 90067. Our telephone number is(310) 553-6262and our home page on the Internet iswww.northropgrumman.com.  References to our
    website in this report are provided as a convenience and do not
    constitute, and should not be viewed as, incorporation by
    reference of the information contained on, or available through,
    the website. Therefore, such information should not be
    considered part of this report. See Properties in Part I,
    Item 2.



SUMMARY
    SEGMENT FINANCIAL DATA



For a more complete understanding of our segment financial
    information, see Segment Operating Results in Part II,
    Item 7, and Note 8 to the consolidated financial
    statements in Part II, Item 8.



CUSTOMERS
    AND REVENUE CONCENTRATION



Our primary customer is the U.S. Government. Revenue from
    the U.S. Government (which includes Foreign Military Sales)
    accounted for approximately 92 percent of total revenues in
    2010, 2009, and 2008. No single product or service accounted for
    more than ten percent of total revenue during any period
    presented. See Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A.

-6-






NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION



PATENTS



The following table summarizes the number of patents we own or
    have pending as of December 31, 2010:



OwnedPendingTotalU.S. patents3,1923293,521Foreign patents2,3555532,908Total5,5478826,429





Patents developed while under contract with the
    U.S. Government may be subject to use by the
    U.S. Government. We license intellectual property to, and
    from, third parties. We believe our ability to conduct
    operations would not be materially affected by the loss of any
    particular intellectual property right. See Risk Factors in
    Part I, Item 1A.



SEASONALITY



No material portion of our business is considered to be
    seasonal. Our revenue recognition timing is based on several
    factors, including the timing of contract awards, the incurrence
    of contract costs, cost estimation, and unit deliveries. See
    Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates, and
    Judgments – Revenue Recognition in Part II,
    Item 7.



BACKLOG



At December 31, 2010, total backlog was $64.2 billion
    compared with $69.2 billion at the end of 2009.
    Approximately 47 percent of backlog at December 31,
    2010, is expected to be converted into sales in 2011.



Total backlog includes both funded backlog (firm orders for
    which funding is contractually obligated by the customer) and
    unfunded backlog (firm orders for which funding is not currently
    contractually obligated by the customer). Unfunded backlog
    excludes unexercised contract options and unfunded indefinite
    delivery indefinite quantity (IDIQ) orders. For multi-year
    services contracts with non-federal government customers having
    no stated contract values, backlog includes only the amounts
    committed by the customer. Backlog is converted into sales as
    work is performed or deliveries are made. For backlog by segment
    see Backlog in Part II, Item 7.



RAW
    MATERIALS



The most significant raw material we require is steel, used
    primarily for shipbuilding. We have mitigated some supply risk
    by negotiating long-term agreements with a number of steel
    suppliers. In addition, we have mitigated price risk related to
    steel purchases through certain contractual arrangements with
    the U.S. Government. While we have generally been able to
    obtain key raw materials required in our production processes in
    a timely manner, a significant delay in supply deliveries could
    have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial
    position, results of operations, or cash flows. See Risk Factors
    in Part I, Item 1A and Overview – Outlook in
    Part II, Item 7.



GOVERNMENT
    REGULATION



Our businesses are affected by numerous laws and regulations
    relating to the award, administration and performance of
    U.S. Government contracts. See Risk Factors in Part I,
    Item 1A.



The U.S. Government generally has the ability to terminate
    our contracts, in whole or in part, without prior notice, for
    convenience or for default based on performance. If any of our
    U.S. Government contracts were to be terminated for
    convenience, we would generally be protected by provisions
    covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contracts and
    profit on those costs, but not the anticipated profit that would
    have been earned had the contract been completed. In the rare
    circumstance where a U.S. Government contract does not have
    such termination protection, we attempt to mitigate the
    termination risk through other means. Termination resulting from
    our default may expose us to liability and could have a material
    adverse effect on our ability to compete for contracts. See Risk
    Factors in Part I, Item 1A.

-7-






NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION



Certain programs with the U.S. Government that are
    prohibited by the customer from being publicly discussed in
    detail are referred to as “restricted” in thisForm 10-K.The consolidated financial statements and financial information
    in thisForm 10-Kreflect the operating results of restricted programs under
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
    America (GAAP). See Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A.



RESEARCH
    AND DEVELOPMENT



Our research and development activities primarily include
    independent research and development (IR&D) efforts related
    to government programs. IR&D expenses are included in
    general and administrative expenses and are generally allocated
    to U.S. Government contracts. IR&D expenses totaled
    $603 million, $610 million, and $564 million in
    2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. We charge expenses for
    research and development sponsored by the customer directly to
    the related contracts.



EMPLOYEE
    RELATIONS



We believe that we maintain good relations with our
    117,100 employees, of which approximately 20 percent
    are covered by 32 collective bargaining agreements. We
    negotiated or re-negotiated twelve of our collective bargaining
    agreements in 2010. These negotiations had no material adverse
    effect on our results of operations. For risks associated with
    collective bargaining agreements, see Risk Factors in
    Part I, Item 1A.



ENVIRONMENTAL
    MATTERS



Our manufacturing operations are subject to and affected by
    federal, state, foreign, and local laws and regulations relating
    to the protection of the environment. We provide for the
    estimated cost to complete environmental remediation where we
    determine it is probable that we will incur such costs in the
    future to address environmental impacts at currently or formerly
    owned or leased operating facilities, or at sites where we are
    named a Potentially Responsible Party (PRP) by the
    U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or similarly
    designated by other environmental agencies. These estimates may
    change given the inherent difficulty in estimating environmental
    cleanup costs to be incurred in the future due to the
    uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup,
    determination of legally responsible parties, and the status of
    laws, regulations, and their interpretations.



We assess the potential impact on our financial statements by
    estimating the possible remediation costs that we could
    reasonably incur on asite-by-sitebasis. These estimates consider our environmental
    engineers’ professional judgment and, when necessary, we
    consult with outside environmental specialists. In most
    instances, we can only estimate a range of reasonably possible
    costs. We accrue our best estimate when determinable or the
    minimum amount when no single amount is more probable. We record
    accruals for environmental cleanup costs in the accounting
    period in which it becomes probable we have incurred a liability
    and the costs can be reasonably estimated. We record insurance
    recoveries only when we determine that collection is probable.
    Our environmental remediation accruals do not include any
    litigation costs related to environmental matters, nor do they
    include any amounts recorded as asset retirement obligations.



We estimate that at December 31, 2010, the range of
    reasonably possible future costs for environmental remediation
    sites is $280 million to $674 million, of which we
    accrued $109 million in other current liabilities and
    $207 million in other long-term liabilities in the
    consolidated statements of financial position. We record
    environmental accruals on an undiscounted basis. At sites
    involving multiple parties, we provide environmental accruals
    based upon our expected share of liability, taking into account
    the financial viability of other jointly liable parties. We
    expense or capitalize environmental expenditures as appropriate.
    Capitalized expenditures relate to long-lived improvements in
    currently operating facilities. We may have to incur costs in
    addition to those already estimated and accrued if other PRPs do
    not pay their allocable share of remediation costs, which could
    have a material effect on our consolidated financial position,
    results of operations, or cash flows. We have made the
    investments we believe necessary to comply with environmental
    laws.

-8-






NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION



We could be affected by future laws or regulations, including
    those enacted in response to climate change concerns and other
    actions known as “green initiatives.” We established a
    goal of reducing our greenhouse gas emissions over a five-year
    period through December 31, 2014. To comply with existing
    green initiatives and our greenhouse gas emissions goal, we
    expect to incur capital and operating costs, but at this time we
    do not expect that such costs will have a material adverse
    effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash
    flows.



COMPETITIVE
    CONDITIONS



We compete with many companies in the U.S. defense industry
    and the information and services markets for a number of
    programs, both large and small. In the U.S. defense
    industry, Lockheed Martin Corporation, The Boeing Company,
    Raytheon Company, General Dynamics Corporation, L-3
    Communications Corporation, SAIC, and BAE Systems Inc. are our
    primary competitors. Intense competition and long operating
    cycles are both key characteristics of our business and the
    defense industry. It is common in the defense industry for work
    on major programs to be shared among a number of companies. A
    company competing to be a prime contractor may, upon ultimate
    award of the contract to another competitor, become a
    subcontractor for the ultimate prime contracting company. It is
    not unusual to compete for a contract award with a peer company
    and, simultaneously, perform as a supplier to or a customer of
    that same competitor on other contracts, or vice versa. The
    nature of major defense programs, conducted under binding
    contracts, allows companies that perform well to benefit from a
    level of program continuity not frequently found in other
    industries.



Our success in the competitive defense industry depends upon our
    ability to develop and market our products and services, as well
    as our ability to provide the people, technologies, facilities,
    equipment, and financial capacity needed to deliver those
    products and services affordably and efficiently. Like most of
    our competitors, we are vertically integrated but also have a
    high reliance on the supply chain. We must continue to maintain
    dependable sources for raw materials, fabricated parts,
    electronic components, and major subassemblies. In this
    increasingly complex manufacturing and systems integration
    environment, effective oversight of subcontractors and suppliers
    is vital to our success.



Similarly, there is intense competition among many companies in
    the information and services markets, which are generally more
    labor intensive with highly competitive margin rates and
    contract performance periods of shorter duration. Competitors in
    the information and services markets include the defense
    industry participants mentioned above as well as many other
    large and small entities with specialized expertise. Our ability
    to successfully compete in the information and services markets
    depends on a number of factors. The most important factor is the
    ability to deploy skilled professionals, many requiring security
    clearances, at competitive prices across the diverse spectrum of
    these markets. Accordingly, we have implemented various
    workforce initiatives to ensure our success in attracting,
    developing and retaining these skilled professionals in
    sufficient numbers to maintain or improve our competitive
    position within these markets.



In both the U.S. defense industry and information and
    services markets, the federal government has recently indicated
    that it intends to increase industry competition for its future
    procurement of products and services. This may lead to fewer
    sole source awards and more emphasis on cost competitiveness and
    affordability than in the past. In addition, the DoD has
    announced several initiatives to improve efficiency, refocus
    priorities and enhance DoD best practices including those used
    to procure goods and services from defense contractors. See
    Overview in Part II, Item 7, and Risk Factors in
    Part I, Item 1A. These new initiatives, when
    implemented, could result in fewer new opportunities for our
    industry as a whole, and a reduced opportunity set would in turn
    intensify competition within the industry as companies compete
    for a more limited set of new programs.



EXECUTIVE
    OFFICERS



See Part III, Item 10, for information about our
    executive officers.

-9-






NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION



AVAILABLE
    INFORMATION



Throughout thisForm 10-K,we incorporate by reference information from parts of other
    documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
    (SEC). The SEC allows us to disclose important information by
    referring to it in this manner, and you should review this
    information in addition to the information contained in this
    report.



Our annual report onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,current reports onForm 8-K,and proxy statement for the annual shareholders’ meeting,
    as well as any amendments to those reports, are available free
    of charge through our web site as soon as reasonably practicable
    after we file them with the SEC. You can learn more about us by
    reviewing our SEC filings in the investor relations page on our
    web site atwww.northropgrumman.com.



The SEC also maintains a web site atwww.sec.govthat
    contains reports, proxy statements and other information about
    SEC registrants, including Northrop Grumman. You may also obtain
    these materials at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at
    100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You
    can obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference
    Room by calling the SEC at1-800-SEC-0330.

