ITEM 1.BUSINESS

General

Lockheed Martin Corporation is a global security company that is principally engaged in the research, design, development, manufacture,
integration, and sustainment of advanced technology systems and products. We also provide a broad range of management, engineering, technical, scientific, logistic, and information services. We serve both domestic and international customers with
products and services that have defense, civil, and commercial applications, with our principal customers being agencies of the U.S. Government. We were formed in 1995 by combining the businesses of Lockheed Corporation and Martin Marietta
Corporation. We are a Maryland corporation.

In 2009, 85% of our net sales were made to the U.S. Government, either as a prime
contractor or as a subcontractor. Each of our business segments is heavily dependent on sales to the U.S. Government. Our U.S. Government sales were made to both Department of Defense (DoD) and non-DoD agencies. Sales to foreign governments
(including foreign military sales funded, in whole or in part, by the U.S. Government) amounted to 13% of net sales in 2009, while 2% of our net sales were made to commercial and other customers.

Our principal executive offices are located at 6801 Rockledge Drive, Bethesda, Maryland 20817-1877. Our telephone number is
(301) 897-6000. Our website home page on the Internet is www.lockheedmartin.com. We make our website content available for information purposes only. It should not be relied upon for investment purposes, nor is it incorporated by reference into
this Form 10-K.

Throughout this Form 10-K, we incorporate by reference information from parts of other documents filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC allows us to disclose important information by referring to it in this manner, and you should review that information.

We make our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and proxy statement for our annual
shareholders’ meeting, as well as any amendments to those reports, available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file that material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. You can learn more about
us by reviewing our SEC filings. Our SEC filings can be accessed through the investor relations page of our website, www.lockheedmartin.com/investor. The SEC also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements, and other
information regarding SEC registrants, including Lockheed Martin Corporation.

Business Segments

We operate in four principal business segments: Aeronautics, Electronic Systems, Information Systems & Global Services, and Space
Systems. For more information concerning our segment presentation, including comparative segment sales, operating profits, and related financial information for 2009, 2008, and 2007, see Note 4 – Information on Business Segments beginning on
page 66 of this Form 10-K.

Aeronautics

Aeronautics is engaged in the research, design, development, manufacture, integration, sustainment, support, and upgrade of advanced military aircraft, including combat and air mobility aircraft, unmanned
air vehicles, and related technologies.

In 2009, net sales at Aeronautics of $12.2 billion represented 27% of our total net
sales. Aeronautics has three principal lines of business, and the percentage that each contributed to its 2009 net sales was:









Our customers include the military services and various government agencies of the United
States and allied countries around the world. In 2009, U.S. Government customers accounted for approximately 83% of the segment’s net sales.

Combat Aircraft

Our Combat Aircraft business designs, develops, produces, and provides systems support
for fighter aircraft. Our major fighter aircraft programs include:



•The F-35 Lightning II Joint Strike Fighter – international multi-role, stealth fighter;

•The F-22 Raptor – air dominance and multi-mission stealth fighter; and

•The F-16 Fighting Falcon – low-cost, combat-proven, international multi-role fighter.

The F-35 program continued work on development and Low Rate Initial Production (LRIP) aircraft during 2009. Given the size of the F-35
program, we anticipate that there will be a number of studies released related to the program schedule and production quantities as part of the normal DoD, Congressional, and international partners’ oversight and budgeting process. Production
of the F-22 will be completed in 2012, with on-going modernization and sustainment activities continuing thereafter. We continue to produce F-16 aircraft for foreign governments under both foreign military and direct commercial sales.

Air Mobility

In
Air Mobility, we design, develop, produce, and provide full system support and sustainment of tactical and strategic airlift aircraft. Our major programs include production, support, and sustainment of the C-130J Super Hercules, upgrade and support
of the legacy C-130 Hercules worldwide fleet, support of the existing C-5A/B/C Galaxy fleet, and modification of Galaxy aircraft to the modernized C-5M Super Galaxy configuration.

Other Aeronautics Programs (Including Advanced Research and Development)

We are involved in advanced development programs incorporating innovative design and rapid prototype applications. Our Advanced Development Programs (ADP) organization, known as the Skunk Works, is focused on future systems including
unmanned aerial vehicles and next generation capabilities for long-range strike, intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance/battle space awareness, and air mobility. We continue to explore technology advancement and insertion in existing aircraft,
such as the F-35, F-22, F-16, and C-130. We also are involved in numerous network enabled activities that allow separate systems to work together to increase effectiveness, and continue to invest in new technologies to maintain and enhance
competitiveness in military aircraft design and development.

Global Sustainment

As part of each of our Aeronautics lines of business, we provide a full range of logistics support, sustaining engineering, aviation
upgrades, modifications, and maintenance, repair, and overhaul (MRO) for all of our lines of aircraft, including the F-35, the F-22, the F-16, the C-130, the C-5, the P-3 Orion maritime patrol aircraft, and the U-2 Dragon Lady high-altitude
reconnaissance aircraft. As the original equipment manufacturer for numerous platforms, we are focused on expanding our global sustainment services, which is an increasingly important portion of the Aeronautics business.

Electronic Systems

Our
Electronic Systems segment manages complex programs and designs, develops, and integrates hardware and software solutions to ensure the mission readiness of armed forces and government agencies worldwide. Major lines of business include: air and
missile defense; tactical missiles; weapon fire control systems; surface ship and submarine combat systems, anti-submarine and undersea warfare systems; land, sea-based, and airborne radars; surveillance and reconnaissance systems; simulation and
training systems; and integrated logistics and sustainment services.







In 2009, net sales of $12.2 billion at Electronic Systems represented 27% of our total net
sales. Electronic Systems has three principal lines of business, and the percentage each contributed to its 2009 net sales was:



U.S. Government customers accounted for approximately 70% of the segment’s total net sales in 2009.

Maritime Systems & Sensors

Maritime Systems & Sensors (MS2) provides ship systems integration, including command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (C4ISR) capability across
shore-based command centers; surface ship and submarine combat systems; sea-based missile defense systems; sensors; tactical avionics; port traffic management systems; missile launching systems; aerostat surveillance systems; technologies associated
with renewable energy systems; and supply-chain management programs and systems. Core programs include the Aegis Weapon System, which is a fleet defense system and a sea-based element of the U.S. missile defense system, and the Littoral Combat Ship,
which is a surface combatant designed to operate in shallow waters.

Missiles & Fire Control

Missiles & Fire Control (M&FC) develops and produces land-based, air, and theater missile-defense systems, tactical battlefield
missiles, electro-optical systems, fire-control and sensor systems, and precision-guided weapons and munitions. We also provide sustainment and logistic services in support of fire control and tactical missile programs. Core programs include the
Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) system, which is a transportable defensive missile system designed to engage targets both within and outside of the Earth’s atmosphere, and the PAC-3 missile, which is an advanced defensive missile
designed to intercept incoming airborne threats.

Platforms & Training

Platforms & Training (P&T) integrates mission-specific applications for fixed- and rotary-wing aircraft, including logistics
and sustainment; develops and integrates postal automation and material handling systems; develops tactical wheeled vehicles; and provides simulation, training, and support services. We also manage and operate the Sandia National Laboratories for
the U.S. Department of Energy.

Effective January 1, 2010, the ground vehicles line of business from the former Systems
Integration – Owego, which includes the Joint Light Tactical Vehicle program, was realigned as part of Missiles & Fire Control. Additionally, the remaining Systems Integration – Owego businesses were realigned with the former
Maritime Systems & Sensors line of business to form a new line of business, Mission Systems & Sensors.

Information
Systems & Global Services

Our Information Systems & Global Services (IS&GS) segment provides
federal services, Information Technology (IT) solutions, and advanced technology expertise across a broad spectrum of applications and customers. IS&GS provides full life-cycle support and highly specialized talent in the areas of software
and systems engineering, including capabilities in space, air, and ground systems, and also provides logistics, mission operation support, peacekeeping, and nation-building services for a wide variety of defense and civil government agencies in the
U.S. and abroad. IS&GS has a large number of indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ) and task order types of contracts.







In 2009, net sales of $12.1 billion at IS&GS represented 27% of our total net sales.
IS&GS has three principal lines of business and the percentage that each contributed to its 2009 net sales was:



In 2009, U.S. Government customers accounted for approximately 94% of the segment’s total net sales.

Civil

Our Civil line of business supports the nation’s needs in the areas of human capital, data protection and sharing, financial services, energy and environment, health, security, human exploration, biometrics, and transportation. Its
core programs include the Decennial Response Integration System (DRIS 2010) contract, which will provide a multi-channel system for the 2010 U.S. Census data, and En-Route Automation Modernization (ERAM), which is a program to replace the Federal
Aviation Administration’s infrastructure with a modern automation environment that includes new functions and capabilities.

Defense

Our Defense line of business provides net-enabled situation awareness, and delivers
communications and command and control capabilities through complex mission solutions to defense, National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), and international customers. Its core
programs include the Command and Control, Battle Management, and Communications contract, a program to increase the integration of the Ballistic Missile Defense System, and the Joint Tactical Radio System contract, which provides software
programmable tactical radios with voice, data, and video communications to Army, Navy, and Air Force platforms.

Intelligence

Our Intelligence line of business designs and integrates the complex, global systems that help our customers gather, analyze,
and securely distribute critical intelligence data. Its core programs include GeoScout, which is a program to develop advanced intelligence processing, and the FBI’s Sentinel IT infrastructure program.

Space Systems

Space
Systems is engaged in the design, research and development, engineering, and production of satellites, strategic and defensive missile systems, and space transportation systems, including activities related to the Space Shuttle and its planned
replacement.

In 2009, net sales of $8.7 billion at Space Systems represented approximately 19% of our total net sales. Space
Systems has three principal lines of business, and the percentage that each contributed to its 2009 net sales was:



In 2009, U.S. Government customers accounted for approximately 97% of the segment’s net sales.







Satellites

Our Satellites business designs, develops, manufactures, and integrates advanced technology satellite systems for government and commercial applications. We are responsible for various classified systems
and services in support of vital national security systems. Its core programs include the Space-Based Infrared System (SBIRS) program, which provides the nation with enhanced worldwide detection and tracking capabilities; the Mobile User Objective
System (MUOS), which is a next-generation narrow band satellite communication system for the U.S. Navy; the Advanced Extremely High Frequency (AEHF) system, which is the DoD’s next generation of highly secure communications satellites; and the
Global Positioning Satellite III (GPS III) system, which is the next generation of global positioning satellites.

Strategic &
Defensive Missile Systems

Strategic & Defensive Missile Systems includes missile defense technologies and
systems, and fleet ballistic missiles. We have been the sole supplier of strategic fleet ballistic missiles to the U.S. Navy since 1955. The Trident II D5 is the only current submarine-launched intercontinental ballistic missile in production in the
United States. Under the targets and countermeasures program, we manage missile defense targets hardware and software for the Missile Defense Agency (MDA), providing realistic test environments for the system being developed by the MDA to defend
against all classes of ballistic missiles.

Space Transportation Systems

Space Transportation Systems includes portions of the next generation human space flight system. We lead an industry team supporting NASA in
the design, test, build, integration, and operational capability of the Orion crew exploration vehicle, an advanced crew capsule design utilizing state-of-the-art technology that is planned to succeed the Space Shuttle. Through ownership interests
in two joint ventures, Space Transportation Systems also includes Space Shuttle processing activities (United Space Alliance) and expendable launch services for the U.S. Government (United Launch Alliance). The Space Shuttle is expected to finish
its final flight mission in 2010 and our programs involving its launch and processing activities will end at that time.

Competition

Our broad portfolio of products and services competes against the products and services of other large aerospace,
defense, and information technology companies, as well as numerous smaller competitors (particularly in the IS&GS segment). We often form teams with other companies that are competitors in other areas to provide customers with the best mix of
capabilities to address specific requirements. In some instances, which are more prevalent in our IS&GS-Civil line of business, we may also compete with a government-led bidding entity. In some areas of our business, customer requirements are
changing to encourage expanded competition, as with the commercial access to space initiative. Principal factors of competition include: technical and management capability; the ability to develop and implement complex, integrated system
architectures; affordability; financing and total cost of ownership; release of technology; past performance; and our ability to provide timely solutions.

International sales are subject to a wide variety of U.S. Government controls (e.g., export restrictions, market access, technology transfer, industrial cooperation, and contracting practices). In
addition, the purchasing government’s relationship with the U.S. and its industrial cooperation programs are also important factors in determining the outcome of a competition. It is common for international customers to require contractors to
comply with their industrial cooperation regulations, sometimes referred to as offset requirements, and we have undertaken foreign offset agreements as part of securing some international business. For more information concerning offset agreements,
see “Contractual Commitments and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations beginning on page 49 of this Form 10-K.

Patents

We routinely apply
for and own a substantial number of U.S. and foreign patents related to the products and services our business segments provide. In addition to owning a large portfolio of intellectual property, we also license intellectual property to and from
third parties. The U.S. Government has licenses in our patents that are developed in performance of government contracts, and it may use or authorize others to use the inventions covered by such patents for government purposes. Unpatented research,
development, and engineering skills also make an important contribution to our business. Although our intellectual property rights in the aggregate are important to the operation of our business segments, we do not







believe that any existing patent, license, or other intellectual property right is of such importance that its loss or termination would have a material adverse effect on our business taken as a
whole.

Raw Materials and Seasonality

Aspects of our business require relatively scarce raw materials. We historically have been successful in obtaining the raw materials and other supplies needed in our manufacturing processes. We seek to
manage raw materials supply risk through long-term contracts and by maintaining a stock of key materials in inventory.

Aluminum and titanium are important raw materials used in certain of our Aeronautics and Space Systems programs. Long-term agreements have helped enable a continued supply of aluminum and titanium. Carbon fiber is an important ingredient in
the composite material that is used in our Aeronautics programs, such as the F-35. Nicalon fiber also is a key material used on the F-22 aircraft. One type of carbon fiber and the nicalon fiber that we use are currently only available from
single-source suppliers.Aluminum lithium, which we use for F-16 structural components, also is currently only available from limited sources. We have been advised by some suppliers that pricing and the timing of availability of materials in
some commodities markets can fluctuate widely. These fluctuations may negatively affect price and the availability of certain materials, including titanium. While we do not anticipate material problems regarding the supply of our raw materials and
believe that we have taken appropriate measures to mitigate these variations, if key materials become unavailable or if pricing fluctuates widely in the future, it could result in delay of one or more of our programs, increased costs, or reduced
award fees.

No material portion of our business is considered to be seasonal. Various factors can affect the distribution of
our sales between accounting periods, including the timing of government awards, the availability of government funding, product deliveries, and customer acceptance.

Government Contracts and Regulation

Our businesses are heavily regulated in
most of our fields of endeavor. We deal with numerous U.S. Government agencies and entities, including all of the branches of the U.S. military, NASA, the U.S. Postal Service, the Social Security Administration, and the Departments of Defense,
Energy, Justice, Health and Human Services, Homeland Security, State, and Transportation. Similar government authorities exist in other countries and regulate our international efforts.

We must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration, and performance of U.S. Government
and other contracts. These laws and regulations, among other things:



•require certification and disclosure of all cost or pricing data in connection with certain contract negotiations;

•impose specific and unique cost accounting practices that may differ from U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and therefore require
reconciliation;

•impose acquisition regulations that define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based
U.S. Government contracts; and

•restrict the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the export of certain products and technical data.

Government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing availability of legislative appropriations.
Long-term government contracts and related orders are subject to cancellation if appropriations for subsequent performance periods become unavailable. Congress usually appropriates funds on a fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may
extend over many years. Consequently, at the outset of a program, the contract is usually partially funded, and Congress annually determines if additional funds are to be appropriated to the contract. In addition, significant cost overruns could
require a special certification from the Secretary of Defense to Congress to allow work under the contract to continue.

The
U.S. Government and other governments may terminate any of our government contracts or subcontracts either at their convenience or for default based on performance.

A portion of our business is classified by the U.S. Government and cannot be specifically described. The operating results of these classified programs are included in our consolidated financial
statements. The business risks associated with classified programs historically have not differed materially from those of our other government programs.







Backlog

At December 31, 2009, our total negotiated backlog was $78.0 billion compared with $80.9 billion at the end of 2008. Of our total 2009 year-end backlog, approximately $46.0 billion, or 59%, is not
expected to be filled within one year. In April 2009, the DoD terminated for convenience two of our significant programs: the VH-71 Presidential Helicopter Replacement program, and the TSAT Mission Operations System (TMOS) contract, representing the
ground support infrastructure for the TSAT program. These contract terminations reduced our negotiated backlog by approximately $2.6 billion.

Our backlog includes both funded (unfilled firm orders for our products and services for which funding has been both authorized and appropriated by the customer – Congress, in the case of U.S.
Government agencies) and unfunded (firm orders for which funding has not been appropriated) amounts. We do not include unexercised options or potential IDIQ orders in our backlog. If any of our contracts were to be terminated by the U.S. Government,
our backlog would be reduced by the expected value of the remaining terms of such contracts. Funded backlog was $49.0 billion at December 31, 2009. The backlog for each of our business segments is provided as part of Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – “Discussion of Business Segments” beginning on page 39 of this Form 10-K.

Research and Development

We conduct research and development activities
under customer-funded contracts and with our own independent research and development funds. Our independent research and development costs include basic research, applied research, development, systems, and other concept formulation studies. These
costs generally are allocated among all contracts and programs in progress under U.S. Government contractual arrangements. Corporation-sponsored product development costs not otherwise allocable are charged to expense when incurred. Under certain
arrangements in which a customer shares in product development costs, our portion of the unreimbursed costs is expensed as incurred. Independent research and development costs charged to costs of sales were $750 million in 2009, $719 million in
2008, and $678 million in 2007. See “Research and development and similar costs” in Note 1 – Significant Accounting Policies on page 63 of this Form 10-K.

Employees

At December 31, 2009, we had approximately 140,000 employees,
over 90% of whom were located in the U.S. We have a continuing need for numerous skilled and professional personnel to meet contract schedules and obtain new and ongoing orders for our products. The majority of our employees possess a security
clearance. The demand for workers with security clearances who have specialized engineering, information technology, and technical skills within the aerospace, defense, and information technology industries is likely to remain high for the
foreseeable future, while growth of the pool of trained individuals with those skills has not matched demand. As a result, we are competing with other companies with similar needs in hiring skilled employees. Management considers employee relations
to be good.

Approximately 15% of our employees are covered by any one of approximately seventy separate collective bargaining
agreements with various unions. A number of our existing collective bargaining agreements expire in any given year. Historically, we have been successful in renegotiating expiring agreements without any material disruption of operating activities.

Forward-Looking Statements

This Form 10-K contains statements that, to the extent they are not recitations of historical fact, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities law. The words believe,
estimate, anticipate, project, intend, expect, plan, outlook, scheduled, forecast, and similar expressions are intended to help identify forward-looking statements.

Statements and assumptions with respect to future sales, income and cash flows, program performance, the outcome of litigation, environmental remediation cost estimates, and planned acquisitions or
dispositions of assets are examples of forward-looking statements. Numerous factors, including potentially the risk factors described in the following section, could affect our forward-looking statements and actual performance.



