ITEM  1.Business

General

We are a global security and aerospace company principally engaged in the research, design, development, manufacture, integration and sustainment of advanced technology systems, products and services. We also provide a broad range of management, engineering, technical, scientific, logistics, system integration and cybersecurity services. We serve both U.S. and international customers with products and services that have defense, civil and commercial applications, with our principal customers being agencies of the U.S. Government. In2017,69%of our$51.0 billionin net sales were from the U.S. Government, either as a prime contractor or as a subcontractor (including58%from the Department of Defense (DoD)),30%were from international customers (including foreign military sales (FMS) contracted through the U.S. Government) and1%were from U.S. commercial and other customers. Our main areas of focus are in defense, space, intelligence, homeland security and information technology, including cybersecurity.

We operate in an environment characterized by both increasing complexity in global security and continuing economic pressures in the U.S. and globally. A significant component of our strategy in this environment is to focus on program execution, improving the quality and predictability of the delivery of our products and services, and placing security capability quickly into the hands of our U.S. and international customers at affordable prices. Recognizing that our customers are resource constrained, we are endeavoring to develop and extend our portfolio domestically in a disciplined manner with a focus on adjacent markets close to our core capabilities, as well as growing our international sales. We continue to focus on affordability initiatives. We also expect to continue to invest in technologies to fulfill new mission requirements for our customers and invest in our people so that we have the technical skills necessary to succeed.

We operate in four business segments: Aeronautics, Missiles and Fire Control (MFC), Rotary and Mission Systems (RMS) and Space, previously known as Space Systems. We organize our business segments based on the nature of the products and services offered.

Aeronautics

In2017, our Aeronautics business segment generated net sales of$20.1 billion, which represented39%of our total consolidated net sales. Aeronautics’ customers include the military services and various other government agencies of the U.S. and other countries. In2017, U.S. Government customers accounted for63%, international customers accounted for36%and U.S. commercial and other customers accounted for1%of Aeronautics’ net sales. Net sales from Aeronautics’ combat aircraft products and services represented30%of our total consolidated net sales in2017and28%in both2016and2015.

Aeronautics is engaged in the research, design, development, manufacture, integration, sustainment, support and upgrade of advanced military aircraft, including combat and air mobility aircraft, unmanned air vehicles and related technologies. Aeronautics’ major programs include:

•F-35 Lightning II Joint Strike Fighter - international multi-role, multi-variant, fifth generation stealth fighter;

•C-130 Hercules - international tactical airlifter;

•F-16 Fighting Falcon - low-cost, combat-proven, international multi-role fighter;

•F-22 Raptor - air dominance and multi-mission fifth generation stealth fighter; and

•C-5M Super Galaxy - strategic airlifter.

The F-35 program is our largest program, generating

25%

of our total consolidated net sales, as well as

64%

of Aeronautics’ net sales in


. The F-35 program consists of development contracts, multiple production contracts, and sustainment activities. The development contracts are being performed concurrently with the production contracts. Concurrent performance of development and production contracts is used for complex programs to test aircraft, shorten the time to field systems and achieve overall cost savings.

The System Development and Demonstration (SDD) portion of the development contracts was substantially completed in 2017, with over 99% of flight test objectives met through over 9,200 flights. Approximately 70 flights remain and are expected to be completed in early 2018. Additionally, the final logistics and training capability is planned for 2018 and new Third Life structural testing added to the SDD portion in 2013 is scheduled to be completed in 2019.

Production of the aircraft is expected to continue for many years given the U.S. Government’s current inventory objective of

2,456

aircraft for the Air Force, Marine Corps and Navy; commitments from our eight international partners and three international customers; as well as expressions of interest from other countries. During


, we delivered 66 aircraft to our U.S. and international partners, resulting in total deliveries of


production aircraft as of

December 31, 2017

. We have


production aircraft in backlog as of

December 31,









2017, including orders from our international partners. For additional information on the F-35 program, see “Status of the F‑35 Program” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Aeronautics produces and provides support and sustainment services for the C-130J Super Hercules, as well as upgrades and support services for the legacy C-130 Hercules worldwide fleet. We delivered 26 C-130J aircraft in2017, including seven to international customers. We have 64 aircraft in our backlog as ofDecember 31, 2017with advanced funding from customers for additional C-130J aircraft not currently in backlog. Our C-130J backlog extends into 2020.

While production and deliveries of F-16 aircraft were completed in2017from our Fort Worth, Texas facilities, Aeronautics continues to provide service-life extension, modernization and other upgrade programs for our customers’ F‑16 aircraft, with existing contracts continuing for several years. We delivered eight F-16 aircraft in2017and continue to seek international opportunities to deliver additional aircraft. In November 2017, the U.S. and Bahrain signed a government-to-government agreement, or a Letter of Offer and Acceptance (LOA), regarding the sale of new production Block 70 aircraft for the Royal Bahraini Air Force. We are transitioning F-16 production to Greenville, South Carolina, to support the Bahrain production program and other emerging F-16 production requirements.

While production and deliveries of F-22 aircraft were completed in 2012, Aeronautics continues to provide modernization and sustainment activities for the U.S. Air Force’s F-22 aircraft fleet. The modernization program comprises upgrading existing systems requirements, developing new systems requirements, adding capabilities and enhancing the performance of the weapon systems. The sustainment program consists of sustaining the weapon systems of the F-22 fleet, providing training systems, customer support, integrated support planning, supply chain management, aircraft modifications and heavy maintenance, systems engineering and support products.

Aeronautics provides sustainment services for the existing U.S. Air Force C-5 Galaxy fleet and modernization activities to convert 52 C-5 Galaxy aircraft to the C-5M Super Galaxy configuration. These modernization activities include the installation of new engines, landing gear and systems and other improvements that enable a shorter takeoff, a higher climb rate, an increased cargo load and longer flight range. As ofDecember 31, 2017, we had delivered 48 C‑5M aircraft under these modernization activities, including seven C-5M aircraft delivered in2017. As ofDecember 31, 2017, we have four C-5 aircraft in backlog with all deliveries expected in 2018. Although existing production contracts provide for deliveries of C-5M aircraft through mid-2018, we continue to seek additional modernization opportunities for the C-5 Galaxy fleet beyond 2018. Sustainment activities for our customers’ C-5 Galaxy aircraft are expected to continue for several years.

In addition to the aircraft programs discussed above, Aeronautics is involved in advanced development programs incorporating innovative design and rapid prototype applications. Our Advanced Development Programs (ADP) organization, also known as Skunk Works®, is focused on future systems, including unmanned and manned aerial systems and next generation capabilities for advanced strike, intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance, situational awareness and air mobility. We continue to explore technology advancement and insertion in our existing aircraft. We also are involved in numerous network-enabled activities that allow separate systems to work together to increase effectiveness and we continue to invest in new technologies to maintain and enhance competitiveness in military aircraft design, development and production.

Missiles and Fire Control

In2017, our MFC business segment generated net sales of$7.2 billion, which represented14%of our total consolidated net sales. MFC’s customers include the military services, principally the U.S. Army, and various government agencies of the U.S. and other countries, as well as commercial and other customers. In2017, U.S. Government customers accounted for64%, international customers accounted for34%and U.S. commercial and other customers accounted for2%of MFC’s net sales.

MFC provides air and missile defense systems; tactical missiles and air-to-ground precision strike weapon systems; logistics; fire control systems; mission operations support, readiness, engineering support and integration services; manned and unmanned ground vehicles; and energy management solutions. MFC’s major programs include:

•The Patriot Advanced Capability-3 (PAC-3) and Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) air and missile defense programs. PAC-3 is an advanced defensive missile for the U.S. Army and international customers designed to intercept and eliminate incoming airborne threats using kinetic energy. THAAD is a transportable defensive missile system for the U.S. Government and international customers designed to engage targets both within and outside of the Earth’s atmosphere.

•The Multiple Launch Rocket System (MLRS), Hellfire, Joint Air-to-Surface Standoff Missile (JASSM) and Javelin tactical missile programs. MLRS is a highly mobile, automatic system that fires surface-to-surface rockets and missiles from the M270 and High Mobility Artillery Rocket System platforms produced for the U.S. Army and international customers. Hellfire is an air-to-ground missile used on rotary and fixed-wing aircraft, which is produced for the U.S. Army, Navy, Marine Corps and international customers. JASSM is an air-to-ground missile launched from fixed-wing aircraft, which is produced for the









U.S. Air Force and international customers. Javelin is a shoulder-fired anti-armor rocket system, which is produced for the U.S. Army, Marine Corps and international customers.

•The Apache, SNIPER®and Low Altitude Navigation and Targeting Infrared for Night (LANTIRN®) fire control systems programs. The Apache fire control system provides weapons targeting capability for the Apache helicopter for the U.S. Army and international customers. Sniper is a targeting system for several fixed-wing aircraft and LANTIRN is a combined navigation and targeting system for several fixed-wing aircraft. Both Sniper and LANTIRN are produced for the U.S. Air Force and international customers.

•The Special Operations Forces Contractor Logistics Support Services (SOF CLSS) program provides logistics support services to the special operations forces of the U.S. military. In August 2017, we were awarded a contract for the Special Operations Forces Global Logistics Support Services (SOF GLSS) program, which is a competitive follow-on contract to SOF CLSS.

Rotary and Mission Systems

In2017, our RMS business segment generated net sales of$14.2 billion, which represented28%of our total consolidated net sales. RMS’ customers include the military services, principally the U.S. Army and Navy, and various government agencies of the U.S. and other countries, as well as commercial and other customers. In2017, U.S. Government customers accounted for69%, international customers accounted for28%and U.S. commercial and other customers accounted for3%of RMS’ net sales.

RMS provides design, manufacture, service and support for a variety of military and commercial helicopters; ship and submarine mission and combat systems; mission systems and sensors for rotary and fixed-wing aircraft; sea and land-based missile defense systems; radar systems; the Littoral Combat Ship (LCS); simulation and training services; and unmanned systems and technologies. In addition, RMS supports the needs of government customers in cybersecurity and delivers communications and command and control capabilities through complex mission solutions for defense applications. RMS’ major programs include:

•The Black Hawk and Seahawk helicopters manufactured for U.S. and foreign governments.

•The Aegis Combat System (Aegis) serves as a fleet ballistic missile defense system for the U.S. Navy and international customers and is also a sea and land-based element of the U.S. missile defense system.

•The LCS, a surface combatant ship for the U.S. Navy designed to operate in shallow waters and the open ocean.

•The CH-53K development helicopter delivering the next generation heavy lift helicopter for the U.S. Marine Corps.

•The VH-92A helicopter manufactured for the U.S. Marine One transport mission.

•The Advanced Hawkeye Radar System, an airborne early warning radar, which RMS provides for the E2-C/E2-D aircraft produced for the U.S. Navy and international customers.

•The Command, Control, Battle Management and Communications (C2BMC) contract, a program to increase the integration of the Ballistic Missile Defense System for the U.S. Government.

Space

In2017, our Space business segment generated net sales of$9.5 billion, which represented19%of our total consolidated net sales. Space’s customers include various U.S. Government agencies and commercial customers. In 2017, U.S. Government customers accounted for85%, international customers accounted for14%and U.S. commercial and other customers accounted for1%of Space’s net sales. Net sales from Space’s satellite products and services represented11%,13%and15%of our total consolidated net sales in2017,2016and2015.

Space is engaged in the research and development, design, engineering and production of satellites, strategic and defensive missile systems and space transportation systems. Space provides network-enabled situational awareness and integrates complex space and ground global systems to help our customers gather, analyze and securely distribute critical intelligence data. Space is also responsible for various classified systems and services in support of vital national security systems. Space’s major programs include:

•The Trident II D5 Fleet Ballistic Missile (FBM), a program with the U.S. Navy for the only submarine-launched intercontinental ballistic missile currently in production in the U.S.

•The United Kingdom’s nuclear deterrent program operated by the AWE Management Limited (AWE) joint venture.

•The Orion Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle (Orion), a spacecraft for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) utilizing new technology for human exploration missions beyond low earth orbit.

•The Space Based Infrared System (SBIRS), which provides the U.S. Air Force with enhanced worldwide missile launch detection and tracking capabilities.

•Global Positioning System (GPS) III, a program to modernize the GPS satellite system for the U.S. Air Force.

•The Advanced Extremely High Frequency (AEHF) system, the next generation of highly secure communications satellites for the U.S. Air Force.









Financial, Geographic and Other Business Segment Information

For additional information regarding our business segments, including comparative segment net sales, operating profit and related financial information, including geographic, for2017,2016, and2015, see “Business Segment Results of Operations” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and “Note 5 – Information on Business Segments” included in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Competition

Our broad portfolio of products and services competes both domestically and internationally against products and services of other large aerospace and defense companies, as well as numerous smaller competitors. Changes within the industry we operate in, such as vertical integration by our peers, could negatively impact us. We often form teams with our competitors in efforts to provide our customers with the best mix of capabilities to address specific requirements. In some areas of our business, customer requirements are changing to encourage expanded competition and increasingly what would have previously been competed as a single large procurement is being broken into multiple smaller procurements. Principal factors of competition include the value of our products and services to the customer; technical and management capability; the ability to develop and implement complex, integrated system architectures; total cost of ownership; our demonstrated ability to execute and perform against contract requirements; and our ability to provide timely solutions. Technological advances in such areas as: additive manufacturing, cloud computing, advanced materials, autonomy, robotics, and big data and new business models such as commercial access to space are enabling new factors of competition for both traditional and non-traditional competitors.

The competition for international sales is generally subject to U.S. Government stipulations (e.g., export restrictions, market access, technology transfer, industrial cooperation and contracting practices). We may compete against U.S. and non-U.S. companies (or teams) for contract awards by international governments. International competitions also may be subject to different laws or contracting practices of international governments that may affect how we structure our bid for the procurement. In many international procurements, the purchasing government’s relationship with the U.S. and its industrial cooperation programs are also important factors in determining the outcome of a competition. It is common for international customers to require contractors to comply with their industrial cooperation regulations, sometimes referred to as offset requirements, and we have entered into foreign offset agreements as part of securing some international business. For more information concerning offset agreements, see “Contractual Commitments and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Intellectual Property

Raw Materials and Seasonality

Some of our products require relatively scarce raw materials. Historically, we have been successful in obtaining the raw materials and other supplies needed in our manufacturing processes. We seek to manage raw materials supply risk through long-term contracts and by maintaining an acceptable level of the key materials in inventories.

Aluminum and titanium are important raw materials used in certain of our Aeronautics and Space programs. Long-term agreements have helped enable a continued supply of aluminum and titanium. Carbon fiber is an important ingredient in composite materials used in our Aeronautics programs, such as the F-35 aircraft. We have been advised by some suppliers that pricing and the timing of availability of materials in some commodities markets can fluctuate widely. These fluctuations may negatively affect the price and availability of certain materials. While we do not anticipate material problems regarding the supply of our raw









materials and believe that we have taken appropriate measures to mitigate these variations, if key materials become unavailable or if pricing fluctuates widely in the future, it could result in delay of one or more of our programs, increased costs or reduced operating profits.

No material portion of our business is considered to be seasonal. Various factors can affect the distribution of our sales between accounting periods, including the timing of government awards, the availability of government funding, product deliveries and customer acceptance.

Government Contracts and Regulations

Our business is heavily regulated. We contract with numerous U.S. Government agencies and entities, principally all branches of the U.S. military and NASA. We also contract with similar government authorities in other countries and they regulate our international efforts. Additionally, our commercial aircraft products are required to comply with U.S. and international regulations governing production and quality systems, airworthiness and installation approvals, repair procedures and continuing operational safety.

We must comply with, and are affected by, laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. Government and other governments’ contracts. These laws and regulations, among other things:

•require certification and disclosure of all cost or pricing data in connection with certain types of contract negotiations;

•impose specific and unique cost accounting practices that may differ from U.S. GAAP;

•impose acquisition regulations, which may change or be replaced over time, that define allowable and unallowable costs, the allocability of costs, and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under certain U.S. Government and foreign contracts;

•require specific security controls to protect U.S. Government controlled unclassified information and restrict the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the export of certain products, services and technical data; and

•require the review and approval of contractor business systems, defined in the regulations as: (i) Accounting System; (ii) Estimating System; (iii) Earned Value Management System, for managing cost and schedule performance on certain complex programs; (iv) Purchasing System; (v) Material Management and Accounting System, for planning, controlling and accounting for the acquisition, use, issuing and disposition of material; and (vi) Property Management System.

The U.S. Government and other governments may terminate any of our government contracts and subcontracts either at its convenience or for default based on our performance. If a contract is terminated for convenience, we generally are protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contract and profit on those costs. If a contract is terminated for default, we generally are entitled to payments for our work that has been accepted by the U.S. Government or other governments; however, the U.S. Government and other governments could make claims to reduce the contract value or recover its procurement costs and could assess other special penalties. For more information regarding the U.S. Government’s and other governments’ right to terminate our contracts, see Item 1A - Risk Factors. For more information regarding government contracting laws and regulations, see Item 1A - Risk Factors as well as “Critical Accounting Policies - Contract Accounting / Sales Recognition” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. For more information on the risks of doing work internationally, see Item 1A - Risk Factors. Additionally, the U.S. Government may also enter into unilateral contract actions. This can affect our ability to negotiate mutually agreeable contract terms.

A portion of our business is classified by the U.S. Government and cannot be specifically described. The operating results of these classified contracts are included in our consolidated financial statements. The business risks and capital requirements associated with classified contracts historically have not differed materially from those of our other U.S. Government contracts. Our internal controls addressing the financial reporting of classified contracts are consistent with our internal controls for our non-classified contracts.

Our operations are subject to and affected by various federal, state, local and foreign environmental protection laws and regulations regarding the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise regulating the protection of the environment. While the extent of our financial exposure cannot in all cases be reasonably estimated, the costs of environmental compliance have not had, and we do not expect that these costs will have, a material adverse effect on our earnings, financial position and cash flow, primarily because most of our environmental costs are allowable in establishing the price of our products and services under our contracts with the U.S. Government. For information regarding these matters, including current estimates of the amounts that we believe are required for remediation or cleanup to the extent that they are probable and estimable, see “Critical Accounting Policies - Environmental Matters” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and “Note 14 – Legal Proceedings, Commitments and Contingencies” included in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. See also the discussion of environmental matters within Item 1A - Risk Factors.









Backlog

AtDecember 31, 2017, our backlog was$99.9 billioncompared with$96.2 billionatDecember 31, 2016. Backlog is converted into sales in future periods as work is performed or deliveries are made. Under existing revenue recognition guidance, approximately $31 billion, or 31%, of our backlog atDecember 31, 2017would have been converted into sales in 2018.

Our backlog includes both funded (firm orders for our products and services for which funding has been both authorized and appropriated by the customer) and unfunded (firm orders for which funding has not been appropriated) amounts. We do not include unexercised options or potential orders under indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity agreements in our backlog. If any of our contracts with firm orders were to be terminated, our backlog would be reduced by the expected value of the unfilled orders of such contracts. Funded backlog was$73.6 billionatDecember 31, 2017, as compared to $66.0 billion atDecember 31, 2016. For backlog related to each of our business segments, see “Business Segment Results of Operations” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Research and Development

We conduct research and development (R&D) activities under customer-sponsored contracts and with our own independent R&D funds. Our independent R&D costs include basic research, applied research, development, systems and other concept formulation studies. Generally, these costs are allocated among contracts and programs in progress. Costs we incur under customer-sponsored R&D programs pursuant to contracts are included in net sales and cost of sales. Under certain arrangements in which a customer shares in product development costs, our portion of the unreimbursed costs is expensed as incurred in cost of sales. Independent R&D costs charged to cost of sales were$1.2 billionin2017,$988 millionin2016, and$817 millionin2015. See “Note 1 – Significant Accounting Policies” (under the caption “Research and development and similar costs”) included in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Employees

AtDecember 31, 2017, we had approximately100,000employees, about93%of whom were located in the U.S. Approximately21%of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with various unions. A number of our existing collective bargaining agreements expire in any given year. Historically, we have been successful in negotiating renewals to expiring agreements without any material disruption of operating activities. Management considers employee relations to be good.

Available Information

We are a Maryland corporation formed in 1995 by combining the businesses of Lockheed Corporation and Martin Marietta Corporation. Our principal executive offices are located at 6801 Rockledge Drive, Bethesda, Maryland 20817. Our telephone number is (301) 897-6000 and our website home page is atwww.lockheedmartin.com. We make our website content available for information purposes only. It should not be relied upon for investment purposes, nor is it incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K (Form 10-K).

Throughout this Form 10-K, we incorporate by reference information from parts of other documents filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC allows us to disclose important information by referring to it in this manner.

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements for our annual stockholders’ meetings and amendments to those reports are available free of charge on our website,www.lockheedmartin.com/investor, as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file the material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. In addition, copies of our annual report will be made available, free of charge, upon written request. The SEC also maintains a website atwww.sec.govthat contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding SEC registrants, including Lockheed Martin Corporation.

Forward-Looking Statements

This Form 10-K contains statements that, to the extent they are not recitations of historical fact, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws and are based on our current expectations and assumptions. The words “believe,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “project,” “intend,” “expect,” “plan,” “outlook,” “scheduled,” “forecast” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties.

Statements and assumptions with respect to future sales, income and cash flows, program performance, the outcome of litigation, anticipated pension cost and funding, environmental remediation cost estimates, planned acquisitions or dispositions









of assets, or the anticipated consequences are examples of forward-looking statements. Numerous factors, including the risk factors described in the following section, could affect our forward-looking statements and actual performance.

Our actual financial results likely will be different from those projected due to the inherent nature of projections. Given these uncertainties, forward-looking statements should not be relied on in making investment decisions. The forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K speak only as of the date of its filing. Except where required by applicable law, we expressly disclaim a duty to provide updates to forward-looking statements after the date of this Form 10-K to reflect subsequent events, changed circumstances, changes in expectations, or the estimates and assumptions associated with them. The forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K are intended to be subject to the safe harbor protection provided by the federal securities laws.



