ITEM 1.Business.

General

We are a global security and aerospace company principally engaged in the research, design, development, manufacture,
integration and sustainment of advanced technology systems, products and services. We also provide a broad range of management, engineering, technical, scientific, logistic, and information services. We serve both domestic and international
customers with products and services that have defense, civil, and commercial applications, with our principal customers being agencies of the U.S. Government. In 2013, 82% of our $45.4 billion in net sales were from the U.S. Government, either as a
prime contractor or as a subcontractor (including 61% from the Department of Defense (DoD)), 17% were from international customers (including foreign military sales (FMS) contracted through the U.S. Government), and 1% were from U.S. commercial and
other customers. Our main areas of focus are in defense, space, intelligence, homeland security, and information technology, including cyber security.

We are operating in an environment characterized by both increasing complexity in global security and continuing economic
pressures in the U.S. and globally. A significant component of our strategy in this environment is to focus on program execution, improving the quality and predictability of the delivery of our products and services, and placing security capability
quickly into the hands of both our domestic and international customers at affordable prices. Recognizing that our customers are resource constrained, we are endeavoring to develop and extend our portfolio domestically in a disciplined manner with a
focus on adjacent markets close to our core capabilities, as well as growing our international sales. We continue to focus on affordability initiatives as demonstrated by our plan to close and consolidate several of our facilities as we announced in
November 2013. We also expect to continue to invest in technologies to fulfill new mission requirements for our customers, and invest in our people so that we have the technical skills necessary to succeed without limiting our ability to return cash
to our investors in the form of dividends and share repurchases.

We operate in five business segments: Aeronautics,
Information Systems & Global Solutions (IS&GS), Missiles and Fire Control (MFC), Mission Systems and Training (MST), and Space Systems. We organize our business segments based on the nature of the products and services offered.

Aeronautics

In 2013, our Aeronautics business segment generated net sales of $14.1 billion, which represented 31% of our total
consolidated net sales. Aeronautics’ customers include the military services and various other government agencies of the U.S., and other countries. In 2013, U.S. Government customers accounted for 78% and international customers accounted for
22% of Aeronautics’ net sales. Net sales from Aeronautics’ combat aircraft products and services represented 21% of our total consolidated net sales in each of 2013 and 2012, and 20% of our total consolidated net sales in 2011.

Aeronautics is engaged in the research, design, development, manufacture, integration, sustainment, support, and upgrade of
advanced military aircraft, including combat and air mobility aircraft, unmanned air vehicles, and related technologies. Aeronautics’ major programs include:



•F-35 Lightning II Joint Strike Fighter – international multi-role, multi-variant, fifth generation stealth fighter;

•C-130 Hercules – international tactical airlifter;

•F-16 Fighting Falcon – low-cost, combat-proven, international multi-role fighter;

•F-22 Raptor – air dominance and multi-mission fifth generation stealth fighter; and

•C-5M Super Galaxy – strategic airlifter.

The F-35 program is the largest in our corporation generating 16% of our total consolidated net sales, as well as 50% of
Aeronautics’ net sales in 2013. The F-35 program consists of a development contract and multiple production contracts. The development contract is being performed concurrent with the production contracts. Concurrent performance of development
and production contracts is used for complex programs to test aircraft, shorten the time to field systems, and achieve overall cost savings. We expect the development portion of the F-35 program will be substantially complete in 2017, with less
significant efforts continuing into 2019. Production of the aircraft is expected to continue for many years given the U.S. Government’s current inventory objective of 2,443 aircraft for the Air Force, Marine Corps, and Navy; commitments from
our eight international partners and two international customers; as well as expressions of interest from other countries. During 2013, we delivered 35 aircraft to our domestic and international partners, resulting in total deliveries of 73
production aircraft as of December 31, 2013. We have 93 production aircraft in backlog as of December 31, 2013, including orders from our international partners. For additional information on the F-35 program, see “Status of the F-35
Program” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.







Aeronautics produces and provides support and sustainment services for the C-130J
Super Hercules, as well as upgrades and support services for the legacy C-130 Hercules worldwide fleet. We delivered 25 C-130J aircraft in 2013, including six to international customers, and our backlog extends through the middle of 2015. We
currently have advanced funding from the U.S. Government for additional C-130J aircraft not currently in backlog.

Aeronautics currently produces F-16 aircraft for international customers. Aeronautics also provides service-life extension,
modernization, and other upgrade programs for our customers’ F-16 aircraft. We delivered 13 F-16 aircraft in 2013, and our backlog extends through the middle of 2017.

While production and deliveries of F-22 aircraft were completed in 2012, Aeronautics continues to provide modernization and
sustainment activities for the U.S. Air Force’s F-22 aircraft fleet. The modernization program comprises upgrading existing systems requirements, developing new systems requirements, and adding capabilities and enhancing the performance of the
weapon systems. The sustainment program consists of sustaining the weapon systems of the F-22 fleet, providing training systems, customer support, integrated support planning, supply chain management, aircraft modifications and heavy maintenance,
systems engineering, and support products.

Aeronautics provides sustainment services for the existing U.S. Air Force C-5
Galaxy fleet and modernization activities to convert 49 C-5 Galaxy aircraft to the C-5M Super Galaxy configuration. These modernization activities include the installation of new engines, landing gear and systems, and other improvements that will
enable a shorter takeoff, a higher climb rate, an increased cargo load, and longer flight range. As of December 31, 2013, we had delivered 13 C-5M aircraft under these modernization activities, including six C-5M aircraft delivered in 2013.

In addition to the above aircraft programs, Aeronautics is involved in advanced development programs incorporating
innovative design and rapid prototype applications. Our Advanced Development Programs (ADP) organization, also known as Skunk Works®, is focused on future systems, including unmanned aerial
systems and next generation capabilities for advanced strike, intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance, situational awareness, and air mobility. We continue to explore technology advancement and insertion in our existing aircraft. We also are
involved in numerous network-enabled activities that allow separate systems to work together to increase effectiveness, and continue to invest in new technologies to maintain and enhance competitiveness in military aircraft design, development, and
production.

Information Systems & Global Solutions

In 2013, our IS&GS business segment generated net sales of $8.4 billion, which represented 18% of our total consolidated
net sales. IS&GS’ customers include the various government agencies of the U.S. and other countries, military services, as well as commercial and other customers. In 2013, U.S. Government customers accounted for 93%, international customers
accounted for 5%, and U.S. commercial and other customers accounted for 2% of IS&GS’ net sales. IS&GS has been impacted by the continued downturn in federal information technology budgets.

IS&GS provides advanced technology systems and expertise, integrated information technology solutions, and management
services across a broad spectrum of applications for civil, defense, intelligence, and other government customers. In addition, IS&GS supports the needs of customers in data analytics, cyber security, air traffic management, and energy demand
management. IS&GS provides network-enabled situational awareness, delivers communications and command and control capability through complex mission solutions for defense applications, and integrates complex global systems to help our customers
gather, analyze, and securely distribute critical intelligence data. Also, IS&GS is responsible for various classified systems and services in support of vital national security systems. While IS&GS has a portfolio of many smaller contracts
as compared to our other business segments, this business segment’s major programs include:



•The Hanford Mission Support contract, a program to provide infrastructure and site support services to the Department of Energy.

•The Command, Control, Battle Management and Communications (C2BMC) contract, a program to increase the integration of the Ballistic Missile Defense
System for the U.S. Government.

•The En Route Automation Modernization (ERAM) contract, a program to replace the Federal Aviation Administration’s infrastructure with a modern
automation environment that includes new functions and capabilities.

•The Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) – Global Information Grid Services Management-Operations contract, a program to provide
operations and maintenance to the DoD’s global data network.

•The National Science Foundation’s U.S. Antarctic Support program, which manages sites and equipment to enable universities, research
institutions, and federal agencies to conduct scientific research in the Antarctic.







Missiles and Fire Control

In 2013, our MFC business segment generated net sales of $7.8 billion, which represented 17% of our total consolidated net
sales. MFC’s customers include the military services, principally the U.S. Army, and various government agencies of the U.S. and other countries, as well as commercial and other customers. In 2013, U.S. Government customers accounted for 67%
and international customers accounted for 33% of MFC’s net sales.

MFC provides air and missile defense systems;
tactical missiles and air-to-ground precision strike weapon systems; logistics and other technical services; fire control systems; mission operations support, readiness, engineering support, and integration services; and manned and unmanned ground
vehicles. MFC’s major programs include:



•The Patriot Advanced Capability-3 (PAC-3) and Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) air and missile defense programs. PAC-3 is an advanced
defensive missile for the U.S. Army and international customers designed to intercept and eliminate incoming airborne threats using kinetic energy. THAAD is a transportable defensive missile system for the U.S. Government and international customers
designed to engage targets both within and outside of the Earth’s atmosphere.

•The Multiple Launch Rocket System (MLRS), Hellfire, Joint Air-to-Surface Standoff Missile (JASSM), and Javelin tactical missile programs. MLRS is a
highly mobile, automatic system that fires surface-to-surface rockets and missiles from the M270 and High Mobility Artillery Rocket System platforms produced for the U.S. Army and international customers. Hellfire is an air-to-ground missile used on
rotary and fixed-wing aircraft, which is produced for the U.S. Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and international customers. JASSM is an air-to-ground missile launched from fixed-wing aircraft, which is produced for the U.S. Air Force and international
customers. Javelin is a shoulder-fired anti-armor rocket system, which is produced for the U.S. Army, Marine Corps, and international customers.

•The Apache, Sniper®, and Low Altitude Navigation and Targeting Infrared for Night (LANTIRN®) fire control systems programs. The Apache fire control system provides weapons targeting capability for the Apache helicopter for the U.S. Army and international customers. Sniper®is a targeting system for fixed-wing aircraft, and LANTIRN®is a combined navigation and targeting system for fixed-wing aircraft. Both
Sniper®and LANTIRN®are produced for the U.S. Air Force and international customers.

•The Special Operations Forces Contractor Logistics Support Services program, which provides logistics support services to the special operations
forces of the U.S. military.

•MFC’s technical services business provides a comprehensive portfolio of technical and sustainment services to enhance our customers’
mission success, with core markets in engineering services; global aviation solutions; command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (C4ISR) product support; counter threat services; and education and
sustainment services.

Mission Systems and Training

In 2013, our MST business segment generated net sales of $7.1 billion, which represented 16% of our total consolidated net
sales. MST’s customers include the military services, principally the U.S. Navy, and various government agencies of the U.S. and other countries, as well as commercial and other customers. In 2013, U.S. Government customers accounted for 75%,
international customers accounted for 23%, and U.S. commercial and other customers accounted for 2% of MST’s net sales.

MST provides ship and submarine mission and combat systems; mission systems and sensors for rotary and fixed-wing aircraft;
sea and land-based missile defense systems; radar systems; the Littoral Combat Ship (LCS); simulation and training services; and unmanned systems and technologies. MST’s major programs include:



•The Aegis Combat System, a fleet ballistic missile defense system for the U.S. Navy and international customers and is also a sea-based element of
the U.S. missile defense system.

•The LCS, a surface combatant for the U.S. Navy designed to operate in shallow waters.

•MH-60 mission systems and sensors, including the digital cockpit and weapons, which MST provides for the MH-60 maritime helicopter produced for the
U.S. Navy and international customers.

•The TPQ-53 Radar System, a sensor that quickly locates and neutralizes mortar and rocket threats, produced for the U.S. Army and international
customers.

•The MK-41 Vertical Launching System (VLS), a shipborne missile canister launching system that provides rapid-fire launch capability, produced for
the U.S. Navy and international customers.







Space Systems

In 2013, our Space Systems business segment generated net sales of $8.0 billion, which represented 18% of our total
consolidated net sales. Space Systems’ customers include various government agencies of the U.S. and commercial customers. In 2013, U.S. Government customers accounted for 98%, international customers accounted for 1%, and U.S. commercial and
other customers accounted for 1% of Space Systems’ net sales. Net sales from Space Systems’ satellite products and services represented 12% of our total consolidated net sales in each of 2013, 2012, and 2011.

Space Systems is engaged in the research and development, design, engineering, and production of satellites, strategic and
defensive missile systems, and space transportation systems. Space Systems is also responsible for various classified systems and services in support of vital national security systems. Space Systems’ major programs include:



•The Trident II D5 Fleet Ballistic Missile, a program with the U.S. Navy for the only current submarine-launched intercontinental ballistic missile
in production in the U.S.

•The Space Based Infrared System (SBIRS), which provides the U.S. Air Force with enhanced worldwide missile launch detection and tracking
capabilities.

•The Advanced Extremely High Frequency (AEHF) system, the next generation of highly secure communications satellites for the U.S. Air Force.

•The Orion Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle (Orion), a spacecraft for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) utilizing new technology
for human exploration missions beyond low earth orbit.

•Global Positioning System (GPS) III, a program to modernize the GPS satellite system for the U.S. Air Force.

•The Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite R-Series (GOES-R), which is the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Association’s next
generation of meteorological satellites.

•The Mobile User Objective System (MUOS), a next-generation narrow band satellite communication system for the U.S. Navy.

Operating profit for our Space Systems business segment includes our share of earnings for our investment in United Launch
Alliance, which provides expendable launch services to the U.S. Government.

Financial and Other Business Segment Information

For additional information regarding our business segments, including comparative segment net sales, operating profit, and
related financial information for 2013, 2012, and 2011, see “Business Segment Results of Operations” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and “Note 4 – Information on
Business Segments” of our consolidated financial statements.

Competition

Our broad portfolio of products and services competes both domestically and internationally against the products and services
of other large aerospace, defense, and information technology companies, as well as numerous smaller competitors, particularly in certain of our services businesses. We often form teams with other companies that are competitors in other efforts to
provide customers with the best mix of capabilities to address specific requirements. In some areas of our business, customer requirements are changing to encourage expanded competition, such as information technology contracts where there may be a
wide range of small to large contractors bidding on procurements. Principal factors of competition include the value of our products and services to the customer; technical and management capability; the ability to develop and implement complex,
integrated system architectures; financing and total cost of ownership; our demonstrated ability to execute and perform against contract requirements; and our ability to provide timely solutions.

The competition for international sales is subject to additional U.S. Government stipulations (e.g., export restrictions,
market access, technology transfer, industrial cooperation, and contracting practices). We may compete against domestic and foreign companies (or teams) for contract awards by international governments. International competitions also may be subject
to different laws or contracting practices of international governments that may affect how we structure our bid for the procurement. In many international procurements, the purchasing government’s relationship with the U.S. and its industrial
cooperation programs are also important factors in determining the outcome of a competition. It is common for international customers to require contractors to comply with their industrial cooperation regulations, sometimes referred to as offset
requirements, and we have undertaken foreign offset agreements as part of securing some international business. For more information concerning offset agreements, see “Contractual Commitments and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements” in
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.







Patents

We routinely apply for and own a substantial number of U.S. and international patents related to the products and services we
provide. In addition to owning a large portfolio of intellectual property, we also license intellectual property to and from third parties. The U.S. Government has licenses in our patents that are developed in performance of government contracts,
and it may use or authorize others to use the inventions covered by our patents for government purposes. Unpatented research, development, and engineering skills also make an important contribution to our business. Although our intellectual property
rights in the aggregate are important to the operation of our business, we do not believe that any existing patent, license, or other intellectual property right is of such importance that its loss or termination would have a material adverse effect
on our business taken as a whole.

Raw Materials and Seasonality

Certain of our products require relatively scarce raw materials. Historically, we have been successful in obtaining the raw
materials and other supplies needed in our manufacturing processes. We seek to manage raw materials supply risk through long-term contracts and by maintaining a stock of key materials in inventory.

Aluminum and titanium are important raw materials used in certain of our Aeronautics and Space Systems programs. Long-term
agreements have helped enable a continued supply of aluminum and titanium. Carbon fiber is an important ingredient in the composite material that is used in our Aeronautics programs, such as the F-35 aircraft. Aluminum lithium, which we use for F-16
aircraft structural components, is currently only available from limited sources. We have been advised by some suppliers that pricing and the timing of availability of materials in some commodities markets can fluctuate widely. These fluctuations
may negatively affect price and the availability of certain materials. While we do not anticipate material problems regarding the supply of our raw materials and believe that we have taken appropriate measures to mitigate these variations, if key
materials become unavailable or if pricing fluctuates widely in the future, it could result in delay of one or more of our programs, increased costs, or reduced profits.

No material portion of our business is considered to be seasonal. Various factors can affect the distribution of our sales
between accounting periods, including the timing of government awards, the availability of government funding, product deliveries, and customer acceptance.

Government Contracts and Regulations

Our business is heavily regulated. We contract with numerous U.S. Government agencies and entities, including all branches of
the U.S. military, the Departments of Defense, Homeland Security, Justice, Commerce, Health and Human Services, Transportation, and Energy, the U.S. Postal Service, the Social Security Administration, the Federal Aviation Administration, NASA, and
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Similar government authorities exist in other countries and regulate our international efforts.

We must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration, and performance of
U.S. Government and other contracts. These laws and regulations, among other things:



•require certification and disclosure of all cost or pricing data in connection with certain types of contract negotiations;

•impose specific and unique cost accounting practices that may differ from U.S. generally accepted accounting principles;

•impose acquisition regulations, which may change or be replaced over time, that define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise govern our
right to reimbursement under certain cost-based U.S. Government contracts;

•require specific security controls to protect DoD controlled unclassified technical information and restrict the use and dissemination of
information classified for national security purposes and the export of certain products, services, and technical data; and

•require the review and approval of contractor business systems, defined in the regulations as: (i) Accounting System; (ii) Estimating
System; (iii) Earned Value Management System, for managing cost and schedule performance on certain complex programs; (iv) Purchasing System; (v) Material Management and Accounting System, for planning, controlling, and accounting for
the acquisition, use, issuing, and disposition of material; and (vi) Property Management System.







The U.S. Government may terminate any of our government contracts and
subcontracts either at its convenience or for default based on our performance. If a contract is terminated for convenience, we generally would be protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contract and profit on those
costs. If a contract is terminated for default, we generally would be entitled to payments for our work that has been accepted by the U.S. Government, however, the U.S. Government could make claims to reduce the contract value or recover its
procurement costs and could assess other special penalties. For more information regarding the U.S. Government’s right to terminate our contracts, see Item 1A – Risk Factors. For more information regarding government contracting laws
and regulations, see Item 1A - Risk Factors as well as “Critical Accounting Policies – Contract Accounting / Sales Recognition” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

A portion of our business is classified by the U.S. Government and cannot be specifically described. The operating results of
these classified programs are included in our consolidated financial statements. The business risks associated with classified programs historically have not differed materially from those of our other U.S. Government programs. The internal controls
addressing the financial reporting of classified programs are consistent with the internal control practices for non-classified contracts.

Our operations are subject to and affected by various federal, state, local, and foreign environmental protection laws and
regulations regarding the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise regulating the protection of the environment. While the extent of our financial exposure cannot in all cases be reasonably estimated, the costs of environmental
compliance have not had, and we do not expect that these costs will have, a material adverse effect on our earnings, financial position, and cash flow, primarily because most of our environmental costs are allowable in establishing the price of our
products and services under our contracts with the U.S. Government. For information regarding these matters, including current estimates of the amounts that we believe are required for remediation or cleanup to the extent probable and estimable, see
“Critical Accounting Policies – Environmental Matters” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and “Note 13 – Legal Proceedings, Commitments, and Contingencies” of
our consolidated financial statements. See also the discussion of environmental matters within Section 1A - Risk Factors.

Backlog

At December 31, 2013, our backlog was $82.6 billion compared with $82.3 billion at December 31, 2012.
Backlog is converted into sales in future periods as work is performed or deliveries are made. Approximately $35.4 billion, or 43%, of our backlog at December 31, 2013 is expected to be converted into sales in 2014.

Our backlog includes both funded (firm orders for our products and services for which funding has been both authorized and
appropriated by the customer – Congress, in the case of U.S. Government agencies) and unfunded (firm orders for which funding has not been appropriated) amounts. We do not include unexercised options or potential indefinite-delivery,
indefinite-quantity orders in our backlog. If any of our contracts with firm orders were to be terminated, our backlog would be reduced by the expected value of the unfilled orders of such contracts. Funded backlog was $55.0 billion at
December 31, 2013, as compared to $54.8 billion at December 31, 2012. For backlog related to each of our business segments, see “Business Segment Results of Operations” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations.

Research and Development

We conduct research and development activities under customer-sponsored contracts and with our own independent research and
development funds. Our independent research and development costs include basic research, applied research, development, systems, and other concept formulation studies. Generally, these costs are allocated among all contracts and programs in
progress under U.S. Government contractual arrangements. Costs we incur under customer-sponsored research and development programs pursuant to contracts are included in net sales and cost of sales. Under certain arrangements in which a customer
shares in product development costs, our portion of the unreimbursed costs is expensed as incurred in cost of sales. Independent research and development costs charged to cost of sales were $697 million in 2013, $616 million in 2012, and $585
million in 2011. See “Research and development and similar costs” in “Note 1 – Significant Accounting Policies” of our consolidated financial statements.

Employees

At December 31, 2013, we had approximately 115,000 employees, about 95% of whom were located in the U.S. Approximately
15% of our employees are covered by any one of approximately 60 separate collective bargaining agreements







with various unions. A number of our existing collective bargaining agreements expire in any given year. Historically, we have been successful in negotiating renewals to expiring agreements
without any material disruption of operating activities. Management considers employee relations to be good.

Available Information

We are a Maryland corporation and were formed in 1995 by combining the businesses of Lockheed Corporation and Martin
Marietta Corporation. Our principal executive offices are located at 6801 Rockledge Drive, Bethesda, Maryland 20817. Our telephone number is (301) 897-6000 and our website home page on the Internet is www.lockheedmartin.com. We make our website
content available for information purposes only. It should not be relied upon for investment purposes, nor is it incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K (Form 10-K).

Throughout this Form 10-K, we incorporate by reference information from parts of other documents filed with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC allows us to disclose important information by referring to it in this manner, and you should review that information.

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements for our annual
stockholders’ meetings, and amendments to those reports are available free of charge on our website, www.lockheedmartin.com/investor, as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file the material with, or furnish it to the SEC. In
addition, copies of our annual report will be made available, free of charge, upon written request. The SEC also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements, and other information regarding SEC registrants, including
Lockheed Martin Corporation.

Forward-Looking Statements

This Form 10-K contains statements which, to the extent that they are not recitations of historical fact, constitute
forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, and are based on our current expectations and assumptions. The words “believe,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “project,”
“intend,” “expect,” “plan,” “outlook,” “scheduled,” “forecast,” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future
performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties.

Statements and assumptions with respect to future sales, income
and cash flows, program performance, the outcome of litigation, environmental remediation cost estimates, and planned acquisitions or dispositions of assets are examples of forward-looking statements. Numerous factors, including potentially the risk
factors described in the following section, could affect our forward-looking statements and actual performance.

Our
actual financial results likely will be different from those projected due to the inherent nature of projections. Given these uncertainties, the forward-looking statements should not be relied on in making investment decisions. The forward-looking
statements contained in this Form 10-K speak only as of the date of its filing. Except where required by applicable law, we expressly disclaim a duty to provide updates to forward-looking statements after the date of this Form 10-K to reflect
subsequent events, changed circumstances, changes in expectations, or the estimates and assumptions associated with them. The forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K are intended to be subject to the safe harbor protection provided by the
federal securities laws.



