ITEM 1.BUSINESS

General

We are a global security and aerospace company principally engaged in the research, design, development, manufacture, integration, and
sustainment of advanced technology systems and products. We also provide a broad range of management, engineering, technical, scientific, logistic, and information services. We serve both domestic and international customers with products and
services that have defense, civil, and commercial applications, with our principal customers being agencies of the U.S. Government. In 2012, 82% of our $47.2 billion in net sales were from the U.S. Government, either as a prime contractor or as a
subcontractor (including 61% from the Department of Defense (DoD)), 17% were from international customers (including foreign military sales (FMS) contracted through the U.S. Government), and 1% were from U.S. commercial and other customers. Our main
areas of focus are in defense, space, intelligence, homeland security, and information technology, including cyber security.

We are operating in an environment that is characterized by both increasing complexity in global security, as well as continuing economic
pressures in the U.S. and globally. A significant component of our strategy in this environment is to focus on program execution, improving the quality and predictability of the delivery of our products and services, and placing more security
capability quickly into the hands of both our domestic and international customers at affordable prices. Recognizing that our customers are resource constrained, we are endeavoring to develop and extend our portfolio in a disciplined manner with a
focus on adjacent markets close to our core capabilities. Despite the challenges we face, we expect to continue to invest in technologies to fulfill new mission requirements for our customers, and invest in our people so that we have the technical
skills necessary to be successful in this environment, and return cash to investors in the form of dividends and share repurchases.

We are a Maryland corporation and were formed in 1995 by combining the businesses of Lockheed Corporation and Martin Marietta Corporation. Our principal executive offices are located at 6801 Rockledge
Drive, Bethesda, Maryland 20817-1877. Our telephone number is (301) 897-6000. Our website home page on the Internet is www.lockheedmartin.com. We make our website content available for information purposes only. It should not be relied upon for
investment purposes, nor is it incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K.

Throughout this Form 10-K, we incorporate by
reference information from parts of other documents filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC allows us to disclose important information by referring to it in this manner, and you should review that information.

We make our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and proxy statement for
our annual stockholders’ meeting, as well as any amendments to those reports, available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file the material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. You can learn
more about us by reviewing our SEC filings. Our SEC filings can be accessed through the investor relations page of our website, www.lockheedmartin.com/investor. The SEC also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements,
and other information regarding SEC registrants, including Lockheed Martin Corporation.

Business Segments

We organize our business segments based on the nature of the products and services offered. Effective December 31, 2012, we operate
in five business segments: Aeronautics, Information Systems & Global Solutions (IS&GS), Missiles and Fire Control (MFC), Mission Systems and Training (MST), and Space Systems. This structure reflects the reorganization of our former
Electronic Systems business segment into the new MFC and MST business segments in order to streamline our operations and enhance customer alignment. In connection with this reorganization, management layers at our former Electronic Systems business
segment and our former Global Training and Logistics (GTL) business were eliminated, and the former GTL business was split between the two new business segments. In addition, operating results for Sandia Corporation, which manages the Sandia
National Laboratories for the U.S. Department of Energy, and our equity interest in the U.K. Atomic Weapons Establishment joint venture were transferred from our former Electronic Systems business segment to our Space Systems business segment.

The amounts, discussion, and presentation of our business segments reflect this reorganization for all years presented in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For more information concerning our segment presentation, including comparative







segment net sales, operating profit, and related financial information for 2012, 2011, and 2010, see “Business Segment Results of Operations” in Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and “Note 3 – Information on Business Segments” of our consolidated financial statements.

Aeronautics

In 2012, our Aeronautics business segment generated net sales
of $15.0 billion, which represented 31% of our total consolidated net sales. Aeronautics’ customers include the military services and various other government agencies of the U.S. and allied countries. In 2012, U.S. Government customers
accounted for 78% and international customers accounted for 22% of Aeronautics’ net sales. Net sales from Aeronautics’ combat aircraft products and services represented 21% of our total consolidated net sales in 2012 and 20% of our total
consolidated net sales in each of 2011 and 2010.

Aeronautics is engaged in the research, design, development, manufacture,
integration, sustainment, support, and upgrade of advanced military aircraft, including combat and air mobility aircraft, unmanned air vehicles, and related technologies. Aeronautics’ major programs include:



ŸF-35 Lightning II Joint Strike Fighter – international multi-role, fifth generation stealth fighter;

ŸF-22 Raptor – air dominance and multi-mission fifth generation stealth fighter;

ŸF-16 Fighting Falcon – low-cost, combat-proven, international multi-role fighter;

ŸC-130 Hercules – international tactical airlifter; and

ŸC-5M Super Galaxy – strategic airlifter.

The F-35 program is the largest in our corporation generating 14% of our total consolidated net sales, as well as 45% of Aeronautics’ net sales in 2012. The F-35 program consists of multiple
contracts. The development contract is being performed concurrently with the low-rate initial production (LRIP) contracts. Concurrent performance of development and production contracts is used for complex programs to test airplanes, shorten the
time to field systems, and achieve overall cost savings. We expect the development portion of the F-35 program will be substantially complete in 2017, with less significant efforts to continue into 2019. Production of the aircraft is expected to
continue for many years given the U.S. Government’s current inventory objective of 2,443 aircraft for the Air Force, Marine and Navy variants of the aircraft, commitments from our eight international partners and two international customers, as
well as expressions of interest from other countries. For additional information on the F-35 program, see “Status of F-35 Program” and “Industry Considerations” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations.

Although production and deliveries of F-22 aircraft were completed in 2012, Aeronautics continues
to provide on-going modernization and sustainment activities for the U.S. Air Force’s F-22 aircraft fleet. The modernization program comprises upgrading existing systems requirements, developing new systems requirements, and adding capabilities
and enhancing the performance of the weapon systems. The sustainment program consists of sustaining the weapon systems of the F-22 fleet at all operational bases, including training systems, customer support, integrated support planning, supply
chain management, aircraft modifications and heavy maintenance, sustained engineering, support products, and systems engineering.

Currently, Aeronautics produces F-16 aircraft for international customers. Aeronautics also provides service-life extension, modernization, and other upgrade programs for our customers’ F-16
aircraft. In 2012, we were awarded a contract to upgrade 145 of Taiwan’s F-16 aircraft.

Aeronautics produces and
provides support and sustainment services for the C-130J Super Hercules, as well as upgrades and support services for the legacy C-130 Hercules worldwide fleet. We delivered 34 C-130J aircraft in 2012, including eight to international customers.

Aeronautics also provides support services for the existing U.S. Air Force C-5A/B/C/M Galaxy fleet and a modernization
program to convert 49 Galaxy aircraft to the C-5M Super Galaxy configuration. The modernization effort includes avionics upgrades comprised of a new cockpit with a digital, all-weather flight control system and autopilot, a new communications suite,
flat-panel displays, and enhanced navigation and safety equipment; as well as installing new engines that will produce more thrust, enabling a shorter takeoff, increased climb rate, an increased cargo load, and longer range. We delivered four C-5M
aircraft in 2012.

In addition to the above aircraft programs, Aeronautics is involved in advanced
development programs incorporating innovative design and rapid prototype applications. Our Advanced Development Programs (ADP) organization, also known as the Skunk Works®, is focused on future systems, including unmanned aerial systems and next generation capabilities for advanced strike, intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance,
situational awareness, and air mobility. We continue to explore







technology advancement and insertion in our existing aircraft. We also are involved in numerous network-enabled activities that allow separate systems to work together to increase effectiveness,
and continue to invest in new technologies to maintain and enhance competitiveness in military aircraft design, development, and production.

Information Systems & Global Solutions

In 2012, our IS&GS business segment generated net sales of $8.8 billion, which represented 19% of our total consolidated net sales. IS&GS’ customers include the various government agencies of
the U.S. and allied countries around the world and military services, as well as commercial and other customers. In 2012, U.S. Government customers accounted for 95%, international customers accounted for 4%, and U.S. commercial and other customers
accounted for 1% of IS&GS’ net sales. IS&GS has been impacted by the continuing downturn in the federal information technology budgets and the impact of the continuing resolution that was effective on October 1, 2012, the start of
the U.S. Government’s fiscal year.

IS&GS provides management services, integrated information technology solutions,
and advanced technology systems and expertise across a broad spectrum of applications for civil, defense, intelligence, and other government customers. IS&GS supports the needs of customers in cyber-security, health care, energy and
environmental protection management, transportation, space exploration, human capital planning, financial services, data protection and sharing, and biometrics. IS&GS provides network-enabled situational awareness, delivers communications and
command and control capability through complex mission solutions for defense applications, and integrates complex global systems to help our customers gather, analyze, and securely distribute critical intelligence data. IS&GS is also responsible
for various classified systems and services in support of vital national security systems. While IS&GS has a portfolio of many smaller contracts as compared to our other business segments, this business segment’s major programs include:



ŸThe Command, Control, Battle Management and Communications (C2BMC) contract, a program to increase the integration of the Ballistic Missile Defense
System for the U.S. Government.

ŸThe En-Route Automation Modernization (ERAM) contract, which is a program to replace the Federal Aviation Administration’s infrastructure with a
modern automation environment that includes new functions and capabilities.

ŸThe Hanford Mission Support contract, which provides infrastructure and site support services to the Department of Energy.

ŸThe National Science Foundation’s U.S. Antarctic Support program, which manages sites and equipment to enable universities, research institutions,
and federal agencies to conduct scientific research in the Antarctic.

Missiles and Fire Control

In 2012, our MFC business segment generated net sales of $7.5 billion, which represented 16% of our total consolidated net sales.
MFC’s customers include the military services, principally the U.S. Army, and various government agencies of the U.S. and allied countries, as well as commercial and other customers. In 2012, U.S. Government customers accounted for 70% and
international customers accounted for 30% of MFC’s net sales.

MFC provides air and missile defense systems; tactical
missiles and air-to-ground precision strike weapon systems; fire control systems; mission operations support, readiness, engineering support, and integration services; logistics and other technical services; and manned and unmanned ground vehicles.
MFC’s major programs include:



ŸThe Patriot Advanced Capability-3 (PAC-3) and Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) air and missile defense programs. PAC-3 is an advanced
defensive missile for the U.S. Army and international customers designed to intercept and eliminate incoming airborne threats using kinetic energy. THAAD is a transportable defensive missile system for the U.S. Government and international customers
designed to engage targets both within and outside of the Earth’s atmosphere.

ŸThe Multiple Launch Rocket System (MLRS), Hellfire, Javelin, and Joint Air-to-Surface Standoff Missile (JASSM) tactical missile programs. MLRS is a
highly mobile, automatic system that fires surface-to-surface rockets and missiles from the M270 and High Mobility Artillery Rocket System platforms produced for the U.S. Army and international customers. Hellfire is an air-to-ground missile used on
rotary and fixed-wing aircraft, which is produced for the U.S. Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and international customers. Javelin is a shoulder-fired anti-armor rocket system, which is produced for the U.S. Army, Marine Corps, and international
customers. JASSM is an air-to-ground missile launched from fixed-wing aircraft, which is produced for the U.S. Air Force and international customers.

ŸThe Apache,
Sniper®, and Low Altitude Navigation and Targeting Infrared for Night (LANTIRN®) fire control systems programs. The Apache fire control system provides weapons targeting capability for the Apache







helicopter for the U.S. Army and international customers.
Sniper®is a targeting system for fixed-wing aircraft, and LANTIRN®is a combined navigation and targeting system for fixed-wing aircraft. Both Sniper®and LANTIRN®are produced for the U.S. Air Force and international customers.

ŸThe Special Operations Forces Contractor Logistics Support Services program, which provides logistics support services to the special operations forces
of the U.S. military.

Mission Systems and Training

In 2012, our MST business segment generated net sales of $7.6 billion, which represented 16% of our total consolidated net sales.
MST’s customers include the military services, principally the U.S. Navy, and various government agencies of the U.S. and allied countries, as well as commercial and other customers. In 2012, U.S. Government customers accounted for 75%,
international customers accounted for 24%, and U.S. commercial and other customers accounted for 1% of MST’s net sales.

MST provides surface ship and submarine combat systems; sea and land-based missile defense systems; radar systems; mission systems and
sensors for rotary and fixed-wing aircraft; littoral combat ships; simulation and training services; unmanned technologies and platforms; ship systems integration; and military and commercial training systems. MST’s major programs include:



ŸThe Aegis Combat System, which is a fleet ballistic missile defense system for the U.S. Navy and international customers and is also a sea-based
element of the U.S. missile defense system.

ŸThe MK-41 Vertical Launching System (VLS) is a shipborne missile canister launching system that provides for rapid-fire launch capability, which is
produced for the U.S. Navy and international customers.

ŸThe TPQ-53 Radar System is a sensor that quickly locates and neutralizes mortar and rocket threats, which is produced for the U.S. Army and
international customers.

ŸMH-60 mission systems and sensors, including the digital cockpit and weapons, which MST provides for the MH-60 maritime helicopter produced for the
U.S. Navy and the Royal Australian Navy, and was selected by the Danish government in December 2012.

ŸThe Littoral Combat Ship (LCS), which is a surface combatant for the U.S. Navy designed to operate in shallow waters. We delivered our second LCS
vessel, the USS Fort Worth, to the U.S. Navy in 2012. Construction is progressing on our third and fourth LCS vessels, the Milwaukee and the Detroit, which are scheduled for completion in 2014 and 2015.

ŸThe Persistent Threat Detection System (PTDS), which is a lighter-than-air continuous communications and persistent surveillance system produced for
the U.S. Army. Deliveries on the PTDS program completed in 2012.

Space Systems

In 2012, our Space Systems business segment generated net sales of $8.3 billion, which represented 18% of our total consolidated net
sales. Space Systems’ customers include various government agencies of the U.S. and commercial customers. In 2012, U.S. Government customers accounted for 95%, international customers accounted for 4%, and U.S. commercial and other customers
accounted for 1% of Space Systems’ net sales. Net sales from Space Systems’ satellite products and services represented 12% of our total consolidated net sales in 2012 and 2011, and 13% in 2010.

Space Systems is engaged in the research and development, design, engineering, and production of satellites, strategic and defensive
missile systems, and space transportation systems. Space Systems is also responsible for various classified systems and services in support of vital national security systems. Space Systems’ major programs include:



ŸThe Space-Based Infrared System (SBIRS) program, which provides the U.S. Air Force with enhanced worldwide missile launch detection and tracking
capabilities.

ŸThe Advanced Extremely High Frequency (AEHF) system, which is the next generation of highly secure communications satellites for the U.S. Air Force.

ŸThe Mobile User Objective System (MUOS), which is a next-generation narrow band satellite communication system for the U.S. Navy.

ŸGlobal Positioning System (GPS) III, which is a program to modernize the GPS satellite system for the U.S. Air Force.

ŸThe Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite R-Series (GOES-R), which is the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Association’s next
generation of meteorological satellites.

ŸThe Trident II D5 Fleet Ballistic Missile, which is a program with the U.S. Navy for the only current submarine-launched intercontinental ballistic
missile in production in the U.S.







ŸThe Orion Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle (Orion) program, an advanced crew capsule for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) utilizing
new technology for human exploration beyond low earth orbit that replaces the Space Shuttle.

Operating
results for our Space Systems business segment include our equity interests in United Launch Alliance, which provides expendable launch services for the U.S. Government, United Space Alliance, which provided processing activities for the Space
Shuttle program and is winding down following the completion of the last Space Shuttle mission in 2011, and a joint venture that manages the U.K.’s Atomic Weapons Establishment program. Additionally, operating results for Space Systems include
Sandia Corporation, which manages and operates Sandia National Laboratories for the U.S. Department of Energy.

Competition

Our broad portfolio of products and services competes against the products and services of other large aerospace, defense, and
information technology companies, as well as numerous smaller competitors, particularly in the IS&GS segment. We often form teams with other companies that are competitors in other efforts to provide customers with the best mix of capabilities
to address specific requirements. In some areas of our business, customer requirements are changing to encourage expanded competition, such as information technology contracts where there may be a wide range of small to large contractors bidding on
procurements. Principal factors of competition include: value of our products and services to the customer; technical and management capability; the ability to develop and implement complex, integrated system architectures; financing and total cost
of ownership; release of technology; our demonstrated ability to execute and perform against contract requirements; and our ability to provide timely solutions.

The competition for foreign sales is subject to additional U.S. Government stipulations (e.g., export restrictions, market access, technology transfer, industrial cooperation, and contracting practices).
We may compete against domestic and foreign companies (or teams) for contract awards by other governments. International competitions also may be subject to different laws or contracting practices of other governments that may affect how we
structure our bid for the procurement. In many international procurements, the purchasing government’s relationship with the U.S. and its industrial cooperation programs are also important factors in determining the outcome of a competition. It
is common for international customers to require contractors to comply with their industrial cooperation regulations, sometimes referred to as offset requirements, and we have undertaken foreign offset agreements as part of securing some
international business. For more information concerning offset agreements, see “Contractual Commitments and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Patents

We
routinely apply for and own a substantial number of U.S. and international patents related to the products and services we provide. In addition to owning a large portfolio of intellectual property, we also license intellectual property to and from
third parties. The U.S. Government has licenses in our patents that are developed in performance of government contracts, and it may use or authorize others to use the inventions covered by our patents for government purposes. Unpatented research,
development, and engineering skills also make an important contribution to our business. Although our intellectual property rights in the aggregate are important to the operation of our business, we do not believe that any existing patent, license,
or other intellectual property right is of such importance that its loss or termination would have a material adverse effect on our business taken as a whole.

Raw Materials and Seasonality

Aspects of our business require relatively
scarce raw materials. Historically, we have been successful in obtaining the raw materials and other supplies needed in our manufacturing processes. We seek to manage raw materials supply risk through long-term contracts and by maintaining a stock
of key materials in inventory.

Aluminum and titanium are important raw materials used in certain of our Aeronautics and Space
Systems programs. Long-term agreements have helped enable a continued supply of aluminum and titanium. Carbon fiber is an important ingredient in the composite material that is used in our Aeronautics programs, such as the F-35 aircraft. Aluminum
lithium, which we use for F-16 aircraft structural components, is currently only available from limited sources. We have been advised by some suppliers that pricing and the timing of availability of materials in some commodities markets can
fluctuate widely. These fluctuations may negatively affect price and the availability of certain materials. While we do not anticipate material problems regarding the supply of our raw materials and believe that we have taken appropriate measures to
mitigate these variations, if key materials become unavailable or if pricing fluctuates widely in the future, it could result in delay of one or more of our programs, increased costs, or reduced profits.







No material portion of our business is considered to be seasonal. Various factors can affect
the distribution of our sales between accounting periods, including the timing of government awards, the availability of government funding, product deliveries, and customer acceptance.

Government Contracts and Regulation

Our business is heavily regulated. We
contract with numerous U.S. Government agencies and entities, including all branches of the U.S. military, the Departments of Defense, Homeland Security, Justice, Commerce, Health and Human Services, Transportation, and Energy, the U.S. Postal
Service, the Social Security Administration, the Federal Aviation Administration, NASA, and the Environmental Protection Agency. Similar government authorities exist in other countries and regulate our international efforts.

We must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration, and performance of U.S.
Government and other contracts. These laws and regulations, among other things:



Ÿrequire certification and disclosure of all cost or pricing data in connection with certain types of contract negotiations;

Ÿimpose specific and unique cost accounting practices that may differ from U.S. generally accepted accounting principles;

Ÿimpose acquisition regulations, which may change or be replaced over time, that define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise govern our right
to reimbursement under certain cost-based U.S. Government contracts;

Ÿrestrict the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the export of certain products, services, and technical
data; and

Ÿrequire the review and approval of contractor business systems, defined in the regulations as: (i) Accounting; (ii) Estimating;
(iii) Earned Value Management Systems (EVMS, for managing cost and schedule performance on certain complex programs); (iv) Purchasing; (v) Material Management and Accounting System (MMAS, for planning, controlling, and accounting for
the acquisition, use, issuing, and disposition of material); and (vi) Property Management systems.

For
more information regarding government contracting laws and regulations, see Item 1A - Risk Factors as well as “Industry Considerations” and “Critical Accounting Policies – Contract Accounting / Sales Recognition” in
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

A portion of our business is
classified by the U.S. Government and cannot be specifically described. The operating results of these classified programs are included in our consolidated financial statements. The business risks associated with classified programs historically
have not differed materially from those of our other U.S. Government programs. The internal controls addressing the financial reporting of classified programs are consistent with the internal control practices for non-classified contracts.

Backlog

At
December 31, 2012, our backlog was $82.3 billion compared with $80.7 billion at December 31, 2011. Backlog is converted into sales in future periods as work is performed or deliveries are made. Approximately $35.0 billion, or 43%, of our
total 2012 year-end backlog is expected to be converted into sales in 2013.

Our backlog includes both funded (unfilled firm
orders for our products and services for which funding has been both authorized and appropriated by the customer – Congress, in the case of U.S. Government agencies) and unfunded (firm orders for which funding has not been appropriated)
amounts. We do not include unexercised options or potential indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity orders in our backlog. If any of our contracts were to be terminated, our backlog would be reduced by the expected value of the remaining terms of
such contracts. Funded backlog was $54.8 billion at December 31, 2012, as compared to $55.1 billion at December 31, 2011. For backlog related to each of our business segments, see “Business Segment Results of Operations” in
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Research and Development

We conduct research and development activities under customer-funded contracts and with our own independent research and development
funds. Our independent research and development costs include basic research, applied research,







development, systems, and other concept formulation studies. Generally, these costs are allocated among all contracts and programs in progress under U.S. Government contractual arrangements.
Costs we incur under customer-sponsored research and development programs pursuant to contracts are included in net sales and cost of sales. Under certain arrangements in which a customer shares in product development costs, our portion of the
unreimbursed costs is expensed as incurred in cost of sales. Independent research and development costs charged to costs of sales were $616 million in 2012, $585 million in 2011, and $639 million in 2010. See “Research and development and
similar costs” in “Note 1 – Significant Accounting Policies” of our consolidated financial statements.

Employees

At December 31, 2012, we had about 120,000 employees, approximately 95% of whom were located in the U.S. We have a
continuing need for numerous skilled and professional personnel to meet contract schedules and obtain new and ongoing orders for our products. The majority of our employees possess a security clearance. The demand for workers with security
clearances who have specialized engineering, information technology, and technical skills within the aerospace, defense, and information technology industries is likely to remain high for the foreseeable future, while growth of the pool of trained
individuals with those skills has not matched demand. As a result, we are competing with other companies with similar needs in hiring skilled employees.

Approximately 15% of our employees are covered by any one of approximately 65 separate collective bargaining agreements with various unions. A number of our existing collective bargaining agreements
expire in any given year. Historically, we have been successful in renegotiating expiring agreements without any material disruption of operating activities. Management considers employee relations to be good.

Forward-Looking Statements

This Form 10-K contains statements which, to the extent that they are not recitations of historical fact, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, and are
based on our current expectations and assumptions. The words “believe,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “project,” “intend,” “expect,” “plan,” “outlook,”
“scheduled,” “forecast,” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.

Statements and assumptions with respect to future sales, income and cash flows, program performance, the outcome of litigation,
environmental remediation cost estimates, and planned acquisitions or dispositions of assets are examples of forward-looking statements. Numerous factors, including potentially the risk factors described in the following section, could affect our
forward-looking statements and actual performance.

Our future financial results likely will be different from those projected
due to the inherent nature of projections, and may be better or worse than expected. Given these uncertainties, you should not rely on forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K speak only as of the date
of this Form 10-K. We expressly disclaim a duty to provide updates to forward-looking statements after the date of this Form 10-K to reflect the occurrence of subsequent events, changed circumstances, changes in our expectations, or the estimates
and assumptions associated with them. The forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K are intended to be subject to the safe harbor protection provided by the federal securities laws.



