
10-K
FORM 10-K


                        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    Form 10-K
      (Mark One)
      [ X ] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
                       EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]

                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998

                                       OR

 [ ]TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
                          ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]

                    For the transition period from ___ to ___

                         Commission File Number 0-18761

                           HANSEN NATURAL CORPORATION
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

                               Delaware 39-1679918
                (State or other jurisdiction of (I.R.S. Employer
                incorporation or organization Identification No.)

            2380 Railroad Street, Suite 101, Corona, California 91720
               (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)

      Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (909) 739 - 6200

               Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of
                                    the Act:

                              Name of each exchange
                     Title of each class on which registered
                          Not Applicable Not Applicable

               Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of
                                    the Act:

                                 Title of class
                     Common Stock, $.005 par value per share

         Indicate  by check  mark  whether  the  Registrant:  (1) has  filed all
reports  required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter  period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X No

         Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,
to the best of the  Registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information
statements  incorporated  by  reference  in Part  III of this  Form  10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ]

         The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of
the Registrant was approximately  $22,867,281  computed by reference to the sale
price for such stock on the Nasdaq Small-Cap Market on March 1, 1999.

         The number of shares of the Registrant's  common stock, $.005 par value
per share (being the only class of common stock of the Registrant),  outstanding
on March 1, 1999 was 9,923,414 shares.







                           HANSEN NATURAL CORPORATION

                                    FORM 10-K

                                


Item Number                                                          Page Number

          PART I

1.        Business                                                            3
2.        Properties                                                         12
3.        Legal Proceedings                                                  13
4.        Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders                13

          PART II

5.        Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related              
            Shareholder Matters                                              14
6.        Selected Consolidated Financial Data                               15
7.        Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial                    
            Condition and Results of Operations                              15
8.        Financial Statements and Supplementary Data                        27
9.        Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
            Accounting and Financial Disclosure                              27

          PART III

10.       Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant                 27
11.       Executive Compensation                                             29
12.       Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management     34
13.       Certain Relationships and Related Transactions                     36

          PART IV

14.       Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K    37

          Signatures                                                         38


PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

Background of the Company and Subsidiaries

         Hansen  Natural  Corporation  ("Hansen"  or the  "Company"),  which was
incorporated  in Delaware on April 25, 1990,  maintains its  principal  place of
business at 2380 Railroad Street,  Suite 101, Corona,  California 91720, and its
telephone number is (909) 739-6200.

         The Company is a holding  company and carries on no operating  business
except through its direct wholly-owned subsidiary, Hansen Beverage Company
("HBC") which was incorporated in Delaware on June 8, 1992. HBC conducts all of
the Company's operating business and generates all of the Company's operating
revenues. References herein to "Hansen" or the "Company" when used to describe
the operating business of the Company are references to the business of HBC
unless otherwise indicated. The Company also owns all of the issued and
outstanding common stock of CVI Ventures, Inc. ("CVI"), which was incorporated
in Delaware on April 30, 1990. CVI is currently inactive. In addition, HBC owns
all of the issued and outstanding ordinary shares of its subsidiary located in
the United Kingdom, Hansen Beverage Company (UK) Limited ("HBC (UK)") which
ceased operating activities at the end of 1997 and is in the process of being
deregistered.

Background of the Hansen Business

         In the 1930's,  Hubert  Hansen and his three sons started a business to
sell fresh  non-pasteurized  juices in Los Angeles,  California.  This  business
eventually became Hansen's Juices, Inc., now known as The Fresh Juice Company of
California,  Inc. ("FJC").  In 1977, Tim Hansen,  one of the grandsons of Hubert
Hansen,  perceived a demand for pasteurized natural juices and juice blends that
are shelf stable and formed Hansen Foods, Inc. ("HFI"),  which was also based in
the Los Angeles area. Subsequently, HFI expanded its product line from juices to
include  Hansen's(R)  Natural  Sodas.  In November  1988,  HFI  reorganized  its
business  under Chapter 11 of the federal  Bankruptcy  Code. In connection  with
those  reorganization  proceedings,  California  CoPackers  Corporation  (d/b/a/
Hansen Beverage  Company)  ("CCC")  acquired certain assets of HFI including the
right to market the  Hansen's(R)  brand name, in January 1990. On July 27, 1992,
the Company,  through HBC, acquired the Hansen's(R) brand natural soda and apple
juice business (the "Hansen Business") from CCC.

Products

         Hansen  is  engaged  in  the   business  of   marketing,   selling  and
distributing  so-called  "alternative"  beverage  category sodas,  fruit juices,
fruit juice Smoothies, non-carbonated ready-to-drink iced teas, lemonades, juice
cocktails,  "functional" drinks and still water, primarily under the Hansen's(R)
Natural brand name.

         The   alternative    beverage    category    combines    non-carbonated
ready-to-drink  iced teas,  lemonades,  juice  cocktails,  single serve  juices,
ready-to-drink  iced coffees,  sports drinks and  single-serve  still water with
"new age"  beverages,  including  sodas that are considered  natural,  sparkling
juices and flavored sparkling waters.  The alternative  beverage category is the
fastest growing segment of the beverage marketplace. (Source: Beverage Marketing
Corporation).  Sales for the  alternative  beverage  category  of the market are
estimated to have reached approximately $7.7 billion at wholesale in 1998 with a
growth rate of approximately 12.5% over the prior year.
(Source: Beverage Marketing Corporation).

         Hansen's(R)  Natural Sodas are  classified  as "new age"  beverages and
have been a leading  natural  soda  brand in  Southern  California  for the past
twenty  years.  In 1998,  Hansen's(R)  Natural Sodas had the highest sales among
comparable  carbonated new age category beverages measured by unit volume in the
Southern  California  market  (Source:  Nielsen  Scantrack  Reports for Southern
California).  Hansen's(R)  Natural Sodas are currently  available in ten regular
flavors consisting of Mandarin Lime, Lemon Lime, Grapefruit,  Raspberry,  Creamy
Root Beer, Vanilla Cola, Cherry Vanilla Creme, Peach Mango, Kiwi Strawberry, and
                                   



Tropical  Passion.  Hansen  has two low  calorie  sodas  in  Wildberry  and Cola
flavors. Hansen's(R) Natural Sodas contain no preservatives, sodium, caffeine or
artificial coloring and are made with high quality natural flavors,  citric acid
and  high  fructose  corn  syrup,  or in the  case of low  calorie  sodas,  with
aspartame. Hansen's(R) Natural Sodas are currently packaged in 12-ounce aluminum
cans.

         In January 1999,  Hansen  introduced  its new premium line of Signature
Sodas  in  unique  proprietary  14-ounce  glass  bottles.  Signature  Sodas  are
currently  available in four flavors consisting of Orange Creme,  Vanilla Creme,
Ginger Beer, and  Sarsaparilla.  Signature  Sodas will initially be sold through
the Company's existing distributor  network.  Initial response from distributors
and consumers has been favorable.

         During April 1997, the Company  introduced a lightly  carbonated citrus
flavored  Hansen's(R)  energy drink in an 8.2-ounce  slim can. The Company's new
energy drink falls within the category that has generally  been described as the
"functional"  beverage  category,  namely,  beverages  that  provide  a real  or
perceived  benefit in  addition  to simply  delivering  refreshment.  Management
believes that the functional beverage category has good growth potential. During
the first quarter of 1998, the Company  extended its functional  product line by
introducing three additional  functional drinks in 8.2-ounce slim cans namely, a
ginger flavored  d-stress(TM) drink, an orange flavored  antioox(TM) drink and a
guarana berry flavored stamina(TM) drink. During the fourth quarter of 1998, the
Company introduced power(TM),  it's newest functional drink in an 8.2-ounce slim
can.  power(TM)  is a  black  cherry  flavored  drink  that  contains  Creatine,
Glutamine,  and Red Panax  Ginseng,  as well as key B  vitamins.  Response  from
distributors,  convenience  chain store buyers,  and  consumers  continues to be
favorable.

         The Company has  concentrated  on marketing its  carbonated  functional
drinks through its distributor network that continued to expand during 1998. The
Company intends to leverage its existing  distributor  network to facilitate the
introduction of its new line of premium Signature Sodas in glass bottles as well
as other new  products  that it plans to  introduce  later in 1999 and which are
described more fully below.

         The Company's fruit juice product line currently  includes  Hansen's(R)
Natural  Old  Fashioned  Apple  Juice  which  is  packaged  in 64 and  128-ounce
polyethylene  terephthalale  ("P.E.T.")  plastic  bottles,  Apple Strawberry and
Apple Grape juice blends in 64-ounce P.E.T. plastic bottles.  These juice blends
were  introduced  in the second  quarter of 1998.  All of these  Hansen's  juice
products  contain 100% juice and provides 100% of the  recommended  daily intake
for adults of Vitamin C and  beginning  in 1999,  also  contain  added  calcium.
Hansen's juice products compete in the shelf-stable juice category.

         In  March  1995,  the  Company  expanded  its  juice  product  line  by
introducing a line of fruit juice Smoothies.  Hansen's(R)  fruit juice Smoothies
contain  approximately  35%  juice and have a smooth  texture  that is thick but
lighter than a nectar.  Hansen's(R)  fruit juice  Smoothies  provide 100% of the
recommended daily intake for adults of Vitamins A, C & E (the antioxidant triad)
and  represented   Hansen's  entry  into  the  functional   beverage   category.
Hansen's(R)  fruit juice Smoothies are packaged in 11.5-ounce  aluminum cans and
in  unique  proprietary  13.5-ounce  glass  bottles  designed  by  the  Company.
Hansen's(R)  fruit juice  Smoothies are available in eight  flavors:  Strawberry
Banana,  Peach Berry,  Mango Pineapple,  Guava  Strawberry,  Pineapple  Coconut,
Apricot  Nectar,  Strawberry  Lemonade,  and Tropical  Passion.  There is also a
Cranberry  Raspberry lite Smoothie available as well as an Energy Smoothie which
is different,  not only from other beverages in the market,  but also from other
Smoothies. The Energy Smoothie product contains Ginseng and Taurine, two popular
energy  supplements,  as well as  Vitamins  B2, B6, B12,  Niacin,  Vitamin C and
Glucose.  The  Company  plans to  introduce a new line of  "premium"  functional
Smoothies in 11.5-ounce cans and unique glass bottles later in 1999.

         During  the second  quarter of 1998,  the  Company  launched  its first
Healthy Start(TM) product,  DYNAoJUICE(TM), a shelf stable 100% juice blend with
15 vitamins and minerals added.  DYNAoJUICE(TM) was renamed VITAMAXoJUICE during
the fourth  quarter  of 1998 to more  directly  communicate  its  attributes  to
consumers.  During the fourth quarter of 1998, the Company  expanded its Healthy
Start(TM)  product  line with three new Healthy  Start(TM)  100% juices  namely,
ANTIOXoJUICE(TM), IMMUNEoJUICE(TM), and INTELLIoJUICE(TM). ANTIOXoJUICE(TM) is a




carrot and tropical juice blend with Grape Seed extract, Vitamins A, C and E and
Selenium. IMMUNEoJUICE(TM) is an aronia and cranberry juice blend with Echinacea
and Zinc, and  INTELLIoJUICE(TM) is an orange and tomato juice blend with Gingko
Biloba,  Hawthorn Berry and Ginseng.  The Healthy  Start(TM) line was originally
launched in 46-ounce  P.E.T.  plastic bottles and at the end of 1998 the Company
expanded this line into 64-ounce P.E.T. plastic bottles as well.

         Hansen's  ready-to-drink  iced teas and  lemonades  were  introduced in
1993. Hansen's ready-to-drink iced teas are currently available in five flavors:
Original  with  Lemon,  Tropical  Peach,  Wildberry,  Tangerine  and Low Calorie
Blueberry  Raspberry and its lemonades are currently available in three flavors:
Original Old Fashioned Lemonade, Pink Lemonade and Strawberry Lemonade. Hansen's
juice  cocktails  were  introduced  in 1994 and are  currently  available in six
flavors:  Kiwi  Strawberry  Melon,   Tangerine  Pineapple  with  Passion  Fruit,
California Paradise Punch, Mango Magic, Apple and Low Calorie Peach Mango.

         Hansen's  ready-to-drink iced teas are made with decaffeinated tea. The
Company's  other  non-carbonated  products  are made with high  quality  juices.
Hansen's  non-carbonated  products (other than its 100% juice products) are also
made with natural  flavors,  high fructose corn syrup and in the case of the low
calorie iced tea and low calorie juice cocktail, with aspartame, citric acid and
other  ingredients.  Hansen's  ready-to-drink  iced  teas,  lemonades  and juice
cocktails are currently  packaged in 16-ounce  non-returnable  wide-mouth  glass
bottles.  Management  is  currently  considering  also  offering  these types of
beverages in 20-ounce glass bottles.

         The Company  discontinued  marketing its  Equator(R)  brand of beverage
products in 20-ounce  glass bottles and in their place offered a  ready-to-drink
green tea in a  20-ounce  glass  bottle  under the  Hansen's(R)  brand to select
customers.  The Company is at present  designing a  proprietary  20-ounce  glass
bottle for that product and intends to  introduce  three new  specialty  teas in
such bottle, to select customers in 1999.

         Hansen's still water products were  introduced in 1993.  Hansen's still
water products are primarily sold in .5-liter plastic bottles.

         The Company plans to introduce additional  carbonated functional drinks
in 1999 as well as its Healthy  Start(TM)  100% juice line in single serve glass
bottles through its distributor network.  Other new product developments include
a new line of "premium" functional iced teas in unique proprietary glass bottles
late in 1999.

         The Company  continues  to evaluate and where  considered  appropriate,
introduce  additional  flavors and other types of  beverages to  compliment  its
existing product lines.

Manufacturing, Production and Distribution

         The concentrates for Hansen's(R) Natural Soda and Hansen's(R) Signature
Soda products are blended at independent  production  facilities.  In each case,
the  concentrate  is delivered  by  independent  trucking  companies to Hansen's
various  copackers,  each of which adds filtered water, high fructose corn syrup
or cane sugar, or in the case of the low calorie sodas, aspartame,  citric acid,
and carbonation and packages the products in approved containers.  Hansen's most
significant copacking arrangement is with Southwest Canning and Packaging,  Inc.
("Southwest")  pursuant to a contract under which Southwest packages Hansen's(R)
Natural  Sodas.  This  arrangement  continues  indefinitely  and is  subject  to
termination on 60 days written notice from either party.

         The  Company  purchases  juices,   concentrates,   flavors,   vitamins,
nutrients,  herbs and other  ingredients for its juice products;  ready-to-drink
iced teas, lemonades and juice cocktail products; fruit juice Smoothie products;
carbonated  functional  drinks;  and Healthy  Start(TM)  products  from  various
producers and manufacturers.  Such materials are then delivered to the Company's
various copackers for manufacture and packaging of the finished products.



         All  of  the  Company's  beverage  products  are  copacked  by  various
copackers  situated  throughout the United States under  separate  arrangements,
each of which continue on a  month-to-month  basis,  except for the  arrangement
with Southwest which is described above.

         In the  Western  states,  the  Company's  natural  sodas,  fruit  juice
products,  iced  teas,  lemonades,  and juice  cocktail  products,  fruit  juice
Smoothie products in cans and Healthy Start(TM)  products in P.E.T.  bottles are
primarily sold to major grocery chain stores and, in certain limited  instances,
to mass merchandisers through food brokers; club stores;  specialty chain stores
and to certain  mass  merchandisers  directly  by Hansen;  the health food trade
through  specialty  health  food  distributors;  and in  Colorado,  to  licensed
distributors. The Company's fruit juice Smoothie products in bottles, carbonated
functional  drinks in 8.2-ounce  slim cans and Signature  Sodas are  distributed
almost exclusively by bottlers and/or  distributors that do not distribute other
products of the Company.

         Management  has  secured  limited  additional  copacking   arrangements
outside  California  to enable the  Company to produce  certain of its  products
closer to the markets where they are sold and thereby reduce  freight costs.  As
volumes in markets outside  California grow, the Company will secure  additional
copacking arrangements to further reduce freight costs.

         During 1998, the Company  entered into an  arrangement  with one of its
copackers,  pursuant to which certain modifications were made to that copacker's
equipment to enable it to produce certain products on behalf of the Company.  In
consideration  thereof,  the Company agreed to pack a minimum number of cases of
products  over a four-year  period.  Should the Company  fail to pack the agreed
minimum number of cases of products over such period, the Company will be liable
to reimburse the copacker for a proportionate share of the cost thereof based on
such  shortfall.  Based on the volume levels achieved by the Company in the past
and its expected volume levels,  the Company does not believe that it will incur
any liability in connection with the above arrangement.

         During March 1999,  the Company  entered into an  arrangement  with its
glass supplier  pursuant to which its glass supplier  agreed to install a shrink
sleeve-labeling machine at its plant to facilitate the pre-labeling of its glass
bottles at the point of  manufacture.  In  consideration  thereof,  the  Company
agreed to have a minimum  quantity of such labels  applied to its glass  bottles
over a four year  period.  Should the  Company  fail to have the agreed  minimum
quantity of labels  applied  over such  period,  the  Company  will be liable to
compensate it's supplier for a proportionate  share of the cost thereof based on
such shortfall.  Based on estimated volume levels,  the Company does not believe
that it will incur any liability in connection with this arrangement.

         The Company's  ability to estimate  demand is  imprecise,  particularly
with new  products,  and may be less  precise  during  periods of rapid  growth,
particularly in new markets. If the Company materially underestimates demand for
its  products or is unable to secure  sufficient  ingredients  or raw  materials
including but not limited to glass, cans or labels,  or copacking  arrangements,
it might not be able to satisfy demand on a short-term basis.

         Although the Company's  arrangements for production of its products are
generally of short duration or are terminable upon request,  management believes
that a short disruption would not  significantly  affect the Company's  revenues
since  alternative  copacking  facilities  in the United  States  with  adequate
capacity  can be obtained for most of its  products at  commercially  reasonable
rates,  if  necessary  or  desirable,  within a  reasonably  short time  period.
However,  there are  limited  copacking  facilities  in the United  States  with
adequate  capacity for products in 8.2-ounce  slim cans.  There are also limited
shrink  sleeve-labeling  facilities available in the United States with adequate
capacity for the Company's  new Signature  Soda line. A disruption in production
of either of such products  could  significantly  affect the Company's  revenues
from such products as alternative copacking facilities in the United States with
adequate  capacity  may not be  available  for  such  products  at  commercially
reasonable  rates,  if necessary or  desirable,  within a reasonably  short time
period.  The Company is taking steps to secure the  availability  of alternative
copacking  facilities in the United States or Canada with adequate  capacity for
the  production  of such  products,  to minimize the risk of any  disruption  in
production.



         The Company itself is primarily  responsible for marketing its products
(other than its fruit juice Smoothies in bottles, functional drinks in 8.2-ounce
slim cans and  Signature  Sodas in glass  bottles)  in the  United  States.  The
Company has entered into distribution agreements with distributors to distribute
Smoothies  in  bottles  and/or  functional  drinks  in  8.2-ounce  slims  and/or
Signature  Sodas  in  more  than 40  states.  However,  in many of such  states,
distribution is only on a limited scale.  Certain of the Company's  products are
also  marketed in the United  Kingdom  and, on a more  limited  basis,  in other
countries  outside of the United  States,  including  Canada,  Mexico,  Denmark,
Philippines,  Guam, the Caribbean,  and South Africa.  During 1998, sales by the
Company to  distributors  outside the United  States  amounted to  approximately
$500,000.

         The Company  intends to  aggressively  expand the  distribution  of its
products into new markets, both within the United States and abroad.

         In  January  1999,  the  Company  introduced  its new  premium  line of
Hansen's(R)  Signature Sodas in 14-ounce proprietary glass bottles. The majority
of the Company's  existing  distributor  network have agreed to distribute  such
products commencing on varying dates over the next six months.

         The Company is  continuing  to expand  distribution  of its products by
seeking to enter  into  agreements  with  regional  bottlers,  and beer or other
direct store  delivery  distributors  having  established  sales,  marketing and
distribution organizations. The Company's licensed bottlers and distributors are
affiliated with and manufacture  and/or distribute other soda and non-carbonated
brands and other beverage  products.  In many cases,  such products are directly
competitive  with the Company's  products.  The Company's  strategy of licensing
regional bottlers to produce Hansen's(R) Natural Sodas from concentrate provided
by the Company,  has not fulfilled  management's  expectations,  partly  because
bottlers have preferred to focus on alternative  beverage products having higher
margins  than  sodas.  At the end of  1997,  management  awarded  the  Company's
distributor  in Colorado the right to market and distribute its natural sodas in
that state in place of its licensed  bottler.  The Company  continues to utilize
such bottler to manufacture Hansen's(R) Natural Sodas on its behalf.

         Management  continues to evaluate  various  alternatives  to expand the
distribution of Hansen's(R) Natural Sodas into selected new markets.

         In 1998,  the Company  expanded  its  national  sales  organization  to
support and grow the sales  primarily  of  Smoothies  in bottles and  functional
drinks in 8.2-ounce slim cans and intends to continue to build that organization
during 1999.

         During  September 1997, the Company's main  distribution  warehouse was
relocated to Corona,  California and in March 1998, the corporate offices of the
Company relocated to the same facility.  Although the Company agreed to sublease
a portion of the warehouse facility to the independent  contractor which manages
the warehouse  facility on its behalf and the repacking and  distribution of the
Company's  products  therefrom,  the sublease  could not be  implemented  as the
entire  warehouse  facility is being utilized for the Company's  products due to
higher inventory levels which are attributable to increased sales and additional
products  being  marketed  and  distributed  by the  Company.  In  light  of its
agreement  with the  independent  contractor,  it will not be necessary  for the
Company to employ additional personnel to manage the warehouse facility,  or for
the repacking or distribution of its products.

Source and Availability of Raw Materials

         The Company  purchases its soda,  functional  drink and  non-carbonated
beverage  flavors,  concentrates  and  supplements  from  independent  suppliers
located in the United States and Mexico and juices, concentrates and flavors for
its juice,  fruit juice Smoothie and Healthy Start(TM) products from independent
suppliers in the United States and abroad.

         Suppliers regard flavors as proprietary to them.  Consequently,  Hansen
does not currently  have the list of ingredients or formulae for its flavors and
certain of its concentrates  readily available to it and may be unable to obtain
these flavors or concentrates  from alternative  suppliers on short notice.  The




Company  has  identified  alternative  suppliers  of  many  of  the  supplements
contained in its carbonated  functional drinks,  Smoothies and Healthy Start(TM)
line.  However,  industry wide shortages of certain  supplements  have been and,
from time to time in the future,  could be  experienced,  which could  interfere
with production of certain of the Company's products.

         Management is continuing  with it's attempts to develop back-up sources
of supply for its flavors and  concentrates  from other  suppliers as well as to
conclude  arrangements  with suppliers which would enable it to obtain access to
certain  concentrate  formulae  in certain  circumstances.  The Company has been
partially  successful in these endeavors.  By working with suppliers rather than
on its own,  Hansen is able to develop  new  products  at low cost as well as to
diversify its supplier network.

         The  Company's  goal is to ensure  that all raw  materials  used in the
manufacture  and packaging of the Company's  products,  including  natural soda,
functional drink and non-carbonated  concentrates and juices, high fructose corn
syrup,  cane sugar,  citric acid,  caps,  cans,  glass  bottles and labels,  are
readily  available  from two or more  sources and is  continuing  its efforts to
achieve this goal.

         In connection with the development of new products and flavors,  Hansen
contracts with independent  suppliers who bear a large portion of the expense of
product development, thereby enabling Hansen to develop new products and flavors
at a relatively low cost.  Hansen has  historically  developed and  successfully
introduced new products and flavors and packaging for its products and currently
anticipates developing and introducing new products and flavors for its existing
beverages.

Competition

         The Company's  functional energy drink competes directly with Red Bull,
Hype, XTC and many other brands and its other functional drinks compete directly
with Elix, Lipovitan,  Sobe Essentials and other brands. The functional beverage
category is in its infancy and increased  competition  is  anticipated  within a
relatively short period of time. A number of companies who market and distribute
iced  teas and  juice  cocktails  in  larger  volume  packages,  such as 16- and
20-ounce  glass  bottles,  have  recently  added or are in the process of adding
vitamins,  herbs  and/or  nutrients to their  products  with a view to marketing
their  products  as  functional  beverages  or as  having  functional  benefits.
However,  many  of  those  products  are  believed  to  contain  low  levels  of
supplements  and  principally  deliver  refreshment.  In  addition,  many of the
competitive products are positioned differently to those of the Company.

         The soda,  juice,  and  non-carbonated  beverage  businesses are highly
competitive.   The  principal  areas  of  competition  are  pricing,  packaging,
development of new products and flavors and marketing  campaigns.  The Company's
products  compete  with  traditional  soft  drinks  (cola  and  non-cola),   and
alternative beverages, including new age beverages and ready-to-drink iced teas,
lemonades  and juice  cocktails  as well as juices and juice  drinks and nectars
produced  by a  relatively  large  number of  manufacturers,  most of which have
substantially greater financial and marketing resources than Hansen.

         For its natural  sodas,  smoothies,  carbonated  functional  drinks and
Signature sodas as well as other products, Hansen competes not only for consumer
acceptance,  but also for  maximum  marketing  efforts by  multi-brand  licensed
bottlers,  brokers and distributors,  many of which have a principal affiliation
with competing  companies and brands.  The Company's  products  compete with all
liquid  refreshments and with products of much larger and  substantially  better
financed  competitors,  including  the  products  of numerous  nationally  known
producers  such as The Coca Cola Company,  PepsiCo,  Inc.,  Dr.  Pepper/Seven-Up
Companies,  Inc.,  Cadbury Schweppes,  The Quaker Oats Company,  Triarc Group of
Companies (which includes the RC Soda, Snapple,  Mistic and Stewards brands) and
Nestle Beverage Company. More specifically,  the Company's products compete with
other  alternative  beverages,  including  new age  beverages,  such as Snapple,
Mistic,  Arizona,  Clearly Canadian,  Sobe, Everfresh,  Nantucket Nectar, Mistic
Rain Forest Nectar, Very Fine, Calistoga,  Blue Sky, Red Bull and Crystal Geyser
brands.  Due to the rapid  growth of the  alternative  beverage  segment  of the
beverage marketplace,  certain large companies such as The Coca Cola Company and
PepsiCo,  Inc.  have  introduced  products in that market  segment which compete
directly with the Company's products such as Nestea, Fruitopia, Lipton and Ocean
Spray.  The  Company's  products  also compete with private label brands such as




those carried by chain and club stores.  Important  factors  affecting  Hansen's
ability to compete successfully include taste and flavor of products,  trade and
consumer promotion, rapid and effective development of new, unique, cutting edge
products,  attractive and different packaging, brand and product advertising and
pricing.  Hansen must also  compete for  distributors  who will  concentrate  on
marketing the Company's  products  over those of Hansen's  competitors,  provide
stable and  reliable  distribution  and secure  adequate  shelf  space in retail
outlets.  Competitive  pressures  in the  alternative  and  functional  beverage
categories could cause the Company's products to lose market share or experience
price erosion which could have a material adverse effect on Hansen's business.

         Hansen's(R)  fruit juice  Smoothies  compete with Kern's nectars in the
western states and Libby's in the eastern states and Wipper Snapple, Mistic Rain
Forest Nectar,  and Nantucket Nectar nationally and also with single serve juice
products produced by many competitors. Such competitive products are packaged in
glass and P.E.T. bottles ranging from 10- to 18-ounces in size and in 11.5-ounce
aluminum cans. The juice content of such competitive  products ranges from 1% to
100%.

         The Company's apple and other juice products compete directly with Tree
Top,  Mott's,  Martinelli's,  Welsh's,  Ocean  Spray,  Langers,  Adams  and Eve,
Northland and also with other brands of apple juice and juice blends, especially
store brands.  The Company's Healthy  Start(TM) line competes with Langer's,  V8
Splash,  Knudsen and other juice  products.  The Company's  still water products
compete directly with Evian,  Crystal Geyser,  Naya,  Palomar Mountain,  Sahara,
Arrowhead,  Aquafina,  Dannon,  and other brands of still water especially store
brands.

Marketing

         Hansen's marketing strategy is to focus on consumers who seek beverages
which are perceived to be natural and healthy.  To attract these consumers,  the
Company  emphasizes the natural  ingredients  and the absence of  preservatives,
sodium,  artificial  coloring and caffeine in the Company's product lines (other
than the Company's new functional energy and stamina(TM) drinks which do contain
caffeine).  This message is reinforced in the product packaging, the majority of
which is currently undergoing extensive redesign. The regular wholesale price of
Hansen's(R) Natural Sodas in cans is slightly higher than mainstream soft drinks
such as Coca-Cola  and Pepsi,  although  generally  lower than the prices of the
products of many competitors in the new age category.  In its marketing,  Hansen
emphasizes its high quality  "natural" image and the fact that its soda products
contain no preservatives,  sodium,  caffeine or artificial coloring. The regular
wholesale  price of the Company's  iced teas,  lemonades and juice  cocktails is
slightly  lower than  competitive  non-carbonated  beverages  marketed under the
Snapple, Mistic, Lipton, Nestea,  Fruitopia,  Ocean Spray and Arizona brands. In
its marketing,  Hansen  emphasizes  its high quality  natural image and the fact
that its iced tea products are  decaffeinated  and lighter than those of many of
its  competitors.  The regular  wholesale  prices of the  Company's  fruit juice
Smoothie products are similar to those of Kern's nectars. Without abandoning its
natural and healthy  image,  the Company  launched a lightly  carbonated  energy
drink in 8.2-ounce slim cans, containing two popular energy supplements, Ginseng
and Taurine,  to appeal to the young and active  segment of the beverage  market
that  desires an energy boost from its beverage  selection.  Hansen's(R)  energy
drink also  contains  Vitamins B2, B6, B12,  Niacin,  Vitamin C, Ginkgo  Biloba,
Guarana,  Caffeine and Glucose.  The Company has since launched four  additional
lightly  carbonated  functional  drinks. The first, a stamina(TM) drink contains
Coenzyme  Q-10,  L-Carnitine,  Bee Pollen,  Royal  Jelly,  Schizandra  Berry and
Vitamins B5, B6, B12, Niacin, Vitamin C, Guarana Berry and Caffeine; the second,
a d-stress(TM) drink contains Kava Kava, St John's Wort,  L-Tyrosine,  Chamomile
as well as Vitamins B5, B6, B12, Niacin and Vitamin C; the third, an antioox(TM)
drink contains Grape Seed Extract, Selenium,  Echinacea,  Vitamins A, C and E as
well as Vitamins  B5, B6, B12 and  Niacin;  and the  fourth,  a power(TM)  drink
contains Creatine,  Glutamine,  Red Panax Ginseng as well as key B Vitamins. The
vitamins,   nutrients  and  herbs  ("supplements")  contained  in  each  of  the
functional  drinks are  intended to provide  specific but  different  functional
benefits to the consumers of each of such products.

         To cater for  consumers who regularly  purchase  juices in  multi-serve
sizes and would  perceive the  inclusion of  supplements  therein to be of added
value, the Company  launched its Healthy  Start(TM) line of 100% juices in 1998.
Although  marketed  in larger  multi-serve  packages  that are  appropriate  for




grocery chain stores, club stores,  specialty chains and health food stores, the
positioning  of these  products is similar to the Company's  lightly  carbonated
functional  drinks in 8.2-ounce  slim cans. To  distinguish  these products from
those of competitors,  each label clearly  indicates the function of the product
in addition to listing the supplements contained therein.

         Hansen's sales and marketing  strategy is to focus its primary  efforts
on developing  brand awareness and trial through  sampling both in stores and at
events.  Hansen  intends to place  increased  emphasis on product  sampling  and
participating in direct promotions.  The Company proposes to continue to use its
refrigerated  truck  extensively  at  events at which  the  Company's  products,
particularly its fruit juice smoothies and natural sodas, will be distributed to
consumers for sampling.  Hansen utilizes  "push-pull" tactics to achieve maximum
shelf and  display  space  exposure in sales  outlets  and  maximum  demand from
consumers for its products including advertising,  price promotions,  couponing,
sampling and sponsorship of sporting events such as marathons, 10k runs, bicycle
races,  volleyball  tournaments and other health- and sports-related  activities
and also participates in product demonstrations,  food tasting and other related
events.  Posters,  print, radio and television  advertising  together with price
promotions and couponing are also used  extensively  to promote the  Hansen's(R)
brand.

         Management increased  expenditures for its sales and marketing programs
by approximately 37% in 1998 compared to 1997.

         The Company  intends to support its planned  expansion of  distribution
and sale of its  Smoothie  products in bottles,  functional  drinks in 8.2-ounce
cans and  Signature  Sodas,  through the  in-store  placement  of  point-of-sale
materials,  use of glide racks and a proprietary rolling rack for its functional
drinks and by attending and  sponsoring  many sporting  events and by developing
local  marketing   programs  in  conjunction  with  its  distributors  in  their
respective  markets.  By  enlisting  its  distributors  as  participants  in its
marketing and  advertising  programs,  Hansen  intends to create an  environment
conducive to the growth of both the Hansen's(R)  brand and the businesses of its
distributors.

         In January 1994,  the Company  entered into an agreement  with a barter
company  for the  exchange  of  certain  inventory  for future  advertising  and
marketing  credits.  The Company  assigned a value of $490,000 to these  credits
based on the net realizable value of the inventory exchanged. As of December 31,
1997, advertising and marketing credits totaled $265,000.  Although such credits
remain  available for use by the Company  through  January 2002,  management was
unable to estimate their  remaining net  realizable  value at December 31, 1997,
and fully expensed such advertising and marketing credits.

         Management  continues to believe that one of the keys to success in the
beverage  industry  is  differentiation,  making  Hansen's(R)  products  clearly
distinctive  from other  beverages  on the  shelves of  retailers.  The  Company
reviews its products and  packaging on an ongoing  basis and,  where  practical,
endeavors  to make them  different,  better and  unique.  The  Company  recently
redesigned the labels for Hansen's(R) juice products. In the case of Hansen's(R)
Natural  Soda  products,  an  inexpensive  redesign  of  the  can  graphics  was
implemented  during 1997 as an interim  measure.  The graphics  for  Hansen's(R)
Natural Soda and Smoothie products in cans are being completely redesigned in an
endeavor to develop a new  packaging  system that will maximize  visibility  and
identification of all Hansen's(R) brand products, wherever they may be placed in
stores. It is anticipated that such redesign will be completed by May 1999.

Customers

         Retail  and  specialty  chains,  and  club  stores  represented  72% of
Hansen's  sales in the year  ended  December  31,  1997 but only 59% in the year
ended  December  31,  1998,  while  the  percentage  of  sales  to full  service
distributors (primarily of Hansens(R) Smoothies in bottles and functional drinks
in  8.2-ounce  slim cans)  increased  from  approximately  19% in the year ended
December 31, 1997 to approximately 32% in the year ended December 31, 1998.

         Hansen's major customers in 1998 include Costco Wholesale, Trader Joes,
Sam's Club,  Lucky,  Vons,  Safeway,  Ralph's,  Wal-Mart  and  Albertson's.  One
customer  accounted for  approximately  27% of the Company's  sales for the year




ended  December  31,  1998.  A decision by this major  customer to decrease  the
amount  purchased from the Company or to cease  carrying the Company's  products
could have a material  adverse effect on the Company's  financial  condition and
results of operations.

         The Company  has one  operating  segment  but  manages its  business by
distribution channel through a warehouse and distributor function.

Seasonality

         Hansen normally  experiences greater sales and profitability during its
second and third fiscal quarters (April through  September).  The consumption of
beverage  products  fluctuates  in part  due to  temperature  changes  with  the
greatest  consumption  occurring  during the warm  months.  During  months where
temperatures  are  abnormally  warm  or  cold,   consumption  goes  up  or  down
accordingly.   Similarly,   consumption  is  affected  in  those  regions  where
temperature  and other  weather  conditions  undergo  dramatic  changes with the
seasons.  Management  anticipates  that the sale of the  Company's  products may
become increasingly subject to seasonal fluctuations as more sales occur outside
of California in areas where weather  conditions are  intemperate.  Sales of the
Company's juice products are less affected by such factors. The Company believes
that sales of its  Healthy  Start(TM)  line and  functional  drinks will be less
affected  by such  factors.  However,  as the  Company  has  not had  sufficient
experience with such products, it is unable to predict the likely sales trend of
such products with any degree of accuracy.

Trademark

         The Hansen's(R)  trademark is crucial to the Company's  business.  This
trademark is registered in the U.S.  Patent and Trademark  Office and in various
countries  throughout the world.  The Hansen's(R)  trademark is owned by a trust
(the  "Trust")  which was  created  by an  agreement  between  Hansen  and FJC's
predecessor  (the  "Agreement  of  Trust").  The  Trust has  licensed  to HBC in
perpetuity on an exclusive  world-wide  royalty-free  basis the right to use the
Hansen's(R) trademark in connection with the manufacture,  sale and distribution
of  carbonated  beverages  and waters and shelf  stable  fruit juices and drinks
containing  fruit  juices.  In  addition,  the Trust  has  licensed  to HBC,  in
perpetuity,  on an exclusive  world-wide basis, the right to use the Hansen's(R)
trademark in connection with the  manufacture,  sale and distribution of certain
non-carbonated  beverages and water in consideration of royalty  payments.  Such
license is, however, terminable if certain minimum royalty payments are not made
to the Trust. A similar license  agreement exists between the Trust and HBC with
regard to non-beverage  products.  Royalty expenses  incurred in respect of such
non-carbonated beverages and water during 1998 amounted to $15,257. No royalties
are payable on sodas, juices, lemonades, juice cocktails, fruit juice Smoothies,
functional  drinks,  Healthy  Start(TM)  or  Signature  Soda lines.  HBC,  FJC's
predecessor  and the Trust have also  entered into a Royalty  Sharing  Agreement
pursuant  to which  royalties  payable by third  parties  procured by FJC or its
predecessor or HBC will initially be shared between the Trust and HBC and, after
a specified  amount of  royalties  have been  received,  will be shared  equally
between HBC and FJC. Under the terms of the Agreement of Trust, FJC will receive
royalty  income  paid to the  Trust in excess  of Trust  expenses  and a reserve
therefor.  Management  believes  that such royalty  payments as a percentage  of
sales are comparatively low. FJC's predecessor applied to register the trademark
Hansen's  Smoothie(TM),  and agreed to assign  its rights  thereto to the Trust.
However,  FJC's  predecessor  failed to prosecute such application or assignment
and the Trust is  considering  whether or not to proceed with an  application to
register  such  trademark.   The  Company's  right  to  use  such  trademark  is
coextensive with its right to use the Hansen's(R) trademark.

         The Company has applied to register a number of  trademarks  including,
but not limited to, antioox(TM),  d-stress(TM),  stamina(TM), THE REAL DEAL(TM),
It's Just  Good(TM),  Juice  Blast(TM),  and Aqua  Blast(TM),  ANTIOXoJUICE(TM),
INTELLIoJUICE(TM), IMMUNEoJUICE(TM), Defense(TM), bothin(TM), and Powerpack(TM).

         The  Company  owns in its own  right  the  trademarks,  LIQUIDFRUIT(R),
Imported from Nature(R),  California's Natural Choice(R), California's Choice(R)
and Equator(R).




Government Regulation

         The  production and marketing of beverages are subject to the rules and
regulations  of the United States Food and Drug  Administration  (the "FDA") and
other  federal,  state and local health  agencies.  The FDA also  regulates  the
labeling of containers  including,  without  limitation,  statements  concerning
product ingredients.

Employees

         As of March 1, 1999,  Hansen  employed a total of 68  employees,  63 of
whom are  employed  on a full-time  basis.  Of  Hansen's  68  employees,  27 are
employed in administrative and quality control capacities and 41 are employed in
sales and marketing capacities.

Compliance with Environmental Laws

         The  operation  of  Hansen's  business  is not  materially  affected by
compliance with federal,  state or local environmental laws and regulations.  In
California,  Hansen is required to collect  deposits  from its  customers and to
remit such deposits to the State of California  Department of Conservation based
upon the number of cans and bottles of its carbonated  products sold. In certain
other states and Canada where Hansens(R)  products are sold, the Company is also
required to collect  deposits  from its  customers and to remit such deposits to
the respective  conservation  agencies based upon the number of cans and bottles
of certain products sold.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

         Hansen's  corporate  offices  and  warehouse  are  located  in a single
building at 2380 Railroad Street,  Suite 101,  Corona,  California  91720.  This
facility is leased by HBC for a period of  eighty-nine  (89)  months  commencing
from September 19, 1997. The gross area of the facility is approximately  66,700
square feet.






ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

         The second stage of the trial in HBC's action against ERLY  Industries,
Inc.  ("ERLY") in the Superior  Court for the State of  California,  was held in
July 1997 for the sole purpose of determining  the amount of HBC's  damages,  if
any,  resulting from ERLY's breach of certain rights of first refusal provisions
contained in HBC's subordinated  secured promissory note in the principal amount
of $4 million in favor of ERLY.  In November  1997,  the court held that HBC had
not suffered any damages as a result of ERLY's breach of the note. HBC has filed
an appeal against that judgment. A motion was made by ERLY for the costs of such
action to be awarded in its favor,  which was  dismissed by the court.  ERLY has
filed a cross  appeal on that issue.  The full amount due under the note to ERLY
was paid in  November  1997 with the  proceeds  of a term loan  obtained  by the
Company from Comerica Bank - California.  During 1998, ERLY filed for bankruptcy
and the appeal was  consequently  stayed by law.  The  Company has filed a claim
against ERLY but has received no response  from the trustee and is  consequently
unaware  whether the  trustee  intends to accept the claim or pursue the appeal.
The ultimate outcome of this matter cannot presently be predicted.

         Towards the end of 1998,  the Company  together with the trustee of the
Hansen Trust commenced arbitration  proceedings against FJC, the former trustees
of the Trust and a company called Hansen Juice Creations,  LLC, ("Creations") in
which the  Company  and the trustee  claim (i) that  certain  acts of the former
trustees  of the Trust  constitute  breach of  trust;  (ii) a certain  agreement
purportedly entered into between the former trustees of the Trust and Creations,
is, in whole or in part, void or terminable by the Trust; and (iii) certain acts
of Creations constitute  infringement of the Hansen's trademark and certain acts
of FJC constitute  contributory  infringement  of the Hansen's  trademarks.  The
Company  and the trustee  seek  damages and  injunctive  relief  against FJC and
Creations. It is expected that such proceedings will be completed before the end
of 1999. The Company does not believe that the outcome of such  proceedings will
materially affect the Company.

         Except  as  described  above,  there  are  no  material  pending  legal
proceedings  to which the  Company or any of its  subsidiaries  is a party or to
which any of the properties is subject,  other than ordinary routine  litigation
incidental to the Company's business.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

         The annual meeting of  stockholders of the Company was held on June 19,
1998. At the meeting, the following individuals were elected as directors of the
Company and received the number of votes set opposite their respective names:

                                                                Votes For

                   Rodney C. Sacks                              7,508,862
                   Hilton H. Schlosberg                         7,512,349
                   Benjamin M. Polk                             7,512,349
                   Norman C. Epstein                            7,512,349
                   Harold C. Taber, Jr.                         7,512,349
                   Mark S. Vidergauz                            7,512,349

         In addition,  at the meeting the  stockholders of the Company  ratified
the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as independent  auditors of the Company
for the year ending December 31, 1998, by a vote of 7,491,314 for, 1,585 against
and 24,285 abstaining.






PART II

ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
          SHAREHOLDER MATTERS

Principal Market

         The Company's common stock began trading in the over-the-counter market
on  November  8, 1990 and is quoted on the  Nasdaq  Small-Cap  Market  under the
symbol "HANS". As of March 1, 1999, there were 9,923,414 shares of the Company's
common stock outstanding held by approximately 681 holders of record.

Stock Price and Dividend Information

         The following table sets forth high and low bid closing  quotations for
the common  stock,  on a quarterly  basis from  January 1, 1996 to December  31,
1998:

                                                     Common Stock
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                           High Bid                     Low Bid
                                        ------------                  ----------
Year Ended December 31, 1998


First Quarter                           $  2  9/16                    $  1 15/32

Second Quarter                          $  4   3/4                    $  2  3/8

Third Quarter                           $  6 13/16                    $  3  3/4

Fourth Quarter                          $  6 17/32                    $  2 15/16

Year Ended December 31, 1997

                                        $  1   3/8                    $  1
First Quarter
                                        $  1  7/16                    $    31/32
Second Quarter
                                        $  1 15/16                    $  1  3/8
Third Quarter
                                        $  2 11/16                    $  1  9/16
Fourth Quarter

Year Ended December 31, 1996

                                        $    31/32                    $     5/8
First Quarter
                                        $  2 11/16                    $     5/8
Second Quarter
                                        $  2   1/2                    $  1  5/8
Third Quarter
                                        $  2  5/16                    $  1 1/16
Fourth Quarter


         The quotations for the Company's common stock set forth above represent
bid quotations  between  dealers,  do not include retail markups,  mark-downs or
commissions   and,  bid  quotations,   may  not  necessarily   represent  actual
transactions  and "real time" sale prices.  The source of the bid information is
the Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc.

         Hansen has not paid dividends to its  stockholders  since its inception
and does not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future.




ITEM 6.  SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA

         The  consolidated  statement  of  operations  data set forth below with
respect  to each of the years  ended  December  31,  1994  through  1998 and the
balance sheet data as of December 31, for the dates indicated,  are derived from
the  consolidated  financial  statements  audited by  Deloitte  and Touche  LLP,
independent certified public accountants, and should be read in conjunction with
those financial  statements and notes thereto included  elsewhere in this and in
the 1996 and 1997 Forms 10-K and in the 1994 and 1995 Forms 10-KSB.

(in thousands, except per
share information)
                         1998      1997        1996       1995      1994
- ------------------    ---------  ---------- ---------- ---------- ----------

Net sales              $53,866     $43,057    $35,565    $33,991   $28,816

Net income (loss)      $ 3,563     $ 1,250    $   357    $(1,350)  $(1,407)

Net income (loss)
per common share
  Basic                  $0.38       $0.14      $0.04     $(0.15)   $(0.15)
  Diluted                $0.34       $0.13      $0.04


Total assets           $21,927     $16,933    $16,109     $17,521   $17,654

Long-term debt         $ 1,335     $ 3,408        -       $ 4,032   $ 3,971


ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
          AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

General

         During 1998 the Company  continued to make progress  towards  achieving
its goal of expanding both the Hansen's(R)  brand product range and distribution
of such products into new markets outside of California.  Sales of the Company's
four carbonated  functional drinks continued to exhibit strength and good repeat
purchase by consumers.  During the year, the Company introduced power(TM),  it's
newest  functional drink in an 8.2-ounce slim can and the new Healthy  Start(TM)
juice line, consisting of VITAMAXoJUICE, ANTIOXoJUICE(TM),  IMMUNEoJUICE(TM) and
INTELLIoJUICE(TM).  power(TM) is a black  cherry  flavored  drink that  contains
Creatine, Glutamine and Red Panax Ginseng as well as key B Vitamins. The Healthy
Start(TM) line was originally  launched in 46-ounce P.E.T.  multiserve packs and
was extended to a 64-ounce  size for the full line during the fourth  quarter of
1998, following testing of DYNAoJUICE(TM) in that size package.  Also during the
fourth quarter, DYNAoJUICE(TM) was renamed VITAMAXoJUICE.

         The Company  introduced its new line of premium  Hansen's(R)  Signature
Sodas in January 1999 and plans to introduce its new line of premium  functional
Smoothies along with additional  functional  drinks in 8.2-ounce slim cans later
in 1999. Other new product development includes a new line of premium functional
iced teas in  proprietary  glass bottles later in 1999.  Following  enthusiastic
response from  distributors to the Healthy  Start(TM) line, the Company plans to
introduce the Healthy Start(TM) line in single-serve  glass bottles for the down
the  street  market  during  1999  as  well.  The  Company  continues  to  incur
expenditures in connection with the development and introduction of new products
and flavors.

         The increase in net sales and  profitability  in the fourth  quarter of
1998 and for the year ended  December 31, 1998,  was primarily  attributable  to
increased sales of the Company's  functional  drinks in 8.2-ounce slim cans and,
to a lesser extent, the Company's Healthy Start(TM) line and apple juice blends.



         Net sales of iced teas,  lemonades  and juice  cocktails  were slightly
higher in 1998 than in 1997 primarily due to increased sales to club stores.

         Net sales of Smoothie  products were about the same in 1998 as in 1997.
Sales to  distributors  of Smoothies in glass bottles were slightly higher while
sales of Smoothies in cans to club stores and grocery chain stores were slightly
lower in 1998 than in 1997.

         Net sales of natural  sodas were  slightly  lower in 1998 than in 1997.
Management  believes  that the  lower  sales  and  gross  profits  from soda was
primarily  attributable to decreased sales to retail stores and distributors due
to aggressive  retail  pricing and promotions of main stream sodas and decreased
sales  to  club  stores.  In  1997,  a bonus  6-pack  program  was  successfully
introduced  in club stores and was repeated in 1998.  However,  such program did
not achieve the same level of success and  consequently,  the  increase in sales
that was achieved in 1997 was not repeated in 1998.

         Net sales of apple juice were lower in 1998 than in 1997. Such decrease
was  primarily  attributable  to  aggressive  pricing  promotions  undertaken by
competitors of the Company.

         The Company  decided to discontinue  offering its  Equator(R)  brand of
ready to drink iced teas,  lemonades and juice cocktails in 20-ounce blue cobalt
glass  bottles and in their place offered a green tea under the Equator brand in
20-ounce  blue  cobalt  glass  bottles to select  customers.  Subsequently,  the
Company  substituted  the Hansen's brand name for the Equator brand name on such
green tea products.  The Company is at the present time  expanding its green tea
line with three new  specialty  teas and will offer that line,  in a proprietary
20-ounce  glass bottle that is  presently  being  designed  for the Company,  to
select customers in 1999.

         The mix of  products  sold by the Company  continued  to change in 1998
with an  increased  percentage  of sales  being  attributable  to the  Company's
functional  drinks in 8.2-ounce  slim cans and to the new Healthy  Start(TM) and
juice  blends  product  lines.  The change in  product  mix  together  with cost
reductions  achieved  resulted in an increase  in the gross  profit  margin as a
percentage  of net  sales  to 49.3 % for the year  ended  December  31,  1998 as
compared to 41.4% for year ended December 31, 1997.

         During  1998,  sales  outside  of  California  represented  34%  of the
aggregate sales of the Company as compared to approximately 24% of the aggregate
sales of the Company in 1997.  Sales to  distributors  outside the United States
from the United States during 1998 amounted to $500,000 compared to $854,000.

         During  1998,  the  Company  entered  into  several  new   distribution
agreements  for the sale of its  products  both  within and  outside  the United
States.  As  discussed  under "ITEM 1.  BUSINESS  -Manufacture,  Production  and
Distribution",  it is  anticipated  that the Company will continue  building its
national  sales  organization  in 1999 to  support  and  grow  the  sales of its
products.

         In 1998 the  Company  benefited  from cost  reductions  achieved in the
procurement of certain  concentrates,  juices,  flavors and packaging materials,
the  co-packing  of its  sodas  as  well as the  re-packing  of  certain  of its
products.  In 1998 cost savings were also  realized  from the  relocation of the
Company's  warehouse and corporate  offices to the Corona facility.  The Company
continues to take steps to reduce costs,  particularly  the cost of its soda and
non-carbonated and Smoothie product lines.

         The Company  continues to incur  expenditures  in  connection  with the
development and introduction of new products and flavors.




Results of Operations  for the Year Ended December 31, 1998 Compared to the Year
Ended December 31, 1997.

         Net  Sales.  For the year  ended  December  31,  1998,  net sales  were
approximately  $53.9  million,  an increase  of $10.8  million or 25.1% over the
$43.1  million net sales for the year ended  December 31, 1997.  The increase in
net sales was primarily  attributable to increased sales of the Company's energy
functional drink and sales of the Company's three additional  functional  drinks
in 8.2-ounce slim cans  introduced in the first quarter of 1998. The increase in
sales of functional drinks was attributable in part to the fact that the Company
launched  its energy  functional  drink in April 1997 and also that during 1997,
the Company  did not have any sales of its three  additional  functional  drinks
which were  introduced  in the first  quarter of 1998. A portion of the sales of
functional   drinks  during  1998  were  attributable  to  opening  orders  from
distributors  prior  to  their  launching  such  products  in  their  respective
territories.  Consequently,  sales of  functional  drinks during 1998 may not be
indicative  of sales that will be achieved  from those  products  in  subsequent
periods. The increase in net sales was also, to a lesser extent, attributable to
the  Company's  Healthy  Start(TM)  line and apple juice  blends which were also
launched in 1998,  and  increased  sales of  Smoothies  in  bottles,  iced teas,
lemonades and juice cocktails. The increase in net sales was partially offset by
decreased sales of soda, Smoothies in cans, and the discontinuance of Equator(R)
and other  marginal  products.  The  decrease in sales of  Smoothies in cans was
primarily  attributable to a large  introductory order received during the third
quarter of 1997, which was not repeated in 1998 and also to the fact that only a
portion  of the  stores  of the  customer  concerned  continue  to  stock  those
products.

         Gross  Profit.  Gross  profit  was  $26.5  million  for the year  ended
December 31, 1998,  an increase of $8.7 million or 48.8% over the $17.8  million
gross profit for the year ended December 31, 1997.  Gross profit as a percentage
of net sales  increased to 49.3% for the year ended December 31, 1998 from 41.4%
for the year ended December 31, 1997. The increase in gross profit was primarily
attributable  to  increased  net sales as well as cost  reductions  achieved  in
certain  raw  materials  and  packaging.  The  increase  in  gross  profit  as a
percentage of net sales was primarily attributable to higher margins achieved as
a result of a change in the Company's product mix.

         Total Operating  Expenses.  Total operating expenses were $20.6 million
for the year ended  December  31,  1998,  an increase  of $4.6  million or 29.0%
higher  than  total  operating  expenses  of $16.0  million  for the year  ended
December  31,  1997.  Total  operating  expenses  as a  percentage  of net sales
increased to 38.2% for the year ended December 31, 1998, from 37.0% for the year
ended December 31, 1997. The increase in total operating  expenses was primarily
attributable to increased selling,  general and administrative expenses incurred
as a result of the Company's  increased sales volume which was partially  offset
by decreased other expenses.

         Selling, general and administrative expenses were $20.2 million for the
year ended  December 31, 1998,  an increase of $4.7 million or 30.8% higher than
selling, general and administrative expenses of $15.5 million for the year ended
December 31, 1997. Selling,  general and administrative expenses as a percentage
of net sales  increased to 37.5% for the year ended December 31, 1998 from 35.9%
for the year ended  December 31, 1997.  Selling  expenses were $14.1 million for
the year ended  December 31,  1998,  an increase of $3.6 million or 33.9% higher
than  selling  expenses of $10.5  million for the year ended  December 31, 1997.
Selling  expenses as a percentage  of net sales  increased to 26.2% for the year
ended  December 31, 1998 from 24.4% for the year ended  December  31, 1997.  The
increase in selling  expenses was primarily  attributable  to increased costs of
promotional  allowances  and  materials  primarily  to support the  expansion of
distribution  into new  markets and to support  the  placement  and sales of the
Company's functional drinks in 8.2-ounce slim cans and Smoothies in bottles and,
to a lesser extent,  increased  distribution  costs.  General and administrative
expenses were $6.1 million for the year ended  December 31, 1998, an increase of
$1.2 million or 24.2% higher than  general and  administrative  expenses of $4.9
million for the year ended December 31, 1997. General and administrative expense
as a percent of net sales was 11.4% both for the years ended  December  31, 1998
and 1997, respectively.  The increase in general and administrative expenses was
primarily  attributable  to increased  payroll costs and certain other  expenses
incurred in connection  with the  Company's  product  development  and expansion
activities into additional states.



         Amortization  of trademark  license and trademarks was $296,000 for the
year  ended  December  31,  1998,  a decrease  of $4,000  from  amortization  of
trademark  license and  trademarks  of $301,000 for the year ended  December 31,
1997.

         Other  expenses  were  $60,000 for the year ended  December 31, 1998, a
decrease of $139,000  or 69.8%  below  other  expenses of $199,000  for the year
ended  December  31,  1997.  This  decrease was  primarily  attributable  to the
expiration of certain  consulting  agreements in 1997 which were entered into in
connection with the purchase of the Hansen Business. This decrease was partially
offset  by a new  consulting  agreement  entered  into in 1997  with the  former
president of HBC.

         Operating Income.  Operating income was $6.0 million for the year ended
December  31,  1998,  compared to $1.9  million for the year ended  December 31,
1997. The $4.1 million increase in operating  income was primarily  attributable
to increased  gross profits which was  partially  offset by increased  operating
expenses.

         Net Nonoperating Expense. Net nonoperating expense was $330,000 for the
year ended  December 31, 1998,  which was $262,000  lower than net  nonoperating
expense of $592,000  for the year ended  December  31,  1997.  Net  nonoperating
expense  consists of interest and financing  expense,  interest income and other
expense. Interest and financing expense for the year ended December 31, 1998 was
$387,000 as  compared to $525,000  for the year ended  December  31,  1997.  The
decrease in interest and financing  expense was  attributable to lower financing
fees;  less interest  incurred on the term loan (refer to "Liquidity and Capital
Resources" below); and lower average short-term borrowings during the year ended
December 31, 1998 than during 1997.  Interest income for the year ended December
31, 1998 was $72,000 as compared to interest income of $3,000 for the year ended
December 31, 1997. The increase in interest income was primarily attributable to
interest  earned on excess  cash  invested.  Other  expense of $15,000  for 1998
consists of certain expenses  incurred in connection with the  discontinuance of
operations in the United Kingdom.  Other expense for 1997 consisted of a $70,000
loss  incurred on the disposal of certain  assets,  arising  primarily  from the
closure of the route distribution system

         Provision  for income  taxes.  Provision  for income taxes for the year
ended  December  31,1998 was $2.1  million as compared to  provision  for income
taxes of $40,200 for the year ended December 31, 1997. The increase in provision
for income taxes was primarily  attributable to increased  operating income, and
to a lesser extent,  decreased net  nonoperating  expense and a reduction in the
valuation allowance attributable to prior years net operating losses.

         Net Income. Net income was $3.6 million for the year ended December 31,
1998,  compared to $1.3 million for the year ended  December 31, 1997.  The $2.3
million increase in net income was attributable to increased operating income of
$4.1 million and decreased  nonoperating expense of $262,000 which was offset by
increased provision for income taxes of $2.0 million.

Results of Operations  for the Year Ended December 31, 1997 Compared to the Year
Ended December 31, 1996.

         Net  Sales.  For the year  ended  December  31,  1997,  net sales  were
approximately $43.1 million, an increase of $7.5 million or 21.1% over the $35.6
million net sales for the year ended  December  31,  1996.  The  increase in net
sales was primarily  attributable to increased sales of Hansen's(R)  fruit juice
Smoothies in cans and bottles,  increased sales of Hansen's(R)  apple juice, and
sales of Hansen's(R)  energy drink,  which was introduced during April 1997. The
increase  in net  sales was  partially  offset  by  decreased  sales of soda and
Equator(R).  Sales of iced teas,  lemonades and juice  cocktails  were about the
same as in the comparable period in 1996.

         Gross  Profit.  Gross  profit  was  $17.8  million  for the year  ended
December 31, 1997,  an increase of $3.9 million or 28.4% over the $13.9  million
gross profit for the year ended December 31, 1996.  Gross profit as a percentage
of net sales  increased to 41.4% for the year ended December 31, 1997 from 39.1%
for the year ended December 31, 1996. The increase in gross profit was primarily
attributable  to  increased  net sales as well as cost  reductions  achieved for
certain  raw  materials  and  packaging.  The  increase  in  gross  profit  as a




percentage of net sales was primarily attributable to higher margins achieved as
a result of a change in the Company's product mix.

         Total Operating  Expenses.  Total operating expenses were $16.0 million
for the year ended  December  31,  1997,  an increase  of $2.8  million or 20.7%
higher  than  total  operating  expenses  of $13.2  million  for the year  ended
December  31,  1996.  Total  operating  expenses  as a  percentage  of net sales
decreased to 37.0% for the year ended December 31, 1997, from 37.2% for the year
ended December 31, 1996. The increase in total operating  expenses was primarily
attributable to increased selling, general and administrative expenses which was
partially offset by decreased  amortization of trademark  license and trademarks
and other expenses.  The decrease in total operating expenses as a percentage of
net  sales  was   primarily   attributable   to  increased  net  sales  and  the
comparatively  smaller increase in operating expenses from the comparable period
in 1996.

         Selling, general and administrative expenses were $15.5 million for the
year ended  December 31, 1997,  an increase of $3.0 million or 23.4% higher than
selling, general and administrative expenses of $12.5 million for the year ended
December 31, 1996. Selling,  general and administrative expenses as a percentage
of net sales  increased to 35.9% for the year ended December 31, 1997 from 35.2%
for the year ended  December 31, 1996.  Selling  expenses were $10.5 million for
the year ended  December 31,  1997,  an increase of $2.5 million or 30.8% higher
than  selling  expenses of $8.0  million for the year ended  December  31, 1996.
Selling  expenses as a percentage  of net sales  increased to 24.4% for the year
ended  December 31, 1997 from 22.6% for the year ended  December  31, 1996.  The
increase in selling expenses was primarily attributable to increased advertising
and costs of  promotional  materials  primarily  to  support  the  expansion  of
distribution  and sales of Smoothie  bottles and the launch of the Company's new
energy drink;  increased  distribution costs; and, partially attributable to the
establishment  of a reserve in the Company's  financial  statements  against the
advertising and marketing credits more fully described under "ITEM 1. BUSINESS -
Marketing", above. General and administrative expenses were $4.9 million for the
year ended  December  31,  1997,  an increase  of $449,000 or 10.0%  higher than
general and administrative  expenses of $4.5 million for the year ended December
31,  1996.  General and  administrative  expenses as a  percentage  of net sales
decreased to 11.4% for the year ended  December 31, 1997 from 12.6% for the year
ended December 31, 1996. The increase in general and administrative expenses was
primarily  attributable  to  increased  payroll  costs  in  connection  with the
Company's expansion activities into additional states.

         Amortization  of trademark  license and  trademarks  was  approximately
$301,000  for the year ended  December  31, 1997, a decrease of $96,000 from the
$397,000 for the year ended December 31, 1996.  This decrease is attributable to
the change in the  amortization  period  from 25 years to 40 years as more fully
described in Note 1 in the Company's consolidated financial statements.

         Other  expenses were  $199,000 for the year ended  December 31, 1997, a
decrease of $97,000 or 32.8% below other expenses of $296,000 for the year ended
December 31, 1996. This decrease was primarily attributable to the expiration of
certain consulting agreements in 1997 which were entered into in connection with
the purchase of the Hansen Business. This decrease was partially offset by a new
consulting agreement entered into in 1997 with the former president of HBC.

         Operating Income.  Operating income was $1.9 million for the year ended
December  31, 1997,  compared to $677,000 for the year ended  December 31, 1996.
The increase in operating  income was primarily  attributable to increased gross
profit which was partially offset by increased operating expenses.

         Net Nonoperating Expense. Net nonoperating expense was $592,000 for the
year ended December 31, 1997,  which was $274,000  higher than net  nonoperating
expense of $317,000  for the year ended  December  31,  1996.  Net  nonoperating
expense for the year ended  December 31, 1997 consists of interest and financing
expense,  interest income and other expense.  Net  nonoperating  expense for the
year ended  December  31,  1996  consists  of interest  and  financing  expense,
interest  income and other income.  Interest and financing  expense for the year
ended  December  31, 1997 was  $525,000  compared to $586,000 for the year ended
December  31,  1996.  The  decrease  in  interest  and  financing   expense  was
attributable to decreased  amortization of certain  capitalized  financing costs




incurred in connection  with the securing of HBC's  previous  revolving  line of
credit,  which  were fully  amortized  by the third  quarter of 1996;  and lower
average  short-term  borrowings  during the year ended  December  31,  1997 than
during 1996.  Interest income for the year ended December 31, 1997 was $4,000 as
compared  to interest  income of $9,000 for the year ended  December  31,  1996.
Other  expense for 1997  consists of a $70,000  loss on the  disposal of certain
assets,  arising  primarily from the closure of the route  distribution  system.
Other income for 1996  consisted  of $259,000 of income from the recovery  under
the  Hawaiian  Water  Partners  note  described  in  Note  11 in  the  Company's
consolidated financial statements.

         Provision  for income  taxes.  Provision  for income taxes for the year
ended December  31,1997 was $40,200 as compared to provision for income taxes of
$2,400 for the year ended  December  31, 1996.  The  increase in  provision  for
income taxes was primarily attributable to increased state franchise taxes.

         Net Income. Net income was $1.3 million for the year ended December 31,
1997,  compared to $357,000 for the year ended  December 31, 1996.  The $893,000
increase in net income was  attributable to increased  operating  income of $1.2
million  which was offset by  increased  nonoperating  expense of  $274,000  and
increased provision for income taxes of $38,000.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

         As of December 31, 1998, the Company had working  capital of $4,997,000
compared to working  capital of $2,503,000 as of December 31, 1997. The increase
in  working  capital  was  primarily  attributable  to net income  earned  after
adjustments for certain noncash  expenses,  primarily  amortization of trademark
license and trademarks,  depreciation and other  amortization,  and compensation
expense  related to the  issuance  of stock  options.  The  increase  in working
capital was  partially  offset by the  reclassification  of portion of long-term
debt to current portion of long-term debt and, to a lesser extent,  by purchases
of property and equipment,  increases in trademark  license and trademarks,  and
principal repayments made on long-term debt.

         In 1997, a credit facility was granted to the Company by Comerica Bank-
California  ("Comerica"),  consisting of a revolving  line of credit of up to $3
million in aggregate at any time outstanding and a term loan of $4 million.  The
utilization  of the  revolving  line of credit by the Company is dependent  upon
certain levels of eligible accounts  receivable and inventory from time to time.
Such revolving line of credit and term loan are secured by substantially  all of
HBC's assets,  including accounts receivable,  inventory,  trademark license and
trademarks,  and certain  equipment.  The Company  entered  into a  modification
agreement  with Comerica as of December 1, 1998 which  provides for the original
revolving  line of credit  agreement  to be and  remain in full force and effect
until  May 1,  2000 and for the  rate of  interest  payable  by the  Company  on
advances  under the  revolving  line of credit to be  reduced  from 1% above the
banks base (prime) rate to 2 1/2% over the bank's Libor rate or 1/4 of 1 percent
above the banks base (prime) rate, at the option of the Company. During the year
ended  December 31, 1998, no amounts were borrowed  under the revolving  line of
credit and as of  December  31,  1998,  no amounts  were  outstanding  under the
revolving line of credit. HBC anticipates that the revolving line of credit will
be renewed  when it expires on May 1, 2000.  However,  there can be no assurance
that it will, in fact, be renewed, or if renewed, that the terms of such renewal
will not be disadvantageous to HBC and its business.

         The initial use of  proceeds  under the term loan was to the  principal
balance  due  by  the   Company   under  the  Note  (refer  to  "ITEM  3.  LEGAL
PROCEEDINGS").  As of December 31, 1998,  $3,399,996 was  outstanding  under the
term loan.  The term loan is repayable  over a period of 60 months from November
1997.

         During 1998, a portion of the  Company's  cash  reserves  were used for
working capital including the acquisition of increased inventories, increases in
accounts receivable, and the acquisition of property and equipment and to reduce
long-term  debt.  The  acquisition  of increased  inventories  and  increases in
accounts receivables, acquisition of property and equipment and repayment of the
Company's term loan, as well as HBC's acquisition and development plans are, and
for the foreseeable future, are expected to remain HBC's principle recurring use
of cash and working capital funds.




         Net cash used in investing  activities  for the year ended December 31,
1998 was $515,000 as compared to net cash provided by  investment  activities of
$21,000 in 1997.  The  increase  in net cash used in  investing  activities  was
primarily  attributable  to purchases of property and equipment  (including vans
and  promotional  vehicles) to support the Company's  expansion and  development
plans,  and,  to  a  lesser  extent,  to  increases  in  trademark  license  and
trademarks.  Although  the  Company has no current  plans to incur any  material
capital expenditures,  management,  from time to time, considers the acquisition
of property and equipment,  particularly,  merchandise  display racks,  vans and
promotional  vehicles,  coolers and other  promotional  equipment and businesses
compatible with the image of the Hansens(R) brand as well as the introduction of
new product lines. The Company may require  additional  capital resources in the
event of any such  transaction,  depending upon the cash  requirements  relating
thereto. Any such transaction will also be subject to the terms and restrictions
of HBC's credit facilities.

         The  term  loan  contains  quarterly  and  annual  financial  covenants
requiring the Company to maintain certain  financial ratios and maintain certain
levels of net worth. The term loan also contains certain nonfinancial covenants.
At both December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively,  the Company was in compliance
with all covenants.

         Net cash used in  financing  activities  decreased  to $445,000 for the
year ended  December 31, 1998 from  $1,004,000 in 1997. The decrease in net cash
used in financing activities was attributable to the fact that during the twelve
months  ended  December 31, 1997,  principal  payments of $893,000  were made in
reduction of HBC's  revolving  line of credit as compared to no payments made on
such line in 1998.  The  decrease in net cash used in financing  activities  was
partially offset by principal payments made on long-term debt of $521,000 in the
year ended December 31, 1998 as compared to principal payments made on long-term
debt of  $136,000 in 1997 and also by $76,000  received by the Company  from the
issuance of common stock as compared to $11,000 received in 1997.

         Management believes that cash available from operations, including cash
resources and its revolving  line of credit,  will be sufficient for its working
capital needs, including purchase commitments for raw materials, payments of tax
liabilities,  debt servicing,  expansion and development needs, repayments under
the term  loan  during  1999,  as well as any  purchases  of  capital  assets or
equipment through December 31,1999.

Year 2000 Compliance

         Many currently  installed  computer  systems and software  products are
coded to accept only two digit  entries in the date code field.  These date code
fields will need to accept four digit  entries or be modified in some fashion to
distinguish  twenty-first  century  dates from  twentieth  century  dates.  This
problem could force  computers to either  shut-down or provide  incorrect  data.
Incomplete  or  untimely  resolution  of Year  2000  issues by the  Company,  by
critically  important  suppliers,  co-packers  or customers of the Company could
have  a  material  adverse  impact  on the  Company's  business,  operations  or
financial condition in the future.

         The Company's Year 2000 compliance  efforts are ongoing and its overall
plan,  as well as the  consideration  of  contingency  plans,  will  continue to
evolve, as new information  becomes available.  While the Company anticipates no
major interruption of its business  activities,  this will be dependent in part,
upon the  ability  of third  parties  to be Year 2000  compliant.  Although  the
Company has  implemented  the  actions  described  below to address  third party
issues, it has no direct ability to influence  compliance  actions by such third
parties or to verify their  representations  that they are Year 2000  compliant.
The Company's  most  significant  potential  risk is the temporary  inability of
certain key suppliers to supply raw materials and/or key co-packers to pack some
of the Company's  products in certain  locations and/or certain of the Company's
major customers to order and pay on a timely basis,  should their systems not be
Year 2000 compliant by January 1, 2000.


         The  Company  is  in  the  process  of  investigating  its  information
technology  ("IT")  systems as well as its  non-information  technology  ("NIT")
systems.  Based upon such investigation,  the Company believes that the majority
of its IT and NIT systems are Year 2000 compliant. However, certain systems such
as the communication and voice mail system still require  remediation.  To date,
the  expenses  incurred by the  Company in order to become Year 2000  compliant,
including  computer  software  costs,  have been  approximately  $75,000 and the
current  estimated  cost to  complete  remediation  is  expected  not to  exceed
$50,000.  Such costs,  other than  software,  have been and will  continue to be
expensed as incurred.  Remediation and testing activities are well underway with
approximately  80% of the  Company's  systems  already  compliant.  The  Company
currently  estimates that it will complete the required  remediation,  including
testing,  of all of its IT and NIT systems,  by the end of the third  quarter of
1999.

         An assessment of Year 2000 compliance issues by third parties with whom
the  Company  has  relationships,   such  as  critically   important  suppliers,
co-packers,  customers,  banking institutions,  payroll processors and others is
ongoing. The Company has inquired and continues to inquire of such third parties
as to their  readiness  with respect to Year 2000  compliance  issues and has to
date received  indications from certain of them that their systems are compliant
or in the process of  remediation.  The Company will  continue to monitor  these
third  parties to  determine  the  possible  impact of their  non-compliance  or
otherwise  on the  business of the Company and the actions the Company can take,
if any,  in the  event of  non-compliance  by any of these  third  parties.  The
Company believes there are multiple vendors of many of the goods and services it
receives  from its  suppliers  and thus Year 2000  compliance  issue  risks with
respect to any particular supplier is mitigated by this factor. However, certain
flavors and ingredients used by the Company are unique to certain  suppliers and
the Company  does not have and may not be able to secure  alternative  suppliers
therefor or alternatively, alternative suppliers that are able to supply flavors
or ingredients  of the same or similar  quality and/or with the same and similar
taste.  The Company also is dependent on customers  for sales and for  cashflow.
Interruptions  in customers'  operations due to Year 2000 issues could result in
decreased revenue, increased inventory and cash flow reductions.

         Contingency plans for Year 2000 related interruptions will be developed
during 1999 where  necessary and possible and will  include,  but not be limited
to, the development of emergency back-up and recovery procedures, remediation of
existing  systems  parallel  with the  installation  of new  systems,  replacing
electronic  applications with manual processes,  identification  and securing of
alternative  suppliers and increasing raw material and finished goods  inventory
levels and alternative sales strategies.  All plans are expected to be completed
by the end of 1999.

         The Company's  plans,  which  continue to evolve,  including  estimated
costs and dates for completion of Year 2000 remediation,  are based in important
part on numerous assumptions about future events.  Certain of these assumptions,
involving key matters such as the availability of certain resources, third party
remediation plans and other factors,  involve inherent  uncertainties or are not
within the Company's control.  Given the numerous and significant  uncertainties
involved,  there can be no assurance  that these  estimates will be achieved and
therefore,  actual results could differ materially.  Specific factors that might
cause  material  differences  include,  but are not  limited  to, the ability to
identify  and  correct  all  relevant   computer   codes  and  imbedded   chips,
unanticipated  difficulties or delays in the implementation of project plans and
the ability of third parties to remediate their respective systems.





European Monetary Union

         Within  Europe,  The European  Economic and Monetary  Union (the "EMU")
introduced a new currency,  the euro, on January 1, 1999.  The new currency s in
response to the EMU's policy of economic  convergence to harmonize trade policy,
eliminate  business costs  associated with currency  exchange and to promote the
free flow of capital, goods and services.

         On January 1, 1999,  the  participating  countries  adopted the euro as
their local  currency,  initially  available  for  currency  trading on currency
exchanges  and  noncash   transactions  such  as  banking.  The  existing  local
currencies,  or legacy  currencies,  will remain legal tender through January 1,
2002.  Beginning  on January 1, 2002,  euro-denominated  bills and coins will be
used for cash  transactions.  For a period of up to six  months  from this date,
both legacy  currencies and the euro will be legal tender.  On or before July 1,
2002,  the  participating  countries  will  withdraw all legacy  currencies  and
exclusively use the euro.

         The Company's transactions are recorded in U.S. Dollars and the Company
does not currently  anticipate future  transactions  being recorded in the euro.
Based on the lack of  transactions  recorded in the euro,  the Company  does not
believe  that the euro will have a material  effect on the  financial  position,
results of operations or cash flows of the Company. In addition, the Company has
not  incurred  and does not  expect  to incur  any  significant  costs  from the
continued  implementation of the euro,  including any currency risk, which could
materially  affect the  Company's  business,  financial  condition or results of
operations.

         The Company has not experienced any significant operational disruptions
to date and does not currently expect the continued  implementation  of the euro
to cause any significant operational disruptions.

New Accounting Pronouncements

         The Company has adopted  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting  Standard
("SFAS") No. 130, "Reporting  Comprehensive  Income" for the year ended December
31,  1998.  SFAS 130  establishes  standards  for the  reporting  and display of
comprehensive  income.  Components of  comprehensive  income may include,  among
other items,  foreign currency  translation  adjustments,  compensation  expense
related to issuance of nonqualified  stock options,  minimum  pension  liability
adjustments, and unrealized gains and losses on marketable securities classified
as available-for-sale.

         The Company has adopted SFAS No. 131, "Disclosures About Segments of an
Enterprise  and Related  Information".  In  accordance  with SFAS No.  131,  the
Company has  determined  that it has only one operating  segment but manages its
business by distribution  channel through a warehouse and distributor  function.
The  percentages of the Company's  sales  represented by each of those functions
over the past three  years is set out in Note 12 in the  Company's  consolidated
financial statements.

         In June 1998, the FASB issued SFAS No. 133,  "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments  and  Hedging  Activities",  which the  Company is required to adopt
effective  in its fiscal  year 2000.  SFAS No. 133 will  require  the Company to
record all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value.  The Company does not
currently engage in hedging activities but will continue to evaluate the effects
of adopting SFAS No. 133. The Company will adopt SFAS No. 133 in its fiscal year
2000.




Forward Looking Statements

         The Private Security Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the "Act") provides
a safe  harbor  for  forward  looking  statements  made by or on  behalf  of the
Company. The Company and it's representatives may from time to time make written
or oral  forward  looking  statements,  including  statements  contained in this
report and other  filings with the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission  and in
reports to  shareholders  and  announcements.  Certain  statements  made in this
report,  including  certain  statements  made  in  management's  discussion  and
analysis,  may  constitute  forward  looking  statements  (within the meaning of
Section  27.A of the  Securities  Act 1933 as amended  and  Section  21.E of the
Securities  Exchange Act of 1934,  as amended)  regarding  the  expectations  of
management  with  respect to  revenues,  profitability,  adequacy  of funds from
operations and the Company's  existing credit facility,  among other things. All
statements  which address  operating  performance,  events or developments  that
management  expects or  anticipates  will or may occur in the  future  including
statements  related to new products,  volume  growth,  revenues,  profitability,
adequacy  of  funds  from  operations,  and/or  the  Company's  existing  credit
facility,  earnings per share growth,  statements  expressing  general  optimism
about future operating results and  non-historical  Year 2000  information,  are
forward looking statements within the meaning of the Act.




Management  cautions that these  statements  are qualified by their terms and/or
important  factors,  many of which are outside  the control of the Company  that
could cause actual results and events to differ  materially  from the statements
made including, but not limited to, the following:

- -Company's ability to generate sufficient cash flows to support capital
 expansion plans and general operating activities;
- -Changes in consumer preferences;
- -Changes in demand that are weather related, particular in areas outside of
 California;
- -Competitive products and pricing pressures and the Company's ability to
 gain or maintain share of sales in the marketplace as a result of actions
 by competitors;
- -The introduction of new products;
- -Laws and regulations, and/or any changes therein, including changes in
 accounting standards, taxation requirements (including tax rate changes,
 new tax laws and revised tax law interpretations) and environmental laws as
 well as the Federal Food Drug and Cosmetic Act, the Dietary Supplement
 Health and Education Act, and regulations made thereunder or in connection
 therewith, especially those that may affect the way in which the Company's
 products are marketed as well as laws and regulations or rules made or
 enforced by the Food and Drug Administration;
- -Changes in the cost and availability of raw materials and the ability to
 maintain favorable supply arrangements and relationships and procure timely
 and/or adequate production of all or any of the Company's products;
- -The Company's ability to achieve earnings forecasts, which may be based on
 projected volumes and sales of many product types and/or new products,
 certain of which are more profitable than others. There can be no assurance
 that the Company will achieve projected levels or mixes of product sales;
- -The Company's ability to penetrate new markets;
- -The marketing efforts of distributors of the Company's products, most of
 which distribute products that are competitive with the products of the
 Company;
- -Unilateral decisions by distributors, grocery chains, specialty chain
 stores, club stores and other customers to discontinue carrying all or any
 of the Company's products that they are carrying at any time;
- -The terms and/or availability of the Company's credit facilities and the
 actions of it's creditors;
- -The effectiveness of the Company's advertising,marketing and promotional
 programs;
- -Adverse weather conditions, which could reduce demand for the Company's
 products;
- -The Company's customers', co-packers' and suppliers' ability to replace,
 modify or upgrade computer programs in ways that adequately address Year 2000
 issues; and
- -The Company's project plans, which continue to evolve, including estimated
 costs and dates for completion of Year 2000 remediation, are based in
 important part on numerous assumptions about future events. Certain of
 these assumptions, involving key matters such as the availability of
 certain resources, third party remediation plans and other factors, involve
 inherent uncertainties or are not within the Company's control. Given the
 numerous and significant uncertainties involved, there can be no assurance
 that these estimates will be achieved and actual results could differ
 materially. Specific factors that might cause material differences include,
 but are not limited to, the inability to identify and correct all relevant
 computer codes and imbedded chips, unanticipated difficulties or delays in
 the implementation of project plans and the ability of third parties to
 remediate their respective systems.

The foregoing list of important factors is not exhaustive.



Sales

         The table set forth below discloses  selected  quarterly data regarding
sales  for the past  five  years.  Data  from any one or more  quarters  are not
necessarily indicative of annual results or continuing trends.

         Sales are  expressed  in  actual  cases  and case  equivalents.  A case
equivalent  is equal to the  amount of soda  concentrate  sold  that will  yield
twenty-four  12-ounce  (354 ml) cans  measured by volume.  Actual  cases of soda
equal twenty-four  12-ounce (354 ml) cans or 11-ounce (325 ml) bottles or twelve
23-ounce (680 ml) bottles or twenty-four  14-ounce (414 ml) bottles  measured by
volume. A case of apple juice equals twelve 32-ounce bottles, six 64-ounce glass
bottles,  eight 64-ounce P.E.T.  bottles,  four 128-ounce P.E.T.  bottles or the
equivalent  volume.  A case of  non-carbonated  iced teas,  lemonades  and juice
cocktails equals twenty-four  16-ounce (473 ml) or twenty-four 20-ounce (591 ml)
bottles measured by volume. A case of still water equals twenty-four  0.5-liter,
twelve 1.0-liter and twelve 1.5-liter plastic bottles measured by volume. A case
of  fruit  juice  Smoothies  equals  twenty-four  11.5-ounce  (354  ml)  cans or
twenty-four 16-ounce (473 ml) or 13.5-ounce (400 ml) bottles measured by volume.
A case of functional drinks equals twenty-four  8.2-ounce (243 ml) cans measured
by volume.

         The Company's  quarterly results of operations  reflect seasonal trends
that are  primarily  the result of increased  demand in the warmer months of the
year.  It has been  Hansen's  experience  that  beverage  sales tend to be lower
during the first and fourth  quarters of each fiscal  year.  Because the primary
historical  market for Hansen's  products is  California,  which has a year-long
temperate climate, the effect of seasonal  fluctuations on quarterly results may
have been mitigated;  however,  such  fluctuations may be more pronounced as the
distribution  of Hansen's  products  expands  outside of  California.  Quarterly
fluctuations may also be affected by other factors including the introduction of
new products  including  Hansen's  functional drinks, the opening of new markets
where temperature fluctuations are more pronounced, the addition of new bottlers
and  distributors,  changes in the mix of the sales of its finished products and
soda concentrates and increased advertising and promotional  expenses.  See also
"ITEM 1. BUSINESS - Seasonality."


Case Sales (in Thousands)

                        1998      1997        1996        1995       1994
                      ---------  --------   ---------  ---------   --------   
     Quarter 1           1,237       861         940        834        953
     Quarter 2           1,566     1,383       1,340      1,282      1,270
     Quart               1,845     1,648       1,341      1,580      1,210
     Quarter 4           1,241     1,234         876        902        860
                      =========  =========  =========  =========  ========= 
     Totals              5,889     5,126       4,497      4,598      4,293
                      =========  =========  =========  =========  =========  

Sales Revenues (in Thousands)

                         1998        1997     1996       1995       1994
                      ---------  ---------  ---------  ---------  ---------
     Quarter 1         $11,265    $ 7,120    $ 7,365    $ 5,434     $6,050
     Quarter 2          13,950     11,496     10,394      9,560      8,749
     Quarter 3          16,589     13,439     10,817     12,109      8,328
     Quarter 4          12,062     11,002      6,989      6,888      5,689
                      =========  =========  =========  =========  =========   
     Totals            $53,866    $43,057    $35,565    $33,991    $28,816
                      =========  =========  =========  =========  =========   


Inflation

         The Company does not believe that inflation had a significant impact on
the Company's results of operations for the periods presented.




ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

         The  information  required to be  furnished in response to this item is
submitted  hereinafter  following the signature page hereto at pages F-1 through
F-19.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

         None.

PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

General

         Directors  of the Company  are  elected  annually by the holders of the
common  stock  and  executive  officers  are  elected  annually  by the Board of
Directors,  to serve until the next annual meeting of  stockholders or the Board
of  Directors,  as the case may be, or until  their  successors  are elected and
qualified.  It  is  presently  anticipated  that  the  next  annual  meeting  of
stockholders will be held in June 1999.

         Set forth below are the names,  ages and principal  occupations for the
last five years of the directors and/or executive officers of the Company:

     Rodney C. Sacks (49) - Chairman,  Chief  Executive  Officer and director of
the Company from November 1990 to the present. Member of the Executive Committee
of the Board of  Directors of the Company  since  October  1992.  Chairman and a
director  of HBC from June 1992 to the  present.  Mr.  Sacks  resigned  from his
position as Chief  Financial  Officer of the Company in July 1996,  which office
was assumed by Mr. Schlosberg.

         Hilton H. Schlosberg (46) - Vice Chairman,  President,  Chief Operating
Officer, Chief Financial Officer,  Secretary, and a director of the Company from
November 1990 to the present.  Member of the Executive Committee of the Board of
Directors of the Company since October  1992.  Member of the Audit  Committee of
the Board of Directors  of the Company  since  September  1997.  Vice  Chairman,
Secretary and a director of HBC from July 1992 to the present. In July 1996, Mr.
Schlosberg assumed the office of Chief Financial  Officer,  which was previously
held by Mr. Sacks.  Director  and/or Deputy  Chairman of AAF  Industries  PLC, a
United Kingdom  publicly  quoted  industrial  group,  from June 1990 until April
1995.

         Benjamin M. Polk (48) - Director of the Company from  November  1990 to
the present. Assistant Secretary of HBC since October 1992 and a director of HBC
since July 1992.  Member of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of the
Company since September 1997. Member of the Compensation  Committee of the Board
of Directors of the Company from April 1991 until September  1997.  Partner with
Whitman  Breed  Abbott & Morgan  LLP (New  York,  New York)  where Mr.  Polk has
practiced law with that firm and its predecessor,  Whitman & Ransom, from August
1976 to the present. 1

         Norman C.  Epstein  (58) - Director  of the  Company  and member of the
Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company since June 1992.
Member and  Chairman of the Audit  Committee  of the Board of  Directors  of the
Company  since  September  1997.  Director  of HBC since July 1992.  Director of
Integrated  Asset  Management  Limited,  a company  listed on the  London  Stock
Exchange since June 1998.  Managing Director of Cheval  Acceptances,  a mortgage
finance  company  based in London,  England.  Partner  with Moore  Stephens,  an
international  accounting  firm,  from 1974 to  December  1996  (senior  partner
beginning 1989 and the managing  partner of Moore  Stephens,  New York from 1993
until 1995).



         Harold C. Taber,  Jr.  (59) - Director of the Company  since July 1992.
Consultant  to the Company from July 1, 1997 to the present.  Consultant  to The
Joseph Company from September 1997 to the present. President and Chief Executive
Officer and a director of HBC from July 1992 to June 1997. On June 30, 1997, Mr.
Taber  resigned  from his  employment  as well as director,  President and Chief
Executive  Officer of HBC. In  addition,  effective  June 30,  1997,  Mr.  Taber
resigned as a member of the Executive Committee on which he served since October
1992.

         Mark S.  Vidergauz  (45) - Director  of the  Company  and member of the
Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company since June 1998.
Managing  director and head of the Los Angeles  office of ING Baring Furman Selz
LLC,  a  diversified   financial  services  institution   headquartered  in  the
Netherlands.  Prior to joining ING Baring  Furman  Selz LLC in April  1995,  Mr.
Vidergauz was a managing  director at Wedbush Morgan  Securities,  an investment
banking firm in Los Angeles,  from 1991 to 1995. Prior to joining  Wedbush,  Mr.
Vidergauz  was a  corporate  finance  attorney  in the  Los  Angeles  office  of
O'Melveny & Meyers.

1Mr. Polk and his law firm,  Whitman Breed Abbott & Morgan LLP, serve as counsel
to the Company.


Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

         Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act requires the Company's  directors and
executive  officers,  and persons who own more than ten percent of a  registered
class of the Company's equity securities, to file by specific dates with the SEC
initial  reports of  ownership  and  reports of changes in  ownership  of equity
securities  of the  Company.  Officers,  directors  and greater than ten percent
stockholders  are required by SEC  regulation to furnish the Company with copies
of all Section 16(a) forms that they file.  The Company is required to report in
this  annual  report on Form 10-K any  failure of its  directors  and  executive
officers and greater than ten percent  stockholders  to file by the relevant due
date any of these reports during the two preceding fiscal years.


         To the  Company's  knowledge,  based solely on review of copies of such
reports  furnished to the Company during the two fiscal years ended December 31,
1998,  all  Section  16(a)  filing  requirements  applicable  to  the  Company's
officers,   directors  and  greater  than  ten  percent   stockholders  were  in
compliance.




ITEM 11.          EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

         The following tables set forth certain information  regarding the total
remuneration  earned  and  grants of  options/SARs  made to the chief  executive
officer and each of the four most highly  compensated  executive officers of the
Company and its  subsidiaries  who earned total cash  compensation  in excess of
$100,000  during the year ended December 31, 1998.  These amounts  reflect total
cash  compensation   earned  by  the  Company  and  its  subsidiaries  to  these
individuals during the fiscal years December 31, 1996 through 1998.


(1) SALARY-Pursuant to his  employment  agreement,  Mr.  Sacks is entitled to an
annual  base  salary of  $170,000.  For 1998 and  1997,  Mr.  Sacks  agreed to a
temporary reduction of his annual base salary to $160,000. For 1996, Mr.
Sacks agreed to a temporary reduction of his annual base salary to $135,000.

Pursuant to his employment  agreement,  Mr.  Schlosberg is entitled to an annual
base salary of $170,000 starting when he commenced full-time employment,  during
July 1995.  For 1998,  Mr.  Schlosberg  agreed to a temporary  reduction  of his
annual base salary to $160,000.  For 1997, Mr.  Schlosberg agreed to a temporary
reduction of his annual base salary to $158,030. For 1996, Mr. Schlosberg agreed
to a temporary reduction of his annual base salary to $127,500.

(2) BONUS-Payments made in 1999 and 1998 for bonuses accrued in 1998 and 1997.
(3) OTHER ANNUAL COMPENSATION-The cash value of perquisites of the named persons
did not total  $50,000  or 10% of  payments  of salary and bonus for each of the
years  shown,  except for Mr.  Brooks in 1998 and 1997.  For 1998,  Mr.  Brooks'
perquisites  include  $15,000 for  housing  allowances  and $894 for  automobile
related expenses.  For 1997, Mr. Brooks' perquisites include $11,500 for housing
allowances and $3,422 for relocation and  automobile  related  expenses.  
(4) LTIP PAYOUTS-None paid. No plan in place.  
(5) RESTRICTED STOCK AWARDS-The Company does not have a plan for restricted
stock awards. 
ALL OTHER COMPENSATION - none paid





(1)37,500 options to purchase the Company's common stock are exercisable on
January 30, 1998; and 37,500 are exercisable on January 30, 1999.
(2) 10,000 options to purchase the Company's common stock are exercisable on
January 30, 1998; 10,000 are exercisable on January 30, 1999; and 10,000 are
exercisable on January 30, 2000.


1)Includes  options to purchase  37,500 shares of the Company's  common stock at
$1.59 per share of which none are  exercisable  at December  31,  1998,  granted
pursuant to a Stock Option  Agreement dated January 30, 1998 between the Company
and Mr. Sacks.

2)Includes  options to purchase  37,500 shares of the Company's  common stock at
$1.59 per share of which none are  exercisable  at December  31,  1998,  granted
pursuant to a Stock Option  Agreement dated January 30, 1998 between the Company
and Mr. Schlosberg.

3)Includes  options to purchase  96,000 shares of the Company's  common stock at
$1.06 per share of which none are  exercisable  at December  31,  1998,  granted
pursuant to a Stock Option Agreement dated February 10, 1997 between the Company
and Mr. Hall;  and options to purchase  20,000  shares of the  Company's  common
stock at $1.59 per share of which none are  exercisable  at December  31,  1998,
granted  pursuant to a Stock Option Agreement dated January 30, 1998 between the
Company and Mr. Hall.

4)Includes options to purchase  60,000  share of the  Company's  common stock at
$1.59 per share of which 12,000 are  exercisable  at December 31, 1998,  granted
pursuant to a Stock Option Agreement dated February 24, 1997 between the Company
and Mr. Brooks.





Performance Graph

The following graph shows a five-year comparison of cumulative total returns.(1)

                                         TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURNS

                                         ANNUAL RETURN PERCENTAGE
                                                       
For the years ended December 31, 

Company Name/Index                  1994      1995      1996    1997       1998
- -----------------------          --------  --------   -------  --------  -------
HANSEN NAT CORP                   (28.57)   (63.36)    54.59    70.62    196.63
S&P SMALLCAP 600 INDEX             (4.77)    29.96     21.32    25.58    ( 1.31)
PEER GROUP                        (54.85)   (25.29)    52.16    33.97    (42.80)




                                             INDEXED RETURNS
For the years ended December 31,

                           Base              
                          Period
Company Name/Index         1993     1994      1995      1996    1997       1998
- -----------------------  ------- --------  --------   -------  --------  -------
HANSEN NAT CORP            100     71.43     26.17     40.46     69.03    204.76
S&P SMALLCAP 600 INDEX     100     95.23    123.76    150.14    188.56    186.10
PEER GROUP                 100     45.15     33.73     51.33     68.77     39.33





(1) Annual return assumes reinvestment of dividends. Cumulative total return
assumes an initial investment of $100 on December 31, 1993. The Company's
self-selected peer group is comprised of Atlantic Premium Brands, Ltd. (which
began trading in November 1993); Great Pines Water, Inc. (which began trading in
August 1993); Saratoga Beverage Group (which began trading in June 1993); Cable
Car Beverage Corporation (which was acquired by Triarc Companies, Inc. in
December 1997); and Cott Corporation, National Beverage Corporation, Clearly
Canadian Beverage Company, Triarc Companies, Inc. and Northland Cranberries,
which are also members of the peer group, traded during the entire five-year
period.



Employment Agreements

         The Company entered into an employment agreement dated as of January 1,
1999,  with Rodney C. Sacks pursuant to which Mr. Sacks renders  services to the
Company as its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer for an annual base salary of
$180,000,  for the twelve-month period ending December 31, 1999, increasing by a
minimum of 8% for each  subsequent  twelve-month  period  during the  employment
period,  plus an annual bonus in an amount  determined at the  discretion of the
Board of Directors and certain fringe benefits.  The employment period commenced
on January 1, 1999 and ends on December 31, 2003.

         The Company  also  entered  into an  employment  agreement  dated as of
January 1, 1999,  with Hilton H.  Schlosberg  pursuant  to which Mr.  Schlosberg
renders  services  to the  Company  as its Vice  Chairman,  President  and Chief
Financial Officer,  for an annual base salary of $180,000,  for the twelve-month
period  ending  December  31,  1999,  increasing  by a  minimum  of 8% for  each
subsequent  twelve-month  period during the  employment  period,  plus an annual
bonus in an amount  determined  at the  discretion of the Board of Directors and
certain fringe benefits.  The employment period commenced on January 1, 1999 and
ends on December 31, 2003.

          Effective  June 30, 1997,  Mr. Taber elected to retire and  terminated
his  employment  agreement  with HBC and entered into a Severance and Consulting
Agreement  with the Company  and HBC (the  "Consulting  Agreement")  pursuant to
which, among other matters, HBC agreed to retain Mr. Taber as a consultant for a
period  of two years at a fixed  monthly  fee of $5,000  and Mr.  Taber's  Stock
Option  Agreement  with the Company dated as of June 30, 1995 was terminated and
replaced with a new Stock Option Agreement with the Company dated as of June 20,
1997  (the  "Replacement  Stock  Option  Agreement").  Under  the  terms  of the
Replacement  Stock Option  Agreement,  Mr. Taber was granted options to purchase
100,000 shares of the Company's common stock  exercisable until June 30, 1999 at
$1.38 per share. Mr. Taber remains a director of the Company.  In addition,  Mr.
Taber agreed to repay amounts owed by him to HBC under a certain promissory note
by  offsetting  amounts owed under the note against  accrued and unpaid base pay
payable under Mr.  Taber's  employment  agreement and amounts  payable under the
Consulting  Agreement.  See  "Certain  Relationships  and Related  Transactions"
below.

         The preceding  descriptions  of the  employment  agreements for Messrs.
Sacks and Schlosberg and the Consulting  Agreement and Replacement  Stock Option
Agreement  with Mr. Taber are  qualified in their  entirety by reference to such
agreements  which have been filed or  incorporated  by  reference as exhibits to
this report.

Directors' Compensation

         The Company's current policy is to pay outside directors (non-executive
officers)  who are not  contractually  entitled  to be  nominated  to  serve  as
directors,  annual  fees of $7,000  plus $500 for each  meeting  attended of the
Board of Directors or any committee  thereof.  Benjamin M. Polk earned directors
fees of $8,000 and Norman C.  Epstein  earned  directors  fees of $7,500 for the
one-year period ended December 31, 1998. Mark S. Vidergauz earned directors fees
of $4,500 for the  seven-month  period ended  December  31, 1998.  See "ITEM 13.
CERTAIN  RELATIONSHIPS  AND  RELATED  TRANSACTIONS"  below  for  description  of
contractual obligations to nominate certain outside directors.







Employee Stock Option Plan

         The Company has a stock option plan (the "Plan") that  provides for the
grant of options to  purchase up to  2,000,000  shares of the  Company's  common
stock to certain key  employees  of the Company  and its  subsidiaries.  Options
granted  under the Plan may either be incentive  stock options  qualified  under
Section 422 of the Internal  Revenue Code of 1986, as amended,  or non-qualified
options.  Such options are exercisable at fair market value on the date of grant
for a period of up to ten years.  Under the Plan,  shares subject to options may
be purchased for cash,  for shares of the Company's  common stock valued at fair
market value on the date of purchase or in  consideration of the cancellation of
options valued at the difference between the exercise price thereof and the fair
market value of the the Company's common stock on the date of exercise. The Plan
is administered by the  Compensation  Committee of the Board of Directors of the
Company,  comprised of directors  who have not received  grants of options under
the Plan.  Grants  under the Plan are made  pursuant  to  individual  agreements
between the  Company and each  grantee  that  specifies  the terms of the grant,
including the exercise price, exercise period, vesting and other terms thereof.

         On January 4, 1999,  the Board of  Directors  of the Company  adopted a
resolution to amend the Plan to provide that the  aggregate  number of shares of
the Company's  common stock issuable upon the exercise of options  granted under
the Plan shall be increased  from  2,000,000  shares to 3,000,000  shares.  Such
amendment is subject to approval by the  stockholders of the Company at the next
annual meeting of stockholders.

Outside Directors Stock Option Plan

         The  Company  has  an  option  plan  for  its  outside  directors  (the
"Directors  Plan") that  provides  for the grant of options to purchase up to an
aggregate  of 100,000  shares of the  Company's  common  stock of the Company to
directors  of the Company who are not and have not been  employed by or acted as
consultants  to the Company and its  subsidiaries  or affiliates and who are not
and have not been nominated to the Board of Directors of the Company pursuant to
a contractual arrangement.  On the date of the annual meeting of stockholders at
which an eligible  director is  initially  elected,  each  eligible  director is
entitled  to  receive a one-time  grant of an option to  purchase  6,000  shares
(12,000  shares if the  director is serving on a committee  of the Board) of the
Company's  common stock  exercisable  at the closing price for a share of common
stock on the date of grant.  Options  become  exercisable  one-third each on the
first,  second and third  anniversary of the date of grant;  provided,  however,
that options granted as of February 14, 1995 are exercisable 66 2/3% on the date
of grant and 100% on July 8, 1995; provided further, that all options held by an
eligible  director  become fully and  immediately  exercisable  upon a change in
control of the Company.  Options  granted under the Directors  Plan that are not
exercised  generally expire ten years after the date of grant. Option grants may
be made under the Directors  Plan for ten years from the  effective  date of the
Directors  Plan.  The Directors  Plan is a "formula plan" so that a non-employee
director's  participation  in the Directors Plan does not affect his status as a
"disinterested  person" (as defined in Rule 16b-3 under the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934).




ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
                  MANAGEMENT

         (a)      The  following  table sets forth  information,  as of March 1,
                  1999,   of  the  only   persons   known  to  the  Company  who
                  beneficially  own more  than 5% of the  Company's  outstanding
                  common stock:

Title         Name and Address of       Amount and Nature of           Percent
Of Class       Beneficial Owner          Beneficial Ownership          of Class

- ------------  ------------------------- ----------------------------  ---------
Common Stock   Brandon Limited
                Partnership No. 1 (1)              680,899                6.9%
               Brandon Limited
                Partnership No. 2 (2)            2,831,667               28.5%
               Rodney C. Sacks (3)               3,947,066(4)            39.6%
               Hilton H. Schlosberg (5)          3,906,163(6)            39.2%



(1) The mailing  address of Brandon No. 1 is P.O.  Box 30749,  Seven Mile Beach,
Grand  Cayman,  British West Indies.  The general  partners of Brandon No. 1 are
Rodney C. Sacks and Hilton H. Schlosberg.


(2) The mailing  address of Brandon No. 2 is P.O.  Box 30749,  Seven Mile Beach,
Grand  Cayman,  British West Indies.  The general  partners of Brandon No. 2 are
Rodney C. Sacks and Hilton H. Schlosberg.

(3) The mailing address of Mr. Sacks is 2380 Railroad Street, Suite 101, Corona,
California 91720.

(4) Includes  387,500  shares of the Company's  common stock owned by Mr. Sacks;
680,899  shares  beneficially  held by Brandon No. 1 because Mr. Sacks is one of
Brandon No. 1's general  partners;  and 2,831,667  shares  beneficially  held by
Brandon No. 2 because Mr. Sacks is one of Brandon No. 2's general partners. Also
includes  options  to  purchase  37,500  shares of the  Company's  common  stock
exercisable  at $1.59 per share  granted  pursuant to a Stock  Option  Agreement
dated January 30, 1998;  and options  presently  exercisable  to purchase  9,500
shares of the  Company's  common  stock,  out of options to  purchase a total of
100,000  shares,  exercisable  at $4.25 per share,  granted  pursuant to a Stock
Option Agreement dated February 2, 1999 between the Company and Mr. Sacks.

Mr. Sacks disclaims beneficial ownership of all shares deemed beneficially owned
by him hereunder except (i) 387,500 shares of the Company's  common stock,  (ii)
the 137,500 shares presently issuable under the Plan and (iii) his proportionate
interest  as a  shareholder  in  the  following  shares  beneficially  owned  by
Hazelwood  Investments Limited, a company controlled by Mr. Sacks and his family
("Hazelwood"):  (a) the  243,546  shares  held by  Brandon  No. 1  allocable  to
Hazelwood's  limited  partnership  interest in Brandon No. 1 and (b) the 250,000
shares  held by Brandon  No. 2  allocable  to  Hazelwood's  limited  partnership
interest in Brandon No. 2.

(5) The mailing address of Mr.  Schlosberg is 2380 Railroad  Street,  Suite 101,
Corona, California 91720.

(6)  Includes  346,597  shares  of  the  Company's  common  stock  owned  by Mr.
Schlosberg;  680,899  shares  beneficially  held by  Brandon  No. 1 because  Mr.
Schlosberg  is one of Brandon No. 1's general  partners;  and  2,831,667  shares
beneficially  held by Brandon No. 2 because Mr. Schlosberg is one of Brandon No.
2's general  partners.  Also includes  options to purchase  37,500 shares of the
Company's  common stock  exercisable  at $1.59 per share  granted  pursuant to a
Stock  Option  Agreement  dated  January  30,  1998  between the Company and Mr.
Schlosberg;  and options  presently  exercisable to purchase 9,500 shares of the
Company's  common stock,  out of options to purchase a total of 100,000  shares,
exercisable  at $4.25 per share,  granted  pursuant to a Stock Option  Agreement
dated February 2, 1999 between the Company and Mr. Schlosberg.

Mr. Schlosberg  disclaims beneficial ownership of all shares deemed beneficially
owned by him hereunder  except (i) 346,597 shares of the Company's common stock,
(ii) the  137,500  shares  presently  issuable  under  the Plan  and  (iii)  his
proportionate  interest as a shareholder  in the following  shares  beneficially
owned by Brandon Securities  Limited, a company controlled by Mr. Schlosberg and
his family:  (a) the 247,911  shares held by Brandon No. 1 allocable  to Brandon
Securities  Limited's limited  partnership  interest in Brandon No 1 and (b) the
250,000 shares held by Brandon No. 2 allocable to Brandon  Securities  Limited's
limited partnership interest in Brandon No. 2.




         (b)      The following table sets forth information as to the ownership
                  of shares of the Company's  common stock, as of March 1, 1999,
                  held by persons who are directors of the Company, naming them,
                  and as to  directors  and  officers of the Company as a group,
                  without naming them:

Title of Class    Name                        Amount Owned     Percent of Class
- ---------------   ------------------------   ----------------- ----------------
Common Stock      Rodney C. Sacks             3,947,066   (1)        39.6%
                  Hilton H. Schlosberg        3,906,163   (2)        39.2%
                  Harold C. Taber, Jr.          106,419   (3)         1.1%
                  Benjamin M. Polk               25,600   (4)          *  %
                  Norman C. Epstein              13,149   (5)          *  %
                  Mark S. Vidergauz               --      (6)          *  %

Officers and Directors as a group (5 members:
4,485,831 shares or 44.7% in aggregate)

* Less than 2%


1 Includes  387,500  shares of the  Company's  common stock owned by Mr.  Sacks;
680,899  shares  beneficially  held by Brandon No. 1 because Mr. Sacks is one of
Brandon No. 1's general  partners;  and 2,831,667  shares  beneficially  held by
Brandon No. 2 because Mr. Sacks is one of Brandon No. 2's general partners. Also
includes  options  to  purchase  37,500  shares of the  Company's  common  stock
exercisable  at $1.59 per share  granted  pursuant to a Stock  Option  Agreement
dated January 30, 1998;  and options  presently  exercisable  to purchase  9,500
shares of the  Company's  common  stock,  out of options to  purchase a total of
100,000  shares,  exercisable  at $4.25 per share,  granted  pursuant to a Stock
Option Agreement dated February 2, 1999 between the Company and Mr. Sacks.

Mr. Sacks disclaims beneficial ownership of all shares deemed beneficially owned
by him hereunder except (i) 387,500 shares of the Company's  common stock,  (ii)
the 137,500 shares presently issuable under the Plan and (iii) his proportionate
interest  as a  shareholder  in  the  following  shares  beneficially  owned  by
Hazelwood  Investments Limited, a company controlled by Mr. Sacks and his family
("Hazelwood"):  (a) the  243,546  shares  held by  Brandon  No. 1  allocable  to
Hazelwood's  limited  partnership  interest in Brandon No. 1 and (b) the 250,000
shares  held by Brandon  No. 2  allocable  to  Hazelwood's  limited  partnership
interest in Brandon No. 2.

2 Includes 346,597 shares of the Company's common stock owned by Mr. Schlosberg;
680,899 shares  beneficially held by Brandon No. 1 because Mr. Schlosberg is one
of Brandon No. 1's general partners;  and 2,831,667 shares  beneficially held by
Brandon No. 2 because Mr. Schlosberg is one of Brandon No. 2's general partners.
Also includes  options to purchase  37,500 shares of the Company's  common stock
exercisable  at $1.59 per share  granted  pursuant to a Stock  Option  Agreement
dated  January 30, 1998  between  the  Company and Mr.  Schlosberg;  and options
presently  exercisable to purchase  9,500 shares of the Company's  common stock,
out of options to purchase a total of 100,000  shares,  exercisable at $4.25 per
share,  granted  pursuant to a Stock  Option  Agreement  dated  February 2, 1999
between the Company and Mr. Schlosberg.

Mr. Schlosberg  disclaims beneficial ownership of all shares deemed beneficially
owned by him hereunder  except (i) 346,597 shares of the Company's common stock,
(ii) the  137,500  shares  presently  issuable  under  the Plan  and  (iii)  his
proportionate  interest as a shareholder  in the following  shares  beneficially
owned by Brandon Securities  Limited, a company controlled by Mr. Schlosberg and
his family:  (a) the 247,911  shares held by Brandon No. 1 allocable  to Brandon
Securities  Limited's limited  partnership  interest in Brandon No 1 and (b) the
250,000 shares held by Brandon No. 2 allocable to Brandon  Securities  Limited's
limited partnership interest in Brandon No. 2.

3 Includes 71,137 shares of the Company's  common stock owned by Mr. Taber;  and
35,281.7 shares of the Company's common stock owned by the Taber Family Trust of
which Mr. Taber and his wife are trustees.

4 Includes 13,600 shares of the Company's common stock jointly owned by Mr. Polk
and his wife.  Also includes  options to purchase 12,000 shares of the Company's
common  stock  exercisable  at $1.38 per  share,  granted  under a Stock  Option
Agreement  with the Company  dated as of June 30, 1995 pursuant to the Directors
Plan.

5 Includes 13,149 shares of the Company's common stock owned by Mr. Epstein.

6 None of the options to purchase  12,000 shares of the  Company's  common stock
exercisable at $3.27 per share,  granted under a Stock Option Agreement with the
Company dated as of June 18, 1998 pursuant to the Directors  Plan, are presently
exercisable.





         There are no  arrangements  known to the Company the operation of which
may at a subsequent date result in a change of control of the Company.

ITEM 13.        CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

         Benjamin M. Polk is a partner in the law firm of Whitman Breed Abbott &
Morgan LLP, a law firm  retained  by the  Company  since 1992 and in the current
fiscal year.

         Pursuant to the terms of a certain Assignment  Agreement dated July 27,
1992 between FJC's  predecessor  and Hansen,  the Company has agreed to nominate
and solicit  proxies for the election to the Company's Board of Directors of one
of the  trustees  designated  by the trustees of a certain  trust (the  "Trust")
formed  pursuant to an Agreement of Trust dated July 27, 1992 for so long as the
Trust  shall be in  existence  for the  benefit of Hansen and FJC.  The  initial
designee of the Trust  nominated  to the Board was Anthony F. Kane who  resigned
from the Board in June, 1993. No other designee has been nominated by the Trust.

         Rodney C. Sacks is  currently  acting as the sole trustee of the Trust,
as FJC has failed to designate any person to act as Trustee. The Company and HBC
have agreed to indemnify Mr. Sacks and hold him harmless from any claims,  loss,
liability or expense arising out of his acting as Trustee.

         Harold C. Taber, Jr., who is a director of the Company and a consultant
to HBC, is  indebted to the Company in the amount of $20,861 as of December  31,
1998.

         During 1998 the  Company  purchased  promotional  items from IFM Group,
Inc. to a total value of $151,393. Rodney C. Sacks, together with members of his
family,  own approximately  27% of the issued shares in that Company.  Hilton H.
Schlosberg,  together with members of his family,  own  approximately 43% of the
issued shares in that  Company.  The Company  continues to purchase  promotional
items from IFM Group, Inc. in 1999.

         The  preceding  descriptions  of  agreements  are  qualified  in  their
entirety by reference to such  agreements,  which have been filed as exhibits to
this Report.




PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON
                      FORM 8-K


(a)      1. Exhibits

         See the Index to Exhibits included hereinafter.

         2. Index to Financial Statements filed as part of this Report:

         Independent Auditors' Report                                       F-2

         Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1998 and 1997       F-3

         Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended 
          December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996                                   F-4

         Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the years
          ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996                             F-5

         Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the years
          ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996                            F-6

         Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
          December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996                                  F-7

         Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the years ended
          December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996                                  F-8

(b)      Financial Statement Schedules

         Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the years ended 
          December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996                                 F-20

(c)      Reports on Form 8-K
         None






SIGNATURES

         Pursuant to the requirements of Sections 13 and 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                      HANSEN NATURAL CORPORATION


                      By:  /s/ RODNEY C. SACKS           Date:   March 31, 1999
                          -------------------------
                           Rodney C. Sacks
                           Chairman of the Board

         Pursuant to the  requirements  of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934,
this  report has been  signed  below by the  following  persons on behalf of the
Registrant in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


Signature                    Title                                Date

/s/ RODNEY C. SACKS          Chairman of the Board of Directors   March 31, 1999
- ------------------------      and Chief Executive Officer
Rodney C. Sacks               (Principal Executive Officer)


/s/ HILTON H. SCHLOSBERG     Vice Chairman of the Board of        March 31, 1999
- ------------------------      Directors, President, Chief
Hilton H. Schlosberg          Operating Officer, Principal
                              Financial and Accounting Officer
                              and Secretary



/s/ BENJAMIN M. POLK         Director                             March 31, 1999
- ----------------------- 
Benjamin M. Polk



/s/ NORMAN C. EPSTEIN        Director                             March 31, 1999
- -----------------------
Norman C. Epstein



/s/ HAROLD C. TABER, JR.     Director                             March 31, 1999
- ------------------------
Harold C. Taber, Jr.



/s/ MARK S. VIDERGAUZ        Director                             March 31, 1999
- ------------------------
Mark S. Vidergauz









1  Filed previously as an exhibit to the Registration Statement on Form S-3 
    (no. 33-35796) (the "Registration Statement").

2  Filed  previously as an exhibit to the Company's proxy statement dated
    October 21, 1992.

3  Filed previously as an exhibit to Form 8-K dated July 27, 1992.

4  Filed  previously  as an  exhibit  to  Post-Effective  Amendment  No. 8 to
    the Registration Statement.

5  Filed  previously as an exhibit to Form 10-KSB for the year ended 
    December 31, 1992.

6  Filed  previously as an exhibit to Form 10-KSB for the year ended
    December 31, 1993.

7  Filed  previously as an exhibit to Form 10-KSB for the year ended
    December 31, 1994.

8  Filed  previously  as an exhibit to Form 10-K for the year ended
    December 31, 1995.

9  Filed  previously  as an exhibit  to From 10-Q for the  period  ended
    June 30, 1997.

10 Filed  previously  as an exhibit to From 10-Q for the period ended
    September 30, 1997.

11 Filed  previously  as an exhibit to From 10-Q for the period  ended March 31,
    1998.

12 Filed  previously  as an exhibit  to From 10-Q for the period  ended June 30,
    1998.



                                                    

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

                                                                          
HANSEN NATURAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                                                          Page
                                                                          ---- 
Independent Auditors' Report                                              F-2


Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1998 and 1997              F-3

Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended
 December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996                                         F-4

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the years ended
 December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996                                         F-5

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the years ended
 December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996                                         F-6

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
 December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996                                         F-7

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the years ended
 December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996                                         F-8

Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the years ended
 December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996                                        F-20



                                     F - 1




INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT



The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Hansen Natural Corporation
Corona, California



We have audited the accompanying  consolidated  balance sheets of Hansen Natural
Corporation and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, and
the  related   consolidated   statements   of  income,   comprehensive   income,
shareholders'  equity and cash flows for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997
and 1996. Our audits also included the financial  statement  schedule  listed in
Item  14.  These  consolidated  financial  statements  and  financial  statement
schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility
is to  express  an  opinion  on  these  consolidated  financial  statements  and
financial statement schedule based on our audits.

We  conducted  our  audits  in  accordance  with  generally   accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion,  such consolidated  financial  statements present fairly, in all
material  respects,  the financial  position of Hansen Natural  Corporation  and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, and the  consolidated  results of
their  operations and cash flows for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and
1996 in conformity with generally accepted accounting  principles.  Also, in our
opinion,  such financial statement schedule,  when considered in relation to the
consolidated  financial  statements taken as a whole,  presents  fairly,  in all
material respects, the information set forth therein.




/s/ DELOITTE AND TOUCHE LLP

Costa Mesa, California
March 23, 1999
   except for Note 7, as to which the date is March 29, 1999


                                     F - 2


          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                     F - 3




          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                     F - 4

































          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                     F - 5







          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                     F - 6



NONCASH TRANSACTIONS:
      During  1998,  the  Company   reduced  its  tax  liability  and  increased
           additional  paid in capital in the amount of $277,399  in  connection
           with the exercise of certain stock options.
      During 1998,  the Company  issued  554,732  shares of common  stock to two
           officers  in  connection  with a net  exercise of options to purchase
           725,000 shares of common stock.
      During 1998,  the  Company  issued  138,900  shares  of  common  stock  to
           employees  in  connection  with a net exercise of options to purchase
           99,167 shares of common stock.
      During 1998,  the  Company  issued  71,137  shares  of  common  stock to a
           non-employee in connection with a net exercise of options to purchase
           100,000 shares of common stock.


          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


                                     F - 7

HANSEN NATURAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998, 1997 AND 1996

1.        ORGANIZATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

         Organization - Hansen Natural  Corporation  (the "Company" or "Hansen")
         was incorporated in Delaware on April 25, 1990. The Company owns all of
         the issued and outstanding common stock of CVI Ventures,  Inc. ("CVI"),
         which was  incorporated in Delaware on April 30, 1990. CVI is currently
         inactive.  The  Company  also owns all of the  issued  and  outstanding
         common stock of Hansen Beverage Company ("HBC"), which was incorporated
         in Delaware on June 8, 1992. HBC owns all of the issued and outstanding
         ordinary shares of Hansen  Beverage  Company (UK) Limited ("HBC (UK)"),
         which  ceased  operating  activities  at the end of 1997  and is in the
         process of being deregistered in the United Kingdom.

         The Company is a holding  company and carries on no operating  business
         except  through its direct wholly owned  subsidiary,  HBC. HBC conducts
         all  of the  Company's  operating  business  and  generates  all of the
         Company's  operating  revenues.  References  herein to  "Hansen" or the
         "Company"  when used to describe the operating  business of the Company
         are references to the business of HBC unless otherwise indicated.

         Nature of  Operations - Hansen is engaged in the business of marketing,
         selling and  distributing  so-called  "alternative"  beverage  category
         sodas,   fruit   juices,   fruit   juice   Smoothies,    non-carbonated
         ready-to-drink  iced teas,  lemonades,  juice  cocktails,  "functional"
         drinks  and  still  water  under the  Hansen's(R)  Natural  brand  name
         primarily in certain Western states as well as other states, the United
         Kingdom,  and on a limited basis, in other countries outside the United
         States.

         Principles of Consolidation - The accompanying  consolidated  financial
         statements  include  the  accounts  of  Hansen  and  its  wholly  owned
         subsidiaries, CVI and HBC and, up until December 31, 1997, HBC's wholly
         owned  subsidiary  HBC (UK),  since  their date of  incorporation.  All
         intercompany   balances  and  transactions   have  been  eliminated  in
         consolidation (Note 2).

         Reclassifications  -  Certain  reclassifications  have been made in the
         consolidated financial statements to conform to the 1998 presentation.

         Translation  of  Foreign  Currencies  - Assets and  liabilities  of the
         Company's  United  Kingdom  subsidiary  for the years 1997 and 1996 are
         translated into U.S. dollars at year-end rates of exchange,  and income
         and  expenses are  translated  at average  rates during the  respective
         years. The functional currency of the subsidiary is the pound sterling;
         therefore,  translation  gains or losses  are  recorded  as a  separate
         component of shareholders' equity (Note 2).

         Cash and Cash  Equivalents  - The  Company  considers  certificates  of
         deposit  with  original  maturities  of three months or less to be cash
         equivalents.

         Inventories  -  Inventories  are  valued  at  the  lower  of  first-in,
         first-out (FIFO) cost or market value (net realizable value).

         Property,  Plant and  Equipment -  Property,  plant and  equipment  are
         stated at cost.  Depreciation  of  furniture,  fixtures,  equipment and
         vehicles is based on their estimated useful lives (three to five years)
         and is  calculated  using the  straight-line  method.  Amortization  of
         leasehold improvements is based on the lesser of their estimated useful
         lives or the terms of the related  leases and is  calculated  using the
         straight-line method.

                                     F - 8

         Trademark  License and  Trademarks - Trademark  license  represents the
         Company's  license to use certain  Hansen(R)  brand  names.  Trademarks
         represent expenditures incurred to trademark other branded names. Prior
         to the third quarter of 1996,  trademark  license and  trademarks  were
         being  amortized  over  25  years  using  the   straight-line   method.
         Management periodically evaluates whether there has been any impairment
         of  the  trademark  license  or  trademarks  based  on an  analysis  of
         applicable  undiscounted  expected future cash flows.  During the third
         quarter of 1996, the estimated life of the Company's  trademark license
         and  trademarks  was changed  from 25 years to 40 years to more closely
         conform  such  useful  life with that  used by other  branded  beverage
         companies.  The effect of such change in  accounting  estimate is (i) a
         reduction  in  amortization  of  trademark  license and  trademarks  of
         $211,000 for 1998,  $203,000 for 1997 and $101,000 for 1996 and (ii) an
         increase  in net  income of $.02 per share on a diluted  basis for both
         1998 and 1997, and $.01 per share on a diluted basis for the year 1996.

         Long-Lived  Assets  - The  Company  accounts  for  the  impairment  and
         disposition  of  long-lived  assets in  accordance  with  Statement  of
         Financial  Accounting  Standard  ("SFAS") No. 121,  Accounting  for the
         Impairment  of  Long-Lived  Assets  and  for  Long-Lived  Assets  to Be
         Disposed Of. In accordance with SFAS No. 121,  long-lived  assets to be
         held are reviewed for events or changes in circumstances  that indicate
         that  their  carrying  value  may  not  be  recoverable.   The  Company
         periodically  reviews  the  carrying  value  of  long-lived  assets  to
         determine  whether or not impairment to such value has occurred.  As of
         December  31,  1998,  management  does not believe  that the  Company's
         long-lived assets have been impaired.

         Revenue  Recognition  - The  Company  records  revenue  at the time the
         related products are shipped.  Adequate provision against net sales has
         been made for estimated returns, allowances and cash discounts.

         Advertising - The Company accounts for advertising  production costs by
         expensing such production costs the first time the related  advertising
         takes  place.  Advertising  expenses  included  in selling  and general
         expenses  amount to $4.3 million in 1998, $2.9 million in 1997 and $1.5
         million in 1996.  In  addition,  the  Company  supports  its  customers
         (including distributors) with promotional allowances,  portion of which
         are utilized for indirect advertising by them.  Promotional  allowances
         amounted to $5.6 million in 1998, $4.0 million in 1997 and $3.6 million
         in 1996.

         Net Income Per Common Share - In accordance with SFAS No. 128, Earnings
         per Share,  net income per common share,  on a basic and diluted basis,
         is presented for all periods. Basic net income per share is computed by
         dividing net income by the  weighted  average  number of common  shares
         outstanding.  Diluted net income per share is computed by dividing  net
         income by the weighted  average  number of common and  dilutive  common
         equivalent  shares  outstanding,  if dilutive.  Weighted average common
         equivalent  shares  include  stock  options  using the  treasury  stock
         method.

         Concentration   Risk  -  Certain  of  the  Company's  products  utilize
         components from a limited number of sources. A disruption in production
         of such components could  significantly  affect the Company's  revenues
         from those products,  as alternative sources of such components may not
         be available at  commercially  reasonable  rates or within a reasonably
         short  time  period.   The  Company  is  taking  steps  to  secure  the
         availability of alternative sources of such components, to minimize the
         risk of any disruption in production.

         Credit Risk - The Company sells its products  nationally,  primarily to
         retailers  and  beverage  distributors.  The Company  performs  ongoing
         credit  evaluations  of its customers  and  generally  does not require
         collateral. The Company maintains reserves for potential credit losses,
         and such losses have been within management's expectations.

                                     F - 9


         Fair Value of Financial  Instruments - SFAS No. 107,  Disclosures about
         Fair Value of Financial  Instruments,  requires  management to disclose
         the estimated fair value of certain assets and  liabilities  defined by
         SFAS No. 107 as financial instruments. At December 31, 1998, management
         believes  that the  carrying  amount of cash  accounts  receivable  and
         accounts  payable  approximate fair value because of the short maturity
         of these financial instruments. Long-term debt bears interest at a rate
         comparable  to the  prime  rate;  therefore,  management  believes  the
         carrying  amount for the  outstanding  borrowings at December 31, 1998,
         approximates fair value.

         Use  of  Estimates  - The  preparation  of the  consolidated  financial
         statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting  principles
         requires  management to make estimates and assumptions  that affect the
         reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent
         assets and liabilities at the date of the financial  statements and the
         reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting  period.
         Actual results could differ from those estimates.

         New Accounting  Pronouncements  - The Company has adopted SFAS No. 130,
         Reporting  Comprehensive  Income, for the year ended December 31, 1998.
         SFAS No. 130  establishes  standards  for the  reporting and display of
         comprehensive  income.  Components of comprehensive income may include,
         among  other   items,   foreign   currency   translation   adjustments,
         compensation expense related to issuance of nonqualified stock options,
         minimum pension liability adjustments,  and unrealized gains and losses
         on marketable securities classified as available-for-sale.

         The Company has adopted SFAS No. 131,  Disclosures About Segments of an
         Enterprise and Related  Information.  In accordance  with SFAS No. 131,
         the Company has determined  that it has only one operating  segment but
         manages its business by  distribution  channel  through a warehouse and
         distributor   function.   The   percentages  of  the  Company's   sales
         represented by each of those functions over the past three years is set
         out in Note 12.

         In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No.
         133,  Accounting for Derivative  Instruments  and Hedging  Activities,
         which the Company is required  to adopt  effective  in its fiscal year
         2000.  SFAS No. 133 will require the Company to record all derivatives
         on the balance  sheet at fair value.  The Company  does not  currently
         engage in hedging activities but will continue to evaluate the effects
         of adopting  SFAS No. 133.  The Company will adopt SFAS No. 133 in its
         fiscal year 2000.

2.        REORGANIZATION OF UNITED KINGDOM OPERATIONS

         Sales in the United  Kingdom were lower than  anticipated  during 1997;
         and, as a  consequence,  the  Company's  foreign  subsidiary,  HBC (UK)
         ceased operating activities at the end of 1997 and is in the process of
         being  deregistered.  Beginning  in 1998,  the  Company  dealt with its
         distributor  in the  United  Kingdom  from  its  corporate  offices  in
         California to export all products sold by it to such  distributor  from
         the United States.

3.        INVENTORIES

         Inventories consist of the following at December 31:

                                                  1998                1997
                                                  ----                ----
           Raw materials                          $1,815,040         $   875,884
           Finished goods                          3,664,270           3,423,326
                                             ----------------     --------------
                                                   5,479,310           4,299,210
           Less inventory reserves                 (268,233)           (383,227)
                                             ----------------     --------------
                                                  $5,211,077          $3,915,983
                                             ================     ==============

                                     F - 10


4.        PREPAID EXPENSES AND OTHER CURRENT ASSETS

         In January 1994,  the Company  entered into an agreement  with a barter
         company for the exchange of certain  inventory  for future  advertising
         and  marketing  credits.  The  Company  assigned a value of $490,000 to
         these  credits  based  on the net  realizable  value  of the  inventory
         exchanged.  As of December 31, 1997,  advertising and marketing credits
         totaled $265,000. Although such credits remain available for use by the
         Company through  January 2002,  management was unable to estimate their
         remaining net realizable value at December 31, 1997, and fully expensed
         such advertising and marketing credits.

5.        PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

         Property, plant and equipment consist of the following at December 31:

                                                        1998             1997
                                                        ----             ----
           Leasehold improvements                   $   55,305       $   54,203
           Furniture and office equipment              523,650          332,817
           Equipment and vehicles                      826,599          656,391
                                                 --------------      -----------
                                                     1,405,554        1,043,411
           Less accumulated depreciation              (804,031)        (630,915)
                                                  =============      ===========
                                                     $ 601,523        $ 412,496
                                                  =============      ===========

6.        SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS

         In 1997, HBC obtained a credit  facility from Comerica  Bank-California
         ("Comerica")  consisting  of a  revolving  line of  credit  of up to $3
         million in aggregate at any time  outstanding  and a term loan of up to
         $4 million,  as more fully  described in Note 7. The utilization of the
         revolving  line of credit by the  Company  is  dependent  upon  certain
         levels of eligible  accounts  receivable and  inventory.  The revolving
         line of  credit  is  secured  by  substantially  all of  HBC's  assets,
         including  accounts  receivable,   inventory,  trademark  licenses  and
         trademarks,  and certain  equipment.  The initial use of proceeds under
         the revolving  line of credit was to refinance  HBC's  previous line of
         credit.  As of December 31, 1998, no amounts were outstanding under the
         revolving line of credit.  The revolving line of credit is renewable on
         May 1, 2000.

7.        LONG-TERM DEBT

         As  discussed  in Note 6 above,  HBC  obtained a credit  facility  from
         Comerica  consisting  of a term loan of up to $4 million or such lesser
         amount as was  necessary  to retire a note  executed  by the Company in
         favor of ERLY  Industries,  Inc.  ("ERLY") in the  principal  sum of $4
         million  (the  "Note").  The full  amount  due  under the Note was paid
         during  November  1997.  The term loan will mature in October  2002 and
         requires  variable  monthly  payments of principal  and interest  which
         escalate  over time plus  payments of a portion of HBC's  adjusted cash
         flow,  from year to year. The interest rate payable on the term loan is
         1.5% above the bank's base rate (7.75% as of December  31,  1998).  For
         the year ended  December 31, 1998, the payment due Comerica on April 1,
         1999,  pursuant to HBC's adjusted cash flow for such year, was computed
         to be $1,451,449, which was paid in full as of March 29, 1999.

         The  term  loan  contains  quarterly  and  annual  financial  covenants
         requiring the Company to maintain certain financial ratios and maintain
         certain  levels  of net  worth.  The term loan  also  contains  certain
         nonfinancial   covenants.   At  both   December   31,  1998  and  1997,
         respectively, the Company was in compliance with all covenants.


                                     F - 11



         Interest expense amounted to $368,896,  $488,388, and $498,413, for the
         years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996.

8.        COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

         Operating Leases - Hansen's  warehouse  facility and corporate  offices
         are leased for a period of 89 months  commencing on September 19, 1997,
         when the Company occupied the warehouse  facilities.  On March 1, 1998,
         the corporate offices of the Company were relocated to such premises in
         Corona,  California.   This  lease  and  certain  equipment  under  non
         cancelable  operating leases expire through 2005. Rent expenses related
         to the  Corona  facility  and  other  non-cancelable  equipment  leases
         amounted  to  $369,000,  $157,000,  and  $119,000  for the years  ended
         December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

         Future minimum rental  payments under such leases referred to above are
as follows:

                              Year ending December 31:
                              1999                                  $    350,000
                              2000                                       361,000
                              2001                                       367,000
                              2002                                       369,000
                              2003                                       377,000
                              Thereafter                                 414,000
                                                                      ==========
                                                                      $2,238,000
                                                                     ===========

                                     F - 12

         Employment  and  Consulting  Agreements  - The Company  entered into an
         employment  agreement with Rodney C. Sacks dated as of January 1, 1994,
         pursuant  to which Mr.  Sacks  renders  services  to the Company as its
         Chairman and Chief  Executive  Officer,  and entered into an employment
         agreement  with  Hilton H.  Schlosberg  dated as of  January  1,  1994,
         pursuant to which Mr. Schlosberg renders services to the Company as its
         Vice Chairman, President and Chief Financial Officer for an annual base
         salary of  $170,000  each,  subject to  adjustments  annually,  plus an
         annual bonus in an amount  determined at the discretion of the Board of
         Directors  and  certain  fringe  benefits,  both  of  which  agreements
         terminate on December 31, 1998.  For the years ended December 31, 1998,
         1997, and 1996, Mr. Sacks agreed to a temporary reduction of his annual
         base salary to $160,000, $160,000 and $135,000,  respectively.  For the
         years ended December 31, 1998, 1997, and 1996, Mr. Schlosberg agreed to
         a temporary  reduction of his annual base salary to $160,000,  $158,030
         and $127,500, respectively.

         The Company also entered into employment agreements dated as of January
         1, 1999,  with Messrs.  Sacks and Schlosberg  pursuant to which each of
         them will continue with their  current  responsibilities  and authority
         and that  each of their  annual  base  salaries  will be  increased  to
         $180,000,  for the  twelve-month  period ending  December 31, 1999, and
         increasing by a minimum of 8% for each subsequent  twelve-month  period
         during  the  employment  period,  plus an  annual  bonus  in an  amount
         determined  at the  discretion  of the Board of  Directors  and certain
         fringe  benefits for the period  commencing  January 1, 1999 and ending
         December  31,  2003.  After  such date,  such  agreements  provide  for
         automatic annual renewals unless written notice is delivered to each of
         them by June 30, 2003, or any subsequent June 30 thereafter.

         Effective June 30, 1997, Mr. Taber elected to retire and terminated his
         employment  agreement  with  HBC  and  entered  into  a  Severance  and
         Consulting   Agreement  with  the  Company  and  HBC  (the  "Consulting
         Agreement")  pursuant  to which,  among  other  matters,  HBC agreed to
         retain Mr. Taber as a  consultant  for a period of two years at a fixed
         monthly  fee of  $5,000.  In terms  of the  Consulting  Agreement,  Mr.
         Taber's  existing Stock Option Agreement dated as of June 30, 1995, was
         terminated and substituted  with a new Stock Option  Agreement dated as
         of June 20, 1997 (the "Replacement Stock Option Agreement") between the
         parties. Under the terms of the Replacement Stock Option Agreement, Mr.
         Taber was granted  options to purchase  100,000 shares of the Company's
         common  stock,  outside the  Company's  stock  option  plans (Note 10),
         exercisable  until June 30, 1999, at $1.38 per share. Mr. Taber remains
         a director of the  Company.  In  addition,  other than with  respect to
         certain restrictive  covenants,  Mr. Taber agreed to repay amounts owed
         by him to HBC under a certain  promissory  note by  offsetting  amounts
         owed under the note against  accrued and unpaid base pay payable  under
         Mr.  Taber's  employment   agreement  and  amounts  payable  under  the
         Consulting Agreement, beginning January 1, 1998.

         Supplier  Arrangements  - During  1998,  the  Company  entered  into an
         arrangement  with  one of its  copackers,  pursuant  to  which  certain
         modifications  were made to that  copacker's  equipment to enable it to
         produce  certain  products on behalf of the Company.  In  consideration
         thereof,  the  Company  agreed  to pack a  minimum  number  of cases of
         products over a four-year  period.  Should the Company fail to pack the
         agreed  minimum  number  of cases of  products  over such  period,  the
         Company  will be liable to reimburse  the copacker for a  proportionate
         share of the cost thereof based on such shortfall.  Based on the volume
         levels  achieved  by the  Company in the past and its  expected  volume
         levels,  the Company does not believe that it will incur any  liability
         in connection with the above arrangement.


                                     F - 13


         During March 1999,  the Company  entered into an  arrangement  with its
         glass supplier pursuant to which its glass supplier agreed to install a
         shrink   sleeve-labeling   machine  at  its  plant  to  facilitate  the
         pre-labeling  of its  glass  bottles  at the point of  manufacture.  In
         consideration thereof, the Company agreed to have a minimum quantity of
         such  labels  applied to its glass  bottles  over a  four-year  period.
         Should the Company fail to have the agreed  minimum  quantity of labels
         applied over such period,  the Company will be liable to compensate its
         supplier for a  proportionate  share of the cost thereof  based on such
         shortfall.  Based on  estimated  volume  levels,  the Company  does not
         believe  that it will  incur  any  liability  in  connection  with this
         arrangement.

         Purchase  Commitments  - As of December 31, 1998,  the Company had open
         purchase   commitments  for  certain  raw  materials  of  approximately
         $307,000.

9.        INCOME TAXES

         The Company  accounts for income taxes under the  provision of SFAS No.
         109,   Accounting  for  Income  Taxes.  This  statement   requires  the
         recognition  of  deferred  tax  assets and  liabilities  for the future
         consequences  of  events  that have been  recognized  in the  Company's
         financial statements or tax returns.  Measurement of the deferred items
         is based on enacted tax laws. In the event the future  consequences  of
         differences  between  financial  reporting  bases  and tax bases of the
         Company's assets and liabilities  result in a deferred tax asset,  SFAS
         No. 109  requires an  evaluation  of the  probability  of being able to
         realize  the future  benefits  indicated  by such  asset.  A  valuation
         allowance  related to a deferred tax asset is recorded  when it is more
         likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will
         not be realized.


                                     F - 14




         During  the  year  ended  December  31,  1997,  the  operations  of the
         Company's foreign subsidiary,  HBC (UK), ceased (Note 2). In connection
         therewith,  certain  intercompany  balances were forgiven  resulting in
         income to the foreign subsidiary. HBC (UK)'s prior year's net operating
         loss  carryforwards were utilized to fully reduce the taxable income of
         HBC (UK).

10.       STOCK OPTIONS AND WARRANTS

         The Company has two stock option plans: the Employee Stock Option Plan
         ("the Plan") and the Outside Directors Stock Option Plan ("Directors
         Plan").

         The Plan provides for the granting of options to purchase not more than
         2,000,000 shares of Hansen common stock to key employees of the Company
         and its subsidiaries. Stock options are exercisable at such time and in
         such amounts as determined by the  Compensation  Committee of the Board
         of Directors of the Company up to a ten-year period after their date of
         grant,  and no options  may be granted  after July 1, 2001.  The option
         price will not be less than the fair market value at the date of grant.
         As of December 31, 1998, options to purchase 1,717,800 shares of Hansen
         common stock had been granted under the Plan,  net of options that have
         expired,  and options to purchase 282,200 shares of Hansen common stock
         remained available for grant under the Plan (Note 15).

         The Directors' Plan provides for the grant of options to purchase up to
         100,000  shares of common  stock of the  Company  to  directors  of the
         Company  who are  not  and  have  not  been  employed  by or  acted  as
         consultants to the Company and its  subsidiaries  or affiliates and who
         are not and have not been  nominated  to the Board of  Directors of the
         Company  pursuant  to a  contractual  arrangement.  On the  date of the
         annual  meeting  of  shareholders,  at which an  eligible  director  is
         initially  elected,  each  eligible  director  is entitled to receive a
         one-time  grant of an option to purchase 6,000 shares (12,000 shares if
         the director is serving on a committee  of the Board) of the  Company's
         common stock, exercisable one-third each on the first, second and third
         anniversary  of the date of  grant;  provided,  however,  that  options
         granted as of February 14, 1995, are exercisable 66 2/3% on the date of
         grant and 100% on July 8, 1995;  provided,  further,  that all  options


                                     F - 15


         held by an eligible  director become fully and immediately  exercisable
         upon a change in  control of the  Company.  Options  granted  under the
         Directors Plan that are not exercised  generally expire ten years after
         the date of grant.  Option grants may be made under the Directors  Plan
         for ten  years  from the  effective  date of the  Directors  Plan.  The
         Directors Plan is a "formula"  plan so that a  non-employee  director's
         participation  in the  Directors  Plan does not  affect his status as a
         "disinterested  person" (as defined in Rule 16b-3 under the  Securities
         Exchange Act of 1934).  As of December  31,  1998,  options to purchase
         36,000  shares  of  Hansen  common  stock  had been  granted  under the
         Directors  Plan and options to purchase  64,000 shares of Hansen common
         stock remain available for grant.


         The Company has adopted the disclosure-only provisions of SFAS No. 123,
         Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation.  Accordingly,  no compensation
         cost has been  recognized  for the stock  option  plans.  The impact of
         stock  options  granted  prior to 1995 has been  excluded  from the pro
         forma  calculation;  accordingly,  the  1998,  1997 and 1996 pro  forma
         adjustments are not indicative of future period pro forma  adjustments,
         when the  calculation  may apply to all applicable  stock options.  Had
         compensation  cost for the Company's option plans been determined based
         on the fair  value at the  grant  date for  awards  in the  years  1996
         through  1998  consistent  with the  provisions  of SFAS No.  123,  the
         Company's  net income and net income per common  share  would have been
         reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated below:



                                     F - 16


         The fair value of each option  grant is  estimated on the date of grant
         using  the  Black-Scholes   option-pricing  model  with  the  following
         weighted-average assumptions used for grants in:

                                                Risk-Free
                 Dividend      Expected         Interest 
                   Yield      Volatility         Rate         Expected Lives

           1998       0%           72%            5.2%           4 years
           1997       0%           43%            6.0%           3 years
           1996       0%           81%            5.5%           2 years

         The Company has granted  warrants to various  non-employees to purchase
         shares of Hansen common stock. Such warrants vest in various increments
         over  an  eighteen-month  to  three-year  period.  For the  year  ended
         December  31, 1998,  compensation  expense  recorded for such  warrants
         totaled  $64,919  based on the fair  value of such  warrants  using the
         Black-Scholes  option-pricing model with the following weighted-average
         assumptions:  dividend yield, 0%; expected  volatility,  61%; risk-free
         interest rate, 6%; and expected life, 36 months.

         Information regarding non-employee stock options is as follows:



         The following table  summarizes  information  about  fixed-price  stock
         options and warrants outstanding at December 31, 1998:



                                     F - 17


11.       OTHER EXPENSE (INCOME)

         In connection with the acquisition of the Hansen business,  the Company
         was assigned a promissory  note made by Hawaiian  Water Partners in the
         original principal amount of $310,027 plus interest thereon and certain
         additional principal amounts. The note was secured by the proceeds,  if
         any, of a lawsuit. The collectibility of this note was dependent on the
         outcome of that lawsuit and,  consequently,  the Company fully reserved
         against this asset.  Following a judgment in the lawsuit,  a settlement
         was reached among the plaintiff,  defendant and competing  claimants to
         the proceeds from the lawsuit.  Under the terms of the settlement,  the
         Company was to receive a total of $616,000, plus interest. In 1995, the
         reserve  against  the note was  reduced to  $270,000,  and the  Company
         recorded  $346,000 in other income.  Following receipt of the remaining
         proceeds  during  1996,  the  remaining  reserve  against  the note was
         eliminated.  In  connection  therewith,  $233,000 was recorded in other
         income  during  1996,  net of $37,000 of  attorney's  fees  incurred in
         connection  with the settlement,  which  constituted the full extent of
         recovery under this note.

12.       MAJOR CUSTOMERS AND SEGMENTATION

         One  customer  accounted  for 27% of the  Company's  sales for the year
         ended  December  31, 1998.  Two  customers  accounted  for 29% and 11%,
         respectively,  of the Company's  sales for the year ended  December 31,
         1997.  Two customers  accounted for 26% and 13%,  respectively,  of the
         Company's sales for the year ended December 31, 1996. A decision by any
         of these major  customers  to decrease  the amount  purchased  from the
         Company  or to cease  carrying  the  Company's  products  could  have a
         material  adverse  effect  on the  Company's  financial  condition  and
         results of operations.

         The Company has determined  that it has only one operating  segment but
         manages its business by  distribution  channel  through a warehouse and
         distributor   function.   The   percentages  of  the  Company's   sales
         represented by each of those functions over the past three years is set
         out in the table below.

                                         1998             1997              1996
                                         ----             ----              ----

                Warehouse                67%               80%              84%
                Distributor              32%               19%              15%
                Export                    1%                1%               1%


13.      LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

         The  second  stage of the  trial in HBC's  action  against  ERLY in the
         Superior  Court for the State of  California  was held in July 1997 for
         the sole purpose of determining  the amount of HBC's  damages,  if any,
         resulting  from  ERLY's  breach  of  certain  rights  of first  refusal
         provisions  contained in HBC's subordinated  secured promissory note in
         the principal  amount of $4 million in favor of ERLY. In November 1997,
         the court  held that HBC had not  suffered  any  damages as a result of
         ERLY's  breach  of the  note.  HBC has  filed an  appeal  against  that
         judgment.  A motion was made by ERLY for the costs of such action to be
         awarded in its favor,  which was dismissed by the court. ERLY has filed
         a cross  appeal on that  issue.  The full  amount due under the note to
         ERLY  was  paid in  November  1997  with the  proceeds  of a term  loan
         obtained by the Company from Comerica  Bank - California.  During 1998,
         ERLY filed for  bankruptcy  and the appeal was  consequently  stayed by
         law.  The Company has filed a claim  against  ERLY but has  received no
         response  from the  trustee  and is  consequently  unaware  whether the
         trustee intends to accept the claim or pursue the appeal.  The ultimate
         outcome of this matter cannot presently be predicted.


                                     F - 18



         Towards the end of 1998,  the Company  together with the trustee of the
         Hansen Trust commenced arbitration  proceedings against The Fresh Juice
         Company of California,  Inc. ("FJC"),  the former trustees of the Trust
         and a company  called Hansen Juice  Creations,  LLC,  ("Creations")  in
         which the Company and the trustee  claim (i) that  certain  acts of the
         former trustees of the Trust constitute breach of trust; (ii) a certain
         agreement  purportedly  entered into between the former trustees of the
         trust and Creations, is, in whole or in part, void or terminable by the
         Trust; (iii) certain acts of Creations  constitute  infringement of the
         Hansen's  trademark  and certain  acts of FJC  constitute  contributory
         infringement  of the Hansen's  trademarks.  The Company and the trustee
         seek damages and injunctive  relief  against FJC and  Creations.  It is
         expected  that such  proceedings  will be  completed  before the end of
         1999. The Company does not believe that the outcome of such proceedings
         will materially affect the Company.

         Except  as  described  above,  there  are  no  material  pending  legal
         proceedings to which the Company or any of its  subsidiaries is a party
         or to which any of the  properties  is  subject,  other  than  ordinary
         routine litigation incidental to the Company's business.

14.      RELATED PARTY

         A director  of the  Company  is a partner in a law firm that  serves as
         counsel to the Company.  Expenses  incurred to such firm in  connection
         with services  rendered to the Company during 1998,  1997 and 1996 were
         $173,673, $186,033 and $238,069, respectively.

         A director of the Company has been a  consultant  to the Company  since
         July 1997.  Expenses  incurred  to such  director  in  connection  with
         consulting  services  rendered to the Company during 1998 and 1997 were
         $60,000 and $ 30,000 respectively.

         Two  directors  of the Company are  principal  owners of a company that
         provides  promotional  materials to the Company.  Expenses  incurred to
         such Company in connection with promotional materials purchased in 1998
         amounted to $151,393.

         In connection with a net exercise of options to purchase 725,000 shares
         of the Company's common stock,  during 1998, the Company issued 554,732
         shares of common  stock to two  officers of the  Company,  who are also
         directors and shareholders of the Company.

15.      SUBSEQUENT EVENT

         On January 4, 1999,  the Board of  Directors  of the Company  adopted a
         resolution  to amend the Plan to provide that the  aggregate  number of
         shares of common stock  issuable  upon the exercise of options  granted
         under the Plan shall be increased  from  2,000,000  shares to 3,000,000
         shares.  Such amendment is subject to approval by the  stockholders  of
         the Company at the next annual meeting of stockholders.

         Subsequent  to  year-end,   the  Company  granted  options  to  certain
         employees to purchase  356,000  shares of Hansen common stock under the
         Plan at an exercise price of $4.25 per share.


                                     F - 19













                                     F - 20


