
10-K
FORM 10-K




                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                   Form 10-K
     (Mark One)
     [ X ] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
                      EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]

                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997

                                       OR

[ ]TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
                         ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]

                   For the transition period from ___ to ___

                         Commission File Number 0-18761

                           HANSEN NATURAL CORPORATION
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

               Delaware                           39-1679918
       (State or other jurisdiction of         (I.R.S. Employer
        incorporation or organization         Identification No.)

           2380 Railroad Street, Suite 101, Corona, California 91720
              (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)

      Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (909) 739 - 6200

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                               Name of each exchange
            Title of each class                on which registered
               Not Applicable                     Not Applicable

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                 Title of class
                    Common Stock, $.005 par value per share

         Indicate  by check  mark  whether  the  Registrant:  (1) has  filed all
reports  required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter  period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X No __

         Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,
to the best of the  Registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information
statements  incorporated  by  reference  in Part  III of this  Form  10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ]

         The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of
the Registrant was approximately  $10,600,261  computed by reference to the sale
price for such stock on the Nasdaq Small-Cap Market on March 5, 1998.

         The number of shares of the Registrant's  Common Stock, $.005 par value
per share (being the only class of common stock of the Registrant),  outstanding
on March 5, 1998 was 9,130,869 shares.










                           HANSEN NATURAL CORPORATION

                                   FORM 10-K

                               


Item Number                                                        Page Number
                                     PART I

 1.        Business                                                          3
 2.        Properties                                                       12
 3.        Legal Proceedings                                                12
 4.        Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders              13

                                    PART II

 5.        Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related
             Shareholder Matters                                            13
 6.        Selected Financial Data                                          15
 7.        Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
             Condition and Results of Operations                            15
 8.        Financial Statements and Supplementary Data                      22
 9.        Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
             Accounting and Financial Disclosure                            22

                                    PART III

10.       Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant                22
11.       Executive Compensation                                            24
12.       Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management    29
13.       Certain Relationships and Related Transactions                    31

                                    PART IV

14.       Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K   33
          Signatures                                                        34






                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

Background of the Company and Subsidiaries

         Hansen  Natural  Corporation  ("Hansen" or the "Company") is a Delaware
corporation  which  maintains its  principal  place of business at 2380 Railroad
Street,  Suite 101, Corona,  California 91720, and its telephone number is (909)
739 - 6200.

         The Company is a holding  company and carries on no operating  business
except through its direct and indirect subsidiaries.  Hansen Beverage Company, a
direct wholly-owned  subsidiary of the Company ("HBC"),  conducts  substantially
all of the Company's  operating business and generates  substantially all of the
Company's   operating   revenues.   The  Company's  other  direct   wholly-owned
subsidiary,  CVI  Ventures,  Inc.  ("CVI"),  is  inactive.  The  Company has one
indirect subsidiary, Hansen Beverage Company (UK) Limited ("HBC (UK)"), which is
in the course of being deregistered.

Background of the Hansen Business

         In the 1930's,  Hubert  Hansen and his three sons started a business to
sell fresh  non-pasteurized  juices in Los Angeles,  California.  This  business
eventually became Hansen's Juices, Inc., now known as The Fresh Juice Company of
California,  Inc. ("FJC").  In 1977, Tim Hansen,  one of the grandsons of Hubert
Hansen,  perceived a demand for pasteurized natural juices and juice blends that
are shelf  stable and  formed  Hansen  Foods,  Inc.  ("HFI"),  also based in Los
Angeles.  Subsequently,  HFI  expanded  its product  line from juices to include
Hansen's(R)  Natural Sodas. In November 1988, HFI reorganized its business under
Chapter  11  of  the  federal   Bankruptcy   Code.  In  connection   with  those
reorganization  proceedings,  California  CoPackers  Corporation  (d/b/a/ Hansen
Beverage Company) ("CCC") acquired certain of the assets of HFI in January 1990.

         On July 27, 1992,  the Company,  through its  wholly-owned  subsidiary,
HBC,  acquired the Hansen's(R)  brand natural soda and apple juice business (the
"Hansen Business") from CCC. References herein to "Hansen" or the "Company" when
used to describe the  operating  business of the Company are  references  to the
business of HBC unless otherwise indicated.

Products

         Hansen  is  engaged  in  the   business  of   marketing,   selling  and
distributing  so-called  "alternative"  beverage  category sodas,  fruit juices,
fruit juice Smoothies, non-carbonated ready-to-drink iced teas, lemonades, juice
cocktails,  "functional"  drinks and still water.  Hansen's(R) Natural Sodas are
classified as "new age" beverages and have been a leading  natural soda brand in
Southern California for the past twenty years.

         In 1997,  Hansen's(R)  Natural  Sodas  had the  highest  sales  amongst
comparable  carbonated new age category beverages measured by unit volume in the
Southern  California  market  (Source:  Nielsen  Scantrack  Reports for Southern
California).  Hansen's(R)  Natural Sodas are currently available in nine regular
flavors consisting of Mandarin Lime, Lemon Lime, Grapefruit,  Raspberry,  Creamy
Root Beer,  Vanilla Cola, Cherry Vanilla Creme, Peach Mango and Kiwi Strawberry.
Hansen has two low calorie  sodas in  Wildberry  and Cola  flavors.  Hansen's(R)
Natural Sodas contain no preservatives,  sodium, caffeine or artificial coloring
and are made with high quality natural flavors,  high fructose corn syrup and in
the case of low  calorie  sodas,  with  aspartame  as  well,  and  citric  acid.
Hansen's(R)  Natural Sodas are  currently  packaged in 12-ounce  aluminum  cans.
Hansen also produces soda concentrate for sale to licensed bottlers.  Management
is  currently  planning  to  introduce  a  line  of  premium  natural  sodas  in
proprietary glass bottles, through existing distributors, later in 1998.



         The new age  beverage  category  includes  sodas  that  are  considered
natural,  including those made without preservatives or artificial  ingredients,
sparkling juices and flavored  sparkling waters. The recent growth in popularity
of  non-carbonated  ready-to-drink  iced teas,  lemonades,  juice  cocktails and
sports  drinks caused the beverage  industry to combine  so-called new age sodas
with non-carbonated ready-to-drink iced teas, lemonades, juice cocktails, single
serve juices,  ready-to-drink iced coffees, sports drinks and single-serve still
water in a broader category known as the "alternative"  beverage  category.  The
alternative  beverage  category is the fastest  growing  segment of the beverage
marketplace. (Source: Beverage Marketing Corporation). Sales for the alternative
beverage category of the market are estimated to have reached approximately $7.4
billion at wholesale in 1997 with a growth rate of  approximately  7.8% over the
prior year. (Source: Beverage Marketing Corporation).

         Hansen's  ready-to-drink  iced teas and  lemonades  were  introduced in
1993. Hansen's ready-to-drink iced teas are currently available in five flavors:
Original  with  Lemon,  Tropical  Peach,  Wildberry,  Tangerine  and Low Calorie
Blueberry  Raspberry and its lemonades are currently available in three flavors:
Original Old Fashioned Lemonade, Pink Lemonade and Strawberry Lemonade. Hansen's
juice  cocktails  were  introduced  in 1994 and are  currently  available in six
flavors:  Kiwi  Strawberry  Melon,   Tangerine  Pineapple  with  Passion  Fruit,
California Paradise Punch, Mango Magic, Apple and Low Calorie Peach Mango.

         Hansen's  ready-to-drink iced teas are made with decaffeinated tea. The
Company's  other  non-carbonated  products  are made with high  quality  juices.
Hansen's  non-carbonated  products (other than its 100% juice products) are also
made with natural  flavors,  high fructose corn syrup and in the case of the low
calorie iced tea and low calorie juice cocktail, with aspartame, citric acid and
other  ingredients.  Hansen's  ready-to-drink  iced  teas,  lemonades  and juice
cocktails are currently  packaged in 16-ounce  non-returnable  wide-mouth  glass
bottles.  Management  is  currently  considering  introducing  a line of premium
"functional" teas in unique glass bottles later in 1998 or in 1999.

         The Company's juice product line currently includes Hansen's(R) Natural
Old Fashioned Apple Juice and Apple Cider which is packaged in 64- and 128-ounce
(P.E.T.)  plastic  bottles.  The  labels  for the apple  juice  were  completely
redesigned in 1997.  Hansen's juice products compete in the  shelf-stable  juice
category. The Company is currently introducing two 100% juice products: an apple
strawberry  juice blend and an apple  grape  juice  blend in  64-ounce  (P.E.T.)
plastic bottles.  The Company is also in the process of introducing a 100% juice
DynaJuice(TM) in 46-ounce  (P.E.T.) plastic bottles.  DynaJuice(TM) is fortified
with fifteen vitamins and minerals.

         In  March  1995,  the  Company  expanded  its  juice  product  line  by
introducing a line of fruit juice Smoothies. The Company's fruit juice Smoothies
contain  approximately  35%  juice and have a smooth  texture  that is thick but
lighter than a nectar.  The Company's fruit juice Smoothies  provide 100% of the
recommended  daily  allowance  for adults of Vitamins A, C & E (the  antioxidant
triad)  and  represent  Hansen's  entry  into  the   "functional"(nutraceutical)
beverage sector.  The Company's fruit juice Smoothies are packaged in 11.5-ounce
aluminum cans and in a unique  proprietary  13.5-ounce  glass bottle designed by
the Company.  Hansen's  fruit juice  Smoothies are  available in seven  flavors:
Strawberry  Banana,  Peach Berry, Mango Pineapple,  Guava Strawberry,  Pineapple
Coconut,  Apricot  Nectar and Tropical  Passion.  There is also available a lite
Smoothie  and an  energy  Smoothie  which  is  different,  not only  from  other
beverages in the market,  but also from other  Smoothies.  This product contains
Ginseng and Taurine, two popular energy supplements, as well as Vitamins B2, B6,
B12,  Niacin,  Vitamin C and  Glucose.  Management  plans to introduce a line of
"super"  Smoothies in 11.5-ounce cans and in a unique  13.5-ounce  glass bottle,
later in 1998.

         Hansen's still water products were  introduced in 1993.  Hansen's still
water  products  are  packaged  in plastic  bottles  ranging  from  .5-liter  to
1.5-liters in size.

         During April 1997, the Company  introduced a lightly  carbonated energy
drink in an  8.2-ounce  slim can.  Similar  drinks  are  popular  in Europe  and
management  believes  that there are good  prospects  that these types of drinks
will become popular in the United States as well.  The Company has  concentrated
on marketing its energy drink through its distributor network. Almost all of the
distributors  that  currently  distribute  the  Company's  Smoothie  products in
bottles have commenced to distribute the Company's new energy drink in 8.2-ounce
slim cans. In certain  instances,  new distributors who agreed to distribute the
Company's  new energy drink,  have  subsequently  agreed also to distribute  the
Company's Smoothie products in bottles.



         The  Company's  new energy  drink falls  within the  category  that has
generally  been  described  as  the  "functional"  beverage  category,   namely,
beverages  that  provide  a real or  perceived  benefit  in  addition  to simply
delivering  refreshment.  Management  believes  that the  "functional"  beverage
category  has  good  growth  potential.  The  Company  has  recently  introduced
additional  "functional" beverages namely, a ginger flavored d-stress(TM) drink,
an orange flavored  anti-ox(TM) drink and a guarana berry flavored  stamina(TM)
drink in  8.2-ounce  slim cans.  Initial  response  from  distributors,  certain
convenience  chain  store  buyers  and a limited  number of  consumers  has been
positive and is encouraging.

         During 1996, the Company discontinued marketing its Equator(R) brand of
ready-to-drink iced teas, lemonades and juice cocktails in cans but continues to
offer such products in 20-ounce  cobalt blue glass  bottles in limited  markets.
Due to the low sales volume of Equator(R)  products in such bottles,  management
is presently evaluating whether or not to discontinue such line.

         The Company  continues to evaluate and intends to introduce  additional
flavors and other types of beverages to complement its existing product lines.

Manufacture, Production and Distribution

         The  concentrates  for Hansen's(R) Natural Soda products are blended at
independent production facilities. In each case, the concentrate is delivered by
independent trucking companies to Hansen's licensed bottlers and copackers, each
of which adds  filtered  water,  high fructose corn syrup or, in the case of the
low calorie  sodas,  aspartame,  citric acid and  carbonation  and  packages the
products  in approved  container  sizes.  Hansen's  most  significant  copacking
arrangement is with Southwest Canning and Packaging, Inc. ("Southwest") pursuant
to a contract under which Southwest  packages  Hansen's canned soda products for
sale in  California  and other areas where Hansen does not have a  manufacturing
arrangement with a local bottler. This arrangement continues indefinitely and is
subject to termination on 60 days written notice from either party. The finished
products  are sold to major  grocery  chain stores and to club stores in certain
regions  through  brokers;  to club stores in certain  regions,  specialty chain
stores,  mass  merchandisers  and the health food trade directly by Hansen;  and
also by licensed bottlers and distributors.

         The  Company  purchases  juices  and juice  concentrates  for its juice
products;  juices,  juice concentrates and flavors for its  ready-to-drink  iced
tea,  lemonade and juice  cocktail  products;  concentrates  for its fruit juice
Smoothie products; and flavors,  vitamins,  herbal and other ingredients for its
functional drinks, from various producers and manufacturers.  Such materials are
then delivered to the Company's  copackers for  manufacture and packaging of the
finished products.

         The Company's soda, apple juice and juice products, ready-to-drink iced
tea,  lemonade and juice cocktail  products in bottles,  Smoothie  beverages and
still water  products as well as its  functional  drinks are copacked by various
copackers   under   separate   arrangements,   each  of  which   continue  on  a
month-to-month  basis,  except  for the  arrangement  with  Southwest  which  is
described above.

         The apple juice, juice products, iced tea, lemonade, and juice cocktail
products  and  fruit  juice  Smoothie  products  in cans are sold  primarily  in
California,  Nevada and  Arizona to major  grocery  chain  stores and in certain
limited  instances  to mass  merchandisers  through  food  brokers;  and to club
stores,  specialty chain stores and the health food trade directly by Hansen and
also  through  distributors.  The  Company's  fruit juice  Smoothie  products in
bottles and  functional  drinks in 8.2-ounce  slim cans are  distributed  almost
exclusively  by  bottlers  and/or  distributors  that  do not  distribute  other
products of the Company.



         Management  has  secured  limited  additional  copacking   arrangements
outside  California  to enable the  Company to produce  certain of its  products
closer to the markets where they are sold and thereby reduce freight costs. When
volumes  in  markets  outside  California  justify,   the  Company  will  secure
additional  copacking  arrangements  in an  endeavor to further  reduce  freight
costs.

       Sales in the United Kingdom were lower than anticipated during 1997; and,
as a consequence,  the Company  elected to curtail its direct  operations in the
United   Kingdom.   At  the  end  of  1997,  the  Company   commenced  with  the
deregistration  of its  United  Kingdom  subsidiary  and  the  closure  of  that
subsidiary's  offices. In the future, the Company will deal with its distributor
in the United  Kingdom from its corporate  offices in California and will export
all products sold by it to such distributor from the United States.

         The Company's  ability to estimate  demand is  imprecise,  particularly
with new products,  and may be less precise  during  periods of rapid growth and
particularly in new markets. If the Company underestimates materially demand for
its products or is unable to secure sufficient copacking arrangements,  it might
not be able to satisfy demand on a short-term basis.

         Although the Company's  arrangements for production of its products are
generally of short duration or terminable upon request, management believes that
a short disruption would not significantly  affect the Company's  revenues since
alternative copacking facilities in the United States with adequate capacity can
be  obtained  for each of its  products  (other  than its  functional  drinks in
8.2-ounce slim cans) at commercially  reasonable rates if necessary or desirable
and within a  reasonably  short time period.  Production  capacity in the United
States for the Company's  functional drinks in 8.2-ounce slim cans is limited at
present and a disruption  in production  of such  products  could  significantly
affect the  Company's  revenues  from such  products  as  alternative  copacking
facilities in the United States with adequate  capacity may not be available for
such  products at  commercially  reasonable  rates,  if necessary or  desirable,
within a reasonably short time period.  The Company is currently taking steps to
secure the  availability  of an  alternative  copacking  facility  in the United
States with  adequate  capacity for the  production of such products to minimize
the risk of any disruption in production.

         The Company itself is primarily  responsible for marketing its products
(other  than its fruit  juice  Smoothies  in bottles  and  functional  drinks in
8.2-ounce  slim cans) in  California,  Nevada,  and  Arizona.  In the  following
states,   certain  of  Hansen's   products  are  marketed  by  bottlers   and/or
distributors  which have entered into licensing and/or  distribution  agreements
with Hansen:  Alaska,  Arkansas,  Colorado,  Connecticut,  District of Columbia,
Florida,  Georgia,  Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois,  Indiana,  Iowa, Kansas,  Kentucky,
Louisiana,  Maine,  Maryland,  Massachusetts,   Michigan,  Minnesota,  Missouri,
Nebraska,  New  Hampshire,  New Jersey,  New  Mexico,  New York,  Ohio,  Oregon,
Pennsylvania,  Texas, Utah,  Vermont,  Virginia,  Washington,  West Virginia and
Wyoming.  In many of these states,  distribution  is only on a limited scale. In
California,  Nevada and Arizona,  the Company's fruit juice Smoothies in bottles
and  functional  drinks in  8.2-ounce  slim cans are  marketed by  bottlers  and
distributors  which have  entered  into  distribution  agreements  with  Hansen.
Certain of the Company's products,  such as Smoothies in cans, natural sodas and
juice  cocktails,  are sold through club stores in the vast  majority of states,
which  includes but is not limited to the states  listed above.  Hansen's  juice
products are currently marketed only in California,  Nevada and Arizona. Certain
of the Company's products are also marketed in the United Kingdom and, on a more
limited  basis,  in other  countries  outside  of the United  States,  including
Canada,  Northern Mexico,  Northern Ireland,  Denmark,  Philippines,  Indonesia,
Taiwan, Hong Kong, and the Caribbean.

         The Company  intends to  aggressively  expand the  distribution  of its
products into new markets, both within the United States and abroad.



         In 1997, management decided to replace its route distribution system in
Southern California with distribution arrangements with independent distributors
for the  majority  of the area  previously  covered.  Although  such  transition
resulted  in lower  sales  of the  Company's  products  (generally  because  the
independent  distributors  also distribute other beverage products which in many
cases  compete  directly  with  the  Company's   products),   such  lower  sales
nevertheless  contributed  positively  to the  profitability  of the  Company as
compared to the previous losses that were incurred by the Company from the route
distribution system.

         The Company is  continuing  to expand  distribution  of its products by
seeking to enter into agreements with regional bottlers and beer or other direct
store delivery distributors having established sales, marketing and distribution
organizations.  Hansen's  licensed bottlers and distributors are affiliated with
and manufacture and/or distribute other soda and non-carbonated brands and other
beverage  products.  In many cases, such products are directly  competitive with
the Company's products. The Company's strategy of licensing regional bottlers to
produce Hansen's(R) Natural Sodas from concentrate  provided by the Company, has
not fulfilled management's expectations,  partly because bottlers have preferred
to focus on alternative  beverage  products having higher margins than sodas. At
the end of 1997,  management  awarded the Company's  distributor in Colorado the
right to market and  distribute  its Natural Sodas in that state in place of its
licensed  bottler.  The Company continues to utilize such bottler to manufacture
Natural Sodas on its behalf.

         Management is currently  evaluating various  alternatives to expand the
distribution of Hansen's(R) Natural Sodas into selected new markets.

         The  Company   intends  to  continue   building  its   national   sales
organization in 1998 to support and grow the sales of its products.

         During 1997, a portion of the Company's sales outside the United States
were made directly by the Company through export sales to  distributors  outside
of  the  United  States  and a  portion  were  made  by the  Company's  indirect
subsidiary,  HBC (UK).  In 1998,  sales  outside the United  States will be made
directly  by  the  Company  through  distributors  outside  the  United  States,
following  the  decision  to  deregister  HBC (UK) at the end of 1997.  In 1997,
export sales to  distributors  outside the United States and sales in the United
Kingdom  (which  includes  sales to other  countries  supplied  from the  United
Kingdom) amounted to approximately $519,000 and $335,000, respectively.

         During the second quarter of 1997, management reevaluated the Company's
then existing warehousing, repacking and distribution arrangements, all of which
were in the hands of a third party.  Management concluded that in consequence of
the expansion of the Company's business and increased volumes,  it would be cost
efficient for the Company to rent its own  warehouse  facility and to appoint an
independent  contractor  to manage that  facility,  as well as the repacking and
distribution of the Company's products therefrom. Management also concluded that
it would be cost efficient for the Company's  corporate  offices to be relocated
to such  facility.  Consequently,  the Company  agreed to lease a  warehouse  in
Corona,  California  for use as the  Company's  corporate  offices  and  primary
national  warehouse,   repacking  and  distribution  center  for  the  Company's
products. The warehouse was relocated to such facility during September 1997 and
the corporate offices on March 1, 1998.  Although the Company agreed to sublease
a portion of the warehouse facility to the independent  contractor which manages
the  warehouse  facility and the  repacking  and  distribution  of the Company's
products  therefrom,  the  sublease  could  not be  implemented  as  the  entire
warehouse  facility is being  utilized for the Company's  products due to higher
inventory  levels  which are  attributable  to  increased  sales  and  number of
products  being  marketed  and  distributed  by the  Company.  In  light  of its
agreement  with the  independent  contractor,  it will not be necessary  for the
Company to employ additional personnel to manage the warehouse facility,  or for
the repacking or distribution of its products.



Competition

         The Company's  functional energy drink competes directly with Red Bull,
Hype, XTC and many other brands and its other functional drinks compete directly
with Elix, Lipovitan and other brands. The "functional" drink category is in its
infancy and  increased  competition  is  anticipated  within a relatively  short
period of time. A number of companies  who market and  distribute  iced teas and
juice  cocktails  in larger  volume  packages,  such as 16- and  20-ounce  glass
bottles,  have recently  added or are in the process of adding  vitamins,  herbs
and/or  nutrients to their  products with a view to labeling  their  products as
"functional" beverages.  However, many of those products are believed to contain
low levels of such ingredients and principally deliver refreshment.

         The soda, juice, and non-carbonated beverage businesses are also highly
competitive.   The  principal  areas  of  competition  are  pricing,  packaging,
development of new products and flavors and marketing  campaigns.  The Company's
products  compete  with  traditional  soft  drinks  (cola  and  non-cola),   and
alternative beverages, including new age beverages and ready-to-drink iced teas,
lemonades  and juice  cocktails  as well as juices and juice  drinks and nectars
produced  by a  relatively  large  number of  manufacturers,  most of which have
substantially greater financial and marketing resources than Hansen.

         For its natural soda and other  products,  Hansen competes not only for
consumer  acceptance,  but also for  maximum  marketing  efforts by  multi-brand
licensed  bottlers,  brokers  and  distributors,  many of which have a principal
affiliation with competing  companies and brands. The Company's products compete
with all liquid  refreshments and with products of much larger and substantially
better financed competitors, including the products of numerous nationally known
producers  such as The Coca Cola Company,  PepsiCo,  Inc.,  Dr.  Pepper/Seven-Up
Companies,  Inc.,  Cadbury Schweppes,  The Quaker Oats Company,  Triarc Group of
Companies (which includes the RC Soda, Snapple,  Mistic and Stewards brands) and
Nestle Beverage Company. More specifically,  the Company's products compete with
other  alternative  beverages,  including  new age  beverages,  such as Snapple,
Mistic, Arizona,  Clearly Canadian,  Sobe, Everfresh,  Nantucket Nectars, Mistic
Rain Forest Nectars, Very Fine, Calistoga, Blue Sky, Red Bull and Crystal Geyser
brands.  Due to the rapid  growth of the  alternative  beverage  segment  of the
beverage marketplace,  certain large companies such as The Coca Cola Company and
PepsiCo,  Inc.  have  introduced  products in that market  segment which compete
directly with the Company's products such as Nestea, Fruitopia, Lipton and Ocean
Spray.  The  Company's  products  also compete with private label brands such as
those carried by chain and club stores.  Important  factors  affecting  Hansen's
ability to compete successfully include taste and flavor of products,  trade and
consumer promotion, rapid and effective development of new products,  attractive
and different packaging,  brand and product advertising and pricing. Hansen must
also compete for  distributors  who will  concentrate on marketing the Company's
products  over  those of  Hansen's  competitors,  provide  stable  and  reliable
distribution  and secure  adequate  shelf space in retail  outlets.  Competitive
pressures  in the  alternative  beverage  category  could  cause  the  Company's
products to lose market share or  experience  price  erosion  which could have a
material adverse effect on Hansen's business.

         The Company's fruit juice Smoothies  compete with Kern's nectars in the
western  states and Libby's in the eastern states and Mistic Rain Forest Nectars
nationally  and  also  with  single  serve  juice  products   produced  by  many
competitors.  Such competitive products are packaged in glass and P.E.T. bottles
ranging from 10- to 18-ounces in size and in 11.5-ounce aluminum cans. The juice
content of such competitive products ranges from 1% to 100%.

         The Company's apple and other juice products compete directly with Tree
Top,  Mott's,  Martinelli's,  Welsh's,  Ocean  Spray,  Langer's,  Adams and Eve,
Northland and also with other brands of apple juice and juice blends, especially
store brands.  The Company's still water products  compete  directly with Evian,
Crystal Geyser,  Naya, Palomar Mountain,  Sahara,  Arrowhead and other brands of
still water, especially store brands.



Marketing

         Hansen's marketing strategy is to focus on consumers who seek beverages
which are perceived to be natural and healthy.  To attract these consumers,  the
Company  emphasizes the natural  ingredients  and the absence of  preservatives,
sodium,  artificial  coloring and caffeine in the Company's product lines (other
than the Company's new functional energy and stamina(TM) drinks which do contain
caffeine).  This  message  is  reinforced  in the  product  packaging  which  is
undergoing  extensive  redesign.  The  regular  wholesale  price of  Hansen's(R)
Natural  Sodas in cans is slightly  higher than  mainstream  soft drinks such as
Coca-Cola and Pepsi, although generally lower than the prices of the products of
many competitors in the new age category.  In its marketing,  Hansen  emphasizes
its high quality  "natural" image and the fact that its soda products contain no
preservatives,  sodium,  caffeine or artificial coloring.  The regular wholesale
price of the  Company's  non-carbonated  beverages and its  Equator(R)  brand is
slightly  lower than  competitive  non-carbonated  beverages  marketed under the
Snapple, Mistic, Lipton, Nestea,  Fruitopia,  Ocean Spray and Arizona brands. In
its marketing,  Hansen  emphasizes  its high quality  natural image and the fact
that its iced tea products are  decaffeinated  and lighter than those of many of
its  competitors.  The regular  wholesale  prices of the  Company's  fruit juice
Smoothie products are similar to those of Kern's nectars. Without abandoning its
natural and healthy  image,  the Company has  launched a new lightly  carbonated
energy drink in 8.2-ounce slim cans,  containing two popular energy supplements,
Ginseng and Taurine,  to appeal to the young and active  segment of the beverage
market that desires an energy boost from its beverage selection. Hansen's(R) new
energy  drink also  contains  Vitamins  B2, B6, B12,  Niacin,  Vitamin C, Ginkgo
Biloba,  Guarana,  Caffeine and Glucose.  The Company has since  launched  three
additional lightly carbonated  functional drinks. The first, a stamina(TM) drink
contains Coenzyme Q-10,  L-Carnitine,  Bee Pollen, Royal Jelly, Schizandra Berry
and Vitamins B5, B6, B12,  Niacin,  Vitamin C, Guarana Berry and  Caffeine;  the
second,  a d-stress(TM)  drink  contains Kava Kava, St John's Wort,  L-Tyrosine,
Chamomile as well as Vitamins B5, B6, B12,  Niacin and Vitamin C; and the third,
an anti-ox(TM) drink contains Grape Seed Extract, Selenium,  Echinacea, Vitamins
A, C and E as well as Vitamins B5, B6, B12 and Niacin.  The  supplements,  amino
acids,  vitamins,  nutrients and herbs ("supplements")  contained in each of the
functional  drinks are  intended to provide  specific but  different  functional
benefits to the consumers of each of such products.

         Hansen's internal research has revealed that Hansen's(R)  Natural Sodas
have a high degree of repeat purchase.  Therefore,  Hansen's sales and marketing
strategy is to focus its primary efforts on developing brand awareness and trial
through sampling both in stores and at events. Hansen intends to place increased
emphasis on product sampling and participating in direct promotions. The Company
proposes to  continue to use its  refrigerated  truck  extensively  at events at
which the Company's products, particularly its fruit juice Smoothies and Natural
Sodas,   will  be  distributed  to  consumers  for  sampling.   Hansen  utilizes
"push-pull" tactics to achieve maximum shelf and display space exposure in sales
outlets  and  maximum   demand  from   consumers  for  its  products   including
advertising,  price promotions,  couponing, sampling and sponsorship of sporting
events  such as 10-K  runs,  bicycle  races,  volleyball  tournaments  and other
health-  and   sports-related   activities  and  also  participates  in  product
demonstrations, food tasting and other related events. Posters, print, radio and
television  advertising  together with price  promotions  and couponing are also
used extensively to promote the Hansen's(R) brand.

         Management increased  expenditures for its sales and marketing programs
by approximately 35% in 1997 compared to 1996.

         Hansen  intends to support its planned  expansion of  distribution  and
sale of its products through the in-store placement of point-of-sale  materials,
use of glide racks and a proprietary  rolling rack for its functional drinks and
by developing  local marketing  programs in conjunction with its distributors in
their respective  markets.  By enlisting its distributors as participants in its
marketing and  advertising  programs,  Hansen  intends to create an  environment
conducive to the growth of both the Hansen's(R)  brand and the businesses of its
distributors.

         In January 1994,  the Company  entered into an agreement  with a barter
company  for the  exchange  of  certain  inventory  for future  advertising  and
marketing  credits.  The Company  assigned a value of $490,000 to these  credits
based on the net realizable value of the inventory  exchanged ("cost basis"). As
of December  31,  1997,  advertising  and  marketing  credits,  on a cost basis,
totaled $265,000.  Advertising and marketing credits, on a barter basis, totaled
$527,000 at that date.  Although  such credits  remain  available for use by the
Company through  January 2002,  management is unable to estimate their remaining
net realizable  value at December 31, 1997.  Accordingly,  the Company has fully
reserved against such amount in the accompanying financial statements.



         Management  continues to believe that one of the keys to success in the
beverage  industry  is  differentiation;  making  Hansen's(R)  products  clearly
distinctive  from other  beverages  on the  shelves of  retailers.  The  Company
reviews its products and  packaging on an ongoing  basis and,  where  practical,
endeavors  to make them  different,  better and  unique.  The  Company  recently
redesigned the labels for Hansen's(R) juice products. In the case of Hansen's(R)
soda  products,  an  inexpensive  redesign of the can graphics  was  implemented
during 1997 as an interim measure. Management contemplates that the graphics for
the Company's Smoothie and soda products will be completely  redesigned over the
next twelve  months in an endeavor to develop a new  packaging  system that will
maximize  visibility  and  identification  of all  Hansen's(R)  brand  products,
wherever they may be placed in stores.

Customers

         The core of  Hansen's  business  is  currently  based on retail  chain,
specialty and club store  distribution,  primarily in  California.  These retail
chain,  specialty  and club  stores  account for  approximately  72% of Hansen's
sales. Major customers include Costco Wholesale, Trader Joes, Sam's Club, Lucky,
Vons,  Safeway,  Ralph's,  Hughes,  Wal-Mart  and  Albertson's.   Two  customers
accounted for 29% and 11%,  respectively,  of the  Company's  sales for the year
ended  December  31,  1997.  A decision  by either of these major  customers  to
decrease  the  amount  purchased  from  the  Company  or to cease  carrying  the
Company's  products  could  have a  material  adverse  effect  on the  Company's
financial condition and results of operations.

Source and Availability of Raw Materials

         The Company  purchases its soda,  functional  drink and  non-carbonated
beverage flavors and  concentrates  from  independent  suppliers  located in the
United States and Mexico and juices,  concentrates and flavors for its apple and
other  juice  products  and  fruit  juice  Smoothie  products  from  independent
suppliers in the United States and abroad.

         Suppliers regard flavors as proprietary to them.  Consequently,  Hansen
does not currently  have the list of ingredients or formulae for its flavors and
certain  of its  concentrates  readily  available  to it and is unable to obtain
these flavors or concentrates  from alternative  suppliers on short notice.  The
Company was involved in determining  the formulae for and securing  suppliers of
the  supplements  contained in its functional  drinks and is able to obtain such
supplements  from  alternative  suppliers on  reasonable  notice.  Industry wide
shortages  of certain  supplements  have been and could,  from time to time,  be
experienced in the future, which could interfere with production.

         Management  continues to attempt to develop  back-up  sources of supply
for its flavors and  concentrates  from other  suppliers  as well as to conclude
arrangements  with  suppliers  which would enable it to obtain access to certain
concentrate  formulae in certain  circumstances.  The Company has been partially
successful in these endeavors. By working with suppliers rather than on its own,
Hansen is able to develop new products at low cost as well as to  diversify  its
supplier network.

         Hansen's  goal  is to  ensure  that  all  raw  materials  used  in  the
manufacture and packaging of the Company's products, including its natural soda,
functional drinks and non-carbonated concentrates and juices, high fructose corn
syrup,  citric acid, caps, cans, glass bottles and labels, are readily available
from two or more sources and is continuing its efforts to achieve this goal.

         In connection with the development of new products and flavors,  Hansen
contracts with independent  suppliers who bear a large portion of the expense of
product development, thereby enabling Hansen to develop new products and flavors
at a relatively low cost.  Hansen has  historically  developed and  successfully
introduced new products and flavors and packaging for its products and currently
anticipates developing and introducing new products and flavors for its existing
natural beverage products.



Seasonality

         Hansen normally  experiences greater sales and profitability during its
second and third fiscal quarters (April through  September).  The consumption of
soda and non-carbonated  beverage products fluctuates in part due to temperature
changes with the greatest consumption  occurring during the warm months.  During
months where  temperatures  are abnormally warm or cold,  consumption goes up or
down  accordingly.  Similarly,  consumption  is affected in those  regions where
temperature  and other  weather  conditions  undergo  dramatic  changes with the
seasons.  Management  anticipates  that the sale of the  Company's  products may
become increasingly subject to seasonal fluctuations as more sales occur outside
of California in areas where weather  conditions are  intemperate.  Sales of the
Company's  apple juice  products are less affected by such factors.  The Company
believes  that sales of its apple  strawberry  and apple grape,  juice blends as
well as of its  DynaJuice(TM)  and functional  drinks,  will be less affected by
such  factors.  However,  as the  Company  has not had the  benefit of any prior
experience with such products, it is unable to predict the likely sales trend of
such products with any degree of accuracy.

Trademark

     The  Hansen's(R)  trademark  is crucial  to the  Company's  business.  This
trademark is registered in the U.S.  Patent and Trademark  Office and in various
countries  throughout the world.  The Hansen's(R)  trademark is owned by a trust
(the  "Trust")which  was  created  by an  agreement  between  Hansen  and  FJC's
predecessor("the  Agreement  of  Trust").  The  Trust  has  licensed  to  HBC in
perpetuity on an exclusive  world-wide  royalty-free  basis the right to use the
Hansen's(R) trademark in connection with the manufacture,  sale and distribution
of  carbonated  beverages  and waters and shelf  stable  fruit juices and drinks
containing  fruit  juices.  In  addition,  the Trust  has  licensed  to HBC,  in
perpetuity,  on an exclusive  world-wide basis, the right to use the Hansen's(R)
trademark in connection with the  manufacture,  sale and distribution of certain
non-carbonated  beverages and water in consideration of royalty  payments.  Such
license is, however, terminable if certain minimum royalty payments are not made
to the Trust. A similar license  agreement exists between the Trust and HBC with
regard to non-beverage  products.  Royalty expenses  incurred in respect of such
non-carbonated beverages and water during 1997 amounted to $15,636. No royalties
are payable on sodas, juices, lemonades,  juice cocktails, fruit juice Smoothies
or the  "functional"  drinks.  HBC,  FJC's  predecessor  and the Trust have also
entered into a Royalty Sharing Agreement  pursuant to which royalties payable by
third parties procured by FJC or its predecessor or HBC will initially be shared
between the Trust and HBC and,  after a specified  amount of royalties have been
received,  will be shared  equally  between HBC and FJC.  Under the terms of the
Agreement of Trust,  FJC will receive royalty income paid to the Trust in excess
of Trust expenses and a reserve therefor.  Management believes that such royalty
payments as a  percentage  of sales are  comparatively  low.  FJC's  predecessor
applied to register the trademark  Hansen's  Smoothie(TM),  and agreed to assign
its rights  thereto to the Trust.  The Company's  right to use such trademark is
coextensive  with its right to use the  Hansen's(R)  trademark.  The Company has
applied to  register  a number of  trademarks  including,  but not  limited  to,
LIQUIDFRUIT(TM),  functionals(TM), anti-ox(TM), d-stress(TM),  stamina(TM), THE
REAL DEAL(TM), It's Just Good(TM) and Aqua Blast(TM).

         The  Company  owns in its  own  right  the  trademarks,  Imported  from
Nature(R),   California's   Natural   Choice(R),   California's   Choice(R)  and
Equator(R).

Government Regulation

         The  production and marketing of beverages are subject to the rules and
regulations  of the United States Food and Drug  Administration  (the "FDA") and
other  federal,  state and local health  agencies.  The FDA also  regulates  the
labeling of containers  including,  without  limitation,  statements  concerning
product ingredients.



Employees

         As of March 5, 1998,  Hansen  employed a total of 53  employees,  43 of
whom are  employed  on a full-time  basis.  Of  Hansen's  53  employees,  25 are
employed in administrative and quality control capacities and 28 are employed in
sales and marketing capacities.

     During 1997,  Mr. Harold C. Taber,  Jr.  elected to retire as President and
Chief  Executive  Officer of HBC. Mr. Taber agreed to act as a consultant to HBC
for a period  of two  years and to remain  as a  director  of the  Company.  The
Company will continue to operate with three  separate  divisions  namely,  soda,
juice  and  down-the-street  single  serve,  under  existing  management  at the
direction of Messrs. Rodney Sacks and Hilton Schlosberg.

Compliance with Environmental Laws

         The  operation  of  Hansen's  business  is not  materially  affected by
compliance  with federal,  state or local  environmental  laws and  regulations.
Under  California law, Hansen is required to make  California  Redemption  Value
payments  to the  State  based  upon  the  number  of cans  and  bottles  of its
carbonated  products sold. As Hansen expands the sale of its products outside of
California, it may become subject to similar obligations under the laws of other
states.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

         Hansen's  corporate  offices  and  warehouse  are  located  in a single
building at 2380 Railroad Street,  Suite 101,  Corona,  California  91720.  This
facility  is leased by HBC for a period of eighty  nine (89)  months  commencing
from September 19, 1997. The gross area of the facility is approximately  66,700
square feet.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

         The second stage of the trial in HBC's action against ERLY  Industries,
Inc.  ("ERLY") in the Superior  Court for the State of  California,  was held in
July 1997 for the sole purpose of determining  the amount of HBC's  damages,  if
any,  resulting from ERLY's breach of certain rights of first refusal provisions
contained in HBC's subordinated  secured promissory note in the principal amount
of $4 million in favor of ERLY.  In November  1997,  the court held that HBC had
not suffered any damages as a result of ERLY's breach of the note. HBC has filed
an appeal  against  that  judgement.  A motion was made by ERLY for the costs of
such action to be awarded in its favor,  which was dismissed by the court.  ERLY
has filed a cross  appeal on that  issue.  The full amount due under the note to
ERLY was paid in November  1997 with the proceeds of a term loan obtained by the
Company from  Comerica Bank -  California.  The ultimate  outcome of this matter
cannot presently be predicted.

         Except  as  described  above,  there  are  no  material  pending  legal
proceedings  to which the  Company or any of its  subsidiaries  is a party or to
which any of the properties is subject,  other than ordinary routine  litigation
incidental to the Company's business.



ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

         The annual meeting of  stockholders of the Company was held on November
14, 1997. At the meeting, the following individuals were elected as directors of
the Company  and  received  the number of votes set  opposite  their  respective
names:

                                                                Votes For
                                                               -----------
                   Rodney C. Sacks                              6,848,952
                   Hilton H. Schlosberg                         6,855,876
                   Benjamin M. Polk                             6,856,116
                   Norman C. Epstein                            6,856,106
                   Harold C. Taber, Jr.                         6,856,009

         In addition,  at the meeting the  stockholders of the Company  ratified
the appointment of Deloitte & Touche as independent  auditors of the Company for
the year ending  December 31, 1997, by a vote of 6,850,754  for,  10,410 against
and 8,762 abstaining.

         In addition,  at the meeting the  stockholders of the Company  ratified
the  amendment of the  Company's  Stock Option Plan (the "Plan") to increase the
number of shares of Common  Stock  issuable  pursuant  to the Plan to  2,000,000
shares and to limit the number of options that may be granted to any  individual
under the Plan  during  any  60-month  period to  500,000  shares,  by a vote of
5,279,533 for, 104,208 against and 56,169 abstaining.

                                    PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
         SHAREHOLDER MATTERS

Principal Market

         The Company's Common Stock began trading in the over-the-counter market
on  November  8, 1990 and is quoted on the  Nasdaq  Small-Cap  Market  under the
symbol "HANS".  As of March 5, 1998, there were 9,130,869 shares of Common Stock
outstanding held by approximately 796 holders of record.



Stock Price and Dividend Information

         The following table sets forth high and low bid closing  quotations for
the Common  Stock,  on a quarterly  basis from  January 1, 1995 to December  31,
1997:

                                        Common Stock
                              -----------------------------------------
                                 High Bid                  Low Bid
                              ------------------      -----------------
Year Ended December 31, 1997
First Quarter                       $ 1 3/8                $ 1
Second Quarter                      $ 1 7/16               $   31/32
Third Quarter                       $ 1 15/16              $ 1 3/8
Fourth Quarter                      $ 2 11/16              $ 1 9/16

Year Ended December 31, 1996
First Quarter                       $   31/32              $   5/8
Second Quarter                      $ 2 11/16              $   5/8
Third Quarter                       $ 2 1/2                $ 1 5/8
Fourth Quarter                      $ 2 5/16               $ 1 1/16

Year Ended December 31, 1995
First Quarter                       $ 1 13/16              $ 1 7/16
Second Quarter                      $ 1 1/2                $ 1 3/16
Third Quarter                       $ 1 5/8                $ 1 1/8
Fourth Quarter                      $ 1 5/32               $   5/8


         The  quotations  for the Common  Stock set forth  above  represent  bid
quotations  between  dealers,  do not  include  retail  markups,  mark-downs  or
commissions   and,  bid  quotations,   may  not  necessarily   represent  actual
transactions  and "real time" sale prices.  The source of the bid information is
the Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc.

         Hansen has not paid dividends to its  stockholders  since its inception
and does not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future.



ITEM 6.  SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA

         The  consolidated  statement  of  operations  data set forth below with
respect to each of the years ended December 31, 1997,  1996, 1995, 1994 and 1993
and the  balance  sheet  data  for the  dates  indicated  are  derived  from the
consolidated   financial   statements   audited  by  Deloitte  and  Touche  LLP,
independent certified public accountants, and should be read in conjunction with
those financial  statements and notes thereto included  elsewhere in this and in
the 1996 and 1995 Forms 10-K and in the 1994 and 1993 Forms 10-KSB.

(in 000's except per
 share information)        1997      1996        1995        1994       1993
- --------------------     -------   -------     -------     --------   --------

Net sales              $43,057     $35,565     $33,991     $28,816     $23,659

Net income (loss)      $ 1,250     $   357     $(1,350)    $(1,407)    $   650

Net income(loss) per common share:
  Basic                $  0.14     $  0.04     $ (0.15)    $ (0.15)    $  0.07
  Diluted              $  0.13     $  0.04                             $  0.08

Total assets           $16,933     $16,109     $17,521     $17,654     $17,120

Long-term debt         $ 3,408     $ - 0 -     $ 4,032     $ 3,971     $ 3,875


ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS

General

         Management  believes  that during 1997 the  Company  continued  to make
progress towards achieving its goal of geographically  expanding the Hansen's(R)
brand as well as expanding  the  Hansen's(R)  brand  product  range.  During the
twelve months ended December 31, 1997, the expansion of  distribution of certain
of the Company's  products into markets outside of California  continued to make
good  progress  and was  boosted in April 1997 when the Company  introduced  its
lightly  carbonated  energy drink in an 8.2-ounce slim can. Repeat sales of that
product  have  been  encouraging  and  early in 1998 the  Company  extended  its
"functional"  beverage product line by introducing  three additional  functional
drinks in 8.2-ounce  slim cans.  The Company  proposes to  introduce  additional
packages in that line later in 1998.

         During the early part of 1997,  management  decided to discontinue  the
operation of its route distribution system in Southern California and instead to
secure distribution  arrangements with independent distributors for the majority
of the area  previously  covered by the Company's  route  distribution  system.
Although  such  transition  resulted  in lower sales of the  Company's  products
(generally  because the independent  distributors also distribute other beverage
products which in many cases compete directly with the Company's products), such
lower sales  nevertheless  contributed  positively to the  profitability  of the
Company.



       Sales in the United Kingdom were lower than anticipated during 1997; and,
as a consequence,  the Company  elected to curtail its direct  operations in the
United   Kingdom.   At  the  end  of  1997,  the  Company   commenced  with  the
deregistration  of its  United  Kingdom  subsidiary  and  the  closure  of  that
subsidiary's  offices. In the future, the Company will deal with its distributor
in the United  Kingdom from its corporate  offices in California and will export
all products sold by it to such  distributor  from the United States.  All costs
relating to the curtailing of the Company's United Kingdom  operations have been
reflected in the accompanying financial statements.

         Net sales and  profitability  were positively  affected by sales of the
Company's  fruit juice  Smoothies and by sales of the Company's new energy drink
in 8.2-ounce  slim cans which was  introduced in April 1997. The increase in net
sales of the Company's Smoothie products was primarily due to increased sales to
club stores, retail stores and distributors. Such gains were, however, partially
offset by lower sales and gross  profits  from soda and  Equator(R).  Management
believes  that the  lower  sales  and gross  profits  from  soda were  primarily
attributable  to  decreased  sales to  retail  stores  and  distributors  due to
aggressive retail pricing and promotions of mainstream  sodas.  During 1997, the
Company offered its Equator(R) brand of ready-to-drink iced teas,  lemonades and
juice  cocktails  in  20-ounce  cobalt  blue glass  bottles in limited  markets.
However,  due to low sales  volumes of such  products,  management  is presently
evaluating whether or not to discontinue such line.

         Net sales of apple juice were higher in 1997 than 1996.  Such  increase
was primarily  attributable to aggressive  pricing and promotions  undertaken by
the Company as well as the redesign of the apple juice label late in 1997.

         Net sales of iced teas,  lemonades  and juice  cocktails were about the
same as in 1996.

         The mix of  products  sold by the Company  continued  to change in 1997
with an  increased  percentage  of  sales  being  attributable  to  fruit  juice
Smoothies  as well as the  Company's  new  lightly  carbonated  energy  drink in
8.2-ounce slim cans. The aggregate  gross profit margin  achieved by the Company
as a percentage of net sales  improved to 41.4% for the year ended  December 31,
1997 compared to 39.1% for the  comparable  year ended  December 31, 1996.  Such
increase was primarily  attributable to higher margins achieved as a result of a
change in the Company's product mix and to cost reductions achieved,  details of
which are set out more fully below.

         The  Company's  business  was also  affected  by trends  affecting  the
beverage  industry.  Although  the  alternative  beverage  category  remains the
fastest  growing  segment  of the  beverage  marketplace,  the  rate  of  growth
experienced  by the category as a whole over the past few years has continued to
slow down. Sales of all natural sodas have continued to remain relatively flat.

         During  1997,  sales  outside of  California  represented  23.6% of the
aggregate  sales  of the  Company  or  $11.2  million  compared  to 15.6% of the
aggregate  sales of the Company or $6.1 million  during 1996.  Sales outside the
United States during 1997 were $854,000 of which $335,000 comprised sales in the
United  Kingdom,  including  sales to  distributors  in other countries from the
United  Kingdom and $519,000  from export sales to  distributors  outside of the
United States originating from the United States.

         During 1997, the Company entered into several  distribution  agreements
for the sale of its products both within and outside the United States.

     As  discussed  under  "ITEM  1.  BUSINESS  -  Manufacture,  Production  and
Distribution",  it is  anticipated  that the Company will continue  building its
national  sales  organization  in 1998 to  support  and  grow  the  sales of its
products.

         In 1997,  the Company  benefited from cost  reductions  achieved in the
procurement of certain concentrates and juices, flavors and packaging materials,
the copacking of soda as well as the  repacking of certain of its  products.  In
1998,  cost savings should also be realized from the relocation of the Company's
warehouse and corporate offices to the Corona facility.



         The Company  continues to take steps to reduce costs,  particularly the
costs of its soda and non-carbonated and Smoothie product lines.

         The Company  continues to incur  expenditures  in  connection  with the
development and introduction of new products and flavors.

Results of Operations  for the Year Ended December 31, 1997 Compared to the Year
Ended December 31, 1996.

         Net  Sales.  For the year  ended  December  31,  1997,  net sales  were
approximately $43.1 million, an increase of $7.5 million or 21.1% over the $35.6
million net sales for the year ended  December  31,  1996.  The  increase in net
sales was primarily  attributable to increased sales of Hansen's(R)  fruit juice
Smoothies  in cans  and  bottles  and  Hansen's(R)  apple  juice,  and  sales of
Hansen's(R)  energy drink,  which was introduced during April 1997. The increase
in net  sales  was  partially  offset  by a  decrease  in net  sales of soda and
Equator(R).  Sales of iced teas,  lemonades and juice  cocktails  were about the
same as in the comparable period in 1996.

         Gross  Profit.  Gross  profit  was  $17.8  million  for the year  ended
December 31, 1997,  an increase of $3.9 million or 28.4% over the $13.9  million
gross profit for the year ended December 31, 1996.  Gross profit as a percentage
of net sales  increased to 41.4% for the year ended December 31, 1997 from 39.1%
for the year ended December 31, 1996. The increase in gross profit was primarily
attributable  to the increase in net sales as well as cost  reductions  achieved
for certain raw  materials  and  packaging.  The  increase in gross  profit as a
percentage of net sales was primarily attributable to higher margins achieved as
a result of a change in the Company's product mix.

         Total Operating  Expenses.  Total operating expenses were $16.0 million
for the year ended  December  31,  1997,  an increase  of $2.8  million or 20.7%
higher  than  total  operating  expenses  of $13.2  million  for the year  ended
December  31,  1996.  Total  operating  expenses  as a  percentage  of net sales
decreased to 37.0% for the year ended December 31, 1997, from 37.2% for the year
ended December 31, 1996. The increase in total operating  expenses was primarily
attributable to increased selling, general and administrative expenses which was
partially  offset  by a  decrease  in  amortization  of  trademark  license  and
trademarks and other  expenses.  The decrease in total  operating  expenses as a
percentage of net sales was primarily  attributable to the increase in net sales
and the comparatively smaller increase in operating expenses from the comparable
period in 1996.

         Selling, general and administrative expenses were $15.5 million for the
year ended  December 31, 1997,  an increase of $3.0 million or 23.4% higher than
selling, general and administrative expenses of $12.5 million for the year ended
December 31, 1996. Selling,  general and administrative expenses as a percentage
of net sales  increased to 35.9% for the year ended December 31, 1997 from 35.2%
for the year ended  December  31,  1996.  The  increase in selling  expenses was
primarily attributable to increases in distribution costs, advertising and costs
of promotional  materials primarily to support the expansion of distribution and
sales of Smoothie  bottles and the launch of the  Company's new energy drink and
was partially  attributable to the  establishment  of a reserve in the Company's
financial  statements  against the advertising and marketing  credits more fully
described under "ITEM 1. BUSINESS - Marketing",  above.  The increase in general
and  administrative  expenses was primarily  attributable  to increased  payroll
costs in connection  with the Company's  expansion  activities  into  additional
states.

         Amortization  of trademark  license and  trademarks  was  approximately
$301,000  for the year ended  December  31, 1997, a decrease of $96,000 from the
$397,000 for the year ended December 31, 1996.  This decrease is attributable to
the change in the  amortization  period  from 25 years to 40 years as more fully
described in Note 1 in the Company's  Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31,
1996.

         Other  expenses were  $199,000 for the year ended  December 31, 1997, a
decrease of $97,000 or 32.8% below other expenses of $296,000 for the year ended
December 31, 1996. This decrease was primarily attributable to the expiration of
certain  consulting  agreements  which were entered into in connection  with the
purchase of the Hansen  Business.  This decrease was  partially  offset by a new
consulting agreement entered into with the former president of HBC.



         Operating Income.  Operating income was $1.9 million for the year ended
December 31, 1997, compared to $677,000 for the year ended December 31, 1996.

         Net Nonoperating Expense. Net nonoperating expense was $592,000 for the
year ended December 31, 1997,  which was $274,000  higher than net  nonoperating
expense of $317,000  for the year ended  December  31,  1996.  Net  nonoperating
expense for the year ended  December  31,  1997  consists  of net  interest  and
financing expense and other expense. Net nonoperating expense for the year ended
December  31, 1996  consists of net  interest  and  financing  expense and other
income.  Net interest and financing expense for the year ended December 31, 1997
was  $522,000  compared to $577,000 for the year ended  December  31, 1996.  The
decrease in net interest and financing expense was attributable to a decrease in
the amortization of certain  capitalized  financing costs incurred in connection
with the securing of HBC's previous  revolving line of credit,  which were fully
amortized by the third quarter of 1996, and lower average short-term  borrowings
during the year ended December 31, 1997 than during 1996. Other expense for 1997
consists  of a $70,000  loss on the  disposal  of plant and  equipment,  arising
primarily from the closure of the route  distribution  system.  Other income for
1996  consisted of $259,000 of income from the recovery under the Hawaiian Water
Partners note  described in Note 3 in the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 1996.

         Net Income.  Net income was $1.3 million for the year ended  December
31,  1997,  compared to  $357,000  for the year ended  December  31,  1996.  The
$893,000  increase  in net income  over prior year  consists  of an  increase in
operating  income of $1.2 million offset by an increase in nonoperating  expense
of $274,000 and an increase of $38,000 in the provision for income taxes.

Results of Operations  for the Year Ended December 31, 1996 Compared to the Year
Ended December 31, 1995.

         Net  Sales.  For the year  ended  December  31,  1996,  net sales  were
approximately  $35.6 million, an increase of $1.6 million or 4.6% over the $34.0
million net sales for the year ended  December  31,  1995.  The  increase in net
sales was primarily  attributable to sales of Hansen's(R)  fruit juice Smoothies
in bottles  which were  introduced  in 16-ounce  bottles at the end of the third
quarter of 1995 and in unique  proprietary  13.5-ounce bottles at the end of the
first  quarter of 1996 and sales of  Hansen's(R)  fruit juice  Smoothies in cans
which were  introduced at the end of the first  quarter of 1995.  Significantly,
the increase in net sales of fruit juice  Smoothies was partly offset by a 12.2%
decrease in net sales of soda in 1996 as compared  with 1995.  This decrease was
primarily  attributable to decreased sales to club stores,  retail and specialty
stores due to aggressive  retail pricing and promotions of mainstream sodas. The
increase  in net sales of fruit juice  Smoothies  was also  partially  offset by
decreased sales of ready-to-drink  iced teas,  lemonades and juice cocktails and
the  discontinuance  of  Equator(R)  products in certain  markets.  Net sales of
ready-to-drink iced teas, lemonades and juice cocktails decreased  approximately
27% from prior year. This decrease was primarily  attributable to lower sales to
retail and specialty  chain stores and, to a lesser extent,  lower sales to club
stores and  distributors.  The decrease in sales to these customers is primarily
attributable  to  aggressive  competition  from other  brands,  the  decision by
certain  club stores and  specialty  chain  stores to limit the variety of these
types of  Hansen's(R)  products  carried by them,  the loss of  distribution  in
certain  California  retail chains and club stores and the loss of  distributors
outside  California.  Such decrease was partially  offset by increased  sales of
juice  cocktails  to club  stores in  California.  Net sales of apple juice were
approximately  5.1%  greater  than  prior  year.  During the year,  the  Company
discontinued selling its line of Equator(R) teas, lemonades, and juice cocktails
in cans.  The Company  continues  to market and sell these  products in 20-ounce
glass bottles in selected markets.

         Gross  Profit.  Gross  profit  was  $13.9  million  for the year  ended
December 31, 1996,  an increase of $1.8 million or 14.5% over the $12.1  million
gross profit for the year ended December 31, 1995.  Gross profit as a percentage
of net sales  increased to 39.1% for the year ended December 31, 1996 from 35.7%
for the year ended  December  31,  1995.  The  increase in both gross profit and
gross  profit  as a  percentage  of net  sales  was  primarily  attributable  to
decreases  in the costs of  aluminum  cans and other raw  materials  which  were
partially  offset by increased  copacking costs for sodas due to a change in the
production facility utilized by the Company late in the second quarter of 1996.



         Total Operating  Expenses.  Total operating expenses were $13.2 million
for the year ended  December 31, 1996, a decrease of $225,000 or 1.7% lower than
total operating  expenses of $13.4 million for the year ended December 31, 1995.
Total operating expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased to 37.2% for the
year  ended  December  31,  1996  compared  to  total  operating  expenses  as a
percentage  of net sales of 39.5% for the year  ended  December  31,  1995.  The
decrease in total operating expenses was primarily attributable to a decrease in
amortization  of  trademark  license  and  trademarks  and a  decrease  in other
expenses.  The decrease in total operating expenses as a percentage of net sales
was  primarily  attributable  to the  increase in net sales and the  decrease in
operating expenses, as compared to 1995.

         In 1996, selling,  general and administrative expenses of approximately
$12.5 million were level with such expenses incurred in 1995. However,  selling,
general and  administrative  expenses as a percentage of net sales  decreased to
35.2%  in 1996  from  36.8%  in 1995.  The  decrease  in  selling,  general  and
administrative  expenses as a percentage of net sales was primarily attributable
to the  increase  in net sales and level  selling,  general  and  administrative
expenses in 1996 as compared to 1995.

         Other  expenses were  $296,000 for the year ended  December 31, 1996, a
decrease of $142,000  or 32.4%  below  other  expenses of $437,000  for the year
ended  December  31,  1995.  This  decrease was  primarily  attributable  to the
expiration  of  certain  consulting   agreements  which  were  entered  into  in
connection  with the purchase of the Hansen  Business and the merger between the
Company, CVI Ventures, Inc. and Continental Ventures, Inc.

         Operating  Income  (Loss).  Operating  income was $677,000 for the year
ended  December 31, 1996,  compared to an operating loss of $1.3 million for the
year ended December 31, 1995.

         Net Nonoperating Expense. Net nonoperating expense was $317,000 for the
year ended December 31, 1996,  which was $277,000  higher than net  nonoperating
expense of $41,000  for the year  ended  December  31,  1995.  Net  nonoperating
expense for the years ended  December 31, 1996 and 1995 consists of net interest
and financing  expense and other income.  Net interest and financing expense for
the year ended December 31, 1996, was $577,000 compared to $440,000 for the year
ended December 31, 1995. The increase in net interest and financing  expense was
attributable  to expenses  incurred in connection with a line of credit that was
obtained by the Company and additional  interest expense in connection with that
line. Other income for 1996 and 1995 consists of $259,000 and $346,000 of income
respectively, from the recovery under the Hawaiian Water Partners note described
below,  and for 1995,  includes  a $53,000  reduction  in  liabilities  from the
recovery of an amount due from the sellers of the Hansen  Business in connection
with the Mead settlement more fully described in "ITEM 3. LEGAL  PROCEEDINGS" in
the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995.

         In connection with the acquisition of the Hansen Business,  the Company
was assigned a promissory  note made by Hawaiian  Water Partners in the original
principal  amount of $310,027  plus  interest  thereon  and  certain  additional
principal amounts.  The note was secured by the proceeds,  if any, of a lawsuit.
The  collectibility  of this note was dependent upon the outcome of that lawsuit
and  consequently,  the Company full  reserved  against this asset.  Following a
judgment in the lawsuit, a settlement was reached among the plaintiff, defendant
and competing claimants to the proceeds from the lawsuit. Under the terms of the
settlement,  the Company was to receive a total of $616,000  plus  interest.  In
1995,  the reserve  against  the note was  reduced to  $270,000  and the Company
recorded $346,000 in other income.  Following receipt of the remaining  proceeds
during  1996,  the  remaining  reserve  against  the  note  was  eliminated.  In
connection therewith,  $233,000 was recorded in other income during 1996, net of
$37,000 of attorney's  fees incurred in connection  with the  settlement,  which
constituted the full extent of recovery under this note.



         Net Income (Loss).  Net income was $357,000 for the year ended December
31, 1996 compared to a net loss of $1.35 million for the year ended December 31,
1995.  The $1.71 million  increase in net income over prior year consisted of an
increase  in net  operating  income of $1.98  million  offset by an  increase in
nonoperating expenses of $277,000.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

     As of December  31,  1997,  the Company had working  capital of  $2,494,674
compared to a working capital deficit of $2,707,471 as of December 31, 1996. The
increase in working capital was primarily  attributable to the  reclassification
of the $4 million note payable to ERLY Industries (the "Note"),  due on July 27,
1997,  from current  portion of long-term  debt to long-term  debt following the
refinancing  of that Note pursuant to the terms of a term loan which was secured
by the Company from Comerica Bank-California during 1997. The term loan together
with the  revolving  credit  facility in favor of Comerica  Bank-California  are
secured  by all of the  Company's  assets,  including  its  principal  trademark
license,  receivables and inventory.  The increase in cash provided by operating
activities  from  $753,845  in 1996 to  $1,318,538  in 1997 and a portion of the
increase  in  working  capital  was  attributable  to net income  earned,  after
adjustments for certain noncash  expenses,  primarily  amortization of trademark
license and trademarks,  depreciation  and other  amortization,  during the year
ended December 31, 1997.

         As  part  of  the   facility   granted  to  the   Company  by  Comerica
Bank-California,  the Company  obtained a  revolving  line of credit of up to $3
million in aggregate at any time  outstanding.  The  utilization of this line of
credit by the Company is  dependent  upon  certain  levels of eligible  accounts
receivable  and  inventory  from time to time.  The line of credit is secured by
substantially all of HBC's assets,  including  accounts  receivable,  inventory,
trademarks,  trademark licenses and certain equipment.  As of December 31, 1997,
no amounts were  outstanding  under the revolving  line of credit and $3,916,666
was  outstanding  under the term loan. The term loan is payable over a period of
60 months.

         The initial use of proceeds  under the revolving  line of credit was to
refinance  HBC's  previous line of credit and the initial use of proceeds  under
the term loan was to make  payment of the full  principal  balance  owing by the
Company  under the Note.  The  revolving  line of credit is  renewable on May 1,
1998. The Company  anticipates  that such line will be renewed on the expiration
date.  However,  there can be no assurance that it will, in fact, be renewed, or
if renewed,  that the terms of such renewal will not be  disadvantageous  to HBC
and its business.

         During  1997,  the  Company  utilized  a portion of its line of credit,
together with its own funds, for working  capital,  to finance its expansion and
development  plans and to reduce  long-term  debt.  Purchases of  inventory  and
financing of accounts  receivable,  as well as HBC's  expansion and  development
plans, have been, and for the foreseeable  future,  are expected to remain HBC's
principal recurring use of working capital funds.

         Management believes that cash available from operations, including cash
resources and its revolving  line of credit,  will be sufficient for its working
capital needs, including purchase commitments for raw materials,  debt servicing
and expansion and  development  needs as well as any purchases of capital assets
or equipment through December 31, 1998.

         Although the Company has no current plans to incur any material capital
expenditures,  management,  from  time to time,  considers  the  acquisition  of
capital equipment, particularly coolers and vans, businesses compatible with the
image of the Hansen's(R)  brand and the  introduction of new product lines.  The
Company  may  require  additional  capital  resources  in the  event of any such
transaction,  depending upon the cash requirements  relating  thereto.  Any such
transaction  will also be subject to the terms and  restrictions of HBC's credit
facilities.


Year 2000 Compliance

              Many currently  installed  computer systems and software  products
are coded to accept only two digit  entries in the date code  field.  These date
code  fields  will need to accept  four  digit  entries or be  modified  in some
fashion to distinguish 21st century dates from 20th century dates.  This problem
could  force  computers  to either  shut down or provide  incorrect  data.  As a
result,  in less than three years,  computer  systems and software  used by many
companies may need to be upgraded to comply with such "Year 2000"  requirements.
The Company has  examined  its  internal  computer  systems  and  contacted  its
software providers to determine whether the Company's software  applications are
compliant  with the Year 2000.  While the  Company  believes  that its  internal
systems are fully Year 2000 compliant, the Company intends to continue to review
its internal  systems for any problems as well as monitor its key  customers and
suppliers  for any  impact  that  the Year  2000  may have on their  information
systems  which in turn  could  impact  the  Company.  While it is  difficult  to
quantify the total cost to the Company of the Year 2000  compliance  activities,
the Company does not expect the cost to be material.

Forward Looking Statements

         Certain  statements made in this Report,  including certain  statements
made in this  Management's  Discussion and Analysis,  contain  "forward  looking
statements"  within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended,  and Section 21E of the  Securities  Exchange Act of 1934,  as amended,
regarding   the   expectations   of   management   with   respect  to  revenues,
profitability,  adequacy of funds from  operations  and the  Company's  existing
credit facility, among other things.

         Management  cautions that these statements are qualified by their terms
and/or  important  factors,  many of which are  outside  of the  control  of the
Company,  that could cause actual results and events to differ  materially  from
the  statements  made  herein,  including,  but not limited  to, the  following:
changes in consumer  preferences,  changes in demand  that are weather  related,
particularly  in areas outside of  California,  competitive  pricing  pressures,
changes in the price of the raw materials for the Company's  beverage  products,
the marketing  efforts of the  distributors of the Company's  products,  most of
which distribute products that are competitive with the products of the Company,
as well as  unilateral  decisions  that  may be made by  grocery  chain  stores,
specialty chain stores and club stores to discontinue carrying all or any of the
Company's products that they are carrying at any time.  Management further notes
that the  Company's  plans  and  results  may be  affected  by the  terms of the
Company's credit facilities and the actions of its creditors.

Sales

         The table set forth below discloses  selected  quarterly data regarding
sales  for the past  five  years.  Data  from any one or more  quarters  are not
necessarily indicative of annual results or continuing trends.

         Sales are  expressed  in  actual  cases  and case  equivalents.  A case
equivalent  is equal to the  amount of soda  concentrate  sold  that will  yield
twenty-four  12-ounce  (354 ml) cans  measured by volume.  Actual  cases of soda
equal twenty-four  12-ounce (354 ml) cans or 11-ounce (325 ml) bottles or twelve
23-ounce  (680 ml)  bottles  measured by volume.  A case of apple  juice  equals
twelve  32-ounce  bottles,  six 64-ounce  glass bottles,  eight 64-ounce  P.E.T.
bottles,   four  128-ounce   bottles  or  the  equivalent   volume.  A  case  of
non-carbonated  iced teas,  lemonades  and juice  cocktails  equals  twenty-four
16-ounce  (473 ml)  bottles  measured by volume.  A case of still  water  equals
twenty-four  0.5-liter,  twelve 1.0-liter and twelve  1.5-liter  plastic bottles
measured  by  volume.  A  case  of  fruit  juice  Smoothies  equals  twenty-four
11.5-ounce (354 ml) cans or twenty-four 16-ounce (473 ml) or 13.5-ounce (400 ml)
bottles measured by volume. A case of "functional" drinks equals twenty-four 8.2
ounce (243 ml) cans measured by volume. A case of Equator(R) equals  twenty-four
20-ounce (591 ml) bottles measured by volume.



         The Company's  quarterly results of operations  reflect seasonal trends
that are  primarily  the result of increased  demand in the warmer months of the
year.  It has been  Hansen's  experience  that  beverage  sales tend to be lower
during the first and fourth  quarters of each fiscal  year.  Because the primary
historical  market for Hansen's  products is  California,  which has a year-long
temperate climate, the effect of seasonal  fluctuations on quarterly results may
have been mitigated;  however,  such  fluctuations may be more pronounced as the
distribution  of Hansen's  products  expands  outside of  California.  Quarterly
fluctuations may also be affected by other factors including the introduction of
new products  including  Hansen's  functional drinks, the opening of new markets
where temperature fluctuations are more pronounced, the addition of new bottlers
and  distributors, changes in the mix of the sales of its finished products and
soda concentrates and increased advertising and promotional expenses.  See also
"ITEM 1. BUSINESS - Seasonality."
                                  Case Sales (in Thousands)
                    1997         1996         1995         1994         1993
                 ---------    ---------    ---------    ---------    ---------
Quarter 1            861          940          834          953          750
Quarter 2          1,383        1,340        1,282        1,270        1,044
Quarter 3          1,648        1,341        1,580        1,210        1,125
Quarter 4          1,234          876          902          860          887
                 =========    =========    =========    =========    =========
Totals             5,126        4,497        4,598        4,293        3,806
                 =========    =========    =========    =========    =========

                               Sales Revenues (in Thousands)
                    1997         1996         1995         1994         1993
                 ---------    --------     ---------    ---------    ---------
Quarter 1        $ 7,120      $ 7,365      $ 5,434       $6,050       $4,546
Quarter 2         11,496       10,394        9,560        8,749        6,349
Quarter 3         13,439       10,817       12,109        8,328        6,862
Quarter 4         11,002        6,989        6,888        5,689        5,902
                 =========    =========    =========    =========    =========
Totals           $43,057      $35,565      $33,991      $28,816      $23,659
                 =========    =========    =========    =========    =========

Inflation

         The Company does not believe that inflation had a significant impact on
the Company's results of operations for the periods presented.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

         The  information  required to be  furnished in response to this item is
submitted  hereinafter  following the signature page hereto at pages F-1 through
F-18.

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

         None.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

General

         Directors  of the Company  are  elected  annually by the holders of the
Common  Stock  and  executive  officers  are  elected  annually  by the Board of
Directors,  to serve until the next annual meeting of  stockholders or the Board
of  Directors,  as the case may be, or until  their  successors  are elected and
qualified.  It  is  presently  anticipated  that  the  next  annual  meeting  of
stockholders  and of the  Board  of  Directors,  respectively,  will  be held in
June 1998.

         Set forth below are the names,  ages and principal  occupations for the
last five years of the directors and/or executive officers of the Company:

     Rodney C. Sacks (48) - Chairman,  Chief  Executive  Officer and director of
the Company from November 1990 to the present. Member of the Executive Committee
of the Board of  Directors of the Company  since  October  1992.  Chairman and a
director  of HBC from June 1992 to the  present.  Mr.  Sacks  resigned  from his
position as Chief  Financial  Officer of the Company in July 1996,  which office
was assumed by Mr. Schlosberg.



         Hilton H. Schlosberg (45) - Vice Chairman,  President,  Chief Operating
Officer, Chief Financial Officer,  Secretary, and a director of the Company from
November 1990 to the present.  Member of the Executive Committee of the Board of
Directors of the Company since October  1992.  Member of the Audit  Committee of
the Board of Directors  of the Company  since  September  1997.  Vice  Chairman,
Secretary and a director of HBC from July 1992 to the present. In July 1996, Mr.
Schlosberg assumed the office of Chief Financial  Officer,  which was previously
held by Mr. Sacks.  Director  and/or Deputy  Chairman of AAF  Industries  PLC, a
United Kingdom  publicly  quoted  industrial  group,  from June 1990 until April
1995.

         Benjamin M. Polk (47) - Director of the Company from  November  1990 to
the present. Assistant Secretary of HBC since October 1992 and a director of HBC
since July 1992.  Member of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of the
Company since September 1997. Member of the Compensation  Committee of the Board
of Directors of the Company from April 1991 until September  1997.  Partner with
Whitman Breed Abbott & Morgan (New York,  New York) where Mr. Polk has practiced
law with that firm and its  predecessor,  Whitman & Ransom,  from August 1976 to
the present.(1)

         Norman C.  Epstein  (57) - Director  of the  Company  and member of the
Compensation  Committee  of the Board of Directors  since June 1992.  Member and
Chairman of the Audit  Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company  since
September  1997.  Director of HBC since July 1992.  Managing  Director of Cheval
Acceptances,  a mortgage finance company based in London, England.  Partner with
Moore Stephens,  an  international  accounting  firm, from 1974 to December 1996
(senior partner  beginning 1989 and the managing partner of Moore Stephens,  New
York from 1993 until 1995).

        Harold C.  Taber,  Jr.  (58) -  Director of the Company since July 1992.
Consultant to the Company from July 1, 1997 to the present. Consultant to The
Joseph Company from September 1997 to the present. President and Chief Executive
Officer and a director of HBC from July 1992 to June 1997. On June 30, 1997,
Mr. Taber  resigned from his employment as well as  director, President and
Chief  Executive  Officer  of HBC.  In  addition, effective  June 30,  1997,
Mr.  Taber  resigned  as a member  of the  Executive Committee on which he
served since October 1992.

Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

         Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act requires the Company's  directors and
executive  officers,  and persons who own more than ten percent of a  registered
class of the Company's equity securities, to file by specific dates with the SEC
initial  reports of  ownership  and  reports of changes in  ownership  of equity
securities  of the  Company.  Officers,  directors  and greater than ten percent
stockholders  are required by SEC  regulation to furnish the Company with copies
of all Section 16(a) forms that they file.  The Company is required to report in
this  annual  report on Form 10-K any  failure of its  directors  and  executive
officers and greater than ten percent  stockholders  to file by the relevant due
date any of these reports during the two preceding fiscal years.

(1) Mr. Polk and his law firm,  Whitman Breed Abbott & Morgan,  serve as counsel
to the Company.



         To the  Company's  knowledge,  based solely on review of copies of such
reports  furnished to the Company during the two fiscal years ended December 31,
1997,  all  Section  16(a)  filing  requirements  applicable  to  the  Company's
officers,  directors  and greater than ten percent  stockholders  were  complied
with,  except that Raimana Martin,  a former director of the Company,  failed to
file timely reports with respect to sales of Common Stock on the open market for
the  months  of  November  and  December  1995 and for the  months  of  January,
February,  March and April 1996.  The Company  understands  that Mr.  Martin has
subsequently filed reports for these months.  However,  the Company  understands
that Mr. Martin has not filed  reports with respect to sales made in May,  June,
October,  November and  December,  1996 and January  1997.  In addition,  Norman
Epstein, a director of the Company,  was required to file reports for the months
of August and December  1995 because he was, at the time, a director of Combined
Holdings  Ltd.  ("Combined"),  which  acquired  shares at about those dates as a
distribution of its limited partnership  interest in Brandon Limited Partnership
No. 2. Mr.  Epstein  resigned as a director of  Combined  in October  1996.  The
Company understands that Mr. Epstein has filed the appropriate reports.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

         The following tables set forth certain information  regarding the total
remuneration  earned  and  grants of  options/SARs  made to the chief  executive
officer and each of the four most highly  compensated  executive officers of the
Company and its subsidiaries  who received total cash  compensation in excess of
$100,000  during the year ended December 31, 1997.  These amounts  reflect total
cash  compensation   earned  by  the  Company  and  its  subsidiaries  to  these
individuals during the fiscal years December 31, 1995 through 1997.








(1) SALARY - Pursuant to his  employment  agreement, Mr. Sacks is entitled to an
annual  base  salary of  $170,000.  For 1997,  Mr.  Sacks  agreed to a temporary
reduction of his annual base salary to $160,000. For 1996, Mr. Sacks agreed to a
temporary  reduction of his annual base salary to $135,000.  For 1995, Mr. Sacks
agreed to a temporary reduction of his annual base salary to $150,000.

Pursuant to his employment  agreement,  Mr.  Schlosberg is entitled to an annual
base salary of $170,000 starting when he commenced full-time employment,  during
July 1995.  For 1997,  Mr.  Schlosberg  agreed to a temporary  reduction  of his
annual base salary to $158,030.  For 1996, Mr.  Schlosberg agreed to a temporary
reduction of his annual base salary to $127,500. For 1995, Mr. Schlosberg agreed
to a temporary reduction of his annual base salary to $150,000.

Effective  June 30,  1997,  Mr.  Taber  elected  to retire  and  terminated  his
employment  agreement  with HBC and  entered  into a  Severance  and  Consulting
Agreement  with the Company  and HBC (the  "Consulting  Agreement")  pursuant to
which, among other matters, HBC agreed to retain Mr. Taber as a consultant for a
period of two years at a fixed  monthly fee of $5,000.  Pursuant to his previous
employment  agreement,  Mr.  Taber  was  entitled  to an annual  base  salary of
$170,000 and the payment of $30,000 per annum in lieu of a retirement plan. Also
included in Mr.  Taber's  compensation  for 1997 is $30,000  for amounts  earned
under the  Consulting  Agreement.  For 1996,  Mr.  Taber  agreed to a  temporary
reduction  of his annual base salary to  $135,000.  See  "Employment  Agreements
below".

OTHER ANNUAL  COMPENSATION  - The cash value of perquisites of the named persons
did not total  $50,000 or 10% of  payments  of salary and bonus,  except for Mr.
Taber for 1996. Mr. Taber's  perquisites  include $11,606 for automobile related
expenses,  $3,934  for  health  insurance  covering  dependents  and  $3,759 for
disability insurance during 1996.

(2) BONUS - Payments made in 1998 for bonus accrued in 1997.
(3) RESTRICTED  STOCK AWARDS - The Company does not have a plan for  restricted
stock awards.
(4) LTIP  PAYOUTS  - None  paid.  No  plan  in  place.
(5) ALL OTHER  COMPENSATION - Includes  amounts paid by the Company for premiums
on a life insurance policy insuring Mr. Taber.







                  OPTION/SAR EXERCISES AND FY-END VALUE TABLE(1)

- ------------------------------ ----------------          ----------------- 
                                Underlying                 Year-end Value 
                                Unexercised                of In-the-money
                                Options/SARs                Unexercised
                                (# of shares)               Options/SARs
                                Exercisable/                Exercisable/
       Name                     Unexercisable              Unexercisable
- ------------------------------ ----------------          -----------------

Rodney C. Sacks                350,000/0 (2)               $96,875/$0

- ------------------------------ ----------------          ----------------- 

Hilton H. Schlosberg           300,000/0 (3)               $93,750/$0

- ------------------------------ ----------------          ----------------- 

Harold C. Taber, Jr.           100,000/0 (4)               $43,250/$0

- ------------------------------ ----------------          ----------------- 

Mark J. Hall                   0/120,000 (5)               $0/$90,300

- ------------------------------ ----------------          ----------------- 

Kirk S. Blower                 84,000/0  (6)               $36,330/$0
- ------------------------------ ----------------          ----------------- 


(1)There were no shares acquired upon exercise by any reporting executive
officer in 1997.

(2)Includes options to purchase 200,000 shares of Common Stock  exercisable  at
$1.75 per share granted pursuant to a Stock Option Agreement dated June 15, 1992
between  the Company and Mr.  Sacks and  options to purchase  150,000  shares of
Common Stock  exercisable at $1.25 per share granted  pursuant to a Stock Option
Agreement dated July 3, 1995 between the Company and Mr. Sacks.

(3)Includes options to purchase  150,000  shares of Common Stock  exercisable at
$1.75 per share granted pursuant to a Stock Option Agreement dated June 15, 1992
between the Company and Mr. Schlosberg and options to purchase 150,000 shares of
Common Stock  exercisable at $1.25 per share granted  pursuant to a Stock Option
Agreement dated July 3, 1995 between the Company and Mr. Schlosberg.

(4)Includes options to purchase  100,000  shares of Common Stock  exercisable at
$1.38 per share granted pursuant to a Stock Option Agreement dated June 20, 1997
between the Company and Mr. Taber.

(5)Includes  options  to  purchase  120,000  share of Common  Stock at $1.00 per
share, of which none are exercisable at December 31, 1997, granted pursuant to a
Stock Option Agreement dated February 10, 1997 between the Company and Mr. Hall.

(6)Includes  options to purchase  84,000  share of Common Stock  exercisable  at
$1.38 per share granted pursuant to a Stock Option Agreement dated June 30, 1995
between the Company and Mr. Blower.







Performance Graph

The following graph shows a five-year comparison of cumulative total returns.(1)

                           TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURNS


                            ANNUAL RETURN PERCENTAGE
                                  Years Ending

COMPANY NAME/INDEX                 DEC93     DEC94     DEC95     DEC96     DEC97
- -------------------                ------    -----     -----     -----     -----
HANSEN NATURAL CORP                (40.84)   (28.57)   (63.36)   54.59     70.62
S & P SMALLCAP 600 INDEX            18.79    ( 4.77)    29.96    21.32     25.58
PEER GROUP                          63.07    (55.14)   (25.32)   52.09     33.97


                                INDEXED RETURNS
                                  Years Ending

                         Base
                         Period
COMPANY NAME/INDEX       DEC92     DEC93     DEC94     DEC95     DEC96     DEC97
- ------------------       -----     -----     -----     -----     -----     -----
HANSEN NATURAL CORP      100       59.16     42.26     15.48     23.94     40.84
S & P SMALLCAP 600 INDEX 100      118.79    113.12    147.01    178.35    223.98
PEER GROUP               100      163.07     73.15     54.63     83.08    111.31


(1) Annual return assumes reinvestment  of dividends.  Cumulative  total return
assumes an initial  investment  of $100 on  December  31,  1992.  The  Company's
self-selected  peer group is comprised of Atlantic  Premium Brands,  Ltd. (which
began trading in November 1993); Great Pines Water, Inc. (which began trading in
August 1993);  Bev-Tyme,  Inc.  (formerly New Day  Beverage,  Inc.)(which  began
trading in February 1993);  Saratoga Beverage Group (which began trading in June
1993);  and Cott  Corporation  (which  began  trading  in June  1992).  National
Beverage Corporation, Cable Car Beverage Corporation,  Clearly Canadian Beverage
Company,  Triarc Companies and Northland Cranberries,  which are also members of
the peer group, traded during the entire five-year period.



Employment Agreements

         The Company entered into an employment agreement dated as of January 1,
1994 with Rodney C. Sacks  pursuant to which Mr. Sacks  renders  services to the
Company as its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer for an annual base salary of
$170,000,  subject to  adjustments  annually,  plus an annual bonus in an amount
determined  at the  discretion  of the Board of  Directors  and  certain  fringe
benefits for the period commending January 1, 1994 and ending December 31, 1998.
For 1994, Mr. Sacks agreed to a temporary reduction of his annual base salary to
$160,000. For 1995, Mr. Sacks agreed to a temporary reduction of his annual base
salary to $150,000.  For 1996, Mr. Sacks agreed to a temporary  reduction of his
annual  base  salary to  $135,000.  For 1997,  Mr.  Sacks  agreed to a temporary
reduction of his annual base salary to $160,000.

         The Company  also  entered  into an  employment  agreement  dated as of
January 1, 1994,  with Hilton H.  Schlosberg  pursuant  to which Mr.  Schlosberg
renders  services  to the  Company  as its Vice  Chairman,  President  and Chief
Financial  Officer,  for an annual  base  salary of  $170,000  starting  when he
commenced full-time employment,  subject to adjustment annually,  plus an annual
bonus in an amount to be determined by the Board of Directors and certain fringe
benefits for the period commencing January 1, 1994 and ending December 31, 1998.
From  commencement  of full-time  employment  during July 1995,  Mr.  Schlosberg
agreed to a temporary reduction of his annual base salary to $150,000. For 1996,
Mr.  Schlosberg  agreed to a  temporary  reduction  of his annual base salary to
$127,500. For 1997, Mr. Schlosberg agreed to a temporary reduction of his annual
base salary to $158,030.

         Effective  June 30, 1997,  Mr. Taber elected to retire and  terminated
his employment agreement with HBC and entered into a  Severance and Consulting
Agreement  with the Company  and HBC (the  "Consulting  Agreement")  pursuant to
which, among other matters, HBC agreed to retain Mr. Taber as a consultant for a
period  of two years at a fixed  monthly  fee of $5,000  and Mr.  Taber's  Stock
Option  Agreement  with the Company dated as of June 30, 1995 was terminated and
replaced with a new Stock Option Agreement with the Company dated as of June 20,
1997  (the  "Replacement  Stock  Option  Agreement").  Under  the  terms  of the
Replacement  Stock Option  Agreement,  Mr. Taber was granted options to purchase
100,000  shares of common  stock  exercisable  until June 30,  1999 at $1.38 per
share.  Mr.  Taber  remains a director of the Company.  In  addition,  Mr. Taber
agreed to repay  amounts owed by him to HBC under a certain  promissory  note by
offsetting  amounts  owed under the note  against  accrued  and unpaid  base pay
payable under Mr.  Taber's  employment  agreement and amounts  payable under the
Consulting  Agreement.  See  "Certain  Relationships  and Related  Transactions"
below.

         The preceding  descriptions  of the  employment  agreements for Messrs.
Sacks and Schlosberg and the Consulting  Agreement and Replacement  Stock Option
Agreement  with Mr. Taber are  qualified in their  entirety by reference to such
agreements which have been filed or incorporated by reference as exhibits to his
Report.

Directors' Compensation

         The Company's current policy is to pay outside directors (non-executive
officers)  who are not  contractually  entitled  to be  nominated  to  serve  as
directors,  annual  fees of $6,000  plus $500 for each  meeting  attended of the
Board of Directors or any committee  thereof.  Benjamin Polk and Norman  Epstein
each earned  directors fees of $7,000 for the one-year period ended December 31,
1997. See "ITEM 13. CERTAIN  RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED  TRANSACTIONS"  below for
description of contractual obligations to nominate certain outside directors.

Employee Stock Option Plan

         The Company has a stock option plan (the "Plan") that  provides for the
grant of options to purchase up to 2 million  shares of the Common  Stock of the
Company to certain key  employees of the Company and its  subsidiaries.  Options
granted  under the Plan may either be incentive  stock options  qualified  under
Section 422 of the Internal  Revenue Code of 1986, as amended,  or non-qualified
options.  Such options are exercisable at fair market value on the date of grant
for a period of up to ten years.  Under the Plan,  shares subject to options may
be purchased for cash, for shares of Common Stock valued at fair market value on
the date of purchase or in  consideration  of the cancellation of options valued
at the  difference  between the exercise price thereof and the fair market value
of the Common Stock on the date of  exercise.  The Plan is  administered  by the
Compensation  Committee of the Board of  Directors,  comprised of directors  who
have not received  grants of options  under the Plan.  Grants under the Plan are
made pursuant to individual agreements between the Company and each grantee that
specifies the terms of the grant, including the exercise price, exercise period,
vesting and other terms thereof.



Outside Directors Stock Option Plan

         The  Company  has  an  option  plan  for  its  outside  directors  (the
"Directors  Plan") that  provides  for the grant of options to purchase up to an
aggregate  of 100,000  shares of Common Stock of the Company to directors of the
Company who are not and have not been employed by or acted as consultants to the
Company and its  subsidiaries  or  affiliates  and who are not and have not been
nominated  to the Board of Directors  of the Company  pursuant to a  contractual
arrangement.  On the date of the  annual  meeting  of  stockholders  at which an
eligible  director is initially  elected,  each eligible director is entitled to
receive a one-time grant of an option to purchase 6,000 shares (12,000 shares if
the  director is serving on a committee  of the Board) of the  Company's  Common
Stock  exercisable  at the closing price for a share of Common Stock on the date
of grant.  Options become  exercisable  one-third each on the first,  second and
third anniversary of the date of grant; provided,  however, that options granted
as of February 14, 1995 are exercisable 66 2/3% on the date of grant and 100% on
July 8, 1995;  provided  further,  that all options held by an eligible director
become  fully  and  immediately  exercisable  upon a change  in  control  of the
Company.  Options  granted  under  the  Directors  Plan  that are not  exercised
generally  expire ten years after the date of grant.  Option  grants may be made
under the Directors  Plan for ten years from the effective date of the Directors
Plan. The Directors  Plan is a "formula plan" so that a non-employee  director's
participation   in  the  Directors   Plan  does  not  affect  his  status  as  a
"disinterested  person" (as defined in Rule 16b-3 under the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934).

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

         (a)      The  following  table sets forth  information,  as of March 5,
                  1998,   of  the  only   persons   known  to  the  Company  who
                  beneficially own more than 5% of the outstanding Common Stock:

Title          Name and Address of      Amount and Nature of       Percent
Of Class       Beneficial Owner         Beneficial Ownership       of Class
- ------------   ---------------------    --------------------     ------------
Common Stock   Brandon Limited                               
                 Partnership No. 1 (1)         714,490               7.8%
               Brandon Limited                  
                 Partnership No. 2 (2)       2,831,667              31.0%
               Rodney C. Sacks (3)           4,021,157 (4)          42.3%
               Hilton H. Schlosberg (5)      3,971,157 (6)          41.9%


(1) The mailing  address of Brandon No. 1 is P.O. Box 30749, Seven Mile Beach,
Grand  Cayman,  British West Indies.  The general partners of Brandon No. 1 are
Hilton H. Schlosberg and Rodney C. Sacks.

(2) The mailing  address of Brandon No. 2 is P.O. Box 30749, Seven Mile Beach,
Grand  Cayman,  British West Indies.  The general partners of Brandon No. 2 are
Hilton H. Schlosberg and Rodney C. Sacks.

(3) The mailing address of Mr. Sacks is 2380 Railroad Street, Suite 101, Corona,
California 91720.



(4) Includes  87,500 shares of Common Stock owned by Mr.  Sacks.  Also  includes
714,490  shares  beneficially  held by Brandon No. 1 because Mr. Sacks is one of
Brandon No. 1's general  partners  and  2,831,667  shares  beneficially  held by
Brandon  No. 2 because Mr.  Sacks is one of Brandon  No. 2's  general  partners.
Includes options to purchase 200,000 shares of Common Stock exercisable at $1.75
per share  granted  pursuant  to a Stock  Option  Agreement  dated June 15, 1992
between the Company and Mr. Sacks;  options to purchase 150,000 shares of Common
Stock  exercisable  at  $1.25  per  share  granted  pursuant  to a Stock  Option
Agreement  dated July 3, 1995 between the Company and Mr. Sacks;  and options to
purchase  75,000  shares of Common  Stock at $1.59 per  share,  of which  37,500
shares are currently  exercisable,  granted pursuant to a Stock Option Agreement
dated January 30, 1998 between the Company and Mr. Sacks.

     Mr. Sacks disclaims  beneficial ownership of all shares deemed beneficially
owned by him  hereunder  except  (i)  87,500  shares of Common  Stock,  (ii) the
425,000 shares  presently  issuable  under the Plan and (iii) his  proportionate
interest  as a  shareholder  in  the  following  shares  beneficially  owned  by
Hazelwood  Investments Limited, a company controlled by Mr. Sacks and his family
("Hazelwood"):  (a) the  247,911  shares  held by  Brandon  No. 1  allocable  to
Hazelwood's  limited  partnership  interest in Brandon No. 1 and (b) the 250,000
shares  held by Brandon  No. 2  allocable  to  Hazelwood's  limited  partnership
interest in Brandon No. 2.

(5) The mailing address of Mr.  Schlosberg is 2380 Railroad  Street,  Suite 101,
Corona, California 91720.

(6)  Includes  87,500  shares  of Common  stock  owned by Mr.  Schlosberg.  Also
includes  714,490  shares  beneficially  held  by  Brandon  No.  1  because  Mr.
Schlosberg  is one of Brandon  No. 1's general  partners  and  2,831,667  shares
beneficially  held by Brandon No. 2 because Mr. Schlosberg is one of Brandon No.
2's general  partners.  Includes  options to purchase  150,000  shares of Common
Stock  exercisable  at  $1.75  per  share  granted  pursuant  to a Stock  Option
Agreement dated June 15, 1992 between the Company and Mr. Schlosberg; options to
purchase  150,000 shares of Common Stock  exercisable at $1.25 per share granted
pursuant to a Stock Option  Agreement dated July 3, 1995 between the Company and
Mr.  Schlosberg;  and options to purchase 75,000 shares of Common Stock at $1.59
per share, of which 37,500 shares are currently exercisable, granted pursuant to
a Stock  Option  Agreement  dated  January 30, 1998  between the Company and Mr.
Schlosberg.

     Mr. Schlosberg  disclaims beneficial ownership of all shares deemed
beneficially  owned by him  hereunder  except (i) 87,500 shares of Common Stock,
(ii) the  375,000  shares  presently  issuable  under  the Plan  and  (iii)  his
proportionate  interest as a shareholder  in the following  shares  beneficially
owned by Brandon Securities  Limited, a company controlled by Mr. Schlosberg and
his family:  (a) the 247,911  shares held by Brandon No. 1 allocable  to Brandon
Securities  Limited's limited  partnership  interest in Brandon No 1 and (b) the
250,000 shares held by Brandon No. 2 allocable to Brandon  Securities  Limited's
limited partnership interest in Brandon No. 2.

         (b)      The following table sets forth information as to the ownership
                  of  shares  of  Common  Stock,  as of March 5,  1998,  held by
                  persons who are directors of the Company,  naming them, and as
                  to directors  and officers of the Company as a group,  without
                  naming them:

Title of Class    Name                    Amount Owned        Percent of Class
- ---------------   ----------------------  -----------------   ----------------
Common Stock      Rodney C. Sacks          4,021,157   (1)         42.3%
                  Hilton H. Schlosberg     3,971,157   (2)         41.9%
                  Harold C. Taber, Jr.       174,581.7 (3)          1.9%
                  Norman C. Epstein           27,000   (4)            *%
                  Benjamin M. Polk            32,000   (5)            *%

Officers and Directors as a group (5 members:
4,679,739 shares or 46.9% in aggregate)

* Less than 2%



(1) Includes 87,500 shares of Common  Stock owned by Mr.  Sacks.  Also  includes
714,490  shares  beneficially  held by Brandon No. 1 because Mr. Sacks is one of
Brandon No. 1's general  partners  and  2,831,667  shares  beneficially  held by
Brandon  No. 2 because Mr.  Sacks is one of Brandon  No. 2's  general  partners.
Includes options to purchase 200,000 shares of Common Stock exercisable at $1.75
per share  granted  pursuant  to a Stock  Option  Agreement  dated June 15, 1992
between the Company and Mr. Sacks;  options to purchase 150,000 shares of Common
Stock  exercisable  at  $1.25  per  share  granted  pursuant  to a Stock  Option
Agreement  dated July 3, 1995 between the Company and Mr. Sacks;  and options to
purchase  75,000  shares of Common  Stock at $1.59 per  share,  of which  37,500
shares are currently  exercisable,  granted pursuant to a Stock Option Agreement
dated January 30, 1998 between the Company and Mr. Sacks.

     Mr. Sacks disclaims  beneficial ownership of all shares deemed beneficially
owned by him hereunder  except (i) the 87,500  shares of Common Stock,  (ii) the
425,000 shares  presently  issuable  under the Plan and (iii) his  proportionate
interest  as a  shareholder  in  the  following  shares  beneficially  owned  by
Hazelwood  Investments Limited, a company controlled by Mr. Sacks and his family
("Hazelwood"):  (a) the  247,911  shares  held by  Brandon  No. 1  allocable  to
Hazelwood's limited partnership interest in Brandon No. 2.

(2)  Includes 87,500 shares  of  Common  Stock.  Also  includes  714,490 shares
beneficially  held by Brandon No. 1 because Mr. Schlosberg is one of Brandon No.
1's general  partners and 2,831,667  shares  beneficially  held by Brandon No. 2
because Mr.  Schlosberg  is one of Brandon No. 2's  general  partners.  Includes
options to purchase  150,000  shares of Common  Stock  exercisable  at $1.75 per
share granted  pursuant to a Stock Option  Agreement dated June 15, 1992 between
the Company and Mr.  Schlosberg;  options to purchase  150,000  shares of Common
Stock  exercisable  at  $1.25  per  share  granted  pursuant  to a Stock  Option
Agreement dated July 3, 1995 between the Company and Mr. Schlosberg; and options
to purchase  75,000  shares of Common Stock at $1.59 per share,  of which 37,500
shares are currently  exercisable,  granted pursuant to a Stock Option Agreement
dated January 30, 1998 between the Company and Mr. Schlosberg.

     Mr.  Schlosberg   disclaims  beneficial  ownership  of  all  shares  deemed
beneficially  owned by him  hereunder  except  (i) the  87,500  shares of Common
Stock,  (ii) the 375,000 shares presently  issuable under the Plan and (iii) his
proportionate  interest as a shareholder  in the following  shares  beneficially
owned by Brandon Securities  Limited, a company controlled by Mr. Schlosberg and
his family:  (a) the 247,911  shares held by Brandon No. 1 allocable  to Brandon
Securities  Limited's limited partnership  interest in Brandon No. 1 and (b) the
250,000 shares held by Brandon No. 2 allocable to Brandon  Securities  Limited's
limited partnership interest in Brandon No. 2.

(3) Includes 74,581.7 shares of Common Stock owned by Mr. Taber.  Also includes
options to purchase  100,000  shares of Common  Stock  exercisable  at $1.38 per
share granted  pursuant to a Stock Option  Agreement dated June 20, 1997 between
the Company and Mr. Taber.

(4) Includes  15,000  shares of Common Stock  registered  in the name of Optimal
Hedge Limited, a nominee for Mr. Epstein.  Also includes  presently  exercisable
options to purchase 12,000 shares of Common Stock under an Option Agreement with
the Company dated as of June 30, 1995 granted pursuant to the Directors Plan.

(5) Includes 20,000 shares of Common  Stock  owned by Mr.  Polk.  Also  includes
presently exercisable options to purchase 12,000 shares of Common Stock under an
Option  Agreement with the Company dated as of June 30, 1995 granted pursuant to
the Directors Plan.

         There are no arrangements  known to the Company the operation of which
may at a subsequent date result in a change of control of the Company.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

         Benjamin M. Polk is a partner in the law firm of Whitman Breed Abbott &
Morgan,  a law firm retained by the Company since 1992 and in the current fiscal
year.



         Pursuant to the terms of a certain Assignment  Agreement dated July 27,
1992 between FJC's  predecessor  and Hansen,  the Company has agreed to nominate
and solicit  proxies for the election to the Company's Board of Directors of one
of the  trustees  designated  by the trustees of a certain  trust (the  "Trust")
formed  pursuant to an Agreement of Trust dated July 27, 1992 for so long as the
Trust  shall be in  existence  for the  benefit of Hansen and FJC.  The  initial
designee of the Trust  nominated  to the Board was Anthony F. Kane who  resigned
from the Board in June, 1993. No other designee has been nominated by the Trust.

         Rodney C. Sacks is  currently  acting as the sole trustee of the Trust,
as FJC has failed to designate any person to act as Trustee. The Company and HBC
have agreed to indemnify Mr. Sacks and hold him harmless from any claims,  loss,
liability or expense arising out of his acting as Trustee.

         Harold C. Taber, Jr., who is a director of the Company and a consultant
to HBC, is  indebted to the Company in the amount of $60,252 as of December  31,
1997.

         The  preceding  descriptions  of  agreements  are  qualified  in  their
entirety by  reference to such  agreements  which have been filed as exhibits to
this Report.





                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON
          FORM 8-K

(a)      1. Index to Financial Statements filed as part of this Report:


         Independent Auditors' Report                                     F-2

         Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1997 and 1996     F-3

         Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Years Ended
         December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995                                 F-4

         Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the Years
         Ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995                           F-5

         Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended
         December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995                                 F-6

         Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Years
         Ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995                           F-7

         2.  Financial Statement Schedules

         Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the
         Years Ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995                    F-18

         3.  Exhibits

         See the Index to Exhibits included hereinafter.

(b)      Reports on Form 8-K
         None







                                   SIGNATURES

         Pursuant to the requirements of Sections 13 and 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                      HANSEN NATURAL CORPORATION

                      By: /s/ RODNEY C. SACKS            Date:   March 31, 1998
                      -----------------------
                      Rodney C. Sacks
                      Chairman of the Board

         Pursuant to the  requirements  of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934,
this  report has been  signed  below by the  following  persons on behalf of the
Registrant in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

Signature                       Title                                Date


/s/ RODNEY C. SACKS         Chairman of the Board of Directors   March 31, 1998
- -----------------------     and Chief Executive Officer
Rodney C. Sacks             (Principal Executive Officer)


/s/ HILTON H. SCHLOSBERG
- -----------------------     Vice Chairman of the Board of        March 31, 1998
Hilton H. Schlosberg        Directors, President,
                            Chief Operating Officer,
                            Principal Financial and
                            Accounting Officer and Secretary

/s/ BENJAMIN M. POLK
- -----------------------     Director                             March 31, 1998
Benjamin M. Polk




/s/ NORMAN C. EPSTEIN  
- -----------------------     Director                             March 31, 1998
Norman C. Epstein



- -----------------------     Director                             March 31, 1998
/s/ HAROLD C. TABER, JR.
Harold C. Taber, Jr.






                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS

         The following designated exhibits, as indicated below, are either filed
herewith  or have  heretofore  been  filed  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange
Commission  under the Securities  Act of 1933 or the Securities  Exchange Act of
1934 as indicated by footnote.


(1) Filed previously as an exhibit to the Registration Statement on Form S-3
    (no.33-35796) (the "Registration Statement").

(2) Filed previously as an exhibit to the Company's proxy statement dated 
    October 21, 1992.

(3) Filed previously as an exhibit to Form 8-K dated July 27, 1992.

(4) Filed previously as an exhibit to Post-Effective Amendment No. 8 to the
    Registration Statement.

(5) Filed previously as an exhibit to Form 10-KSB for the year ended December
    31, 1992.

(6) Filed previously as an exhibit to Form 10-KSB for the year ended December
    31, 1993.

(7) Filed  previously as an exhibit to Form 10-KSB for the year ended December
    31, 1994.

(8) Filed  previously  as an exhibit to Form 10-K for the year ended December
    31, 1995.

(9) Filed  previously  as an exhibit  to From 10-Q for the period ended June 30,
    1997.

(10)Filed previously  as an exhibit to From 10-Q for the period ended September
    30, 1997.






         INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE



                                                                         Page

HANSEN NATURAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES


Independent Auditors' Report                                               F-2


Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1997 and 1996               F-3


Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended
December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995                                           F-4


Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the years
ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995                                     F-5


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995                                           F-6


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the years
ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995                                     F-7


Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the years ended
December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995                                          F-18


                                      F-1



INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT



The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Hansen Natural Corporation
Anaheim, California



We have audited the accompanying  consolidated  balance sheets of Hansen Natural
Corporation and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, and
the related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders' equity and cash
flows for the years ended  December  31,  1997,  1996 and 1995.  Our audits also
included the financial  statement schedule listed in Item 14. These consolidated
financial  statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of
the Company's  management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
consolidated  financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our
audits.

We  conducted  our  audits  in  accordance  with  generally   accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion,  such consolidated  financial  statements present fairly, in all
material  respects,  the financial  position of Hansen Natural  Corporation  and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, and the consolidated  results of
their  operations and cash flows for the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and
1995 in conformity with generally accepted accounting  principles.  Also, in our
opinion,  such financial statement schedule,  when considered in relation to the
consolidated  financial  statements taken as a whole,  presents  fairly,  in all
material respects, the information set forth therein.




/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Costa Mesa, California
March 24, 1998

                                      F-2





          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-3



          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-4




          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-5




          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-6


HANSEN NATURAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997, 1996 AND 1995
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.       ORGANIZATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

         Organization - Hansen Natural  Corporation  (the "Company" or "Hansen")
         was incorporated in Delaware on April 25, 1990.  Hansen owns all of the
         issued and  outstanding  common stock of CVI  Ventures,  Inc.  ("CVI"),
         which was  incorporated in Delaware on April 30, 1990. CVI is currently
         inactive. Hansen owns all of the issued and outstanding common stock of
         Hansen Beverage Company ("HBC"),  which was incorporated in Delaware on
         June 8,  1992.  HBC owns all of the  issued  and  outstanding  ordinary
         shares of Hansen Beverage Company (UK) Limited ("HBC (UK)"),  which was
         incorporated in England on July 13, 1993.

         Nature  of  Operations  - HBC is  engaged  in the  marketing,  sale and
         distribution  of Hansen's(R)  Natural Sodas,  Hansen's(R) Old Fashioned
         Apple  Juice,   Hansen's(R)  Natural  Iced  Teas,  Hansen's(R)  Natural
         Lemonades,  Hansen's(R)  Natural Juice Cocktails,  Hansen's(R)  Natural
         Fruit Juice Smoothies, Hansen's(R) Natural Still Water, Equator(R) Iced
         Teas, Equator(R) Lemonades,  Equator(R) Juice Cocktails and Hansen's(R)
         energy primarily in certain Western states as well as other states, the
         United Kingdom,  and on a limited basis, in other countries outside the
         United States.

         Principles of Consolidation - The accompanying  consolidated  financial
         statements   include  the  accounts  of  Hansen  and  its  wholly-owned
         subsidiaries,  CVI and HBC, and HBC's wholly-owned subsidiary HBC (UK),
         since  its  date  of  incorporation.   All  intercompany  balances  and
         transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

         Reclassifications  -  Certain   reclassifications   were  made  in  the
         consolidated  financial  statements to conform to the 1997,  1996 and
         1995 presentations.

         Translation  of  Foreign  Currencies  - Assets and  liabilities  of the
         Company's United Kingdom subsidiary are translated into U.S. dollars at
         year-end  rates of exchange,  and income and expenses are translated at
         average rates during the respective  years. The functional  currency of
         the subsidiary is the pound sterling;  therefore,  translation gains or
         losses are recorded as a separate component of shareholders' equity.

         Inventories  -  Inventories  are  valued  at  the  lower  of  first-in,
         first-out cost (FIFO) or market value (net realizable value).

         Property,  Plant and  Equipment -  Property,  plant and  equipment  are
         stated at cost.  Depreciation  of  furniture,  fixtures,  equipment and
         vehicles is based on their estimated useful lives (three to five years)
         and is  calculated  using the  straight-line  method.  Amortization  of
         leasehold improvements is based on the lesser of their estimated useful
         lives or the terms of the related  leases and is  calculated  using the
         straight-line method.

         Trademark  License and  Trademarks - Trademark  license  represents the
         Company's  license to use certain  Hansen(R)  brand  names.  Trademarks
         represent expenditures incurred to trademark other branded names. Prior
         to the third quarter of 1996,  trademark  license and  trademarks  were
         being  amortized  over  25  years  using  the   straight-line   method.
         Management periodically evaluates whether there has been any impairment
         of  the  trademark  license  or  trademarks  based  on an  analysis  of
         applicable  undiscounted  expected future cash flows.  During the third
         quarter of 1996, the estimated life of the Company's  trademark license
         and  trademarks  was changed  from 25 years to 40 years to more closely
         conform  such  useful  life with that  used by other  branded  beverage
         companies.  The effect of such change in  accounting  estimate is (i) a
         reduction  in  amortization  of  trademark  license and  trademarks  of
         $96,000  for the year 1997 and  $101,000  for the year 1996 and (ii) an
         increase  in net  income of $.01 per  share on a diluted  basis for the
         years ended December 31, 1997 and 1996.

                                      F-7


         Revenue  Recognition  - The  Company  records  revenue  at the time the
         related products are shipped.

         Credit Risk - The Company sells its products  nationally,  primarily to
         retailers  and  beverage  distributors.  The Company  performs  ongoing
         credit  evaluations  of its customers  and  generally  does not require
         collateral. The Company maintains reserves for potential credit losses,
         and such losses have been within management's expectations.

         Net Income (Loss) Per Share - In accordance with the  recently  issued
         Statement of Financial Accounting Standards("SFAS")No.128, Earnings per
         Share, net income (loss) per share, on a basic and  diluted  basis, are
         presented for all periods. Basic net income (loss) per share is 
         computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted  average number
         of common shares outstanding.  Diluted  net income  (loss) per share is
         computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted  average  number
         of common and dilutive common equivalent shares outstanding, if
         dilutive. Weighted average common equivalent shares include stock
         options using the treasury stock method.

         Use  of  Estimates  - The  preparation  of the  consolidated  financial
         statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting  principles
         requires  management to make estimates and assumptions  that affect the
         reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent
         assets and liabilities at the date of the financial  statements and the
         reported  amounts of revenues and expenses  during the reporting  year.
         Actual results could differ from those estimates.

         Long-Lived  Assets  - The  Company  accounts  for  the  impairment  and
         disposition of long-lived  assets in accordance  with SFAS No. 121,
         Accounting for the  Impairment of Long-Lived  Assets and for Long-Lived
         Assets to Be Disposed Of. In accordance  with SFAS No. 121,  long-lived
         assets to be held are reviewed  for events or changes in  circumstances
         which indicate that their carrying  value may not be  recoverable.  The
         Company periodically reviews the carrying value of long-lived assets to
         determine  whether or not an impairment to such value has occurred.  As
         of December 31, 1997,  management  does not believe that the  Company's
         long-lived assets have been impaired.

         New  Accounting  Pronouncements  - In 1997,  SFAS No.  130,  Reporting
         Comprehensive  Income and SFAS No. 131, Disclosure About Segments of an
         Enterprise and Related Information,  were issued and are effective for
         fiscal  years  beginning  after  December  15,  1997.  The  Company is
         reviewing the impact of these statements on its financial statements.

2.       REORGANIZATION OF UNITED KINGDOM OPERATIONS

         Sales in the United Kingdom were lower than anticipated during 1997;
         and, as a consequence,  the Company elected to curtail its direct
         operations in the United Kingdom. At the end of 1997, the Company
         commenced with the deregistration of its United Kingdom subsidiary and
         the closure of that subsidiary's  offices.  In the future,  the Company
         will deal with its distributor in the United Kingdom from its corporate
         offices in California and will export all products sold by it to such
         distributor from  the United States. Estimated  costs of  approximately
         $50,000 relating to the curtailing of the Company's  United Kingdom 
         operations have been reflected in the accompanying financial
         statements.

                                      F-8


3.       OTHER EXPENSE (INCOME)

         In connection with the acquisition of the Hansen business,  the Company
         was assigned a promissory  note made by Hawaiian  Water Partners in the
         original principal amount of $310,027 plus interest thereon and certain
         additional principal amounts. The note was secured by the proceeds,  if
         any, of a lawsuit.  The  collectibility of this note was dependent upon
         the  outcome of that  lawsuit  and,  consequently,  the  Company  fully
         reserved  against this asset.  Following a judgment in the lawsuit,  a
         settlement  was reached  among the  plaintiff,  defendant and competing
         claimants  to the  proceeds  from the  lawsuit.  Under the terms of the
         settlement,  the  Company  was to  receive  a total  of  $616,000, plus
         interest.  In  1995,  the  reserve  against  the note  was  reduced  to
         $270,000, and the Company recorded $346,000 in other income.  Following
         receipt of the remaining  proceeds  during 1996, the remaining  reserve
         against the note was eliminated. In connection therewith,  $233,000 was
         recorded in other income during 1996, net of $37,000 of attorney's fees
         incurred in connection with the settlement,  which constituted the full
         extent of recovery under this note.

4.       INCOME TAXES

         The Company  accounts for income taxes under the  provision of SFAS No.
         109,   Accounting  for  Income  Taxes.  This  statement   requires  the
         recognition  of  deferred  tax  assets and  liabilities  for the future
         consequences  of  events  that have been  recognized  in the  Company's
         financial statements or tax returns.  Measurement of the deferred items
         is based on enacted tax laws. In the event the future  consequences  of
         differences  between  financial  reporting  bases  and tax bases of the
         Company's assets and liabilities  result in a deferred tax asset,  SFAS
         No. 109  requires an  evaluation  of the  probability  of being able to
         realize  the future  benefits  indicated  by such  asset.  A  valuation
         allowance  related to a deferred tax asset is recorded  when it is more
         likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will
         not be realized.

         Components of the income tax provision (benefit) are as follows:


          The difference between the reported provision for income taxes and the
          income tax provision (benefit) that would result from applying the 35%
          federal  statutory  rate for 1997 and 34% federal  statutory  rate for
          1995 and 1996 to income (loss) before provision for income taxes is as
          follows:

                                      F-9


         Major components of the Company's  deferred taxes at December 31 are as
         follows:


         The Company's  federal income tax returns for the years 1992,  1993 and
         1994 have been audited by the Internal Revenue Service.  As a result of
         this audit,  certain SRLY and non-SRLY net  operating  losses have been
         disallowed.  Accordingly,  the Company has  reduced  its  deferred  tax
         assets and the related  valuation  allowance  by the  reduction of such
         disallowed net operating losses at the effective federal tax rate.

         The non-SRLY net  operating  loss  carryforwards  for federal and state
         income tax purposes of  approximately  $1,920,000  expire through 2011.
         The remaining  SRLY net operating  loss  carryforwards  for federal tax
         purposes of approximately $298,000 expire through 2005.

         During  the  year  ended  December  31,  1997,  the  operations  of the
         Company's foreign subsidiary,  HBC (UK), ceased (see  Note 2).  In
         connection  therewith, certain intercompany  balances were forgiven
         resulting in income to the foreign  subsidiary.  The prior year's net
         operating loss carryforwards were utilized to fully reduce the taxable
         income of HBC (UK).

5.       INVENTORIES

         Inventories consist of the following at December 31:

                                            1997                   1996
                                            ----                   ----

          Raw materials                $   388,877            $   876,498

          Finished goods                 3,527,106              2,234,626
                                     ----------------       ----------------
                                       $ 3,915,983            $ 3,111,124
                                     ================       ================



                                      F-10


6.        PREPAID EXPENSES AND OTHER CURRENT ASSETS

         In January 1994,  the Company  entered into an agreement  with a barter
         company for the exchange of certain  inventory  for future  advertising
         and  marketing  credits.  The  Company  assigned a value of $490,000 to
         these  credits  based  on the net  realizable  value  of the  inventory
         exchanged  ("cost  basis").  As of December 31, 1997,  advertising  and
         marketing credits, on a cost basis,  totaled $265,000.  Advertising and
         marketing  credits,  on a barter basis,  totaled $527,000 at that date.
         Although such credits remain  available for use by the Company  through
         January  2002,  management  is unable to estimate  their  remaining net
         realizable  value at December  31, 1997.  Accordingly,  the Company has
         fully  reserved  against  such  amount  in the  accompanying  financial
         statements.

7.       PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

         Property, plant and equipment consist of the following at December 31:

                                             1997                    1996
                                             ----                    ----
         Leasehold improvements          $   54,203              $   47,834
         Furniture and office equipment     332,817                 244,792
         Equipment and vehicles             656,391                 806,668
                                         ------------           ------------
                                          1,043,411               1,099,294
         Less accumulated depreciation     (630,915)               (497,022)
                                         ------------           ------------
                                          $ 412,496               $ 602,272
                                         ============           ============

8.       SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS

         As part of the  credit  facility  granted to the  Company  by  Comerica
         Bank-California ("Comerica"),  the Company obtained a revolving line of
         credit of up to $3 million in  aggregate at any time  outstanding.  The
         utilization  of this line of credit by the  Company is  dependent  upon
         certain levels of eligible accounts receivable and inventory.  The line
         of credit is secured by  substantially  all of HBC's assets,  including
         accounts  receivable,  inventory,  trademarks,  trademark  licenses and
         certain equipment. As of December 31, 1997, no amounts were outstanding
         under the revolving line of credit.

         The initial use of proceeds  under the revolving  line of credit was to
         refinance  HBC's previous line of credit.  The revolving line of credit
         is renewable  on May 1, 1998.  The Company  anticipates  that such line
         will be  renewed  on the  expiration  date.  However,  there  can be no
         assurance  that it will, in fact, be renewed,  or if renewed,  that the
         terms  of  such  renewal  will  not be  disadvantageous  to HBC and its
         business.

9.       LONG TERM DEBT

         In 1997, HBC obtained a credit  facility from Comerica  consisting of a
         term loan of up to $4 million or such lesser amount as was necessary to
         retire the note  executed by the  Company in favor of ERLY  Industries,
         Inc. ("ERLY") in the principal sum of $4 million (the "Note"). The full
         amount due under the Note was paid during  November 1997. The term loan
         will mature in October 2002 and requires  monthly payments of principal
         and interest in set amounts which escalate over time plus payments of a
         portion of HBC's  adjusted cash flow,  from year to year.  The interest
         rate payable on the term loan is 1.5% above the bank's base rate.

                                      F-11



         Long-term debt is payable as follows:

                             Year ending December 31:
                             1998                             $   520,874
                             1999                                 621,369
                             2000                                 719,750
                             2001                                 900,002
                             2002                               1,166,664
                                                              ===========
                                                               $3,928,659
                                                              ===========

         Interest  expense  amounted to $488,388,  $498,413 and $406,227 for the
         years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995.

10.      COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

         Operating Leases - Hansen's  warehouse  facility and corporate  offices
         are leased for a period of 89 months  commencing  on September 19, 1997
         on which date the warehouse facilities were occupied by the Company. On
         March 1, 1998,  the corporate  offices of the Company were relocated to
         such premises in Corona,  California.  This lease and certain equipment
         under  non-cancelable   operating  leases  expire  through  2005.  Rent
         expenses related to leases amounted to $157,240,  $118,871 and $128,508
         for the years ended  December  31, 1997,  1996 and 1995,  respectively.
         Future minimum  rental  payments  under such  non-cancelable  operating
         leases referred to above are as follows:

                                      F-12

                             Year ending December 31:
                             1998                       $    331,528
                             1999                            340,644
                             2000                            352,884
                             2001                            359,784
                             2002                            365,904
                             Thereafter                      788,820
                                                         ============
                                                          $2,539,564
                                                         ============

         Employment  and  Consulting  Agreements  - The Company  entered into an
         employment  agreement  with Rodney C. Sacks dated as of January 1, 1994
         pursuant  to which Mr.  Sacks  renders  services  to the Company as its
         Chairman and Chief  Executive  Officer,  and entered into an employment
         agreement  with  Hilton  H.  Schlosberg  dated as of  January  1,  1994
         pursuant to which Mr. Schlosberg renders services to the Company as its
         Vice Chairman, President and Chief Financial Officer for an annual base
         salary of  $170,000  each,  subject to  adjustments  annually,  plus an
         annual bonus in an amount  determined at the discretion of the Board of
         Directors  and  certain  fringe  benefits,  both  of  which  agreements
         terminate on December 31, 1998. Future base salaries payable to Messrs.
         Sacks and  Schlosberg  under  their  respective  employment  agreements
         amount to $170,000 each.

         Effective June 30, 1997, Mr. Taber elected to retire and terminated his
         employment  agreement  with  HBC  and  entered  into a  Severance  and
         Consulting  Agreement  with  the  Company  and  HBC  (the  "Consulting
         Agreement")  pursuant  to which,  among other  matters,  HBC agreed to
         retain Mr. Taber as a consultant  for a period of two years at a fixed
         monthly  fee of  $5,000.  In terms of the  Consulting  Agreement,  Mr.
         Taber's  existing Stock Option Agreement dated as of June 30, 1995 was
         terminated and substituted  with a new Stock Option Agreement dated as
         of June 20, 1997 (the "Replacement  Stock Option  Agreement")  between
         the  parties.   Under  the  terms  of  the  Replacement  Stock  Option
         Agreement, Mr. Taber was granted options to purchase 100,000 shares of
         common stock,  outside of the  Company's  stock option plans (see Note
         11), exercisable until June 30, 1999 at $1.38 per share.  Compensation
         expense  related  to this  option  grant is not  material.  Mr.  Taber
         remains a  director  of the  Company.  In  addition,  other  than with
         respect to certain  restrictive  covenants,  Mr. Taber agreed to repay
         amounts  owed  by  him to HBC  under  a  certain  promissory  note  by
         offsetting amounts owed under the note against accrued and unpaid base
         pay payable under Mr. Taber's employment agreement and amounts payable
         under the Consulting Agreement, beginning January 1, 1998.

         Purchase  Commitments  - As of December 31, 1997,  the Company had open
         purchase   commitments   for  certain  raw   materials   amounting   to
         approximately $608,000.

11.      STOCK OPTIONS AND WARRANTS

         The Company has two stock option plans: the Employee Stock Option Plan
         ("the Plan") and the Outside Directors Stock Option Plan ("Directors'
         Plan").
                                      F-13


         The Plan provides for the granting of options to purchase not more than
         two  million  shares of Hansen  Common  Stock to key  employees  of the
         Company and its  subsidiaries.  Stock options are  exercisable  at such
         time and in such amounts as determined by the Compensation Committee of
         the Board of  Directors  of the Company up to a ten-year  period  after
         their date of grant,  and no options may be granted after July 1, 2001.
         The  option  price will not be less than the fair  market  value at the
         date of grant. As of December 31, 1997,  options to purchase  1,496,500
         shares of Hansen Common Stock had been granted  under the Plan,  net of
         options that have expired,  and options to purchase  503,500  shares of
         Hansen Common Stock remained available for grant under the plan.

         Options granted under the Plan to purchase Hansen Common Stock pursuant
         to individual stock option agreements are as follows:

         On June 15,  1992,  the Company  granted to Rodney C. Sacks and
         Hilton H. Schlosberg, options to purchase 200,000 and 150,000 shares of
         Hansen Common Stock, respectively,  each of which vest in increments of
         50,000  shares on the date of grant and annually  beginning  January 1,
         1993,  exercisable  for a ten-year period at an exercise price of $1.75
         per share.

         On July 3, 1995, the Company granted to Rodney C. Sacks and Hilton H.
         Schlosberg, options for each to  purchase  150,000 of Hansen  Common
         Stock of which 75,000  shares vest on January 1, 1996 and 75,000 shares
         vest on  January  1,  1997,  exercisable  for a  ten-year  period at an
         exercise price of $1.25 per share.

         Between  July 27, 1992 and  December  31,  1997,  the  Company  granted
         various  members of  management  options to  purchase an  aggregate  of
         846,500 shares of Hansen Common Stock which vest in various  increments
         over a five-year period at exercise prices which vary between $0.72 and
         $1.79 per share.  These options  exclude the options which were granted
         to Rodney C. Sacks and Hilton H. Schlosberg, which are described above.

         The Directors' Plan provides for the grant of options to purchase up to
         100,000  shares of Common  Stock of the  Company  to  directors  of the
         Company  who are  not  and  have  not  been  employed  by or  acted  as
         consultants to the Company and its  subsidiaries  or affiliates and who
         are not and have not been  nominated  to the Board of  Directors of the
         Company  pursuant  to a  contractual  arrangement.  On the  date of the
         annual  meeting  of  shareholders,  at which an  eligible  director  is
         initially  elected,  each  eligible  director  is entitled to receive a
         one-time  grant of an option to purchase 6,000 shares (12,000 shares if
         the director is serving on a committee  of the Board) of the  Company's
         Common Stock, exercisable one-third each on the first, second and third
         anniversary  of the date of  grant;  provided,  however,  that  options
         granted as of February 14, 1995 are  exercisable 66 2/3% on the date of
         grant and 100% on July 8, 1995;  provided,  further,  that all  options
         held by an eligible  director become fully and immediately  exercisable
         upon a change in  control of the  Company.  Options  granted  under the
         Directors Plan that are not exercised  generally expire ten years after
         the date of grant.  Option grants may be made under the Directors  Plan
         for ten  years  from the  effective  date of the  Directors  Plan.  The
         Directors Plan is a "formula"  plan so that a  non-employee  director's
         participation  in the  Directors  Plan does not  affect his status as a
         "disinterested  person" (as defined in Rule 16b-3 under the  Securities
         Exchange Act of 1934).  As of December  31,  1997,  options to purchase
         24,000  shares  of  Hansen  Common  Stock  had been  granted  under the
         Directors  Plan and options to purchase  76,000 shares of Hansen Common
         Stock remain available for grant.

                                      F-14


         Information regarding these option plans is as follows:


         The Company has adopted the disclosure-only  provisions of SFAS No.
         123,   Accounting  for  Stock-Based   Compensation.   Accordingly,   no
         compensation  cost has been recognized for the stock option plans.  The
         impact of stock  options  granted  prior to 1995 has been excluded from
         the pro  forma  calculation;  accordingly,  the 1997 and 1996 pro forma
         adjustments are not indicative of future period pro forma  adjustments,
         when the  calculation  may apply to all applicable  stock options.  Had
         compensation  cost for the Company's option plans been determined based
         on the fair value at the grant date for awards in 1997  consistent with
         the provisions of SFAS No. 123, the Company's income and net income per
         share would have been reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated below:

                                      1997             1996              1995
                                       ----             ----              ----
         Net income, as reported   $1,250,151         $357,166      ($1,349,693)
         Net income, pro forma     $1,121,473         $ 49,819      ($1,657,040)

         Net income per share, as reported
              Basic                    $0.14            $0.04            ($0.15)
              Diluted                  $0.13            $0.04
         Net income per share, pro forma
              Basic                    $0.12            $0.01            ($0.18)
              Diluted                  $0.12            $0.01

         The fair value of each option grant is  estimated on the date of grant
         using  the  Black-Scholes option-pricing  model  with  the  following
         weighted-average assumptions used for grants in 1997: dividend yield of
         0%; expected  volatility of 43%;  risk-free  interest rate of 6.0%; and
         expected lives of 3 years. The following  weighted-average  assumptions
         were used for grants in 1996: dividend yield of 0%; expected volatility
         of 81%; risk-free interest rate of 5.5%; and expected lives of 2 years.
         The  following  weighted-average  assumptions  were used for  grants in
         1995:  dividend  yield of 0%;  expected  volatility  of 81%;  risk-free
         interest rate of 5.9%; and expected lives of 3 years.

                                      F-15


         The following table  summarizes  information  about  fixed-price  stock
         options outstanding at December 31, 1997:


     12.  MAJOR CUSTOMERS

         Two customers accounted for 29% and 11%, respectively, of the Company's
         sales for the year ended December 31, 1997. Two customers accounted for
         26% and 13%,  respectively,  of the Company's  sales for the year ended
         December  31,  1996.   Two   customers   accounted  for  27%  and  14%,
         respectively,  of the Company's  sales for the year ended  December 31,
         1995.  A decision by either of these major  customers  to decrease  the
         amount  purchased  from the Company or to cease  carrying the Company's
         products  could  have  a  material  adverse  effect  on  the  Company's
         financial condition and results of operations.

     13. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

         The second stage of the trial in HBC's action against ERLY in the
         Superior Court for the State of  California,  was held in July 1997
         for the sole  purpose  of  determining  the amount of HBC's damages,
         if any,  resulting from ERLY's breach of certain rights of first
         refusal  provisions  contained in HBC's  subordinated  secured
         promissory note in the principal amount of $4 million in favor of ERLY.
         In November  1997, the court held that HBC had not suffered any damages
         as a result  of  ERLY's  breach  of the  note.  HBC has filed an appeal
         against that judgment. A motion was made by ERLY for the costs of such
         action to be awarded in its favor,  which was  dismissed  by the court.
         ERLY has filed a cross appeal on that issue.  The full amount due under
         the note to ERLY was paid in November  1997 with the proceeds of a term
         loan  obtained by the Company from  Comerica.  The ultimate  outcome of
         this matter cannot presently be predicted.

         The Company is also involved in various other legal matters  arising in
         the normal  course of  business.  Although  the  results of these other
         legal matters cannot be predicted with certainty,  management  believes
         that the final outcome of such matters will not have a material adverse
         effect on the Company's financial statements.

                                      F-16





     14. RELATED PARTY

         A director  of the  Company is a partner in a law firm which  serves as
         counsel to the Company.  Payments made to such firm in connection  with
         services  rendered  to the  Company  during  1997,  1996 and 1995  were
         $186,033, $238,069 and $187,625, respectively.

     15. SUBSEQUENT EVENT

         Subsequent to year-end, the Company granted options to purchase 410,500
         shares of Hansen Common Stock under the Plan. Of such options  granted,
         200,000  options were in  replacement  of options due to expire in 1998
         (see Note 11).

                                      F-17














- ------------------

(1) In  connection with the  receivable described  in NOTE 3, the Company has a
reserve of $270,000  against the note  receivable from Hawaiian Water Partners.


                                      F-18

