10-K


ppl10k_2003.htm

PPL 2003 FORM 10-K

PPL 2003 Form 10-K

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
  405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
  the best of Registrants' knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
  incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
  this Form 10-K.

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrants (1) have filed all reports required
  to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
  the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrants were
  required to file such reports), and (2) have been subject to such filing requirements
  for the past 90 days.

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrants are accelerated filers (as defined
  in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).

As of June 30, 2003, PPL Corporation had 176,688,958 shares of its $.01 par
  value Common Stock outstanding, excluding 31,016,424 shares held as treasury
  stock. The aggregate market value of these common shares (based upon the closing
  price of these shares on the New York Stock Exchange on that date) held by non-affiliates
  was $7,597,625,194. As of January 31, 2004, PPL Corporation had 177,506,989
  shares of its $.01 par value Common Stock outstanding, excluding 31,019,352
  shares held as treasury stock.

As of June 30, 2003, PPL Corporation held all 78,029,863 outstanding common
  shares, no par value, of PPL Electric Utilities Corporation, excluding 79,270,519
  shares held as treasury stock. The aggregate market value of the voting preferred
  stock held by non-affiliates of PPL Electric Utilities Corporation at June 30,
  2003 was $63,108,094.

PPL Corporation indirectly holds all of the member interests in PPL Energy
  Supply, LLC and PPL Montana, LLC.

PPL Energy Supply, LLC and PPL Montana, LLC meet the conditions set forth
  in General Instructions (I)(1)(a) and (b) of Form 10-K and are therefore filing
  this form with the reduced disclosure format.

Documents incorporated by reference:

PPL Corporation and PPL Electric Utilities Corporation have incorporated herein
  by reference certain sections of PPL Corporation's 2004 Notice of Annual Meeting
  and Proxy Statement, and PPL Electric Utilities Corporation's 2004 Notice of
  Annual Meeting and Information Statement, which will be filed with the Securities
  and Exchange Commission not later than 120 days after December 31, 2003. Such
  Statements will provide the information required by Part III of this Report.

PPL CORPORATION

PPL ENERGY SUPPLY, LLC

PPL ELECTRIC UTILITIES CORPORATION

PPL MONTANA, LLC

FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT TO

THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003


This combined Form 10-K is separately filed by PPL Corporation, PPL Energy
  Supply, LLC, PPL Electric Utilities Corporation and PPL Montana, LLC. Information
  contained herein relating to PPL Energy Supply, LLC, PPL Electric Utilities
  Corporation and PPL Montana, LLC is filed by PPL Corporation and separately
  by PPL Energy Supply, LLC, PPL Electric Utilities Corporation and PPL Montana,
  LLC on their own behalf. No registrant makes any representation as to information
  relating to any other registrant, except that information relating to the three
  PPL Corporation subsidiaries is also attributed to PPL Corporation.

GLOSSARY OF TERMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

£

- British pounds sterling.

1945 First Mortgage Bond Indenture

- PPL Electric's Mortgage
  and Deed of Trust, dated as of October 1, 1945, to Deutsche Bank Trust Company
  Americas, as trustee, as supplemented.

2001 Senior Secured Bond Indenture

- PPL Electric's Indenture,
  dated as of August 1, 2001, to JPMorgan Chase Bank, as trustee, as supplemented.

AFUDC

(Allowance for Funds Used During Construction) - the cost
  of equity and debt funds used to finance construction projects of regulated
  businesses that is capitalized as part of construction cost.

ANEEL

- National Electric Energy Agency, Brazil's agency that
  regulates the transmission and distribution of electricity.

APA

- Asset Purchase Agreement.

APB

- Accounting Principles Board.

ARB

- Accounting Research Bulletin.

ARO

- asset retirement obligation.

Bangor Hydro

- Bangor Hydro-Electric Company.

Bcf

- billion cubic feet.

CEMAR

-

Companhia Energética do Maranhão,
  a Brazilian electric distribution company in which PPL Global has a majority
  ownership interest.

CGE

-

Compañia General de Electricidad, S.A., a
  distributor of electricity and natural gas with other industrial segments in
  Chile and Argentina in which PPL Global has an 8.7% direct and indirect minority
  ownership interest.

Clean Air Act

- federal legislation enacted to address certain
  environmental issues related to air emissions including acid rain, ozone and
  toxic air emissions.

CTC

- competitive transition charge on customer bills to recover
  allowable transition costs under the Customer Choice Act.

Customer Choice Act

- the Pennsylvania Electricity Generation
  Customer Choice and Competition Act, legislation enacted to restructure the
  state's electric utility industry to create retail access to a competitive market
  for generation of electricity.

DelSur

-

Distribuidora de Electricidad DelSur,
  S.A. de C.V., an electric distribution company in El Salvador, a majority of
  which is owned by EC.

DEP

- Department of Environmental Protection, a state government
  agency.

Derivative

- a financial instrument or other contract with all
  three of the following characteristics:

It has (1) one or more underlyings and (2) one or more notional amounts
    or payment provisions or both. Those terms determine the amount of the settlement
    or settlements, and, in some cases, whether or not a settlement is required.

It requires no initial net investment or an initial net investment that
    is smaller than would be required for other types of contracts that would
    be expected to have a similar response to changes in market factors.

Its terms require or permit net settlement, it can readily be settled net
    by a means outside the contract, or it provides for delivery of an asset that
    puts the recipient in a position not substantially different from net settlement.

DIG

- Derivatives Implementation Group.

DOE

- Department of Energy, a U.S. government agency.

DRIP

- Dividend Reinvestment Plan.

EC

- Electricidad de Centroamerica, S.A. de C.V., an El Salvadoran
  holding company and the majority owner of DelSur and El Salvador Telecom, S.A.
  de C.V. PPL Global has 100% ownership of EC.

EGS

- electric generation supplier.

EITF

- Emerging Issues Task Force, an organization that assists
  the FASB in improving financial reporting through the identification, discussion
  and resolution of financial issues within the framework of existing authoritative
  literature.

Elfec

- Empresa de Luz y Fuerza Electrica Cochabamba S.A. a Bolivian
  electric distribution company in which PPL Global has a majority ownership interest.

Emel

- Empresas Emel S.A., a Chilean electric distribution holding
  company in which PPL Global has majority ownership.

EMF

- electric and magnetic fields.

Enrichment

- the concentration of fissionable isotopes to produce
  a fuel suitable for use in a nuclear reactor.

EPA

- Environmental Protection Agency, a U.S. government agency.

EPS

- earnings per share.

ESOP

- Employee Stock Ownership Plan.

EWG

- exempt wholesale generator.

Fabrication

- the process which manufactures nuclear fuel assemblies
  for insertion into the reactor.

FASB

- Financial Accounting Standards Board, a rulemaking organization
  that establishes financial accounting and reporting standards.

FERC

- Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the federal agency
  that regulates interstate transmission and wholesale sales of electricity and
  related matters.

FIN

- FASB Interpretation.

FSP

- FASB Staff Position.

GAAP

- generally accepted accounting principles.

Griffith Energy

- Griffith Energy LLC, which owns and operates
  a 600 MW gas-fired station in Kingman, Arizona, and which is jointly owned by
  subsidiaries of PPL Generation and Duke Energy Corporation.

GWh

- gigawatt-hour, one million kilowatt-hours.

Hyder

- Hyder Limited, a subsidiary of WPDL that was the previous
  owner of South Wales Electricity plc. In March 2001, South Wales Electricity
  plc was acquired by WPDH Limited and renamed WPD (South Wales).

Integra

- Empresa de Ingenieria y Servicios Integrales Cochabamba
  S.A., a Bolivian company providing construction and engineering services, in
  which PPL Global has a majority ownership interest.

IBEW

- International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers.

ICP

- Incentive Compensation Plan.

ICPKE

- Incentive Compensation Plan for Key Employees.

IRS

- Internal Revenue Service, a U.S. government agency.

ISO

- Independent System Operator.

ITC

- intangible transition charge on customer bills to recover
  intangible transition costs associated with securitizing stranded costs under
  the Customer Choice Act.

kWh

- kilowatt-hour, basic unit of electrical energy.

kVA

- kilovolt-ampere.

LIBOR

-

London Interbank Offered Rate.

Mirant

- Mirant Corporation, a diversified energy company based
  in Atlanta. PPL Global and Mirant jointly owned WPD from 1996 until September
  6, 2002.

Montana Power

- The Montana Power Company, a Montana-based company
  that sold its generating assets to PPL Montana in December 1999. Through a series
  of transactions consummated during the first quarter of 2002, Montana Power
  sold its electricity delivery business to NorthWestern.

MW

- megawatt, one thousand kilowatts.

MWh

- megawatt-hour, one thousand kilowatt-hours.

NorthWestern

- NorthWestern Energy Division, a Delaware corporation
  and a division of NorthWestern Corporation and successor in interest to Montana
  Power's electricity delivery business, including Montana Power's rights and
  obligations under contracts with PPL Montana.

NPDES

- National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.

NRC

- Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the federal agency that
  regulates operation of nuclear power facilities.

NUGs

(Non-Utility Generators) - generating plants not owned by
  public utilities, whose electrical output must be purchased by utilities under
  the PURPA if the plant meets certain criteria.

OSM

- Office of Surface Mining, a U.S. government agency.

PCB

- polychlorinated biphenyl, an additive to oil used in certain
  electrical equipment up to the late-1970s. Now classified as a hazardous chemical.

PEPS Units

(Premium Equity Participating Security Units, or PEPS

SM

Units) - securities issued by PPL and PPL Capital Funding Trust I, consisting
  of a Preferred Security and a forward contract to purchase PPL common stock.

PEPS Units, Series B

(Premium Equity Participating Security Units,
  or PEPS

SM

Units, Series B) - securities issued by PPL and PPL Capital
  Funding, consisting of an undivided interest in a debt security issued by PPL
  Capital Funding and guaranteed by PPL, and a forward contract to purchase PPL
  common stock.

PJM

(PJM Interconnection, L.L.C.) - operates the electric transmission
  network and electric energy market in the mid-Atlantic region of the U.S.

PLR

(Provider of Last Resort) - PPL Electric providing electricity
  to retail customers within its delivery territory who have chosen not to shop
  for electricity under the Customer Choice Act.

PP&E

- property, plant and equipment.

PPL

- PPL Corporation, the parent holding company of PPL Electric,
  PPL Energy Funding and other subsidiaries.

PPL Capital Funding

- PPL Capital Funding, Inc., a PPL financing
  subsidiary.

PPL Capital Funding Trust I

- a Delaware statutory business trust
  created to issue PEPS Units, whose common securities are held by PPL.

PPL Coal Supply

- PPL Coal Supply, LLC, a limited liability company
  owned by PPL Coal Holdings Corporation (a subsidiary of PPL Generation) and
  Iris Energy LLC. PPL Coal Supply procures coal, which it sells to PPL Generation
  for power plants and to Iris Energy for synfuel production.

PPL Electric

- PPL Electric Utilities Corporation, a regulated
  utility subsidiary of PPL that transmits and distributes electricity in its
  service territory and provides electric supply to retail customers in this territory
  as a PLR.

PPL Energy Funding

- PPL Energy Funding Corporation, a subsidiary
  of PPL and the parent company of PPL Energy Supply.

PPL EnergyPlus

- PPL EnergyPlus, LLC, a subsidiary of PPL Energy
  Supply, which markets wholesale and retail electricity, and supplies energy
  and energy services in deregulated markets.

PPL Energy Supply

- PPL Energy Supply, LLC, the parent company
  of PPL Generation, PPL EnergyPlus, PPL Global and other subsidiaries. Formed
  in November 2000, PPL Energy Supply is a subsidiary of PPL Energy Funding.

PPL Gas Utilities

- PPL Gas Utilities Corporation, a regulated
  utility subsidiary of PPL specializing in natural gas distribution, transmission
  and storage services, and the competitive sale of propane.

PPL Generation

- PPL Generation, LLC, a subsidiary of PPL Energy
  Supply, which owns and operates U.S. generating facilities through various subsidiaries.

PPL Global

- PPL Global, LLC, a subsidiary of PPL Energy Supply,
  which acquires and develops domestic generation projects and acquires and holds
  international energy projects that are primarily focused on the distribution
  of electricity.

PPL Holtwood

- PPL Holtwood, LLC, a subsidiary of PPL Generation,
  which owns PPL's hydroelectric generating operations in Pennsylvania.

PPL Maine

- PPL Maine, LLC, a subsidiary of PPL Generation, which
  owns generating operations in Maine.

PPL Martins Creek

- PPL Martins Creek, LLC, a generating subsidiary
  of PPL Generation.

PPL Montana

- PPL Montana, LLC, an indirect subsidiary of PPL
  Generation, which generates electricity for wholesale sales in Montana and the
  Pacific Northwest.

PPL Services

- PPL Services Corporation, a subsidiary of PPL,
  which provides shared services for PPL and its subsidiaries.

PPL Susquehanna

- PPL Susquehanna, LLC, the nuclear generating
  subsidiary of PPL Generation.

PPL Telcom

- PPL Telcom, LLC, an indirect subsidiary of PPL Energy
  Funding, which delivers high bandwidth telecommunication services in the Northeast
  corridor from Washington, D.C., to New York City and to six metropolitan areas
  in central and eastern Pennsylvania.

PPL Transition Bond Company

- PPL Transition Bond Company, LLC,
  a wholly-owned subsidiary of PPL Electric that was formed to issue transition
  bonds under the Customer Choice Act.

Preferred Securities

- company-obligated mandatorily redeemable
  preferred securities issued by PPL Capital Funding Trust I, holding solely debentures
  of PPL Capital Funding, and by SIUK Capital Trust I, holding solely debentures
  of WPD LLP.

PUC

- Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission, the state agency
  that regulates certain ratemaking, services, accounting and operations of Pennsylvania
  utilities.

PUC Final Order

- final order issued by the PUC on August 27,
  1998, approving the settlement of PPL Electric Utilities' restructuring proceeding.

PUHCA

- Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, legislation
  passed by the U.S. Congress.

PURPA

-

Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act
  of 1978, legislation passed by the U.S. Congress to encourage energy conservation,
  efficient use of resources and equitable rates.

PURTA

- the Pennsylvania Public Utility Realty Tax Act.

RMC

- Risk Management Committee.

SCR

- selective catalytic reduction, a pollution control process.

SEC

- Securities and Exchange Commission, a U.S. government agency.

SFAS

- Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, the accounting
  and financial reporting rules issued by the FASB.

SIUK Capital Trust I

- a business trust created to issue preferred
  securities, whose common securities are held by WPD LLP.

SIUK Limited

-

was an intermediate holding company
  within the WPDH Limited group. In January 2003, SIUK Limited transferred its
  assets and liabilities to WPD LLP.

SPE

- special purpose entity.

Superfund

- federal environmental legislation that addresses
  remediation of contaminated sites; states also have similar statutes.

Synfuel projects

- production facilities that manufacture synthetic
  fuel from coal or coal byproducts. Favorable federal tax credits are available
  on qualified synfuel products.

Tolling agreement

- agreement whereby the owner of an electric
  generating facility agrees to use that facility to convert fuel provided by
  a third party into electric energy for delivery back to the third party.

UF

- inflation-indexed peso-denominated unit.

VEBA

- Voluntary Employee Benefit Association Trust, trust accounts
  for health and welfare plans for future benefit payments for employees, retirees
  or their beneficiaries.

WPD

- refers collectively to WPDH Limited and WPDL. PPL Global
  purchased Mirant's 49% ownership interest in these entities on September 6,
  2002, thereby achieving 100% ownership and operational control.

WPD LLP

- Western Power Distribution LLP, a wholly-owned subsidiary
  of WPDH Limited, which owns WPD (South West) and WPD (South Wales).

WPD

(South Wales)

- Western Power Distribution (South
  Wales) plc, a British regional electric utility company.

WPD

(South West)

- Western Power Distribution (South West)
  plc, a British regional electric utility company.

WPDH Limited

- Western Power Distribution Holdings Limited, an
  indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of PPL Global. WPDH Limited owns WPD LLP.

WPDL

- WPD Investment Holdings Limited, an indirect wholly-owned
  subsidiary of PPL Global. WPDL owns 100% of the common shares of Hyder.

FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION

Certain statements contained in this Form 10-K concerning expectations, beliefs,
  plans, objectives, goals, strategies, future events or performance and underlying
  assumptions and other statements which are other than statements of historical
  facts are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities
  laws. Although PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL Montana believe
  that the expectations and assumptions reflected in these statements are reasonable,
  there can be no assurance that these expectations will prove to be correct.
  These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties,
  and actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking
  statements. In addition to the specific factors discussed in the Management's
  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations sections
  herein, the following are among the important factors that could cause actual
  results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements:

market demand and prices for energy, capacity and fuel;

weather variations affecting customer energy usage;

competition in retail and wholesale power markets;

the effect of any business or industry restructuring;

the profitability and liquidity of PPL and its subsidiaries;

new accounting requirements or new interpretations or applications of existing
    requirements;

operation of existing facilities and operating costs;

environmental conditions and requirements;

transmission and distribution system conditions and operating costs;

development of new projects, markets and technologies;

performance of new ventures;

asset acquisitions and dispositions;

political, regulatory or economic conditions in states, regions or countries
    where PPL or its subsidiaries conduct business;

receipt of necessary governmental permits, approvals and rate relief;

impact of state or federal investigations applicable to PPL and its subsidiaries
    and the energy industry;

the outcome of litigation against PPL and its subsidiaries;

capital market conditions and decisions regarding capital structure;

stock price performance;

the market prices of equity securities and resultant cash funding requirements
    for defined benefit pension plans;

securities and credit ratings;

state and federal regulatory developments;

foreign exchange rates;

new state or federal legislation, including new tax legislation;

national or regional economic conditions, including any potential effects
    arising from the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in the U.S., the situation
    in Iraq and any consequential hostilities or other hostilities; and

the commitments and liabilities of PPL and its subsidiaries.

Any such forward-looking statements should be considered in light of such important
  factors and in conjunction with other documents of PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL
  Electric and PPL Montana on file with the SEC.

New factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those
  described in forward-looking statements emerge from time to time, and it is
  not possible for PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric or PPL Montana to predict
  all of such factors, or the extent to which any such factor or combination of
  factors may cause actual results to differ from those contained in any forward-looking
  statement. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which
  such statement is made, and PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL Montana
  undertake no obligations to update the information contained in such statement
  to reflect subsequent developments or information.

PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

BACKGROUND

PPL Corporation is an energy and utility holding company that was incorporated
  in 1994. Through its subsidiaries, PPL generates electricity in power plants
  in the northeastern and western U.S.; markets wholesale or retail energy primarily
  in the northeastern and western portions of the U.S.; delivers electricity to
  nearly five million customers in Pennsylvania, the U.K. and Latin America; and
  provides energy services for businesses in the mid-Atlantic and northeastern
  U.S. PPL's significant subsidiaries are shown below:

See Exhibit 99 in Item 15 for additional information on the current corporate
  organization. In addition to PPL Corporation, the other SEC registrants included
  in this filing are:

PPL Energy Supply, LLC

, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of PPL formed
  in 2000, is an energy company engaged through its subsidiaries in the generation
  and marketing of power primarily in the northeastern and western power markets
  of the U.S. and in the delivery of electricity in the U.K. and Latin America.
  PPL Energy Supply's major operating subsidiaries are PPL Generation, PPL EnergyPlus
  and PPL Global. PPL Energy Supply owns or controls 11,527 MW of electric power
  generation capacity, and is constructing new electric generation projects in
  Pennsylvania, which will add 663 MW of electric generation capacity.

PPL Electric Utilities Corporation

, incorporated in 1920, is a direct
  subsidiary of PPL and a regulated public utility. PPL Electric provides electricity
  delivery service in its service territory in Pennsylvania, and provides electricity
  supply to retail customers in that territory as a PLR under the Customer Choice
  Act.

PPL Montana, LLC

, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of PPL Energy
  Supply formed in 1998, acquired the Montana generating assets in 1999. PPL Montana
  operates interests in 13 electric generating facilities, which it owns or leases,
  with an aggregate capacity of 1,157 MW. PPL Montana's primary regional market
  for wholesale customers is the northwest U.S. (Montana, Oregon, Washington and
  Idaho).

Segment Information

PPL is organized into segments consisting of Supply, Delivery and International.
  PPL Energy Supply's segments consist of Supply and International. In addition,
  certain corporate service functions reside in PPL Services. PPL Electric and
  PPL Montana do not have segments. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for
  financial information about the segments and geographic financial data.

PPL has generation assets that are focused on the eastern and western markets.
  The eastern generation assets are focused on the Northeast/Mid-Atlantic energy
  markets - including the PJM, the New York ISO, the New England Power Pool and
  the Mid-American Interconnection Network. PPL's western generating capacity
  is focused on the markets within the Western Systems Coordinating Council.

PPL Generation

PPL Generation had a total generating capacity of 11,527 MW at December 31,
  2003. Through subsidiaries, PPL Generation owns and operates power plants in
  Pennsylvania, Montana, Maine, Connecticut, Arizona, Illinois and New York.

The Pennsylvania generation plants had a total capacity of 8,582 MW at December
  31, 2003. These plants are fueled by nuclear reaction, coal, gas, oil and hydro
  power. The electricity from these plants is sold to PPL EnergyPlus under FERC-jurisdictional
  power purchase agreements.

PPL's U.S. generation subsidiaries are EWGs, which sell electricity into the
  wholesale market. PPL's EWGs are subject to regulation by the FERC but not subject
  to regulation under PUHCA. The FERC has authorized these EWGs to sell generation
  from their facilities at market-based prices.

PPL Susquehanna, a subsidiary of PPL Generation, owns a 90% undivided interest
  in each of the two nuclear-fueled generating units at its Susquehanna station
  and Allegheny Electric Cooperative, Inc. owns the remaining 10% undivided interest
  in each of those units. PPL's 90% share of Susquehanna's capacity was 2,072
  MW at December 31, 2003. In 2003, PPL Susquehanna completed the installation
  of a more efficient steam turbine to Unit 2 that increased the capacity of the
  Susquehanna plant by 50 MW. PPL Susquehanna's share of this new capacity is
  45 MW. PPL Susquehanna is currently installing a similar steam turbine for Unit
  1 and the project is expected to be completed in 2004.

PPL Generation operates its Pennsylvania power plants in conjunction with PJM.
  PPL Generation's Pennsylvania power plants and PPL EnergyPlus are parties to
  the Mid-Atlantic Area Coordination Agreement. Refer to "Delivery Segment" for
  information regarding PJM's operations and functions and the Mid-Atlantic Area
  Coordination Agreement.

The Montana generating stations are fueled by coal and hydro power, and have
  a net capacity of 1,157 MW. PPL EnergyPlus, as agent for PPL Montana, supplies
  300 MW of around-the-clock electricity and 150 MW of unit-contingent on-peak
  electricity to NorthWestern under two five-year agreements that began in July
  2002. These contracts accounted for 33% of PPL Montana's operating revenue in
  2003. PPL Montana also purchases 98 MW of firm energy and capacity during the
  months of November through April from Basin Electric Cooperative.

The Maine generating assets were acquired from Bangor Hydro in 1998. The oil-
  and hydro-powered stations have a total capacity of 96 MW.

The Wallingford, Connecticut generating station was constructed by PPL and
  began commercial operations in 2001. This natural gas-powered station has a
  total capacity of 243 MW.

During 2002, PPL began commercial operations in Arizona of two natural gas-powered
  stations. The Griffith project is located in Kingman, and PPL's ownership interest
  is 300 MW. The Sundance project near Coolidge has a total capacity of 450 MW.

In 2002, PPL also began commercial operations in Illinois with a 540 MW natural
  gas-powered station located in University Park, and in New York with a natural
  gas-powered station in Edgewood and an oil-powered station in Shoreham, both
  on Long Island. These plants have a combined capacity of 159 MW.

At December 31, 2003, PPL Generation was in the process of developing approximately
  670 MW of electric generating capacity in Pennsylvania, consisting of 600 MW
  at the Lower Mt. Bethel gas-fired facility and 70 MW at the Susquehanna station.
  PPL's share of the additional Susquehanna capacity is approximately 63 MW. See
  Item 2, "Properties," for additional information.

PPL Generation subsidiaries are subject to the jurisdiction of certain federal,
  regional, state and local regulatory agencies with respect to air and water
  quality, land use and other environmental matters. PPL Susquehanna is subject
  to the jurisdiction of the NRC in connection with the operation of the Susquehanna
  units. Certain of PPL Generation's other subsidiaries, including PPL Montana,
  are subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC in connection with the operation
  of their fossil plants with respect to certain level and density monitoring
  devices.

Certain operations of PPL Generation's subsidiaries are subject to the Occupational
  Safety and Health Act of 1970 and comparable state statutes.

Refer to the "Power Supply" section for additional information regarding the
  various power plants operated by PPL Generation. Also refer to "Fuel Supply"
  for a discussion of fuel requirements and contractual arrangements.

PPL EnergyPlus

PPL EnergyPlus markets or brokers the electricity produced by PPL Generation
  subsidiaries, along with purchased power, natural gas and oil, in competitive
  wholesale and deregulated retail markets in order to take advantage of opportunities
  in the competitive energy marketplace.

PPL EnergyPlus buys and sells energy at competitive prices. PPL EnergyPlus
  purchases electric capacity and energy at the wholesale level, and also sells
  electric capacity and energy at the wholesale level under FERC market-based
  tariffs. PPL EnergyPlus enters into these agreements to market available energy
  and capacity from PPL Generation's assets and to profit from market price fluctuations.
  PPL EnergyPlus is actively managing its portfolios to maximize the value of
  PPL's generating assets and to limit exposure to price fluctuations. PPL EnergyPlus
  also purchases and sells energy forward and futures contracts as well as other
  commodity-based financial instruments in accordance with PPL's risk management
  policies, objectives and strategies.

PPL EnergyPlus has executed contracts to provide electricity to PPL Electric
  sufficient for it to meet its PLR obligation from 2003 through 2009, at the
  predetermined capped rates PPL Electric is entitled to charge its customers
  during this period. This arrangement with PPL Electric accounted for 34% of
  PPL Energy Supply's consolidated revenues in 2003. See Note 15 to the Financial
  Statements for more information concerning these contracts.

PPL EnergyPlus has a PUC license to act as an EGS in Pennsylvania. This license
  permits PPL EnergyPlus to offer retail electric supply to customers throughout
  Pennsylvania. In 2003, PPL EnergyPlus was licensed, and supplied energy to industrial
  and commercial customers in Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Montana. PPL EnergyPlus
  also is licensed to provide energy in Delaware, Maryland, Maine and Massachusetts.
  At this time, PPL EnergyPlus has decided not to pursue residential customers
  in the competitive marketplace based on economic considerations.

PPL EnergyPlus also provides distributed generation and energy-related products
  and services to commercial and industrial customers, through its mechanical
  contracting and engineering subsidiaries operating primarily in Pennsylvania,
  Massachusetts, Connecticut, New York and New Jersey. The distributed generation
  business brings customers closer to distributed energy generating technologies,
  such as fuel cells, small turbines, microturbines and reciprocating engines.
  Through these various technologies, the distributed generation business currently
  owns approximately 500 kilowatts of installed capacity to serve commercial customers
  and has installed approximately 2 MW of capacity which is owned by the customer.

PPL Synfuel Investments, LLC, a subsidiary of PPL EnergyPlus, indirectly owns,
  through its subsidiaries, two production facilities. These facilities manufacture
  synthetic fuel from coal or coal byproducts. PPL receives federal tax credits
  for these qualified manufactured synfuel products.

PPL Global

(domestic
        operations)

PPL Global acquires and develops domestic generation projects for PPL Generation
  as opportunities arise.

PPL Telcom

PPL Telcom, an unregulated subsidiary of PPL Energy Funding, has a fiber optic
  network and markets available capacity on PPL Electric's fiber optic cables
  in eastern and central Pennsylvania. The fiber optic services include point-to-point
  data transport, high-speed connections among multiple sites and access to national
  and global fiber networks. PPL Telcom markets its services to customers such
  as other telecommunications companies, internet service providers and large
  enterprises that need high-speed data connections between multiple locations.
  Additionally, PPL Telcom provides engineering, construction and site leasing
  services to wireless carriers.

In April 2003, a subsidiary of PPL Telcom acquired the fiber optic network
  of a Fairfax, Virginia-based company. The 1,330-route-mile metropolitan area
  fiber network connects New York, northern New Jersey, Philadelphia, Baltimore
  and Washington, D.C.

•

Delivery Segment -

Includes the regulated electric and gas
        delivery operations of PPL Electric and PPL Gas Utilities.

PPL Electric provides electricity delivery service to approximately 1.3 million
  customers in a 10,000-square mile territory in 29 counties of eastern and central
  Pennsylvania. The largest cities in this territory are Allentown, Bethlehem,
  Harrisburg, Hazleton, Lancaster, Scranton, Wilkes-Barre and Williamsport. Pursuant
  to the PUC Final Order, PPL Electric agreed in 1998 to a cap on the electricity
  transmission and distribution rates that it collects from retail customers in
  its service territory. This cap expires on December 31, 2004. PPL
  Electric expects to file a request for a distribution rate
  increase with the PUC in March 2004. If approved, the new distribution
  rates will go into effect in January 2005, when the distribution rate cap expires.
  PPL Electric cannot predict the amount of the rate increase that will ultimately
  be approved by the PUC.

In addition to providing electricity delivery service in its service territory
  in Pennsylvania, PPL Electric also provides electricity supply to retail customers
  in that territory as a PLR under the Customer Choice Act. As part of the PUC
  Final Order, PPL Electric agreed to provide this electricity supply at predetermined
  capped rates through 2009. PPL Electric has executed two contracts to purchase
  electricity from PPL EnergyPlus sufficient for PPL Electric to meet its PLR
  obligation from 2003 through 2009, at the pre-determined capped rates. PPL Electric's
  PLR obligation after 2009 will be determined by the PUC pursuant to rules that
  have not yet been promulgated.

During 2003, about 93% of PPL Electric's operating revenues were derived from
  regulated electricity deliveries and supply as a PLR. About 7% of 2003 operating
  revenues were from wholesale sales, including the sale to PPL EnergyPlus of
  power purchased from NUGs. During 2003, about 44% of electricity delivery and
  PLR revenues were from residential customers, 35% from commercial customers,
  20% from industrial customers and 1% from other customer classes.

PPL Electric is subject to regulation as a public utility by the PUC, and certain
  of its activities are subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC under the Federal
  Power Act. PPL Electric is not a holding company under PUHCA, and PPL has been
  exempted by the SEC from the provisions of PUHCA applicable to it as a holding
  company.

PPL Electric also is subject to the jurisdiction of certain federal, regional,
  state and local regulatory agencies with respect to land use and other environmental
  matters. Certain operations of PPL Electric are subject to the Occupational
  Safety and Health Act of 1970 and comparable state statutes.

PPL Electric operates its transmission facilities as part of PJM. PJM operates
  the electric transmission network and electric energy market in the mid-Atlantic
  region of the U.S. Bulk electricity is transmitted to wholesale users throughout
  a geographic area including all or part of Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Maryland,
  Delaware, Virginia, Ohio, West Virginia and the District of Columbia. PPL Electric
  is also a party to the Mid-Atlantic Area Coordination Agreement, which provides
  for the coordinated planning of generation and transmission facilities by the
  companies included in PJM.

PJM serves as an ISO in order to accommodate greater competition and broader
  participation in the power pool. The purpose of the ISO is to separate operation
  of, and access to, the transmission grid from PJM electric utilities' generation
  interests. The electric utilities continue to own the transmission assets, but
  the ISO directs the control and operation of the transmission facilities. In
  March 2004, PPL Electric expects to notify the PUC and retail customers that,
  beginning January 1, 2005, it will begin to fully recover from retail customers
  thecharges that it pays to PJM for transmission-related
  services. PJM imposes these charges pursuant to its FERC-approved Open Access
  Transmission Tariff. PPL Electric's retail electric tariff authorizes it to
  recover such charges from its retail customers, but pursuant to the transmission
  and distribution rate cap described above, full recovery is precluded through
  December 31, 2004.

PPL Gas Utilities provides natural gas and propane delivery to approximately
  105,000 customers in Pennsylvania and Maryland.

•

International Segment -

Includes PPL Global's acquiring and holding
        of international energy projects that are primarily focused on the distribution
        of energy.

In September 2002, PPL Global acquired the remaining 49% equity interest in
  WPDH Limited and WPDL from Mirant, for approximately $236 million. The acquisition
  of Mirant's 49% interest provides PPL Global with complete ownership of WPD.
  WPD, through indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries, operates two electric distribution
  companies in the U.K., which together serve approximately 2.5 million end-users.
  WPD delivered 28,137 million kWh of electricity in 2003. See Note 9 to the Financial
  Statements for additional information on this acquisition.

PPL Global also has controlling interests in electricity transmission and distribution
  companies serving customers in Chile, El Salvador and Bolivia. Emel, of which
  PPL Global owns 95.4%, serves approximately 529,000 customers with its distribution
  companies in northern Chile and just south of its headquarters in Santiago,
  Chile. DelSur, of which PPL Global owns 80.5%, is an electric distribution company
  headquartered in San Salvador, which serves approximately 261,000 customers
  in the central and southern regions of El Salvador, including a portion of the
  city of San Salvador. Elfec, of which PPL Global owns 92.1%, is the second largest
  electric distribution company in Bolivia, and serves approximately 251,000 customers
  in Cochabamba.

PPL Global also has minority investments in generating facilities in Peru and
  Spain and has a majority ownership interest in a telecommunications company
  in El Salvador with approximately 7,000 customers. In 2003, PPL Global's Board
  of Managers authorized PPL Global to sell its investment in the telecommunications
  company, and approved a plan of sale. See Note 9 to the Financial Statements
  for additional information on this divestiture.

In August 2002, PPL Global deconsolidated its 90% equity interest in its Brazilian
  investment, CEMAR, when ANEEL authorized an administrative intervention and
  fully assumed operational and financial control of the company.

See Note
  9 to the Financial Statements for additional information on the deconsolidation
  and status of the CEMAR investment.

PPL Services

Various corporate service functions reside in PPL Services, an unregulated
  subsidiary of PPL. PPL Services provides shared services for PPL and its subsidiaries.
  These services include financial, legal, human resources and information services.
  These services are directly charged or allocated, as appropriate, to the Supply,
  Delivery and International segments.

Seasonality

In some parts of the country, demand for, and market prices of, electricity
  are higher during the hot summer months, while in other parts of the country
  such peaks may occur in the cold winter months. As a result, PPL's overall operating
  results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis, especially
  when more severe weather conditions such as heat waves or winter storms make
  such fluctuations more pronounced. The pattern of this fluctuation may change
  depending on the nature and location of the facilities PPL acquires and the
  terms of the contracts to sell electricity.

FINANCIAL CONDITION

See PPL's, PPL Energy Supply's and PPL Electric's Management's Discussion and
  Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for this information.

CAPITAL EXPENDITURE REQUIREMENTS

See "Financial Condition - Capital Expenditure Requirements" in PPL's, PPL
  Energy Supply's and PPL Electric's Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
  Condition and Results of Operations for information concerning estimated capital
  expenditure requirements for the years 2004-2008. See Note 14 to the Financial
  Statements for information concerning estimates of the costs to comply with
  various environmental regulations.

COMPETITION

The unregulated businesses and markets that PPL and its subsidiaries participate
  in are highly competitive. The electric industry has experienced an increase
  in the level of competition in the energy markets over the last several years
  due to federal and state deregulation initiatives.

In 1992, the Energy Act amended the PUHCA to create a new class of independent
  power producers, and amended the Federal Power Act to provide open access to
  electric transmission systems for wholesale transactions. In 1996, the Customer
  Choice Act was enacted in Pennsylvania to restructure the state's electric utility
  industry in order to create retail access to a competitive market for the generation
  of electricity. Certain other states in which PPL's subsidiaries operate have
  also adopted a "customer choice" plan to allow customers to choose their electricity
  supplier. Competitive factors affecting PPL's results of operations include
  energy and fuel prices, new market entrants, construction by others of generating
  assets, the actions of regulatory authorities and other factors. PPL cannot
  predict the impact of these and other competitive factors on its future results
  of operations or financial condition.

PPL and its subsidiaries believe that competition in deregulated energy markets
  will continue to be intense. In addition to deregulation, competitive pressures
  have resulted from technological advances in power generation and electronic
  communications and the greater efficiency of energy markets.

The wholesale power markets in which PPL Generation subsidiaries and PPL EnergyPlus
  operate are highly competitive. Competitors include regulated utilities, industrial
  companies, non-utility generators and unregulated subsidiaries of regulated
  utilities. Although PPL EnergyPlus has long-term supply agreements (see "Background
  - Supply Segment"), a substantial portion of PPL's future sales will be made
  into the competitive wholesale markets. Competition will occur principally on
  the basis of the price of products and, to a lesser extent, on the basis of
  reliability and availability.

PPL EnergyPlus also faces competition in the wholesale markets for energy capacity
  and ancillary services. As pricing information becomes increasingly available
  in the energy trading and marketing business and assuming deregulation in the
  electricity markets continues, PPL EnergyPlus anticipates that trading, marketing
  and risk management operations will experience greater competition. PPL EnergyPlus
  primarily competes with other energy merchants based on the ability to aggregate
  supplies at competitive prices from different sources and locations and to efficiently
  utilize transportation from third-party pipelines and transmission from electric
  utilities. Competitors may employ widely differing strategies in their fuel
  supply and power sales contracts with respect to pricing and other terms and
  conditions. PPL EnergyPlus also competes against other energy marketers on the
  basis of relative financial condition and access to credit sources.

Some restructured markets have recently experienced supply problems and price
  volatility. In a number of these markets, government agencies and other interested
  parties have made proposals to delay market restructuring or even re-regulate
  certain areas of these markets that have previously been deregulated. In California,
  legislation has been passed placing a moratorium on the sale of generation plants
  by public utilities regulated by the California Public Utilities Commission.
  In June 2001, the FERC instituted a series of price controls designed to mitigate
  (or cap) prices in the entire western U.S. to address the extreme volatility
  in the California energy markets. These price controls have contributed to the
  lowering of spot and forward energy prices in the western market. In addition,
  ISOs that oversee the transmission systems in certain wholesale power markets
  have from time to time been authorized to address volatility in power markets.
  These types of price limitations and other mechanisms may adversely impact the
  profitability of PPL's wholesale power marketing and trading business. Other
  proposals to institute price controls or to re-regulate the energy industry
  may be made, and legislative or other actions may cause the electric power restructuring
  process to be delayed, discontinued or reversed in the states in which PPL currently,
  or may in the future, operate. If the competitive restructuring of the wholesale
  and retail power markets is delayed, discontinued or reversed, PPL's business
  prospects and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.

See Note 14 to the Financial Statements for information on the FERC Proposed
  Rules entitled "Remedying Undue Discrimination through Open Access Transmission
  Service and Standard Electricity Market Design."

Pursuant to PPL Electric's authorizations from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania
  and the PUC, PPL Electric operates a regulated distribution monopoly in its
  service area. Accordingly, PPL Electric does not face competition in its distribution
  business. Although the majority of PPL Global's international electricity transmission
  and distribution companies operate in non-exclusive concession areas in their
  respective countries, these companies currently face little or no competition.
  See "Franchises and Licenses" for more information.

POWER SUPPLY

PPL Generation's system capacity (winter rating) at December 31, 2003
  was as follows:

The capacity of generating units is based upon a number of factors, including
  the operating experience and physical condition of the units, and may be revised
  periodically to reflect changed circumstances.

During 2003, PPL Generation's plants generated the following amounts of electricity:

Of this generation, 55% of the energy was generated by coal-fired stations,
  31% from nuclear operations at the Susquehanna station, 8% from hydroelectric
  stations and 6% from oil/gas-fired stations.

On average, approximately 80% of PPL's expected annual generation output for
  the period 2004 through 2008 is committed to meet:

PPL EnergyPlus' obligation under two contracts to provide electricity for
    PPL Electric to satisfy its PLR obligation under the Customer Choice Act;

PPL EnergyPlus' obligation under two contracts to provide electricity to
    NorthWestern through June 2007; and

Other contractual sales to other counterparties for terms of various lengths.

See Note 14 to the Financial Statements for more information regarding PPL's
  wholesale energy commitments and Note 15 for more information regarding the
  PLR contracts. These contractual arrangements are consistent with and are an
  integral part of PPL's overall business strategy, which includes the matching
  of PPL's anticipated energy supply with load, or customer demand, under long-term
  and intermediate-term contracts with creditworthy counterparties to capture
  profits while reducing PPL's exposure to movements in energy and fuel prices
  and counterparty credit risk.

FUEL SUPPLY

Coal

Pennsylvania

In 2001, a subsidiary of PPL Generation entered into a partnership with Iris
  Energy, LLC, an unrelated third party, to procure coal and facilitate the production
  of synthetic fuel. PPL Coal Supply began operations in mid-2001 and provides
  coal to PPL Generation power plants and to Iris Energy for the production of
  synthetic fuel. In 2003, synthetic fuel from Iris Energy provided 59% of the
  fuel requirements of PPL Generation's Pennsylvania stations. The balance of
  the requirements was met by coal provided by PPL Coal Supply. PPL Coal Supply
  actively manages its supply base principally in central Appalachia and western
  and central Pennsylvania.

During 2003, about 92% of the coal delivered to PPL Generation's Pennsylvania
  stations was purchased under long-term contracts and 8% was obtained through
  open market purchases. These contracts provided PPL Generation with about 6.8
  million tons of coal. Contracts currently in place are expected to provide approximately
  7.4 million tons in 2004. At December 31, 2003, Pennsylvania plants had sufficient
  supply for about 33 days of operations. The amount of coal in inventory varies
  from time-to-time depending on market conditions and plant operations.

At December 31, 2003, a PPL Generation subsidiary owned a 12.34% undivided
  interest in the Keystone station and a 16.25% aggregate interest in the Conemaugh
  station. The owners of the Keystone station have a long-term contract with a
  synthetic fuel supplier to provide a minimum of 3.0 million tons in 2004. In
  addition, the Keystone station contracts with Keystone Fuels, LLC for the balance
  of its requirements. The owners of the Conemaugh station have a long-term contract
  with a synthetic fuel supplier to provide a minimum of 2.4 million tons in 2004.
  The balance of the Conemaugh station requirements is purchased under contract
  from Conemaugh Fuels, LLC.

Montana

PPL Montana has a 50% leasehold interest in Colstrip Units 1 and 2, and a 30%
  leasehold interest in Unit 3. PPL Montana is party to contracts to purchase
  coal from a neighboring mine with defined quality characteristics and specifications.
  The coal purchase contract for Units 1 and 2 is in effect through December 31,
  2009. The coal purchase contract for Unit 3 is in effect through December 31,
  2019.

PPL Montana owns the Corette power plant. The plant has coal purchase contracts
  to purchase low sulfur coal with defined quality characteristics and specifications.
  The contracts supplied 100% of the plant coal requirements and expired at the
  end of 2003. Similar contracts are currently in place to supply 100% of the
  expected coal requirements for 2004.

Oil and Natural Gas

PPL Generation's Martins Creek Units 3 and 4 burn both oil and natural gas.
  PPL EnergyPlus, the marketing and trading subsidiary of PPL, is responsible
  for procuring the oil and natural gas supply for all PPL Generation operations.
  During 2003, 100% of the oil requirements for the Martins Creek units were purchased
  on the spot market. As of December 31, 2003, PPL EnergyPlus had no long-term
  agreements for these requirements.

PPL EnergyPlus has a long-term pipeline capacity contract for delivery of gas
  supply representing approximately 10% of the maximum requirements of the Sundance
  facility, but has no long-term supply agreement to purchase natural gas. As
  of December 31, 2003, there were no long-term delivery or supply agreements
  to purchase natural gas for University Park.

PPL EnergyPlus has a long-term contract for approximately 40% of the expected
  pipeline transportation requirements of the Wallingford facility, but has no
  long-term supply agreement to purchase natural gas. Likewise, PPL EnergyPlus
  has long-term pipeline transportation contracts in place for the Griffith Energy
  facility equaling 100% of the expected requirements.

In 2003, PPL EnergyPlus began supplying natural gas for the testing process
  for the Lower Mt. Bethel project. PPL EnergyPlus has two gas transportation
  contracts in place for approximately 30% of the maximum daily requirements of
  the plant. These contracts expire in September 2008 and 2013.

PPL EnergyPlus employs a strategy of procuring natural gas in conjunction with
  electricity sales commitments.

Nuclear

PPL Susquehanna has in effect uranium supply and conversion agreements that
  satisfied 100% of its uranium requirements in 2003 and, including options, will
  satisfy approximately 25% of its requirements for the period 2004-2007. Deliveries
  under these agreements are expected to provide sufficient uranium to permit
  Unit 1 to operate into the first quarter of 2006 and Unit 2 to operate into
  the first quarter of 2005.

PPL Susquehanna has executed an agreement that satisfies all of its enrichment
  requirements through 2008. Assuming that the other uranium components of the
  nuclear fuel cycle are satisfied, deliveries under this agreement are expected
  to provide sufficient enrichment to permit Unit 1 to operate into the first
  quarter of 2010 and Unit 2 to operate into the first quarter of 2011.

PPL Susquehanna has entered into an agreement that, including options, satisfies
  all of its fabrication requirements through 2006. Assuming that the uranium
  and other components of the nuclear fuel cycle are satisfied, deliveries under
  this agreement can provide sufficient fabrication to permit Unit 1 to operate
  into the first quarter of 2008 and Unit 2 to operate into the first quarter
  of 2007.

Federal law requires the federal government to provide for the permanent disposal
  of commercial spent nuclear fuel. Under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act (NWPA),
  the DOE initiated an analysis of a site in Nevada for a permanent nuclear waste
  repository. DOE does not expect the repository to be operational before 2010.
  As a result, it was necessary to expand Susquehanna's on-site spent fuel storage
  capacity. To support this expansion, PPL Susquehanna contracted for the design
  and construction of a spent fuel storage facility employing dry cask fuel storage
  technology. The facility is modular, so that additional storage capacity can
  be added as needed. The facility began receiving spent nuclear fuel in 1999.
  PPL Susquehanna estimates that there is sufficient storage capacity in the spent
  nuclear fuel pools and the on-site spent fuel storage facility at Susquehanna
  to accommodate spent fuel discharged through approximately 2017, under current
  operating conditions. If necessary, the on-site spent fuel storage facility
  can be expanded, assuming appropriate regulatory approvals are obtained, such
  that, together, the spent fuel pools and the expanded dry fuel storage facility
  will accommodate all of the spent fuel expected to be discharged through the
  current life of the plant.

In 2002, President Bush approved the Congressional override of a veto by the
  State of Nevada, designating Yucca Mountain, Nevada as the site for development
  of a long-term repository for high-level radioactive waste. The next step is
  for the DOE to submit a license application to the NRC to build and then operate
  the Yucca Mountain repository.

In 1996, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruled
  that the NWPA imposed on DOE an unconditional obligation to begin accepting
  spent nuclear fuel on or before January 31, 1998. In 1997, the Court ruled that
  the contracts between the utilities and the DOE provide a potentially adequate
  remedy if the DOE failed to begin disposal of spent nuclear fuel by January
  31, 1998. The DOE did not, in fact, begin to dispose of spent nuclear fuel on
  that date. The DOE continues to contest claims that its failures resulted in
  recoverable damages. On January 22, 2004, PPL Susquehanna filed suit in the
  U.S. Court of Federal Claims for unspecified damages suffered as a result of
  the DOE's breach of its contract to accept and dispose of spent nuclear fuel.
  PPL cannot predict the outcome of this dispute.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

Certain PPL subsidiaries, including PPL Electric and PPL Generation subsidiaries,
  are subject to certain present and developing federal, regional, state and local
  laws and regulations with respect to air and water quality, land use and other
  environmental matters. See PPL's and PPL Energy Supply's "Financial Condition
  - Capital Expenditure Requirements" in Management's Discussion and Analysis
  of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for information concerning
  environmental expenditures during 2003 and their estimate of those expenditures
  during the years 2004-2008. PPL believes that its subsidiaries are in substantial
  compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations.

See "Environmental Matters" in Note 14 to the Financial Statements for information
  concerning federal clean air legislation, groundwater degradation and waste
  water control at facilities owned by PPL's subsidiaries and PPL Electric's and
  PPL Gas Utilities' agreements with the Pennsylvania DEP concerning remediation
  at certain sites. Other environmental laws, regulations and developments that
  may have a substantial impact on PPL's subsidiaries are discussed below.

Air

The Clean Air Act includes, among other things, provisions that: (a) restrict
  the construction of, and revise the performance standards for, new and substantially
  modified coal-fired and oil-fired generating stations; and (b) authorize the
  EPA to impose substantial noncompliance penalties of up to $27,500 per day of
  violation for each facility found to be in violation of the requirements of
  an applicable state implementation plan. The state agencies administer the EPA's
  air quality regulations through the state implementation plans and have concurrent
  authority to impose penalties for non-compliance.

In 1997, international negotiators reached agreement in Kyoto, Japan to strengthen
  the 1992 United Nations Global Climate Change Treaty by adding legally-binding
  greenhouse gas emission limits. This agreement, the Kyoto Protocol, would require
  the U.S. to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions to 7% below 1990 levels by 2008
  through 2012. Although the Kyoto Protocol is unlikely to be ratified by the
  U.S., the electricity generating industry has committed to certain voluntary
  reductions in carbon dioxide. Some form of carbon dioxide reductions will likely
  be required in the future. Such requirements could result in increased capital
  and operating expenses which are not now determinable, but which could be significant.

Water

To implement the requirements of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of
  1972, as amended by the Clean Water Act of 1977 and the Water Quality Act of
  1987, the EPA has adopted regulations on effluent standards for steam electric
  stations. The states administer the EPA's effluent standards through state laws
  and regulations relating to, among other things, effluent discharges and water
  quality. The standards adopted by the EPA pursuant to the Clean Water Act may
  have a significant impact on existing facilities of certain PPL subsidiaries,
  depending on the states' interpretation and future amendments to regulations.

Pursuant to the Surface Mining and Reclamation Act of 1977, the Office of Surface
  Mining (OSM) has adopted effluent guidelines which are applicable to PPL subsidiaries
  as a result of their past coal mining and coal processing activities. The EPA
  and the OSM limitations, guidelines and standards also are enforced through
  the issuance of NPDES permits. In accordance with the provisions of the Clean
  Water Act and the Reclamation Act of 1977, the EPA and the OSM have authorized
  the states to implement the NPDES program. Compliance with applicable water
  quality standards is assured by state imposition of NPDES permit conditions
  and requirements to address acid mine drainage.

Solid and Hazardous Waste

The provisions of Superfund authorize the EPA to require past and present owners
  of contaminated sites and generators of any hazardous substance found at a site
  to clean-up the site or pay the EPA or the state for the costs of clean-up.
  The generators and past owners can be liable even if the generator contributed
  only a minute portion of the hazardous substances at the site. Present owners
  can be liable even if they contributed no hazardous substances to the site.

State laws such as the Pennsylvania and Montana Superfund statutes also give
  state agencies broad authority to identify hazardous or contaminated sites and
  to order owners or responsible parties to clean-up the sites. If responsible
  parties cannot or will not perform the clean-up, the agency can hire contractors
  to clean-up the sites and then require reimbursement from the responsible parties
  after the clean-up is completed. Another Pennsylvania statute, the Industrial
  Sites Recycling Act, encourages voluntary clean-ups by allowing responsible
  parties to choose from a menu of clean-up standards and providing liability
  protection commensurate with the clean-up standard chosen.

Certain federal and state statutes, including federal and state Superfund statutes,
  also impose liability on the responsible parties for the lost value of damaged
  natural resources.

Low-Level Radioactive Waste

Under federal law, each state is responsible for the disposal of low-level
  radioactive waste generated in that state. States may join in regional compacts
  to jointly fulfill their responsibilities. The states of Pennsylvania, Maryland,
  Delaware and West Virginia are members of the Appalachian States Low-Level Radioactive
  Waste Compact. Efforts to develop a regional disposal facility in Pennsylvania
  were suspended by the Pennsylvania DEP in 1998. The Commonwealth retains the
  legal authority and may be required to resume the siting process should it be
  necessary. Low-level radioactive waste resulting from the operation of the Susquehanna
  facility is currently being sent to Barnwell, South Carolina and Clive, Utah
  for disposal. In the event this or other emergent disposal options become unavailable
  or no longer cost-effective, the low-level radioactive waste will be stored
  on-site at Susquehanna. PPL Susquehanna cannot predict the future availability
  of low-level waste disposal facilities or the cost of such disposal.

Asbestos

There have been increasing litigation claims throughout the U.S. based on exposure
  to asbestos against companies that manufacture or distribute asbestos products
  or that have these products on their premises. Certain of PPL's generation subsidiaries
  and certain of its energy services subsidiaries, such as those that have supplied,
  may have supplied or installed asbestos material in connection with the repair
  or installation of heating, ventilating and air conditioning systems, have been
  named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits. PPL cannot predict the outcome
  of these lawsuits or whether additional claims may be asserted against its subsidiaries
  in the future. PPL does not expect that the ultimate resolution of the current
  lawsuits will have a material adverse effect on its financial condition.

Electric and Magnetic Fields

Concerns have been expressed by some members of the public regarding the potential
  health effects of EMFs. These fields are emitted by all devices carrying electricity,
  including electric transmission and distribution lines and substation equipment.
  Government officials in the U.S. and the U.K. have focused attention on this
  issue. PPL and its subsidiaries support the current efforts to determine whether
  EMFs cause any human health problems and are taking steps to reduce EMFs, where
  practical, in the design of new transmission and distribution facilities. PPL
  is unable to predict what effect, if any, the EMF issue might have on its operations
  and facilities either in the U.S. or abroad, and the associated cost, or what,
  if any, liabilities it might incur related to the EMF issue.

General

PPL and its subsidiaries are unable to predict the ultimate effect of evolving
  environmental laws and regulations upon their existing and proposed facilities
  and operations. In complying with statutes, regulations and actions by regulatory
  bodies involving environmental matters, including the areas of water and air
  quality, hazardous and solid waste handling and disposal and toxic substances,
  PPL's subsidiaries may be required to modify, replace or cease operating certain
  of their facilities. PPL's subsidiaries may also incur significant capital expenditures
  and operating expenses in amounts which are not now determinable, but which
  could be significant.

FRANCHISES AND LICENSES

PPL Electric is authorized to provide electric public utility service throughout
  its service area as a result of grants by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in
  corporate charters to PPL Electric and companies to which it has succeeded and
  as a result of certification by the PUC. PPL Electric is granted the right to
  enter the streets and highways by the Commonwealth subject to certain conditions.
  In general, such conditions have been met by ordinance, resolution, permit,
  acquiescence or other action by an appropriate local political subdivision or
  agency of the Commonwealth.

See "Background - Supply Segment" for a discussion of PPL EnergyPlus' licenses
  in various states. PPL EnergyPlus also has an export license from the DOE to
  sell capacity and/or energy to electric utilities in Canada.

PPL Susquehanna operates Units 1 and 2 pursuant to NRC operating licenses which
  expire in 2022 and 2024, respectively. In November 2001, PPL Susquehanna notified
  the NRC that it intends to seek extensions of its operating licenses. The application
  for this extension will most likely be made in 2006 or 2007, in accordance with
  NRC guidelines. If the NRC approves PPL Susquehanna's application, the operating
  licenses for Units 1 and 2 would each be extended for an additional 20 years,
  to 2042 and 2044, respectively.

PPL Holtwood operates the Wallenpaupack and Holtwood hydroelectric projects
  pursuant to licenses renewed by the FERC in 1980. The Wallenpaupack license
  expires in 2004 and the Holtwood license expires in 2014. PPL Holtwood also
  owns one-third of the capital stock of Safe Harbor Water Power Corporation (Safe
  Harbor), which holds a project license which extends the operation of its hydroelectric
  plant until 2030. The total capacity of the Safe Harbor plant is 418 MW, and
  PPL Holtwood is entitled by contract to one-third of the total capacity.

The 11 hydroelectric facilities and one storage reservoir purchased from Montana
  Power in 1999 are licensed by the FERC. These licenses expire periodically,
  and the generating facilities must be relicensed at such times. The FERC license
  for the Mystic facility expires in 2009; the Thompson Falls and Kerr licenses
  expire in 2025 and 2035, respectively, and the licenses for the nine Missouri-Madison
  facilities expire in 2040.

PPL Holtwood is working to have the Wallenpaupack facility relicensed, and
  PPL Montana is working to have the Mystic facility relicensed. Under applicable
  law, FERC may relicense the original licensee or may license a new licensee,
  or the U.S. government may take over the project. If the original licensee is
  not relicensed, it is compensated for its net investment in the project, not
  to exceed the fair value of the property taken, plus reasonable damages to other
  property affected by the lack of relicensing.

PPL Global's international electricity transmission and distribution companies
  are authorized by the governments of their respective countries to provide electric
  distribution services within their concession areas and service territories,
  subject to certain conditions and obligations. For instance, each of these companies
  is subject to governmental regulation on the prices that it can charge and the
  quality of supply it must provide, and the companies can be fined if they do
  not meet the mandated quality of supply.

WPD operates under distribution licenses granted, and price controls set, by
  Great Britain's Gas and Electricity Markets Authority. The price control formula
  that governs WPD's allowed revenue is normally determined every five years with
  the next review to be completed by the end of 2004, and effective April 1, 2005.
  Absent WPD's breach or default under its distribution licenses, the regulator
  must provide 25-years notice before the licenses may be revoked. See Note 14
  for more information regarding certain U.K. electricity regulations.

Emel is subject to regulated maximum tariffs set by Chile's National Energy
  Commission. The components of the distribution tariffs are an energy price,
  a transmission surcharge and the value added on account of distribution costs
  (VAD). The VAD includes a targeted return on invested capital of 10% per year.
  The energy price is a direct pass-through to regulated customers of the energy
  charge that Emel pays to the generation companies. The tariffs are calculated
  every four years, with the next tariff review to be completed by the end of
  2004 and effective beginning 2005. Absent Emel's breach or default of its regulated
  obligations, Emel's distribution rights within its concession area are perpetual.

DelSur is subject to regulated maximum tariffs set by El Salvador's Superintendencia
  General de Electricidad y Telecomunicaciones. The three components of the distribution
  tariff are an energy price, a commercialization charge and a distribution charge.
  DelSur's tariff specifies the energy price as a trailing six-month average of
  the spot market price. The tariffs are calculated every 5 years and are adjusted
  for inflation on January 1 of each year. The next comprehensive tariff review
  will take place in 2007 and be effective in 2008. Absent DelSur's breach or
  default of its regulated obligations, DelSur's distribution rights within its
  service territory are perpetual.

Elfec is subject to regulated maximum tariffs set by Bolivia's Superintendent
  of Electricity. Tariffs are calculated every four years based on the trailing
  three-year average of the equity returns from companies listed in the Dow Jones
  Utility Index. Tariffs are adjusted on a monthly basis for local inflation and
  every six months to reflect any changes in the energy node prices, which is
  a pass-through to regulated customers of the energy charge that Elfec pays to
  generation companies. The tariffs are calculated every four years. The latest
  tariff review was completed in January 2004 and is effective beginning 2004.
  Absent Elfec's breach or default of its regulated obligations, Elfec's distribution
  rights within its concession area are perpetual.

EMPLOYEE RELATIONS

As of December 31, 2003, PPL and its subsidiaries had the following full-time
  employees:

(a)

Includes 458 PPL Montana employees.

(b)

Includes union employees of mechanical contracting
        subsidiaries, which tend to fluctuate due to the nature of their business.

(c)

Includes employees of WPD and PPL Global's
        consolidated subsidiaries in Latin America.

Approximately 60%, or 4,958, of PPL's domestic workforce are members of labor
  unions, with four IBEW locals representing 3,425 employees. The other unions
  primarily represent employees of the mechanical contractors and gas utility
  employees in Pennsylvania. The bargaining agreement with the largest union was
  negotiated in May 2002 and expires in May 2006. Eight four-year contracts with
  smaller gas utility locals in Pennsylvania were negotiated in 2003. Also in
  2001, three- and four-year contracts were concluded with two IBEW locals in
  Montana that represent 300 and 48 employees, respectively. The three-year contract
  expires in April 2004, and PPL Montana currently is negotiating with the IBEW
  Local regarding a new contract. The other IBEW contract expires in April 2005.
  PPL Montana negotiated a five-year agreement with the Teamsters Union in 2002
  that expires in September 2006.

Approximately 79%, or 3,115, of PPL's international workforce are members of
  labor unions. WPD represents the majority of the international workforce. WPD
  recognizes five unions, the largest of which represents 38% of union members.
  WPD has two employment agreements which are negotiated with the unions. The
  Electricity Business Agreement covers 2,392 employees; it may be amended by
  agreement between WPD and the unions and is terminable with 12 months notice
  by either side. The other employment agreement, called the Meter Reading Services
  Handbook of Agreements, covers 54 employees; it may be amended by agreement
  between WPD and the unions and is terminable by written notice by either side.

PPL's Latin American subsidiaries have 941 union employees that are represented
  by 12 unions in 14 companies located in three countries. Several employees of
  Emel and its five distribution companies belong to ten unions, one of which
  negotiated a new, three-year agreement during 2003 and the remaining nine unions
  have agreements in place until May 2006. DelSur is currently negotiating with
  its one union and is expected to reach an agreement in early 2004 that will
  remain in force for three years. Union employees of Elfec and Integra are not
  covered by a collective bargaining agreement, but instead informally negotiate
  adjustments to their benefits with management each year. The agreement covering
  2004 is expected to be settled during March 2004.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

PPL's Internet Web site is www.pplweb.com.
  On the Investor Center page of that Web site, PPL provides access to all SEC
  filings of PPL registrants free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable
  after filing with the SEC. Additionally, PPL registrants' filings are available
  at the SEC's Web site (www.sec.gov) and at
  the SEC's Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, DC 20549,
  or by calling 1-800-SEC-0330.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

Domestic Generation

For a description of PPL's domestic generation portfolio, see Item 1, "Business
  - Power Supply."

Domestic Generation Under Development

PPL Generation had the following domestic generation development projects in
  progress at December 31, 2003:

PPL continually reexamines development projects based on market conditions
  and other factors to determine whether to proceed with these projects, sell
  them, expand them, execute tolling agreements or pursue other opportunities.

Domestic Delivery

Electric

For a description of PPL Electric's service territory, see Item 1, "Business
  - Background." At December 31, 2003, PPL Electric had electric transmission
  and distribution lines in public streets and highways pursuant to franchises
  and rights-of-way secured from property owners. PPL Electric's system included
  379 substations with a total capacity of 25.6 million kVA, 32,797 circuit miles
  of overhead lines and 6,334 cable miles of underground conductors. All of PPL
  Electric's facilities are located in Pennsylvania. Substantially all of PPL
  Electric's transmission and distribution properties are subject to the lien
  of PPL Electric's 1945 First Mortgage Bond Indenture and its 2001 Senior Secured
  Bond Indenture.

Gas

PPL Gas Utilities has two natural gas distribution subsidiaries - PFG Gas,
  Inc., which distributes gas to customers in southeastern and central Pennsylvania
  and parts of Maryland, and North Penn Gas Company, which serves customers in
  the northern part of Pennsylvania. North Penn Gas Company also has natural gas
  storage facilities in Pennsylvania. As of December 31, 2003, PFG Gas, Inc. had
  approximately 40,500 customers and 1,173 miles of pipeline mains, with 14 miles
  in Maryland and the remainder in Pennsylvania. North Penn Gas Company had approximately
  35,500 customers and 2,714 miles of pipeline mains in Pennsylvania.

International Delivery

PPL Global has consolidated investments in electricity distribution companies,
  serving approximately 3.5 million customers in Latin America and the U.K., as
  follows:

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

See Item 1, "Business - Fuel Supply," for information concerning a lawsuit
  against the DOE for failure of that agency to perform certain contractual obligations.
  See "Environmental Matters" in Note 14 to the Financial Statements for information
  concerning certain environmental matters.

Tax Assessment Appeals

Pursuant to changes in PURTA enacted in 1999, PPL subsidiaries have filed a
  number of tax assessment appeals in various Pennsylvania counties where PPL
  facilities are located. These appeals challenge existing local tax assessments,
  which now comprise the basis for payment of the PURTA tax on PPL's properties.
  Also, as of January 1, 2000, generation facilities are no longer taxed
  under PURTA, and these local assessments will be used directly to determine
  local real estate tax liability for PPL's power plants. In July 1999, PPL filed
  retroactive appeals for tax years 1998 and 1999, as permitted by the new law.
  In addition, PPL has filed appeals for 2000 and beyond, as permitted under normal
  assessment procedures. It is anticipated that assessment appeals may now be
  an annual occurrence.

Hearings on the pending appeals were held by the boards of assessment appeals
  in each county, and decisions have now been rendered by all counties. To the
  extent the appeals were denied or PPL was not otherwise satisfied with the results,
  PPL filed further appeals from the board decisions with the appropriate county
  Courts of Common Pleas.

Of the two pending proceedings in Pennsylvania, only the appeal concerning
  the assessed value of the Susquehanna nuclear station will result in annual
  local taxes exceeding $1 million. PPL's appeal of the Susquehanna station assessment
  was decided in its favor by the Luzerne County Court of Common Pleas, and PPL
  subsequently settled with the local taxing authorities, resulting in annual
  local tax liability of approximately $3 million for tax years 2000 and beyond
  and no additional PURTA tax liability for tax years 1998 and 1999. However,
  the settlement of the tax liability for tax years 1998 and 1999 was subject
  to the outcome of claims asserted by certain intervenors which are described
  below.

In August 2000, over PPL's objections, the Luzerne County Court of Common Pleas
  permitted Philadelphia City and County, the Philadelphia School District and
  the Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority (SEPTA) (collectively,
  the "Philadelphia parties") to intervene in the case because a change in the
  assessment of the plant affected the amount they collected under PURTA for the
  tax years 1998 and 1999. Based on the appraisal obtained by the Philadelphia
  parties, PPL would have been required to pay up to an extra $213 million in
  PURTA taxes for 1998 and 1999. The court ruled in PPL's favor concerning the
  assessed value of the plant, and this determination was affirmed by the Commonwealth
  Court in October 2003. The Philadelphia parties subsequently petitioned the
  Commonwealth Court for reargument, and this request was denied. The Philadelphia
  parties did not seek further appellate review of this matter.

PPL Montana is currently protesting certain property tax assessments by the
  Montana Department of Revenue (MDOR) on its generation facilities. The tax liabilities
  in dispute are approximately $2 million for 2000 and 2001, $9 million for 2002
  and $6 million for 2003. PPL Montana's dispute with respect to most of the 2002
  and 2003 tax liability is based on the assessed value used by the MDOR for PPL
  Montana's hydroelectric facilities versus the assessed value used for the facilities
  of another hydroelectric generator in the state. The state tax appeals board
  is scheduled to hear the 2000 and 2001 disputes in April 2004, while the hearing
  for the 2002 dispute is scheduled for May 2004. A hearing for the 2003 dispute
  has not yet been scheduled.

NorthWestern Corporation Litigation

In connection with the acquisition of the Montana generation assets, the Montana
  Power APA, which was previously assigned to PPL Montana by PPL Global, includes
  a provision concerning the proposed purchase by PPL Montana of a portion of
  NorthWestern's interest in the 500-kilovolt Colstrip Transmission System (CTS)
  for $97 million. During 2002, PPL Montana had been in discussions with NorthWestern
  regarding the proposed purchase of the CTS and the claims that PPL Montana believes
  it has against NorthWestern arising from the Montana Power APA and related agreements.
  Notwithstanding such discussions, in September 2002, NorthWestern filed a lawsuit
  against PPL Montana in Montana state court seeking specific performance of PPL
  Montana's purchase of the CTS or, alternatively, damages for breach of contract.
  Pursuant to PPL Montana's application, the matter was removed to the U.S. District
  Court of Montana, Butte Division. Following removal, NorthWestern asserted additional
  claims for damages against PPL Montana, and PPL Montana filed defenses denying
  liability for NorthWestern's claims as well as counterclaims against NorthWestern
  seeking damages PPL Montana believes it has suffered under the Montana Power
  APA and related agreements. This matter currently is scheduled for trial in
  the Montana federal district court in mid-2005.

In September 2003, NorthWestern filed a petition in Delaware for reorganization
  under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, which has resulted in an automatic stay of PPL
  Montana's counterclaims against NorthWestern. PPL Montana has applied to the
  bankruptcy court for relief from the automatic stay. In December 2003, NorthWestern
  filed a motion to transfer this litigation from the Montana federal district
  court to the federal district court in Delaware where NorthWestern's bankruptcy
  proceeding is pending. PPL Montana has opposed the motion for transfer, which
  will be decided by the Montana federal district court. NorthWestern and PPL
  Montana also have stipulated in NorthWestern's bankruptcy proceeding that the
  automatic stay of PPL Montana's counterclaims will be lifted ten days after
  the Montana federal district court rules on the transfer motion. PPL, PPL Energy
  Supply and PPL Montana cannot predict the outcome of this litigation.

Montana Hydroelectric Litigation

In October 2003, a lawsuit was filed against PPL Montana, PPL Services, Avista
  Corporation, PacifiCorp and nine John Doe defendants in the U.S. District Court
  of Montana, Missoula Division, by two residents allegedly acting in a representative
  capacity on behalf of the State of Montana. In January 2004, the complaint was
  amended to, among other things, include the Great Falls school district as additional
  plaintiffs. The action seeks a declaratory judgment, compensatory damages for
  unjust enrichment, trespass and negligence, and attorneys fees on a "private
  attorney general" theory for use of state and/or "school trust" lands without
  the compensation required by law and to require defendants to adequately compensate
  the state and/or the State School Trust fund for full market value of lands
  occupied. Generally, the suit is founded on allegations that the bed of navigable
  rivers is state-owned property following admission to statehood, and that the
  use thereof for placement of dam structures, affiliated structures and reservoirs
  should trigger lease payments for use of land underneath. The plaintiffs allege
  that the State Land Board and Department of Natural Resources and Conservation
  failed to exercise their duty to administer riverbeds for the maximum benefit
  of public education and/or the state. No specific amount of damages has been
  claimed. PPL Montana and PPL Services cannot predict the outcome of this litigation.

California ISO and Western Markets

Through its subsidiaries, PPL has made approximately $18 million of sales to
  the California ISO, of which $17 million has not been paid to PPL subsidiaries.
  Given the myriad of electricity supply problems faced by the California electric
  utilities and the California ISO, PPL cannot predict whether or when it will
  receive payment. As of December 31, 2003, PPL has fully reserved for
  possible underrecoveries of payments for these sales.

Regulatory proceedings arising out of the California electricity supply situation
  have been filed at the FERC. The FERC has determined that all sellers of energy
  into markets operated by the California ISO and the California Power Exchange,
  including PPL Montana, should be subject to refund liability for the period
  beginning October 2, 2000 through June 20, 2001 and initiated an evidentiary
  hearing concerning refund amounts. In April 2003, the FERC changed the manner
  in which this refund liability is to be computed and ordered further proceedings
  to determine the exact amounts that the sellers, including PPL Montana, would
  be required to refund.

In June 2003, the FERC took several actions as a result of a number of related
  investigations. The FERC terminated proceedings pursuant to which it had been
  considering whether to order refunds for spot market bilateral sales made in
  the Pacific Northwest, including sales made by PPL Montana, during the period
  December 2000 through June 2001. The FERC explained that the totality of the
  circumstances made refunds unfeasible and inequitable, and that it had provided
  adequate relief by adopting a price cap throughout the western U.S. The FERC
  also denied pending complaints against long-term contracts in the western U.S.
  In these complaints, various power buyers challenged selected long-term contracts
  that they entered into during 2000 and 2001, complaining that the power prices
  were too high and reflected manipulation of those energy markets. The FERC found
  that the complainants had not met their burden of showing that changing or canceling
  the contracts was "in the public interest" and that the dysfunction in the California
  markets did not justify changing these long-term contracts. In two separate
  orders, the FERC also ordered 65 different companies, agencies or municipalities
  to show cause why they should not be ordered to disgorge profits for "gaming"
  or anomalous market behavior during 2000 and 2001. These orders to show cause
  address both unilateral and joint conduct identified as the "Enron trading strategies."
  Neither PPL EnergyPlus nor PPL Montana was included in these orders to show
  cause, and they previously have explained in responses to data requests from
  the FERC that they have not engaged in such trading strategies. Finally, the
  FERC issued a new investigation order directing its staff to investigate any
  bids made into the California markets in excess of $250/MWh during the period
  from May 2000 to October 2000, a period of time prior to the period examined
  in connection with most of the proceedings described above. To their knowledge,
  neither PPL EnergyPlus nor PPL Montana is being investigated by the FERC under
  this new order.

Litigation arising out of the California electricity supply situation has been
  filed in California courts against sellers of energy to the California ISO.
  The plaintiffs and intervenors in these legal proceedings allege, among other
  things, abuse of market power, manipulation of market prices, unfair trade practices
  and violations of state antitrust laws, and seek other relief, including treble
  damages and attorneys' fees. While PPL's subsidiaries have not been named by
  the plaintiffs in these legal proceedings alleging abuses of market power, manipulation
  of market prices, unfair trade practices and violations of state antitrust laws,
  PPL Montana was named by a defendant in its cross-complaint in a consolidated
  court proceeding, which combined into one master proceeding several of the lawsuits
  alleging antitrust violations and unfair trade practices. This generator denies
  that any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent conduct occurred but asserts that, if
  it is found liable, the other generators and power marketers, including PPL
  Montana, caused, contributed to and/or participated in the plaintiffs' alleged
  losses.

In May 2003, the Port of Seattle filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court
  for the Western District of Washington against eighteen defendants, including
  PPL Montana. The lawsuit asserts claims against all defendants under the federal
  and state antitrust laws, the federal Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations
  Act and for common law fraud. The complaint centers on many of the same alleged
  activities that are the basis for the litigation arising out of the California
  electricity supply situation described above. The Port of Seattle is seeking
  actual, trebled and punitive damages, as well as attorneys' fees. PPL Montana
  and several other defendants have filed a motion to dismiss this complaint that
  has not been ruled on by the court. In December 2003, this matter was transferred
  to the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of California for inclusion
  with proceedings already centralized and pending in that court.

In February 2004, the Montana Public Service Commission initiated a limited
  investigation of the Montana retail electricity market for the years 2000 and
  2001, focusing on how that market was affected by transactions involving the
  possible manipulation of the electricity grid in the western U.S. The investigation
  includes all public utilities and licensed electricity suppliers in Montana,
  as well as other entities that may possess relevant information. Through its
  subsidiaries, PPL is a licensed electricity supplier in Montana and a wholesale
  supplier in the western U.S. As with the other investigations taking place as
  a result of the issues arising out of the electricity supply situation in California
  and other western states, PPL and its subsidiaries believe that they have not
  engaged in any improper trading or marketing practices affecting the Montana
  retail electricity market.

While PPL and its subsidiaries believe that they have not engaged in any improper
  trading practices, they cannot predict whether, or the extent to which, any
  PPL subsidiaries will be the target of any additional governmental investigations
  or named in other lawsuits or refund proceedings, the outcome of any such lawsuits
  or proceedings or whether the ultimate impact on them of the electricity supply
  situation in California and other western states will be material.

New England Investigation

In January 2004, PPL became aware of an investigation by the Connecticut Attorney
  General and the FERC's Office of Market Oversight and Investigation (OMOI) regarding
  allegations that natural gas-fired generators located in New England illegally
  sold natural gas instead of generating electricity during the week of January
  12, 2004. Subsequently, PPL and other generators were served with a data request
  by OMOI. The data request indicated that PPL was not under suspicion of a regulatory
  violation but that OMOI was conducting an initial investigation. PPL has responded
  to this data request. While PPL does not believe that it committed any regulatory
  or other violations concerning the subject matter of the investigation, PPL
  cannot predict the outcome of the investigation.

Montana Power Shareholders' Litigation

In August 2001, a purported class-action lawsuit was filed by a group of shareholders
  of Montana Power against Montana Power, the directors of Montana Power, certain
  advisors and consultants of Montana Power and PPL Montana. The plaintiffs allege,
  among other things, that Montana Power was required to, and did not, obtain
  shareholder approval of the sale of Montana Power's generation assets to PPL
  Montana in 1999. Although most of the claims in the complaint are against Montana
  Power, its board of directors, and its consultants and advisors, two claims
  are asserted against PPL Montana. In the first claim, plaintiffs seek a declaration
  that because Montana Power shareholders did not vote on the 1999 sale of generating
  assets to PPL Montana, that sale "was null and void ab initio." The second claim
  alleges that PPL Montana was privy to and participated in a strategy whereby
  Montana Power would sell its generation assets to PPL Montana without first
  obtaining Montana Power shareholder approval, and that PPL Montana has made
  net profits in excess of $100 million as the result of this alleged illegal
  sale. In the second claim, plaintiffs request that the court impose a "resulting
  and/or constructive trust" on both the generation assets themselves and all
  profits, plus interest on the amounts subject to the trust. This lawsuit is
  currently pending in the U.S. District Court of Montana, Butte Division. PPL,
  PPL Energy Supply and PPL Montana cannot predict the outcome of this matter.

PJM Capacity Transactions

In November 2001, the PJM Market Monitor publicly released a report prepared
  for the PUC entitled "Capacity Market Questions" relating to the pricing of
  installed capacity in the PJM daily market during the first quarter of 2001.
  The report concluded that PPL EnergyPlus (identified in the report as "Entity
  1") was able to exercise market power to raise the market-clearing price above
  the competitive level during that period. PPL EnergyPlus does not agree with
  the Market Monitor's conclusions that it exercised market power, and the Market
  Monitor acknowledged in his report that PJM's standards and rules did not prohibit
  PPL EnergyPlus' conduct. In November 2001, the PUC issued an Investigation Order
  directing its Law Bureau to conduct an investigation into the PJM capacity market
  and the allegations in the Market Monitor's report. In June 2002, the PUC issued
  an investigation report alleging, among other things, that PPL had unfairly
  manipulated electricity markets in early 2001. The PUC stated that it was not
  authorized to, and was not attempting to, adjudicate the merits of PPL's defenses
  to its allegations, but referred the matter to the U.S. Department of Justice
  - Antitrust Division (DOJ), the FERC and the Pennsylvania Attorney General.

In June 2003, the DOJ notified PPL that it had closed its investigation in
  this matter. Also in June, the Pennsylvania Attorney General's office completed
  its investigation and notified the PUC that PPL did not violate antitrust or
  other laws in its capacity market activities. The FERC already has completed
  two investigations related to these capacity market questions and has found
  no reason to take action against PPL. PPL continues to believe that the PUC's
  report is inaccurate, that its conclusions are groundless, and that PPL acted
  ethically and legally, in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations.

In September 2002, PPL was served with a complaint filed by Utilimax.com, Inc.,
  which was a member of PJM, in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District
  of Pennsylvania against PPL and PPL EnergyPlus alleging, among other things,
  violations of the federal antitrust laws in connection with the capacity transactions
  described in the Market Monitor's report. The court dismissed the complaint
  with prejudice in July 2003, and Utilimax has appealed the court's dismissal
  to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.

In December 2002, PPL was served with a complaint against PPL, PPL EnergyPlus
  and PPL Electric filed in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of
  Pennsylvania by a group of 14 Pennsylvania boroughs that apparently alleges,
  in broad terms, similar violations of the federal antitrust laws. These boroughs
  were wholesale customers of PPL Electric. In addition, in November 2003, PPL
  and PPL EnergyPlus were served with a complaint which was filed in the same
  court by Joseph Martorano, III (d/b/a ENERCO), that also alleges violations
  of the federal antitrust laws. The complaint indicates that ENERCO provides
  consulting and energy procurement services to clients in Pennsylvania and New
  Jersey. Although PPL, PPL EnergyPlus and PPL Electric believe the claims in
  these complaints are without merit, they cannot predict the outcome of these
  matters.

FERC Market-Based Rate Authority

In December 1998, the FERC issued an order authorizing PPL EnergyPlus to make
  wholesale sales of electric power and related products at market-based rates.
  In that order, the FERC directed PPL EnergyPlus to file an updated market analysis
  within three years of the date of the order, and every three years thereafter.
  PPL EnergyPlus filed its initial updated market analysis in December 2001. Several
  parties thereafter filed interventions and protests requesting that, in light
  of the PJM Market Monitor's report described above, PPL EnergyPlus be required
  to provide additional information demonstrating that it has met the FERC's market
  power tests necessary for PPL EnergyPlus to continue its market-based rate authority.
  PPL EnergyPlus has responded that the FERC does not require the economic test
  suggested by the intervenors and that, in any event, it would meet such economic
  test if required by the FERC. PPL EnergyPlus cannot predict the outcome of this
  matter.

Lower Mt. Bethel

In August 2002, the Northampton County Court of Common Pleas issued a decision
  concerning the permissible noise levels from the Lower Mt. Bethel facility when
  it becomes operational. Specifically, the court's decision sets certain permissible
  noise levels required for plant operation. PPL appealed the court's decision
  to the Commonwealth Court, and an intervenor in the lawsuit cross-appealed the
  court's decision. In May 2003, the Commonwealth Court remanded the case to the
  Court of Common Pleas for further findings of fact concerning the zoning application
  relating to the construction of the facility. In September 2003, the Court of
  Common Pleas ruled in PPL's favor while also reaffirming its decision on the
  noise levels, and the intervenor has appealed this ruling to the Commonwealth
  Court.

The Lower Mt. Bethel facility is expected to be operational in
  2004. However, PPL and PPL Energy Supply cannot predict the outcome of the ongoing
  litigation concerning the facility or its ultimate impact on the Lower Mt. Bethel
  facility, but such impact may be material.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A
  VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders, through the
  solicitation of proxies or otherwise, during the fourth quarter of 2003.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANTS

Officers of PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL Montana are elected
  annually by their Boards of Directors (or Boards of Managers, as applicable)
  to serve at the pleasure of the respective Boards. There are no family relationships
  among any of the executive officers, nor is there any arrangement or understanding
  between any executive officer and any other person pursuant to which the officer
  was selected.

There have been no events under any bankruptcy act, no criminal proceedings
  and no judgments or injunctions material to the evaluation of the ability and
  integrity of any executive officer during the past five years.

Listed below are the executive officers:

PPL Energy Supply, LLC

Item 4 is omitted as PPL Energy Supply meets the conditions set forth in General
  Instruction (I)(1)(a) and (b) of Form 10-K.

PPL Montana, LLC

Item 4 is omitted as PPL Montana meets the conditions set forth in General
  Instruction (I)(1)(a) and (b) of Form 10-K.

PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S

COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED

STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

PPL Corporation

Additional information for this item is set forth in the sections entitled
  "Quarterly Financial, Common Stock Price and Dividend Data," "Item 12 - Security
  Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
  Matters" and "Shareowner and Investor Information" of this report. The number
  of common shareowners is set forth in "Item 6 - Selected Financial and Operating
  Data."

PPL Energy Supply, LLC

There is no established public trading market for PPL Energy Supply's membership
  interests. PPL Energy Funding, a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of PPL, owns
  all of PPL Energy Supply's outstanding membership interests. Distributions on
  the membership interests will be paid as determined by PPL Energy Supply's Board
  of Managers. PPL Energy Supply made cash distributions to PPL Energy Funding
  of approximately $1.2 billion in 2003 and $710 million in 2002.

PPL Electric Utilities Corporation

Additional information for this item is set forth in the sections entitled
  "Quarterly Financial Data" and "Shareowner and Investor Information" of this
  report.

PPL Montana, LLC

There is no established public trading market for PPL Montana's membership
  interests. PPL indirectly owns all of PPL Montana's outstanding membership interests.
  Distributions on the membership interests will be paid as determined by PPL
  Montana's Board of Managers. PPL Montana made a cash distribution indirectly
  to PPL of $5 million in 2003. There were no such distributions in 2002.

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA

PPL Energy Supply, LLC

Item 6 is omitted as PPL Energy Supply meets the conditions set forth in General
  Instructions (I)(1)(a) and (b) of Form 10-K.

PPL Montana, LLC

Item 6 is omitted as PPL Montana meets the conditions set forth in General
  Instructions (I)(1)(a) and (b) of Form 10-K.

PPL CORPORATION

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
  OF OPERATIONS

Overview

PPL is an energy and utility holding company with headquarters in Allentown,
  PA. See Item 1, "Business - Background," for descriptions of PPL's major segments.
  See Exhibit 99 in Item 15 for the current corporate organization structure.
  Through its subsidiaries, PPL is primarily engaged in the generation and marketing
  of electricity in two key markets - the northeastern and western U.S. - and
  in the delivery of electricity in Pennsylvania, the U.K. and Latin America.
  PPL's strategy for its electricity generation and marketing business is to match
  energy supply with load, or customer demand, under long-term and intermediate-term
  contracts with creditworthy counterparties. PPL's strategy for its electricity
  delivery businesses is to own and operate these businesses at the highest level
  of quality and reliability and at the most efficient cost.

PPL faces several risks in its generation business. The principal risks are
  electricity wholesale price risk, fuel supply and price risk, power plant performance
  and counterparty credit risk. PPL attempts to manage these risks through various
  means. For instance, PPL operates a portfolio of generation assets that is diversified
  as to geography, fuel source, cost structure and operating characteristics.
  PPL is focused on the operating efficiency and maintaining availability of these
  power plants. In addition, PPL has in place and continues to pursue long-term
  and intermediate-term contracts for energy sales and fuel supply, and other
  means, to mitigate the risks associated with adverse changes in the difference,
  or margin, between the cost to produce electricity and the price at which PPL
  sells it. PPL's contractual commitments for energy sales are primarily satisfied
  through its own generation assets - i.e., PPL primarily markets and trades around
  its physical portfolio of generating assets through integrated generation, marketing
  and trading functions. Finally, PPL attempts to reduce its exposure to the various
  risks it faces through its risk management program, which, among other things,
  includes an evaluation of market risks and the creditworthiness of all counterparties.

PPL's electricity delivery businesses are rate-regulated. Accordingly, these
  businesses are subject to regulatory risk in terms of the costs that they may
  recover and the investment returns that they may collect in customer rates.
  The principal challenge that PPL faces in its electricity delivery businesses
  is to maintain high standards of customer service and reliability in a cost-effective
  manner. PPL seeks to apply its experience in operating and managing its Pennsylvania
  delivery business to its international businesses. In turn, PPL has also gained
  valuable experience by operating and managing these international businesses.
  PPL faces certain financial risks by conducting international operations, such
  as fluctuations in currency exchange rates. PPL attempts to manage these financial
  risks through its risk management program.

A key challenge for PPL's business as a whole is to maintain a strong credit
  profile. In the past few years, investors, analysts and rating agencies that
  follow companies in the energy industry have been particularly focused on the
  credit quality and liquidity position of energy companies. PPL is focused on
  strengthening its balance sheet and improving its liquidity position, thereby
  improving its credit profile.

The purpose of "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
  and Results of Operations" is to provide information concerning PPL's past and
  expected future performance in implementing the strategies and managing the
  risks and challenges outlined above. Specifically:

"Results of Operations" provides an overview of PPL's operating results
    in 2003, 2002 and 2001, starting with a review of earnings. The earnings review
    includes a listing of certain unusual items that had significant impacts in
    these years, and it also includes a description of key factors that management
    expects may impact future earnings. "Results of Operations" also includes
    an explanation of changes during this three-year period in significant income
    statement components, such as energy margins, utility revenues, operation
    and maintenance expenses, financing costs, income taxes and cumulative effects
    of accounting changes.

"Financial Condition - Liquidity" provides an analysis of PPL's liquidity
    position and credit profile, including its sources of cash (including bank
    credit facilities and sources of operating cash flow) and uses of cash (including
    contractual commitments and capital expenditure requirements) and the key
    risks and uncertainties that impact PPL's past and future liquidity position
    and financial condition. This subsection also includes an explanation of recent
    rating agency decisions affecting PPL, as well as a listing of PPL's current
    credit ratings.

"Financial Condition - Risk Management - Energy Marketing & Trading
    and Other" includes an explanation of PPL's risk management program relating
    to market risk (i.e., commodity price, interest rate and foreign currency
    exchange risk) and credit risk (i.e., counterparty credit risk).

"New Accounting Standards" provides a description of accounting standards
    that impact PPL's Financial Statements and that were implemented in 2003 or
    are pending adoption.

"Application of Critical Accounting Policies" provides an overview of the
    accounting policies that are particularly important to the results of operations
    and financial condition of PPL and that require PPL's management to make significant
    estimates, assumptions and other judgments. Although PPL's management believes
    that these estimates, assumptions and other judgments are appropriate, they
    relate to matters that are inherently uncertain. Accordingly, changes in the
    estimates, assumptions and other judgments applied to these accounting policies
    could have a significant impact on PPL's results of operations and financial
    condition, as reflected in PPL's Financial Statements.

The information provided in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
  Condition and Results of Operations" should be read in conjunction with PPL's
  Financial Statements and the Notes thereto.

Terms and abbreviations appearing herein are explained in the glossary. Dollars
  are in millions, except per share data, unless otherwise noted.

Results of Operations

Earnings in 2003 and 2002 were impacted by the acquisition of a controlling
  interest in WPD on September 6, 2002, and the resulting consolidation, as described
  in Note 9 to the Financial Statements. Therefore, the comparison of reported
  income statement line items between 2002 and 2001 is not meaningful without
  eliminating the impact of the WPD consolidation. The following table shows the
  2002 Statement of Income as reported, the adjustments to eliminate the impact
  of the WPD consolidation (by reflecting WPD on the equity method), and as adjusted
  to exclude the WPD consolidation. The following discussion, that explains significant
  annual changes in principal items on the Statement of Income, compares 2003
  to 2002, unadjusted, and compares 2002, as adjusted, to 2001.

The comparability of certain items on the Statement of Income has also been
  impacted by PPL Global's investment in CEMAR. The consolidated results of CEMAR
  are included for periods during which PPL had a controlling interest, from January
  1, 2001 to August 2002. See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for more information.

WPD's results, as consolidated in PPL's Statement of Income, are impacted by
  changes in foreign currency exchange rates. For the twelve months ended December
  31, 2003, as compared to the same period in 2002, changes in foreign exchange
  rates increased WPD's portion of revenue and expense line items by about 9%.

Earnings

Net income, and the related EPS, were as follows:

The after-tax changes in net income were primarily due to:

The changes in net income from year to year were, in part, attributable to
  several unusual items with significant earnings impacts, including accounting
  changes, discontinued operations and infrequently occurring items. The after-tax
  impacts of these unusual items are shown below.

The year to year changes in earnings components, including margins by activity
  and income statement line items, are discussed in the balance of the discussion
  in "Results of Operations."

PPL's future earnings could be, or will be, impacted by a number of key factors,
  including the following:

Based upon current electricity and natural gas price levels, there is a
    risk that PPL may be unable to recover its investment in new gas-fired generation
    facilities. Under GAAP, PPL does not believe that there is an impairment charge
    to be recorded for these facilities at this time. PPL is unable to predict
    the ultimate earnings impact of this issue, based upon future energy price
    levels, applicable accounting rules and other factors, but such impact may
    be material. (See "Application of Critical Accounting Policies - Asset Impairment"
    for additional information.)

PPL is unable to predict whether future impairments of goodwill may be required
    for its domestic and international investments. While no goodwill impairments
    were required based on the annual review performed in the fourth quarter of
    2003, future impairments may occur due to determinations of fair value exceeding
    the carrying value of these investments. (See "Application of Critical Accounting
    Policies - Asset Impairment" for additional information.)

Earnings in 2004 and beyond will be impacted by the consolidation of variable
    interest entities (as discussed in Note 22 to the Financial Statements).

PPL Electric expects to file a request for a distribution rate increase
    with the PUC in March 2004. If approved, the new rates will go into effect
    in January 2005, when PPL Electric's distribution rate cap expires. In addition,
    beginning January 1, 2005, PPL Electric expects to fully recover from its
    retail customers the charges that it pays to PJM for transmission-related
    services. See "Item 1. Business-Background-Delivery Segment" for more information
    regarding PPL Electric's transmission and distribution rate cap.

Earnings in 2005 and beyond may be impacted by a rate review of the delivery
    business of WPD (South West) and WPD (South Wales). PPL cannot predict the
    ultimate outcome of the rate review.

PPL operates a synfuel facility and receives tax credits pursuant to Section
    29 of the Internal Revenue Code based on its sale of synfuel to unaffiliated
    third-party purchasers. See Note 14 to the Financial Statements for a discussion
    of the IRS review of synfuel production procedures, and the projected annual
    earnings attributable to PPL's synfuel operations.

Future earnings may also be impacted by the ultimate exiting of the CEMAR
    investment (see Note 9 to the Financial Statements for additional information)
    or other investments.

Domestic Gross Energy Margins

The following table provides changes in income statement line items that comprise
  domestic gross energy margins:

(a)

Adjusted to exclude the impact of any revenues
        and costs not associated with domestic energy margins, in particular,
        revenues and energy costs related to the international operations of PPL
        Global and the domestic delivery operations of PPL Electric and PPL Gas
        Utilities. Also adjusted to include gains on sales of emission allowances,
        which are reflected in "Other operation and maintenance" expenses on the
        Statement of Income, and the reduction of the reserve for Enron receivables,
        as described in Note 17 to the Financial Statements.

Changes in Domestic Gross Energy Margins By Activity

Gross margin calculations are dependent on the allocation of fuel and purchased
  power costs to the activities listed below. That allocation is based on monthly
  MWh consumption levels compared to monthly MWh supply costs. Any costs specific
  to an activity are charged to that activity.

Wholesale - Eastern U.S.

Eastern U.S. wholesale margins were higher in 2003 compared to 2002 primarily
  due to higher volumes, which increased by 47%. The higher volumes were primarily
  driven by market opportunities to optimize the value of generating assets and
  by higher spot prices that allowed PPL to increase the utilization of its higher
  cost generating units including 699 MW of new generation that began commercial
  operation in mid-2002. In PJM, where the majority of PPL's Eastern wholesale
  activity occurs, average on-peak spot market real time prices rose 34% in 2003
  compared to 2002. Partially offsetting the increase in wholesale energy margins
  in 2003 compared to 2002, was the buyout of a NUG contract in February 2002,
  which reduced power purchases by $25 million.

Eastern wholesale margins were lower in 2002 compared to 2001, despite a buyout
  of a NUG contract in February 2002 that reduced purchased power costs by $25
  million. The decline in margins was primarily attributable to the decline in
  wholesale prices for energy and capacity. PJM on-peak prices averaged $6/MWh
  less, a decline of 14%, for 2002 compared to 2001. Additionally, because new
  generating capability came on-line within PJM in 2002, the prices for the PJM
  monthly auctions for unforced capacity credits fell from an average of $100/MW-month
  in 2001 to an average of $38/MW-month in 2002. However, higher volumes of energy
  sales partially offset the decline in prices, as wholesale transactions in 2002
  increased by about 33% over 2001 due to better generating unit availability.

Wholesale - Western U.S.

Western U.S. wholesale margins consist of margins in the Northwest and in the
  Southwest.

In the Northwest, margins were $31 million higher in 2003 compared to 2002,
  primarily due to higher wholesale prices. Average wholesale prices for 2003
  were $6/MWh higher than prices in 2002. A favorable settlement of $3 million
  with Energy West Resources Inc. in June 2003 also positively impacted margins
  in 2003. Margins were $74 million lower in 2002 compared to 2001, primarily
  due to a decrease in average realized wholesale prices by $15/MWh, partially
  offset by a 7% increase in volumes.

In the Southwest, margins were $9 million higher in 2003 compared to 2002,
  primarily due to the inception of new tolling agreements in Arizona and due
  to an increase of average wholesale prices in 2003 by $16/MWh compared to 2002.
  Margins were $9 million lower in 2002 compared to 2001, primarily due to a decrease
  in average wholesale prices by $40/MWh. These lower prices were offset by increased
  sales, which were three times higher than the prior period, as a result of the
  Griffith Energy and Sundance facilities coming on-line in 2002.

The above explanation is exclusive of $9 million related to the 2003 partial
  reversal of a reserve against Enron receivables, and a 2001 charge of $12 million
  for the Enron bankruptcy, both of which affected gross margins. These items
  are discussed in further detail in Note 17 to the Financial Statements.

Net Energy Trading

PPL enters into certain contractual arrangements that meet the criteria of
  energy trading derivatives as defined by EITF 02-3, "Issues Involved in Accounting
  for Derivative Contracts Held for Trading Purposes and Contracts Involved in
  Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities." These physical and financial
  contracts cover trading activity associated with electricity, gas and oil. The
  $7 million decrease in 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to realized electric
  swap losses in 2003. The $18 million decrease in 2002 compared to 2001 was primarily
  due to unrealized, mark-to-market gains in 2001 and lower energy margins in
  2002. The physical volumes associated with energy trading were 9,100 GWh and
  12.6 Bcf in 2003; 10,700 GWh and 12.4 Bcf in 2002; and 7,700 GWh and 22.4 Bcf
  in 2001. The amount of energy trading margins from unrealized mark-to-market
  transactions was not significant in 2003, 2002 and 2001.

Unregulated Retail

Unregulated retail margins declined in 2003 compared to 2002 primarily due
  to significantly lower electric retail prices in the Western U.S. Western U.S.
  retail contract prices decreased about 19% in 2003 compared to 2002. The decline
  in 2002 compared to 2001 was primarily due to lower revenues resulting from
  the expiration of contracts which were not renewed in the Eastern U.S. and due
  to significantly lower retail prices in the Western U.S., somewhat offset by
  an increase in the number of customers in the Western U.S.

Regulated Retail

Regulated retail margins in the Eastern U.S. for 2003 decreased by 9% compared
  to 2002, due to higher supply costs resulting from higher purchased power prices.
  Purchased power prices were higher because of increased gas and oil prices and
  an abnormally cold winter. Regulated retail margins for 2002 were 17% higher
  than in 2001. Higher sales volumes and higher average prices, caused by changes
  in usage among customer classes, provided the improved margins. In addition,
  lower supply costs in 2002, due to lower fuel costs and increased generating
  unit availability, further improved margins.

Utility Revenues

The increase (decrease) in utility revenues was attributable to the following:

The increase in utility revenues for 2003 compared with 2002 was attributable
  to:

higher PPL Electric delivery revenues resulting from a 1.1% increase in
    delivery sales, in part due to colder winter weather in the first quarter
    of 2003;

higher PPL Electric PLR supply revenues due to higher energy and capacity
    rates in 2003 compared with 2002;

higher PPL Gas Utilities revenues primarily due to higher sales volumes
    of propane and natural gas;

higher WPD revenues in the U.K. primarily due to the change in foreign currency
    exchange rates from period to period;

higher revenues in El Salvador primarily due to higher volumes and higher
    pass-through energy costs, partially offset by a 6% tariff reduction effective
    January 1, 2003; and

higher revenues in Chile primarily due to higher volumes and the consolidation
    of TransEmel (see Note 9 to the Financial Statements); partially offset by

lower revenues in Brazil attributable to the deconsolidation of CEMAR in
    August 2002 (see Note 9).

The increase in utility revenues in 2002 compared with 2001 was primarily due
  to:

higher PPL Electric PLR supply revenues, see "Regulated Retail" for additional
    information; partially offset by

lower PPL Gas Utilities revenues primarily due to lower sales volumes (due
    in part to milder winter weather experienced in the first quarter of 2002)
    and a decrease in the fuel cost component of customer rates; and

lower revenues in Brazil, as noted above.

Energy Related Businesses

Energy related businesses contributed $17 million less to operating income
  in 2003 compared with 2002. The decrease resulted primarily from:

$7 million of credits recorded on development projects in 2002, due largely
    to a favorable settlement on the cancellation of a generation project in Washington
    state;

a $5 million operating loss on some Hyder properties in the first quarter
    of 2003, which were subsequently sold in April 2003;

an $8 million decrease in Latin America revenues from lower material and
    construction project sales. (In 2002, a Bolivian subsidiary participated in
    the construction of a 1,500 kilometer transmission line in rural areas); and

a $3 million decrease in margins from telecommunications, due to the acquisition
    of a fiber optic network and start-up activities for new products; partially
    offset by

a $3 million improvement in contributions from mechanical contracting subsidiaries
    due to enhanced project controls that were implemented to minimize project
    overruns, offset by a continuing decline in construction markets in 2003.

Energy related businesses (when adjusted to include WPD on an equity basis)
  contributed $12 million less to operating income in 2002 compared with 2001.
  This was primarily due to:

a $14 million benefit recorded in 2001 from an equity interest in Griffith
    Energy related to margins on forward electricity contracts executed prior
    to commercial operation;

a $9 million decline from the mechanical contracting and engineering subsidiaries,
    primarily due to cost overruns experienced at two major projects;

a $6 million operating loss on start-up telecommunications operations; and

$4 million of pre-tax operating losses from synfuel projects; partially
    offset by

a $23 million decrease in PPL Global's expenses due to lower spending on
    development projects in 2002, including a favorable settlement on the cancellation
    of a generation project in Washington state.

Although operating income from synfuel operations declined in 2002 compared
  to 2001, the synfuel projects contributed $7 million more to net income after
  recording tax credits.

Other Operation and Maintenance

The increase (decrease) in other operation and maintenance expenses was primarily
  due to:

The $53 million decrease in net pension income was attributable to decreased
  asset values at the end of 2002 and reductions in the discount rate assumptions
  for PPL's domestic and international pension plans, which were the result of
  weakness in the financial markets during 2002. The 2002 year-end asset values
  and discount rates were used to measure net pension income for 2003. Through
  December 31, 2003, PPL recorded $42 million of net pension income.

Although financial markets have improved and PPL's domestic and international
  pension plans have experienced significant asset gains in 2003, interest rates
  on fixed-income obligations have continued to fall, requiring a further reduction
  in the discount rate assumption as of December 31, 2003. The reduction in the
  discount rate assumption has a significant impact on the measurement of plan
  obligations and net pension cost, which will result in PPL's recognition of
  lower levels of net pension income in 2004. See Note 12 to the Financial Statements
  for details of the funded status of PPL's pension plans.

Depreciation

Impacts on depreciation were as follows:

(a)

There was a corresponding recording of accretion
        expense for PPL Susquehanna in 2003, which is part of "Other operation
        and maintenance" expense.

Depreciation expense increased in 2003 by $13 million. An additional $32 million
  of depreciation was recorded related to several projects, the largest of which
  were the Susquehanna Unit 2 turbine replacement and the Automated Meter Reading
  and Power Management System projects. The additional depreciation was partially
  offset by the removal of decommissioning expense from depreciation expense as
  required by SFAS 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations." See Note
  21 to the Financial Statements for additional information.

Taxes, Other Than Income

Taxes, other than income, increased by $25 million in 2003 compared with 2002
  due to the settlement of prior years' capital stock tax refund claims of $8
  million in 2002, higher taxes related to an increase in the basis on which capital
  stock tax is calculated in 2003 and higher real estate taxes.

Taxes, other than income, increased by $34 million in 2002 compared with 2001,
  primarily due to a $42 million increase in gross receipts tax, partially offset
  by a $12 million decrease in capital stock tax.

The gross receipts tax increase in 2002 was due to an increase in the revenue-neutral
  reconciliation (RNR) tax component of the effective Pennsylvania gross receipts
  tax rate in January 2002. The RNR, which adjusts the base gross receipts tax
  rate of 4.4%, was enacted as part of the Customer Choice Act as a tax revenue
  replacement component to recoup losses to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania or
  return benefits to customers that may result from the restructuring of the electric
  industry. This increase was partially offset by the settlement of prior years'
  capital stock tax refund claims and a lower capital stock tax rate in 2002.

Other Charges

Other charges of $9 million in 2003 consisted of a charge for a workforce reduction
  program (see Note 20 to the Financial Statements).

Other charges of $232 million in 2002 consisted of the write-down of PPL Global's
  investment in CEMAR and several smaller impairment charges on other international
  investments (see Note 9), the write-down of generation assets (see Note 9) and
  a charge for a workforce reduction program (see Note 20).

Other charges of $486 million in 2001 consisted of the write-down of international
  energy projects and the cancellation of generation projects (see Note 9).

Other Income - net

See Note 16 to the Financial Statements for details of other income and deductions.

Financing Costs

Interest expense decreased by $86 million in 2003 compared with 2002 primarily
  due to the net effect of:

a $55 million decrease in long-term debt interest due to debt retirements
    in 2003;

a $34 million decrease in long-term debt interest from the deconsolidation
    of CEMAR in August 2002;

a $24 million charge that occurred in 2002 to cancel a remarketing agreement;

a $20 million decrease in short-term debt interest expense;

a $15 million decrease due to a 2002 charge to expense related to the ineffectiveness
    and subsequent dedesignation of hedges on anticipated debt issuances that
    did not occur; and

a $7 million decrease due to changes in interest rates caused by economic
    hedges that did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under SFAS 133,
    "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities;" offset by

$27 million of interest on Preferred Securities and preferred stock with
    sinking fund requirements due to reclassifications from applying SFAS 150,
    "Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Both
    Liabilities and Equity." See Note 22 to the Financial Statements for additional
    information;

a $14 million increase in long-term debt interest expense due to issuances
    of $100 million Senior Secured Bonds and $400 million Convertible Senior Notes;

a $14 million decrease in capitalized interest; and

an $11 million write-off of unamortized swap costs on WPD debt restructuring
    in 2003.

Interest expense increased by $48 million in 2002 compared with 2001 primarily
  due to:

a $24 million charge to cancel the remarketing agreement of the 7.7% Reset
    Put Securities;

a $19 million net increase in long-term debt interest related to a full
    year of interest in 2002 from the issuances in 2001 of $800 million of senior
    secured bonds by PPL Electric, $500 million of senior unsecured notes by PPL
    Energy Supply and debt by PPL Global's consolidated subsidiaries, partially
    offset by bond retirements;

a $15 million charge due to ineffectiveness and subsequent dedesignation
    of hedges on anticipated debt issuances that did not occur in 2002;

a $3 million charge due to market fluctuations for economic hedges that
    did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under SFAS 133; and

a $7 million decrease in capitalized interest; offset by

a $24 million decrease in short-term debt interest as a portion of the proceeds
    from the issuance of long-term debt was used to pay down commercial paper.

Distributions on preferred securities decreased by $38 million in 2003 compared
  with 2002. This decrease was due to:

$27 million of distributions on Preferred Securities and preferred stock
    with sinking fund requirements are categorized as interest expense due to
    the implementation of SFAS 150 on July 1, 2003 (see Note 22); and

the retirement of preferred securities in 2002.

Distributions on preferred securities increased by $6 million in 2002 compared
  with 2001. This increase was due to:

a $15 million increase in distributions on the PEPS Units, issued in the
    second quarter of 2001; offset by

a $10 million decrease in dividends and distributions due to the retirements
    and redemptions in 2002 of preferred securities.

Income Taxes

Income tax expense decreased by $40 million in 2003 compared with 2002. This
  decrease was due to:

a $31 million reduction related to deferred income tax valuation allowances
    recorded on impairment charges on PPL's investment in Brazil recorded during
    2002;

an $84 million reduction in income taxes related to the tax benefit recognized
    in 2003 on foreign investment losses included in the 2002 federal income tax
    return;

a $9 million decrease related to a contribution of property; and

a $2 million decrease related to additional federal synfuel tax credits
    recognized; offset by

higher pre-tax domestic book income, resulting in an $84 million increase
    in income taxes.

Income tax expense decreased by $156 million in 2002 compared with 2001. This
  decrease was due to:

lower pre-tax domestic book income, resulting in a $75 million reduction
    in income taxes;

lower impairment charges on PPL's investment in Brazil resulting in a $30
    million decrease in the amount of deferred income tax valuation allowances
    recorded;

a $27 million reduction in income taxes due to losses recognized on foreign
    investments; and

a $10 million decrease related to additional federal synfuel tax credits
    recognized.

Discontinued Operations

PPL reported a loss of $20 million in connection with the approval of a plan
  of sale of PPL Global's investment in a Latin American telecommunications company.
  See "Discontinued Operations" in Note 9 to the Financial Statements for additional
  information.

Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting Principles

In 2003, PPL recorded a charge of $27 million, after-tax, as a cumulative effect
  of a change in accounting principle in connection with the adoption of FIN 46,
  "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51,"
  for certain entities. See "New Accounting Standards" for further discussion.

PPL adopted SFAS 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations," effective
  January 1, 2003. SFAS 143 addresses the accounting for obligations associated
  with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets. It requires legal obligations
  associated with the retirement of long-lived assets to be recognized as a liability
  in the financial statements. Application of the new rules resulted in a cumulative
  effect of adoption that increased net income by $63 million in 2003. See Note
  21 to the Financial Statements for additional information.

PPL adopted SFAS 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," on January 1,
  2002. SFAS 142 requires an annual impairment test of goodwill and other intangible
  assets that are not subject to amortization. PPL conducted a transition impairment
  analysis in the first quarter of 2002 and recorded a transition goodwill impairment
  charge of $150 million. See Note 18 to the Financial Statements for additional
  information.

In 2001, PPL changed its method of amortizing unrecognized gains or losses
  in the annual pension expense or income determined under SFAS 87, "Employers'
  Accounting for Pensions." This change resulted in a cumulative-effect credit
  of $10 million. See Note 12 to the Financial Statements for additional information.

Financial Condition

Liquidity

PPL is focused on maintaining a strong liquidity position and strengthening
  its balance sheet, thereby improving its credit profile. PPL believes that its
  cash on hand, operating cash flows, access to debt and equity capital markets
  and borrowing capacity, taken as a whole, provide sufficient resources to fund
  its ongoing operating requirements, future security maturities and estimated
  future capital expenditures. PPL currently expects cash on hand at the end of
  2004 to be approximately $400 million, with about $1.5 billion in syndicated
  credit facilities. PPL also expects that cash from operations less payments
  for capital expenditures, dividends and transition bonds will be positive in
  2004. However, PPL's cash flows from operations and its access to cost effective
  bank and capital markets are subject to risks and uncertainties, including but
  not limited to, the following:

changes in market prices for electricity;

changes in commodity prices that may increase the cost of producing power
    or decrease the amount PPL receives from selling power;

price and credit risks associated with selling and marketing products in
    the wholesale power markets;

ineffectiveness of trading, marketing and risk management policies and programs
    used to mitigate PPL's risk exposure to adverse energy and fuel prices, interest
    rates, foreign currency exchange rates and counterparty credit;

unusual or extreme weather that may damage PPL's transmission and distribution
    facilities or effect energy sales to customers;

reliance on transmission and distribution facilities that PPL does not own
    or control to deliver its electricity and natural gas;

unavailability of generating units (due to unscheduled or longer-than-anticipated
    generation outages) and the resulting loss of revenues and additional costs
    of replacement electricity;

ability to recover, and timeliness and adequacy of recovery of costs associated
    with regulated utility businesses; and

a downgrade in PPL's or PPL's subsidiaries' credit ratings that could negatively
    affect their ability to access capital and increase the cost of maintaining
    credit facilities and any new debt.

At December 31, 2003, PPL had $476 million in cash and cash equivalents and
  $56 million of short-term debt as compared to $245 million in cash and cash
  equivalents and $943 million of short-term debt at December 31, 2002, and $933
  million in cash and cash equivalents and $118 million of short-term debt at
  December 31, 2001. The changes in cash and cash equivalents resulted from the
  following:

Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities

Net cash provided by operating activities increased by 67%, or $538 million
  in 2003 versus 2002, reflecting higher net income adjusted for non-cash items,
  working capital improvements and lower cash income taxes. In addition, 2002
  included cash outlays of $152 million for the cancellation of generation projects
  and $50 million for the termination of a NUG contract. The higher net income
  in 2003 was principally driven by complete ownership of WPD, higher wholesale
  energy margins, lower interest expense and savings from a workforce reduction
  program in the U.S. that commenced in 2002. The working capital improvements
  resulted from a decrease in accounts receivable and prepayments. These positive
  changes were partially offset by rising transmission and distribution operating
  costs at PPL Electric and other factors.

Important elements supporting the stability of PPL's cash provided by operating
  activities are the long-term and intermediate-term commitments from wholesale
  and retail customers and long-term fuel supply contracts PPL has in place. In
  2003, PPL EnergyPlus entered into several new wholesale agreements to provide
  capacity and/or electricity to utilities in New Jersey, Arizona and Connecticut.
  These agreements supplement previously existing long-term contracts with PPL
  Electric, NorthWestern and the Long Island Power Authority (see Note 14 to the
  Financial Statements for additional information). PPL estimates that, on average,
  approximately 80% of its expected annual generation output for the period 2004
  through 2008 is committed under long-term and intermediate-term energy supply
  contracts. PPL EnergyPlus also enters into contracts under which it agrees to
  sell and purchase electricity, natural gas, oil and coal. These contracts often
  require cash collateral or other credit enhancement, or reductions or terminations
  of a portion or the entire contract through cash settlement in the event of
  a downgrade of PPL or the respective subsidiary's credit ratings or adverse
  changes in market prices. For example, in addition to limiting its trading ability,
  if PPL or its respective subsidiary's ratings were lowered to below "investment
  grade" and energy prices increased by 10%, PPL estimates that, based on its
  December 31, 2003 position, it would have to post collateral of approximately
  $190 million as compared to $121 million at December 31, 2002. PPL has in place
  risk management programs that, among other things, are designed to monitor and
  manage its exposure to volatility of cash flows related to changes in energy
  prices, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, counterparty credit
  quality and the operational performance of its generating units.

Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $107 million in 2002
  versus 2001. This decrease was primarily due to $152 million of turbine cancellation
  payments made in 2002, a $50 million payment to terminate a NUG contract also
  made in 2002 and an $89 million decrease in dividends received from unconsolidated
  affiliates, partially offset by increases in net income adjusted for non-cash
  items.

Net Cash Used in Investing Activities

Net cash used in investing activities decreased by 35%, or $400 million, in
  2003 versus 2002, primarily as a result of reduced investment in generation
  assets and electric energy projects and the acquisition of the controlling interest
  in WPD in September 2002. The primary use of cash for investing activities is
  capital and investment expenditures, which are summarized by category in the
  table in "Capital Expenditure Requirements." In 2004, PPL expects to be able
  to fund all of its capital expenditures with cash from operations.

Net cash used in investing activities in 2002 was $1.1 billion, compared to
  $702 million in 2001. The primary reasons for the $427 million increase in cash
  used in investing activities were the acquisition of the controlling interest
  in WPD for $211 million, net of cash acquired, and a repayment of the loan from
  a non-consolidated affiliate in 2001.

Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities

Net cash used in financing activities was $387 million in 2003, compared to
  $363 million in 2002, and primarily reflected the repayment of short-term debt,
  retirement of long-term debt and increased dividends to shareholders. In 2003,
  the $387 million primarily consisted of net debt retirements of $460 million,
  common stock sale proceeds of approximately $426 million, preferred stock retirements
  of $31 million and common and preferred dividends paid of $287 million. In 2002,
  the $363 million primarily consisted of net debt retirements of $412 million,
  company-obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities retirements of
  $250 million, common stock sale proceeds of $587 million and common and preferred
  stock dividends paid of $261 million. PPL currently has no plans to issue any
  additional common stock other than the shares associated with the May 2004 common
  stock conversion related to the $575 million aggregate stated amount of PEPS
  Units and PEPS Units, Series B. See Note 8 to the Financial Statements for additional
  information on common stock sales in 2003.

PPL's debt financing activity in 2003 was as follows:

Debt issued during 2003 had stated interest rates ranging from 2.62% to 5.87%
  and maturities from 2008 through 2027. See Note 8 to the Financial Statements
  for more detailed information regarding PPL's borrowings.

In July 2003, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Electric each determined that, based
  on their current cash positions and anticipated cash flows, they would not need
  to access the commercial paper markets through at least the end of 2003. As
  a result, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Electric each requested Standard & Poor's
  Ratings Services (S&P), Moody's Investors Service, Inc. (Moody's) and Fitch
  Ratings (Fitch) to withdraw their ratings for these currently inactive commercial
  paper programs, which the rating agencies did effective as of July 9, 2003.
  This decision has not limited the ability of either PPL Energy Supply or PPL
  Electric to fund its short-term liquidity needs. Neither company currently has
  any commercial paper outstanding. PPL Electric expects to renew its commercial
  paper program in early 2004. PPL Energy Supply currently does not anticipate
  a need to access the commercial paper market in 2004.

At December 31, 2003, PPL's total committed borrowing capacity and the use
  of this borrowing capacity were as follows:

These credit agreements contain various other covenants. Failure to meet those
  covenants beyond applicable grace periods could result in acceleration of due
  dates of borrowings and/or termination of the agreements. PPL monitors the covenants
  on a regular basis. At December 31, 2003, PPL was in compliance with those covenants.
  At this time PPL believes that these covenants and other borrowing conditions
  will not limit access to these funding sources. PPL Electric intends to reduce
  its total syndicated credit facilities to $200 million in the first quarter
  of 2004. In early 2004, PPL Electric also intends to participate in an Asset-Backed
  Commercial Paper (ABCP) Program for up to $150 million that would be secured
  by a portion of its accounts receivable. The ABCP Program would provide a more
  reliable and stable source of liquidity than an unsecured commercial paper program.
  PPL Energy Supply intends to reduce its syndicated credit facilities to $800
  million in the first quarter of 2004 because of lower development and acquisition
  requirements related to its supply business. WPD (South West) intends to renew
  and extend all of its syndicated credit facilities in 2004.

Net cash used in financing activities was $363 million in 2002, compared to
  net cash provided by financing activities of $249 million in 2001. In 2001,
  PPL had net issuances of $544 million of debt, preferred securities and equity,
  compared to net retirements of $75 million in 2002.

Operating Leases

PPL and its subsidiaries also have available funding sources that are provided
  through operating leases. PPL's subsidiaries lease vehicles, office space, land,
  buildings, personal computers and other equipment under master operating lease
  arrangements. These leasing structures provide PPL with additional operating
  and financing flexibility. The operating leases contain covenants that are typical
  for these agreements, such as maintaining insurance, maintaining corporate existence
  and timely payment of rent and other fees. Failure to meet these covenants could
  limit or restrict access to these funds or require early payment of obligations.
  At this time, PPL believes that these covenants will not limit access to these
  funding sources or cause acceleration or termination of the leases.

PPL, through its subsidiary PPL Montana, leases a 50% interest in Colstrip
  Units 1 and 2 and a 30% interest in Unit 3, under four 36-year non-cancelable
  operating leases. These operating leases are not recorded on PPL's Balance Sheet,
  which is in accordance with applicable accounting guidance. The leases place
  certain restrictions on PPL Montana's ability to incur additional debt, sell
  assets and declare dividends. At this time, PPL believes that these restrictions
  will not limit access to these funding sources or cause acceleration or termination
  of the leases. See Note 8 to the Financial Statements for a discussion of other
  dividend restrictions related to PPL subsidiaries.

See Note 10 to the Financial Statements for further discussion of the operating
  leases.

Contractual Obligations

At December 31, 2003, the estimated contractual cash obligations of PPL were
  as follows:

(a)

Reflects principal maturities only, including
        maturities of consolidated lease debt.

(b)

Excludes amounts for the leases of the Sundance,
        University Park and Lower Mt. Bethel generation facilities as the lessors
        were consolidated effective December 31, 2003 as a result of the adoption
        of FIN 46 for certain entities. See "New Accounting Standards" for further
        discussion.

(c)

The payments reflected herein are subject
        to change as certain purchase obligations included are estimates based
        on projected obligated quantities and/or projected pricing under the contracts.

Credit Ratings

The following table summarizes the credit ratings of PPL and its key financing
  subsidiaries at December 31, 2003:

*

These trust preferred securities
        were deconsolidated effective December 31, 2003 from the Balance Sheet.
        See Note 22 to the Financial Statements for additional information.

**

Insured as to payment of principal
        and interest.

Rating Agency Actions in 2003

In 2003, S&P, Moody's and Fitch reviewed the credit ratings on the debt
  and preferred securities of PPL and its subsidiaries. Based on their respective
  reviews, the rating agencies made certain ratings revisions that are described
  below. Management does not expect these ratings decisions to impact PPL and
  its subsidiaries' ability to raise new debt or equity capital or to have a significant
  impact on the cost of any new capital or the cost of maintaining their credit
  facilities.

The ratings of S&P, Moody's and Fitch are not a recommendation to buy,
  sell or hold any securities of PPL or its subsidiaries. Such ratings may be
  subject to revisions or withdrawal by the agencies at any time and should be
  evaluated independently of each other and any other rating that may be assigned
  to their securities.

PPL and Domestic Subsidiaries

S&P

In April 2003, S&P notified PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Electric that
  it:

affirmed both the 'A-' ratings on PPL Electric's first mortgage bonds and
    senior secured bonds and the 'BBB' corporate credit ratings for PPL and PPL
    Energy Supply;

lowered the rating on PPL Capital Funding's senior unsecured debt to 'BBB-'
    from 'BBB';

placed PPL Electric on negative outlook. S&P indicated that PPL and
    PPL Energy Supply remain on negative outlook; and

affirmed the 'A-2' commercial paper ratings of PPL Energy Supply and PPL
    Electric.

S&P indicated that the rating revision on PPL Capital Funding's senior
  unsecured debt is based on the addition of debt at PPL Energy Supply, which
  it noted is expected to increase further in the future. PPL Energy Supply provides
  significant cash flows to PPL Capital Funding to support PPL Capital Funding's
  cash requirements. S&P also indicated that the negative outlook for PPL
  and its subsidiaries reflects its view of weak credit metrics due to low wholesale
  energy prices.

In December 2003, S&P downgraded PPL Montana's 8.903% Pass Through Certificates
  due 2020 to BBB- from BBB. S&P indicated that its outlook for these securities
  remains negative.

S&P indicated that its downgrade reflects certain risks that it believes
  PPL Montana faces, including counterparty credit risk resulting from the Chapter
  11 bankruptcy filing of NorthWestern, which is PPL Montana's largest customer.
  S&P noted, however, that the bankruptcy court has approved NorthWestern's
  request to affirm the power sales agreements with PPL Montana and that NorthWestern
  has strong incentives to maintain this status. See Note 14 for more detailed
  information regarding NorthWestern's bankruptcy filing.

Moody's

In May 2003, Moody's downgraded the credit ratings on the debt and preferred
  securities of PPL, PPL Electric and PPL Energy Supply. The ratings downgraded
  include:

PPL Electric's first mortgage bonds and senior secured bonds, to 'Baa1'
    from 'A3';

PPL Energy Supply's senior unsecured notes, to 'Baa2' from 'Baa1';

PPL Capital Funding's senior unsecured debt, to 'Baa3' from 'Baa2'; and

PPL's senior unsecured debt that is not currently outstanding but that may
    be issued under PPL's shelf registration statement on file with the SEC, to
    'Baa3' from 'Baa2'.

The Moody's ratings outlook is stable for each of PPL, PPL Electric, PPL Energy
  Supply and PPL Capital Funding. Neither PPL Electric's nor PPL Energy Supply's
  short-term debt ratings was impacted by Moody's long-term debt review.

Moody's stated that the downgrades reflect its concerns about PPL's high debt
  levels, PPL Energy Supply's modest exposure to merchant generation risk, the
  continued weakness in the wholesale power market and the associated financial
  impact on PPL Energy Supply, and concerns regarding the amount of cash flow
  to be generated from PPL Energy Supply's non-regulated domestic operations and
  the free cash flow available from its regulated international assets. However,
  Moody's also indicated that the full requirements contract between PPL Electric
  and PPL EnergyPlus, which previously was approved by the PUC and which extends
  through December 2009, mitigates PPL Electric's supply and price risk and provides
  a predictable stream of cash flows to PPL Energy Supply during such time period.
  Moody's also noted that PPL's management had implemented a number of initiatives
  to strengthen its current credit quality and reduce its debt levels, such as
  the issuance of over $1 billion of common stock and mandatorily convertible
  securities over the last few years, a sizeable reduction in planned capital
  expenditures, the cancellation of projects under development, workforce reductions
  and write-downs of certain investments.

In September 2003, Moody's announced that it was placing PPL Montana's 8.903%
  Pass-Through Certificates due 2020 under review for possible downgrade. These
  securities currently are rated 'Baa3' by Moody's. Moody's stated that its review
  is prompted by its concerns about the credit profile of PPL Montana's largest
  customer, NorthWestern, and lower cash flow generation than was forecasted at
  the time the securities were issued in 2000. See Note 14 to the Financial Statements
  for additional information on NorthWestern's current situation. Management does
  not expect any action by Moody's based on this review to limit PPL Montana's
  ability to fund its short-term liquidity needs. PPL Montana has no plans to
  raise new long-term debt. Any ratings downgrade by Moody's would have an insignificant
  impact on PPL Montana's cost of maintaining the credit facility that it has
  in place with its affiliate. In addition, management does not expect any ratings
  downgrade by Moody's based on this review to have any adverse impact on the
  credit ratings of PPL or PPL Energy Supply.

Fitch

In May 2003, Fitch notified PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Capital Funding
  that it:

downgraded PPL Capital Funding's senior unsecured debt to 'BBB' from 'BBB+';

downgraded PPL's senior unsecured debt that is not currently outstanding
    but that may be issued under PPL's shelf registration statement on file with
    the SEC, to 'BBB' from 'BBB+';

affirmed both the 'BBB+' rating of PPL Energy Supply's senior unsecured
    debt, and the 'F2' rating of its commercial paper; and

placed each of PPL, PPL Capital Funding and PPL Energy Supply on negative
    outlook.

Fitch indicated that the revised ratings for PPL and PPL Capital Funding reflect
  the structural subordination of the obligations of PPL to those of its subsidiaries
  and Fitch's expectations of lower cash flow from PPL Electric until early 2005.
  Fitch indicated that the change in outlook for these companies results from
  the increase during 2002 in PPL's generation asset portfolio that is dependent
  on merchant generation, continued weakness in U.S. merchant energy markets and
  exposure to international distribution assets primarily in Latin America and
  the U.K. However, Fitch noted that PPL Energy Supply derives significant earnings
  and cash flow from long-term supply contracts, including the full requirements
  contract between PPL Electric and PPL EnergyPlus, that on average account for
  about 70% of PPL Energy Supply's gross margin over the next five years.

WPD and Subsidiaries

In February 2003, Moody's confirmed the ratings of WPDH Limited at 'Baa2' and
  WPD (South West) and WPD (South Wales) at 'Baa1', and downgraded WPD LLP from
  'Baa1' to 'Baa2' and SIUK Capital Trust I from 'Baa2' to 'Baa3'. The outlook
  on all ratings was stable. In March 2003, S&P assigned its 'BBB+' senior
  unsecured debt rating to the £200 million bonds issued by WPD (South West).
  At the same time, the 'BBB+' and 'A-2' corporate credit ratings on SIUK Limited
  were withdrawn as a result of the acquisition of its debt by WPD LLP. S&P
  assigned its 'BBB' long-term and 'A-2' short-term corporate credit ratings to
  WPD LLP, in line with the ratings on the rest of the WPD group.

Following a review of holding companies of U.K. regulated utilities, in July
  2003 S&P downgraded the long-term ratings from 'BBB' to 'BBB-' and short-term
  ratings from 'A-2' to 'A-3' for both WPDH Limited and WPD LLP, and retained
  a negative outlook. At the same time, S&P reaffirmed the credit ratings
  for WPD (South West) and WPD (South Wales) at 'BBB+'. S&P stated that this
  is in line with S&P U.K.'s recently announced implementation of a new methodology
  related to U.K. electric distribution holding companies, whereby electric distribution
  operating companies rated in the 'BBB' category will have the parent holding
  company (WPDH Limited) notched down by two categories from the operating company
  rating level. WPD's management does not expect the placement of WPD on negative
  outlook to limit its ability to fund its short-term liquidity needs or access
  to new long-term debt or to impact materially the cost of any new long-term
  debt.

Subsequent Events

In February 2004, PPL successfully remarketed an aggregate liquidation amount
  of $257 million of the PPL Capital Funding Trust I trust preferred securities
  that were a component of the PEPS Units. The trust preferred securities were
  remarketed at a price of 107.284% of their aggregate stated liquidation amount,
  resulting in a yield to maturity of 3.912% based on the reset distribution rate
  of 7.29% per annum. Under the terms of the PEPS Units, holders were entitled
  to surrender their trust preferred securities for remarketing in order to settle
  the purchase contract component of the PEPS Units. Holders of an aggregate liquidation
  amount of $218 million of the trust preferred securities elected not to participate
  in the remarketing. Those holders will retain their trust preferred securities
  at a distribution rate of 7.29% per annum. Both the trust preferred securities
  that were remarketed and those that were not remarketed will mature in May 2006.

Additionally in February 2004, PPL Capital Funding issued $201 million of senior
  unsecured notes guaranteed by PPL. The senior notes bear interest at a rate
  of 4.33% per year that is payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 of
  each year, from September 1, 2004 through the maturity date of March 1, 2009.
  The senior notes are not redeemable by PPL or PPL Capital Funding, and the holders
  will not be entitled to require PPL or PPL Capital Funding to repurchase the
  senior notes before maturity. The senior notes were sold in an SEC Rule 144A private offering to
  qualified institutional buyers in exchange for $185 million aggregate liquidation
  amount of the trust preferred securities of PPL Capital Funding Trust I, which
  were surrendered for cancellation, and for a payment of $400,000 in cash. Except
  for the receipt of $400,000 in cash, neither PPL nor PPL Capital Funding received
  any cash proceeds from the sale of the senior notes. Pursuant to a registration
  rights agreement with the initial purchasers, PPL and PPL Capital Funding intend
  to consummate an exchange offer for the notes to register them with the SEC
  for resale.

Also in February 2004, notice was provided to the holders of the trust preferred
  securities that PPL has elected to liquidate PPL Capital Funding Trust I and
  cause the distribution of the underlying PPL Capital Funding 7.29% subordinated
  notes due 2006 to the holders of the trust preferred securities. The liquidation
  date is expected to occur on or about March 23, 2004. From and after the liquidation
  date, the trust preferred securities will no longer be deemed to be outstanding
  and the underlying PPL Capital Funding 7.29% subordinated notes will be held
  by the former holders of the trust preferred securities.

Finally, in February 2004, PPL announced an increase to its quarterly common
  stock dividend, payable April 1, 2004, to 41 cents per share (equivalent to
  $1.64 per annum). Future dividends, declared at the discretion of the Board
  of Directors, will be dependent upon future earnings, cash flows, financial
  requirements and other factors.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Electric provide guarantees for certain affiliate
  financing arrangements that enable certain transactions. Some of the guarantees
  contain financial and other covenants that, if not met, would limit or restrict
  the affiliates' access to funds under these financing arrangements, require
  early maturity of such arrangements or limit PPL's ability to enter into certain
  transactions. At this time, PPL believes that these covenants will not limit
  access to the relevant funding sources.

PPL has entered into certain guarantee agreements that are within the scope
  of FIN 45, "Guarantor's Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees,
  Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others, an Interpretation of
  FASB Statements No. 5, 57, and 107 and Rescission of FASB Interpretation No.
  34." See Note 14 to the Financial Statements for a discussion on guarantees.

Risk Management - Energy Marketing & Trading and Other

Market Risk

Background

Market risk is the potential loss PPL may incur as a result of price changes
  associated with a particular financial or commodity instrument. PPL is exposed
  to market risk from:

commodity price risk for energy and energy-related products associated with
    the sale of electricity, the purchase of fuel for the generating assets, and
    energy trading activities;

interest rate risk associated with variable-rate debt and the fair value
    of fixed-rate debt used to finance operations, as well as the fair value of
    debt securities invested in by PPL's nuclear decommissioning fund;

foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with investments in affiliates
    in Latin America and Europe, as well as purchases of equipment in currencies
    other than U.S. dollars; and

equity securities price risk associated with the fair value of equity securities
    invested in by PPL's nuclear decommissioning fund.

PPL has a risk management policy approved by the Board of Directors to manage
  market risk and counterparty credit risk. (Credit risk is discussed below.)
  The RMC, comprised of senior management and chaired by the Vice President-Risk
  Management, oversees the risk management function. Key risk control activities
  designed to monitor compliance with risk policies and detailed programs include,
  but are not limited to, credit review and approval, validation of transactions
  and market prices, verification of risk and transaction limits, sensitivity
  analyses, and daily portfolio reporting, including open positions, mark-to-market
  valuations and other risk measurement metrics. In addition, efforts are ongoing
  to develop systems to improve the timeliness, quality and breadth of market
  and credit risk information.

The forward-looking information presented below provides estimates of what
  may occur in the future, assuming certain adverse market conditions, due to
  reliance on model assumptions. Actual future results may differ materially from
  those presented. These disclosures are not precise indicators of expected future
  losses, but only indicators of reasonably possible losses.

Contract Valuation

PPL utilizes forward contracts, futures contracts, options, swaps and tolling
  agreements as part of its risk management strategy to minimize unanticipated
  fluctuations in earnings caused by commodity price, interest rate and foreign
  currency volatility.

When available, quoted market prices are used to
  determine the fair value of a commodity or financial instrument. This may include
  exchange prices, the average mid-point bid/ask spreads obtained from brokers,
  or an independent valuation by an external source, such as a bank. However,
  market prices for energy or energy-related contracts may not be readily determinable
  because of market illiquidity. If no active trading market exists, contracts
  are valued using internally developed models, which are then reviewed by an
  independent, internal group. Although PPL believes that its valuation methods
  are reasonable, changes in the underlying assumptions could result in significantly
  different values and realization in future periods.

To record derivatives at their fair value, PPL discounts the forward values
  using LIBOR. Additionally, PPL reduces derivative assets' carrying values to
  recognize differences in counterparty credit quality and potential illiquidity
  in the market:

The credit adjustment takes into account the probability of default, as
    calculated by an independent service, for each counterparty that has an out-of-the
    money position with PPL.

The liquidity adjustment takes into account the fact that it may not be
    appropriate to value contracts at the midpoint of the bid/ask spread. PPL
    might have to accept the "bid" price if PPL wanted to close an open sales
    position or PPL might have to accept the "ask" price if PPL wanted to close
    an open purchase position.

Accounting and Reporting

PPL follows the provisions of SFAS 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments
  and Hedging Activities," as amended by SFAS 138, "Accounting for Certain Derivative
  Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities," and SFAS 149, "Amendment of Statement
  133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," and interpreted by DIG
  issues (together, "SFAS 133"), EITF 02-3, "Issues Involved in Accounting for
  Derivative Contracts Held for Trading Purposes and Contracts Involved in Energy
  Trading and Risk Management Activities," and EITF 03-11, "Reporting Realized
  Gains and Losses on Derivative Instruments That Are Subject to FASB Statement
  No. 133 and Not 'Held for Trading Purposes' as Defined in Issue No. 02-3," to
  account for and report on contracts entered into to manage market risk. SFAS
  133 requires that all derivative instruments be recorded at fair value on the
  balance sheet as an asset or liability (unless they meet SFAS 133's criteria
  for exclusion) and that changes in the derivative's fair value be recognized
  currently in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met.

In April 2003, the FASB issued SFAS 149, which amends and clarifies SFAS 133
  to improve financial accounting and reporting for derivative instruments and
  hedging activities. To ensure that contracts with comparable characteristics
  are accounted for similarly, SFAS 149 clarifies the circumstances under which
  a contract with an initial net investment meets the characteristics of a derivative,
  clarifies when a derivative contains a financing component, amends the definition
  of an "underlying" and amends certain other existing pronouncements. Additionally,
  SFAS 149 placed additional limitations on the use of the normal purchase or
  normal sale exception. SFAS 149 was effective for contracts entered into or
  modified and for hedging relationships designated after June 30, 2003, except
  certain provisions relating to forward purchases or sales of when-issued securities
  or other securities that did not yet exist. PPL adopted SFAS 149 as of July
  1, 2003. The adoption of SFAS 149 did not have a significant impact on PPL.

PPL adopted the final provisions of EITF 02-3 during the fourth quarter of
  2002. As such, PPL now reflects its net realized and unrealized gains and losses
  associated with all derivatives that are held for trading purposes in the "Net
  energy trading margins" line on the Statement of Income. Non-derivative contracts
  that met the definition of energy trading activities as defined by EITF 98-10,
  "Accounting for Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities" are reflected
  in the financial statements using the accrual method of accounting. Under the
  accrual method of accounting, unrealized gains and losses are not reflected
  in the financial statements. Prior periods were reclassified. No cumulative
  effect adjustment was required upon adoption.

PPL has adopted the final provisions of EITF 03-11 prospectively as of October
  1, 2003. As a result of this adoption, non-trading bilateral sales of electricity
  at major market delivery points are netted with purchases that offset the sales
  at those same delivery points. A major market delivery point is any delivery
  point with liquid pricing available. See Note 17 to the Financial Statements
  for the impact of the adoption of EITF 03-11.

PPL's short-term derivative contracts are recorded as "Price risk management
  assets" and "Price risk management liabilities" on the Balance Sheet. Long-term
  derivative contracts are included in "Regulatory and Other Noncurrent Assets
  - Other" and "Deferred Credits and Other Noncurrent Liabilities - Other."

Accounting Designation

Energy contracts that do not qualify as derivatives receive accrual accounting.
  For energy contracts that meet the definition of a derivative, the circumstances
  and intent existing at the time that energy transactions are entered into determine
  their accounting designation. These designations are verified by PPL's risk
  control group on a daily basis. The following is a summary of the guidelines
  that have been provided to the traders who are responsible for contract designation
  for derivative energy contracts due to the adoption of SFAS 149:

Any wholesale and retail contracts to sell or buy electricity and the related
    capacity that are expected to be delivered from PPL's generation or that are
    approved by the RMC to fulfill a strategic element of PPL's overall marketing
    strategy are considered "normal." These transactions are not recorded in the
    financial statements and have no earnings impact until delivery.

Physical electricity-only transactions can receive cash flow hedge treatment
    if all of the qualifications under SFAS 133 are met. Any unrealized gains
    or losses on transactions receiving cash flow hedge treatment are recorded
    in other comprehensive income. These unrealized gains and losses become realized
    when the contracts settle and are recognized in income when the hedged transactions
    occur.

Physical electricity purchases that increase PPL's long position and any
    energy sale or purchase judged a "market call" are considered speculative,
    with unrealized gains or losses recorded immediately through earnings.

Financial transactions, which can be settled in cash, cannot be considered
    "normal" because they do not require physical delivery. These transactions
    receive cash flow hedge treatment if they lock-in the price PPL will receive
    or pay for energy expected to be generated or purchased in the spot market.
    Any unrealized gains or losses on transactions that receive cash flow hedge
    treatment are recorded in other comprehensive income. These unrealized gains
    and losses become realized when the contracts settle and are recognized in
    income when the hedged transactions occur.

Physical and financial transactions for gas and oil to meet fuel and retail
    requirements can receive cash flow hedge treatment if they lock-in the price
    PPL will pay in the spot market. Any unrealized gains or losses on transactions
    receiving cash flow hedge treatment are recorded in other comprehensive income.
    These unrealized gains and losses become realized when the contracts settle
    and are recognized in income when the hedged transactions occur.

Option contracts that do not meet the requirements of DIG Issue C15, "Scope
    Exceptions: Interpreting the Normal Purchases and Normal Sales Exception as
    an Election," do not receive hedge accounting treatment and are marked to
    market through earnings.

In addition to energy-related transactions, PPL enters into financial interest
  rate and foreign currency swap contracts to hedge interest expense associated
  with both existing and anticipated debt issuances. PPL also enters into foreign
  currency swap contracts to hedge the fair value of firm commitments denominated
  in foreign currency and net investments in foreign operations. As with energy
  transactions, the circumstances and intent existing at the time of the transaction
  determine a contract's accounting designation, which is subsequently verified
  by PPL's risk control group on a daily basis. The following is a summary of
  certain guidelines that have been provided to the Treasury Department, which
  is responsible for contract designation:

Transactions to lock-in an interest rate prior to a debt issuance are considered
    cash flow hedges. Any unrealized gains or losses on transactions receiving
    cash flow hedge treatment are recorded in other comprehensive income and are
    amortized as a component of interest expense over the life of the debt.

Transactions entered into to hedge fluctuations in the value of existing
    debt are considered fair value hedges with no earnings impact until the debt
    is terminated because the hedged debt is also marked to market.

Transactions entered into to hedge the value of a net investment of foreign
    operations are considered net investment hedges. To the extent that the derivatives
    are highly effective at hedging the value of the net investment, gains and
    losses are recorded in other comprehensive income/loss and will not be recorded
    in earnings until the investment is disposed of.

Transactions which do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment are marked
    to market through earnings.

Commodity Price Risk

Commodity price risk is one of PPL's most significant risks due to the level
  of investment that PPL maintains in its generation assets, coupled with the
  volatility of prices for energy and energy-related products. Several factors
  influence price levels and volatilities. These factors include, but are not
  limited to, seasonal changes in demand, weather conditions, available generating
  assets within regions, transportation availability and reliability within and
  between regions, market liquidity, and the nature and extent of current and
  potential federal and state regulations. To hedge the impact of market price
  fluctuations on PPL's energy-related assets, liabilities and other contractual
  arrangements, PPL EnergyPlus sells and purchases physical energy at the wholesale
  level under FERC market-based tariffs throughout the U.S. and enters into financial
  exchange-traded and over-the-counter contracts. Because of the generating assets
  PPL owns or controls, the majority of PPL's energy transactions qualify for
  accrual or hedge accounting.

Within PPL's hedge portfolio, the decision to enter into energy contracts hinges
  on the expected value of PPL's generation. To address this risk, PPL takes a
  conservative approach in determining the number of MWhs that are available to
  be sold forward. In this regard, PPL reduces the maximum potential output that
  a plant may produce by three factors - planned maintenance, unplanned outages
  and economic conditions. The potential output of a plant is first reduced by
  the amount of unavailable generation due to planned maintenance on a particular
  unit. Another reduction, representing the unplanned outage rate, is the amount
  of MWhs that historically is not produced by a plant due to such factors as
  equipment breakage. Finally, the potential output of certain plants (like peaking
  units) are reduced because their higher cost of production will not allow them
  to economically run during all hours.

PPL's non-trading portfolio also includes full requirements energy contracts.
  The net obligation to serve these contracts changes minute by minute. PPL analyzes
  historical on-peak and off-peak usage patterns, as well as spot prices and weather
  patterns, to determine a monthly level of a block of electricity that best fits
  the usage patterns in order to minimize earnings volatility. On a forward basis,
  PPL reserves a block amount of generation for full requirements energy contracts
  that is expected to be the best match with their anticipated usage patterns
  and energy peaks. Anticipated usage patterns and peaks are affected by expected
  load growth, regional economic drivers and seasonality.

PPL's commodity derivative contracts that qualify for hedge accounting treatment
  mature at various times through 2010. The following chart sets forth PPL's net
  fair market value of these contracts as of December 31, 2003:

During 2003, PPL realized or otherwise settled net gains of approximately $67
  million related to contracts entered into prior to January 1, 2003. This amount
  does not reflect intra-quarter contracts that were entered into and settled
  during the period.

"Other changes in fair values," a gain of approximately $90 million, represents
  changes in the market value that occurred during 2003 for contracts that were
  outstanding at the end of 2003.

The following chart segregates estimated fair values of PPL's commodity derivative
  contracts that qualify for hedge accounting treatment at December 31, 2003 based
  on whether the fair values are determined by quoted market prices or other more
  subjective means.

The "Prices actively quoted" category includes the fair value of exchange-traded
  natural gas futures contracts quoted on the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX).
  The NYMEX has currently quoted prices through 2010.

The "Prices provided by other external sources" category includes PPL's forward
  positions and options in natural gas and power and natural gas basis swaps at
  points for which over-the-counter (OTC) broker quotes are available. The fair
  value of electricity positions recorded above use the midpoint of the bid/ask
  spreads obtained through OTC brokers. On average, OTC quotes for forwards and
  swaps of natural gas and power extend one and two years into the future.

The "Prices based on models and other valuation methods" category includes
  the value of transactions for which an internally developed price curve was
  constructed as a result of the long-dated nature of the transaction or the illiquidity
  of the market point, or the value of options not quoted by an exchange or OTC
  broker. Additionally, this category includes "strip" transactions whose prices
  are obtained from external sources and then modeled to monthly prices as appropriate.

Because of PPL's efforts to hedge the value of the energy from its generation
  assets, PPL has open contractual positions. If PPL were unable to deliver firm
  capacity and energy under its agreements, under certain circumstances it would
  be required to pay damages. These damages would be based on the difference between
  the market price to acquire replacement capacity or energy and the contract
  price of the undelivered capacity or energy. Depending on price volatility in
  the wholesale energy markets, such damages could be significant. Extreme weather
  conditions, unplanned power plant outages, transmission disruptions, non-performance
  by counterparties (or their counterparties) with which it has power contracts
  and other factors could affect PPL's ability to meet its firm capacity or energy
  obligations, or cause significant increases in the market price of replacement
  capacity and energy. Although PPL attempts to mitigate these risks, there can
  be no assurance that it will be able to fully meet its firm obligations, that
  it will not be required to pay damages for failure to perform, or that it will
  not experience counterparty non-performance in the future.

As of December 31, 2003, PPL estimated that a 10% adverse movement in market
  prices across all geographic areas and time periods would have decreased the
  value of the commodity contracts in its non-trading portfolio by approximately
  $146 million, which is equal to the estimated decrease at December 31,
  2002. However, the change in the value of the non-trading portfolio would have
  been substantially offset by an increase in the value of the underlying commodity,
  the electricity generated, because these contracts serve to reduce the market
  risk inherent in the generation of electricity. Additionally, the value of PPL's
  unsold generation would be improved. Because PPL's electricity portfolio is
  generally in a net sales position, the adverse movement in prices is usually
  an increase in prices. Conversely, because PPL's commodity fuels portfolio is
  generally in a net purchase position, the adverse movement in prices is usually
  a decrease in prices. If both of these scenarios happened, the implied margins
  for the unsold generation would increase.

PPL also executes energy contracts to take advantage of market opportunities.
  As a result, PPL may at times create a net open position in its portfolio that
  could result in significant losses if prices do not move in the manner or direction
  anticipated. The margins from these trading activities are shown in the Statement
  of Income as "Net energy trading margins."

PPL's trading contracts mature at various times through 2005. The following
  chart sets forth PPL's net fair market value of trading contracts as of December
  31, 2003.

During 2003, PPL realized or otherwise settled net losses of approximately
  $21 million related to contracts entered into prior to January 1, 2003. This
  amount does not reflect intra-year contracts that were entered into and settled
  during the period.

The fair value of new contracts at inception is usually zero, because they
  are entered into at current market prices. However, when PPL enters into an
  option contract, a premium is paid or received. PPL paid $1 million, net, during
  2003 for these option contracts.

"Other changes in fair values," a loss of approximately $13 million, represent
  changes in the market value of contracts outstanding at the end of 2003.

As of December 31, 2003, the net loss on PPL's trading activities expected
  to be recognized in earnings during the next three months is approximately $2
  million.

The following chart segregates estimated fair values of PPL's trading portfolio
  at December 31, 2003 based on whether the fair values are determined by quoted
  market prices or other more subjective means.

The "Prices actively quoted" category includes the fair value of exchange-traded
  natural gas futures contracts quoted on the NYMEX. The NYMEX has currently quoted
  prices through 2010.

The "Prices provided by other external sources" category includes PPL's forward
  positions and options in natural gas and power and natural gas basis swaps at
  points for which OTC broker quotes are available. The fair value of electricity
  positions recorded above use the midpoint of the bid/ask spreads obtained through
  OTC brokers. On average, OTC quotes for forwards and swaps of natural gas and
  power extend one and two years into the future.

The "Prices based on models and other valuation methods" category includes
  the value of transactions for which an internally developed price curve was
  constructed as a result of the long-dated nature of the transaction or the illiquidity
  of the market point, or the value of options not quoted by an exchange or OTC
  broker. Additionally, this category includes "strip" transactions whose prices
  are obtained from external sources and then modeled to monthly prices as appropriate.

As of December 31, 2003, PPL estimated that a 10% adverse movement in market
  prices across all geographic areas and time periods would have decreased the
  value of the commodity contracts in its trading portfolio by $3 million compared
  to a decrease of $7 million at December 31, 2002.

In accordance with its marketing strategy, PPL does not completely hedge its
  generation output or fuel requirements. PPL estimates that for its entire portfolio,
  including all generation and physical and financial energy positions, a 10%
  adverse change in power prices across all geographic zones and time periods
  will decrease expected 2004 gross margins by about $3 million. Similarly, a
  10% adverse movement in all fossil fuel prices will decrease 2004 gross margins
  by $15 million.

Interest Rate Risk

PPL and its subsidiaries have issued debt to finance their operations. PPL
  utilizes various financial derivative products to adjust the mix of fixed and
  floating interest rates in its debt portfolio, adjust the duration of its debt
  portfolio and lock in U.S. Treasury rates (and interest rate spreads over treasuries)
  in anticipation of future financing, when appropriate. Risk limits under the
  risk management program are designed to balance risk exposure to volatility
  in interest expense and changes in the fair value of PPL's debt portfolio due
  to changes in the absolute level of interest rates.

At December 31, 2003, PPL's potential annual exposure to increased interest
  expense, based on a 10% increase in interest rates, was estimated at $2 million,
  compared to a $3 million increase at December 31, 2002.

PPL is also exposed to changes in the fair value of its U.S. and international
  debt portfolios. At December 31, 2003, PPL estimated that its potential exposure
  to a change in the fair value of its debt portfolio, through a 10% adverse movement
  in interest rates, was $168 million, compared to $219 million at December 31,
  2002.

PPL utilizes various risk management instruments to reduce its exposure to
  adverse interest rate movements for future anticipated financing. While PPL
  is exposed to changes in the fair value of these instruments, they are designed
  such that an economic loss in value should generally be offset by interest rate
  savings at the time the future anticipated financing is completed. At December
  31, 2003, PPL estimated that its potential exposure to a change in the fair
  value of these instruments, through a 10% adverse movement in interest rates,
  was approximately $6 million, compared to an $18 million exposure at December
  31, 2002.

Foreign Currency Risk

PPL is exposed to foreign currency risk, primarily through investments in affiliates
  in Latin America and Europe. In addition, PPL may make purchases of equipment
  in currencies other than U.S. dollars.

PPL has adopted a foreign currency risk management program designed to hedge
  certain foreign currency exposures, including firm commitments, recognized assets
  or liabilities and net investments. In addition, PPL enters into financial instruments
  to protect against foreign currency translation risk.

PPL holds contracts for the forward purchase of 26 million euros to pay for
  certain equipment of PPL Susquehanna in 2004. The estimated value of these forward
  purchases as of December 31, 2003, being the amount PPL would receive to
  terminate them, was $1 million.

PPL executed forward sale transactions for £25 million to hedge a portion
  of its net investment in WPDH Limited. The estimated value of these agreements
  as of December 31, 2003 was $4 million, being the amount PPL would pay to terminate
  the transactions.

PPL executed forward sale transactions for 3.1 billion Chilean pesos to hedge
  a portion of its net investment in its subsidiary that owns CGE. The estimated
  value of these agreements as of December 31, 2003 was $1 million, being the
  amount PPL would pay to terminate the transactions.

To protect expected income in Chilean pesos, PPL entered into average rate
  options for 2.4 billion Chilean pesos. At December 31, 2003, the market
  value of these positions, representing the amount PPL would pay to terminate
  them, was insignificant.

WPDH Limited executed cross-currency swaps totaling $1.5 billion to hedge the
  interest payments and value of its U.S. dollar-denominated bonds. The estimated
  value of this position on December 31, 2003, being the amount PPL would pay
  to terminate them, including accrued interest, was $84 million.

On the Statement of Income, gains and loses associated with hedges of interest
  payments denominated in foreign currencies are reflected in "Interest Expense."
  Gains and losses associated with the purchase of equipment are reflected in
  "Depreciation." Gains and losses associated with net investment hedges remain
  in "Accumulated other comprehensive loss" on the Balance Sheet until the investment
  is disposed.

Nuclear Decommissioning Fund - Securities Price Risk

In connection with certain NRC requirements, PPL Susquehanna maintains trust
  funds to fund certain costs of decommissioning the Susquehanna station. As of
  December 31, 2003, these funds were invested primarily in domestic equity securities
  and fixed-rate, fixed-income securities and are reflected at fair value on PPL's
  Balance Sheet. The mix of securities is designed to provide returns to be used
  to fund Susquehanna's decommissioning and to compensate for inflationary increases
  in decommissioning costs. However, the equity securities included in the trusts
  are exposed to price fluctuation in equity markets, and the values of fixed-rate,
  fixed-income securities are exposed to changes in interest rates. PPL Susquehanna
  actively monitors the investment performance and periodically reviews asset
  allocation in accordance with its nuclear decommissioning trust policy statement.
  At December 31, 2003, a hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates and a 10%
  decrease in equity prices would have resulted in an estimated $24 million reduction
  in the fair value of the trust assets, as compared to a $16 million reduction
  at December 31, 2002.

PPL Electric's 1998 restructuring settlement agreement provides for the collection
  of authorized nuclear decommissioning costs through the CTC. Additionally, PPL
  Electric is permitted to seek recovery from customers of up to 96% of certain
  increases in these costs. Under the power supply agreements between PPL Electric
  and PPL EnergyPlus, these revenues are passed on to PPL EnergyPlus. Similarly,
  these revenues are passed on to PPL Susquehanna under a power supply agreement
  between PPL EnergyPlus and PPL Susquehanna. These revenues are used to fund
  the trusts.

Credit Risk

Credit risk relates to the risk of loss that PPL would incur as a result of
  non-performance by counterparties of their contractual obligations. PPL maintains
  credit policies and procedures with respect to counterparties (including requirements
  that counterparties maintain certain credit ratings criteria) and requires other
  assurances in the form of credit support or collateral in certain circumstances
  in order to limit counterparty credit risk. However, PPL has concentrations
  of suppliers and customers among electric utilities, natural gas distribution
  companies and other energy marketing and trading companies. These concentrations
  of counterparties may impact PPL's overall exposure to credit risk, either positively
  or negatively, in that counterparties may be similarly affected by changes in
  economic, regulatory or other conditions. As discussed above under "Contract
  Valuation," PPL records certain non-performance reserves to reflect the probability
  that a counterparty with contracts that are out of the money (from the counterparty's
  standpoint) will default in its performance, in which case PPL would have to
  sell into a lower-priced market or purchase from a higher-priced market. These
  reserves are reflected in the fair value of assets recorded in "Price risk management
  assets" on the Balance Sheet. PPL also records reserves to reflect the probability
  that a counterparty will not make payments for deliveries PPL has made but not
  yet billed. These reserves are reflected in "Unbilled revenues" on the Balance
  Sheet. PPL has also established a reserve with respect to certain sales to the
  California ISO for which PPL has not yet been paid, as well as a reserve related
  to PPL's exposure as a result of the Enron bankruptcy, which are reflected in
  "Accounts receivable" on the Balance Sheet. See Notes 14 and 17 to the Financial
  Statements.

Related Party Transactions

PPL is not aware of any material ownership interests or operating responsibility
  by senior management of PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric or PPL Montana
  in outside partnerships, including leasing transactions with variable interest
  entities, or other entities doing business with PPL.

For additional information on related party accounting transactions, see Note
  15 to the Financial Statements.

Capital Expenditure Requirements

The schedule below shows PPL's current capital expenditure projections for
  the years 2004-2008 and actual spending for the year 2003:

(a)

Construction expenditures include AFUDC
        and capitalized interest, which are expected to be less than $12 million
        in each of the years 2004-2008.

(b)

This information excludes any investments
        by PPL Global for new projects.

(c)

Expenditures for generating facilities
        in 2003 include $116 million for facilities under synthetic lease agreements
        that had been reflected off-balance sheet prior to December 31, 2003.
        Projected capital expenditures on these facilities are also included for
        the years 2004 through 2008.

PPL's capital expenditure projections for the years 2004-2008 total about $3.8
  billion. Capital expenditure plans are revised periodically to reflect changes
  in market, and asset regulatory conditions. PPL also leases vehicles, personal
  computers and other equipment, as described in Note 10 to the Financial Statements.
  See Note 14 for additional information regarding potential capital expenditures
  for environmental projects.

Acquisitions, Development and Divestitures

From time-to-time, PPL and its subsidiaries are involved in negotiations with
  third parties regarding acquisitions, joint ventures and other arrangements
  which may or may not result in definitive agreements. See Note 9 to the Financial
  Statements for information regarding recent acquisitions and development activities.

At December 31, 2003, PPL Global had investments in foreign facilities, including
  consolidated investments in WPD, Emel, EC and others. See Note 3 to the Financial
  Statements for information on unconsolidated investments accounted for under
  the equity method.

PPL Global is exploring potential sale opportunities for its
  interest in CGE, within the context of an on-going
  review of its international minority ownership investments.

At December 31, 2003, PPL had domestic generation projects under development
  which will provide 663 MW of additional generation.

PPL is continuously reexamining development projects based on market conditions
  and other factors to determine whether to proceed with these projects, sell
  them, cancel them, expand them, execute tolling agreements or pursue other opportunities.

Environmental Matters

See Note 14 to the Financial Statements for a discussion of environmental matters.

Competition

See Item 1, "Business - Competition," for additional information.

New Accounting Standards

FIN 46 and FIN 46(R)

In January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 46, "Consolidation of Variable
  Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51." FIN 46 clarifies that variable
  interest entities, as defined therein, that do not disperse risks among the
  parties involved should be consolidated by the entity that is determined to
  be the primary beneficiary. FIN 46 also requires certain disclosures to be made
  by the primary beneficiary and by an enterprise that holds a significant variable
  interest in a variable interest entity but is not the primary beneficiary. FIN
  46 applies immediately to variable interest entities created after January 31,
  2003 and to variable interest entities in which an enterprise obtains an interest
  after January 31, 2003. For variable interest entities in which an enterprise
  holds a variable interest that was acquired before February 1, 2003, FIN 46
  was originally required to be adopted no later than the first fiscal year or
  interim period beginning after June 15, 2003. However, in October 2003, the
  FASB issued FSP FIN 46-6, "Effective Date of FASB Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation
  of Variable Interest Entities," which delayed the effective date for applying
  the provisions of FIN 46 to interests held by public entities in variable interest
  entities or potential variable interest entities created before February 1,
  2003 until the end of the first interim period ending after December 15, 2003.

In December 2003, the FASB revised FIN 46 by issuing Interpretation No. 46
  (revised December 2003), which is known as FIN 46(R) and replaces FIN 46. FIN
  46(R) does not change the general consolidation concepts of FIN 46. Among other
  things, FIN 46(R) again changes the effective date for applying the provisions
  of FIN 46 to certain entities, clarifies certain provisions of FIN 46 and provides
  additional scope exceptions for certain types of businesses. For entities to
  which the provisions of FIN 46 have not been applied as of December 24, 2003,
  FIN 46(R) provides that a public entity that is not a small business issuer
  should apply the provisions of FIN 46 or FIN 46(R) as follows: (i) FIN 46(R)
  shall be applied to all entities no later than the end of the first reporting
  period that ends after March 15, 2004 and (ii) FIN 46 or FIN 46(R) should be
  applied to entities that are considered to be SPEs no later than the end of
  the first reporting period that ends after December 15, 2003.

As permitted by FIN 46(R), PPL adopted FIN 46 effective December 31, 2003 for
  entities created before February 1, 2003 that are considered to be SPEs. This
  adoption resulted in the consolidation of the lessors under the operating leases
  for the Sundance, University Park and Lower Mt. Bethel generation facilities,
  as well as the deconsolidation of two wholly-owned trusts. See below for further
  discussion. Also, as permitted by FIN 46(R), PPL deferred the application of
  FIN 46 for other entities and plans to adopt FIN 46(R) for all entities on March
  31, 2004.

PPL is in the process of evaluating entities in which it holds a variable interest
  in accordance with FIN 46(R). PPL is currently not aware of any variable interest
  entities that are not consolidated as of December 31, 2003 but which it will
  be required to consolidate in accordance with FIN 46(R) effective March 31,
  2004. As it continues to evaluate the impact of applying FIN 46(R), PPL may
  identify additional entities that it would need to consolidate.

Additional Entities Consolidated

The lessors under the operating leases for the Sundance, University Park and
  Lower Mt. Bethel generation facilities are variable interest entities that are
  considered to be SPEs. PPL is the primary beneficiary of these entities. Consequently,
  PPL was required to consolidate the financial statements of the lessors effective
  December 31, 2003. Upon initial consolidation, PPL recognized $1.1 billion of
  additional assets and liabilities on its balance sheet and a charge of $27 million,
  after-tax, as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle. The additional
  assets consist principally of the generation facilities, and the additional
  liabilities consist principally of the lease financing. See Note 22 to the Financial
  Statements for a discussion of the leases.

Entities Deconsolidated

Effective December 31, 2003, PPL deconsolidated PPL Capital Funding Trust I
  and SIUK Capital Trust I. These trusts are considered to be SPEs and were deconsolidated
  because PPL is not the primary beneficiary of the trusts under current interpretations
  of FIN 46. Therefore, the "Company-obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred
  Securities of Subsidiary Trusts Holding Solely Company Debentures" amounting
  to $661 million, which would have been recorded as a component of long-term
  debt in 2003 in accordance with SFAS 150, "Accounting for Certain Financial
  Instruments with Characteristics of Both Liabilities and Equity," if the trusts
  were consolidated, are not reflected in PPL's Balance Sheet at December 31,
  2003. Instead, the subordinated debt securities that support the trust preferred
  securities are reflected in "Long-term Debt with Affiliate Trusts" as of December
  31, 2003. See below for further discussion.

The trusts hold subordinated debt securities of PPL Capital Funding, in the
  case of PPL Capital Funding Trust I, and WPD LLP, in the case of SIUK Capital
  Trust I. As a result of deconsolidating the trusts, the subordinated debt securities
  are no longer eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. As of December
  31, 2003, $681 million is reflected as "Long-term Debt with Affiliate Trusts"
  in PPL's Balance Sheet.

The effect on the Balance Sheet as a result of deconsolidating the trusts was
  an increase in both total assets and total liabilities of $21 million. The increase
  in assets relates to the investments in the common securities of the trusts,
  which are no longer eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. The
  increase in liabilities consists primarily of the difference between the carrying
  value of the preferred securities issued by the trusts compared to the carrying
  value of the subordinated debt securities of PPL Capital Funding and WPD LLP.
  The deconsolidation of the trusts did not impact the earnings of PPL.

See the Statement of Company-obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Securities contained
  in the Financial Statements for a discussion of the trusts and their preferred
  securities, as well as the subordinated debt securities issued to the trusts.

Other

See Note 22 to the Financial Statements for information on other new accounting
  standards adopted in 2003 or pending adoption.

Application of Critical Accounting Policies

PPL's financial condition and results of operations are impacted by the methods,
  assumptions and estimates used in the application of critical accounting policies.
  The following accounting policies are particularly important to the financial
  condition or results of operations of PPL, and require estimates or other judgments
  of matters inherently uncertain. Changes in the estimates or other judgments
  included within these accounting policies could result in a significant change
  to the information presented in the financial statements. (These accounting
  policies are also discussed in Note 1 to the Financial Statements.) PPL's senior
  management has reviewed these critical accounting policies, and the estimates
  and assumptions regarding them, with its Audit Committee. In addition, PPL's
  senior management has reviewed the following disclosures regarding the application
  of these critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee.

1)  Price Risk Management

See "Risk Management - Energy Marketing & Trading and Other" in Financial
      Condition.

2)  Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits

PPL follows the guidance of SFAS 87, "Employers' Accounting for Pensions,"
  and SFAS 106, "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than
  Pensions," when accounting for these benefits. Under these accounting standards,
  assumptions are made regarding the valuation of benefit obligations and the
  performance of plan assets. Delayed recognition of differences between actual
  results and expected or estimated results is a guiding principle of these standards.
  This delayed recognition of actual results allows for a smoothed recognition
  of changes in benefit obligations and plan performance over the working lives
  of the employees who benefit under the plans. The primary assumptions are as
  follows:

Discount Rate - The discount rate is used in calculating the present value
    of benefits, which is based on projections of benefit payments to be made
    in the future.

Expected Return on Plan Assets - Management projects the future return on
    plan assets considering prior performance, but primarily based upon the plans'
    mix of assets and expectations for the long-term returns on those asset classes.
    These projected returns reduce the net benefit costs the company will record
    currently.

Rate of Compensation Increase - Management projects employees' annual pay
    increases, which are used to project employees' pension benefits at retirement.

Health Care Cost Trend Rate - Management projects the expected increases
    in the cost of health care.

In selecting discount rates, PPL considers fixed-income security yield rates.
  At December 31, 2003, PPL decreased the discount rate for its domestic plans
  from 6.75% to 6.25% as a result of decreased fixed-income security returns.
  For its international plans, PPL decreased the discount rate for its international
  plans from 5.75% to 5.50% at December 31, 2003.

In selecting an expected return on plan assets, PPL considers tax implications,
  past performance and economic forecasts for the types of investments held by
  the plan. At December 31, 2003, PPL's expected return on plan assets remained
  at 9.0% for its domestic pension plans and 7.8% for its other postretirement
  plans. For its international plans, PPL maintained a weighted average of 8.30%
  as the expected return on plan assets at December 31, 2003.

In selecting a rate of compensation increase, PPL considers past experience
  in light of movements in inflation rates. At December 31, 2003, PPL's rate of
  compensation increase remained at 4.0% for its domestic plans. For its international
  plans, PPL's rate of compensation increase remained at 3.75% at December 31,
  2003.

In selecting health care cost trend rates, PPL considers past performance and
  forecasts of health care costs. At December 31, 2003, PPL's health care
  cost trend rates were 11% for 2004, gradually declining to 5.0% for 2010.

A variance in the assumptions listed above could have a significant impact
  on projected benefit obligations, accrued pension and other postretirement benefit
  liabilities, reported annual net periodic pension and other postretirement benefit
  cost and other comprehensive income (OCI). The following chart reflects the
  sensitivities associated with a change in certain assumptions. While the chart
  below reflects either an increase or decrease in each assumption, the inverse
  of this change would impact the projected benefit obligation, accrued pension
  and other postretirement benefit liabilities, reported annual net periodic pension
  and other postretirement benefit cost and OCI by a similar amount in the opposite
  direction. Each sensitivity below reflects an evaluation of the change based
  solely on a change in that assumption.

(a)

Excludes the impact of additional minimum
        liability.

(b)

Only impacts other postretirement benefits.

At December 31, 2003, PPL had recognized accrued pension and other postretirement
  benefit liabilities totaling $463 million, included in "Deferred Credits and
  Other Noncurrent Liabilities - Other" on the Balance Sheet. At December 31,
  2003, PPL had recognized $4 million of prepaid postretirement benefit costs
  included in "Prepayments" on the Balance Sheet. PPL's total projected obligation
  for these benefits was approximately $4.8 billion, which was offset by $4.0
  billion of assets held in various trusts. However, these amounts are not fully
  reflected in the current financial statements due to the delayed recognition
  criteria of the accounting standards for these obligations.

In 2003, PPL recognized net periodic pension and other postretirement costs
      charged to operating expenses of $1 million. This amount represents a $62
      million decrease from the credit recognized during 2002. This decrease was
      primarily due to the decrease in the discount rate at December 31, 2002.

As a result of the decrease in the assumed discount rate at December 31, 2003,
  PPL was required to increase its recognized additional minimum pension liability.
  Recording the change in the additional minimum liability resulted in a $10 million
  increase to the pension related charge to OCI, net of taxes, translation adjustment
  and unrecognized prior service costs, with no effect on net income. This charge
  increased the pension-related balance in OCI, which is a reduction to shareowners
  equity, to $316 million at December 31, 2003. The charges to OCI will reverse
  in future periods if the fair value of trust assets exceeds the accumulated
  benefit obligation.

Refer to Note 12 to the Financial Statements for additional information regarding
  pension and other postretirement benefits.

3)  Asset Impairment

PPL and its subsidiaries review long-lived assets for impairment when events
      or circumstances indicate carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Assets
      subject to this review, for which impairments have been recorded in 2003
      or prior years, include international equity investments, new generation
      assets, consolidated international energy projects and goodwill.

PPL performs impairment analyses for tangible long-lived assets in accordance
      with SFAS 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived
      Assets." For long-lived assets to be held and used, SFAS 144 requires companies
      to (a) recognize an impairment loss only if the carrying amount is not recoverable
      from undiscounted cash flows and (b) measure an impairment loss as the difference
      between the carrying amount and fair value of the asset.

In determining asset impairments, management must make significant judgments
      and estimates to calculate the fair value of an investment. Fair value is
      developed through consideration of several valuation methods including comparison
      to market multiples, comparison to similar recent sales transactions, comparison
      to replacement cost and discounted cash flow. Discounted cash flow is calculated
      by estimating future cash flow streams, applying appropriate discount rates
      to determine the present value of the cash flow streams, and then assessing
      the probability of the various cash flow scenarios. The impairment is then
      recorded based on the excess of the carrying value of the investment over
      fair value. Changes in assumptions and estimates included within the impairment
      reviews could result in significantly different results than those identified
      and recorded in the financial statements.

During 2003, PPL and its subsidiaries evaluated certain gas-fired generation
      assets for impairment, as events and circumstances indicated that the carrying
      value of these investments may not be recoverable. PPL did not record an
      impairment of its new gas-fired generation assets in 2003. For these impairment
      analyses, the most significant assumption was the estimate of future cash
      flows. PPL estimates future cash flow using information from its corporate
      business plan adjusted for any recent sales or purchase commitments. Key
      factors that impact cash flows include projected prices for electricity
      and gas as well as firm sales and purchase commitments. A 10% decrease in
      estimated future cash flows for certain in-service gas-fired generation
      assets would have resulted in an impairment charge.

PPL performs impairment analyses of goodwill in accordance with SFAS 142,
      "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." SFAS 142 requires an annual impairment
      test of goodwill and other intangible assets that are not subject to amortization.

PPL completed its annual goodwill impairment test in the fourth quarter
      of 2003. This test did not result in an impairment. PPL's most significant
      assumptions surrounding the goodwill impairment test relate to the determination
      of fair value. PPL determined fair value based upon discounted cash flows.
      A decrease in the forecasted cash flows of 10% or an increase of the discount
      rates by 25 basis points would have resulted in impairment.

4)  Leasing

PPL applies the provisions of SFAS 13, "Accounting for Leases," to all
      leasing transactions. In addition, PPL applies the provisions of numerous
      other accounting pronouncements issued by the FASB and the EITF that provide
      specific guidance and additional requirements related to accounting for
      various leasing arrangements. In general, there are two types of leases
      from a lessee's perspective: operating leases - leases accounted for off-balance
      sheet; and capital leases - leases capitalized on the balance sheet.

In accounting for leases, management makes various assumptions, including
      the discount rate, the fair market value of the leased assets and the estimated
      useful life, in determining whether a lease should be classified as operating
      or capital. Changes in these assumptions could result in the difference
      between whether a lease is determined to be an operating lease or a capital
      lease, thus significantly impacting the amounts to be recognized in the
      financial statements.

In addition to uncertainty inherent in management's assumptions, leasing
      transactions and the related accounting rules become increasingly complex
      when they involve: sale/leaseback accounting (leasing transactions where
      the lessee previously owned the leased assets); synthetic leases (leases
      that qualify for operating lease treatment for book accounting purposes
      and financing treatment for tax accounting purposes); and lessee involvement
      in the construction of leased assets.

At December 31, 2003, PPL subsidiaries participated in one significant
      sale/leaseback transaction which has been accounted for as an operating
      lease. As discussed in Note 22 to the Financial Statements, the lessors
      under certain synthetic operating leases previously accounted for off-balance
      sheet were consolidated effective December 31, 2003 as a result of the adoption
      of FIN 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation
      of ARB No. 51," for certain entities.

Sale/Leaseback

In July 2000, PPL Montana sold its interest in the Colstrip generating
      plant to owner lessors who are leasing the assets back to PPL Montana under
      four 36-year operating leases. This transaction is accounted for as an operating
      lease in accordance with current rules related to sale/leaseback arrangements.
      If for any reason this transaction did not meet the requirements for off-balance
      sheet operating lease treatment as a sale/leaseback, PPL would have approximately
      $315 million of additional assets and liabilities recorded on its balance
      sheet at December 31, 2003 and would have recorded additional expenses
      currently estimated at $9 million, after-tax, in 2003.

See Note 10 to the Financial Statements for additional information related
      to operating leases.

5)  Loss Contingencies

PPL periodically records the estimated impacts of various conditions, situations
  or circumstances involving uncertain outcomes. These events are called "contingencies,"
  and PPL's accounting for such events is prescribed by SFAS 5, "Accounting for
  Contingencies." SFAS 5 defines a contingency as "an existing condition, situation,
  or set of circumstances involving uncertainty as to possible gain or loss to
  an enterprise that will ultimately be resolved when one or more future events
  occur or fail to occur."

For loss contingencies, the loss must be accrued if (1) information is available
  that indicates it is "probable" that the loss has been incurred, given the likelihood
  of the uncertain future events and (2) the amount of the loss can be reasonably
  estimated. FASB defines "probable" as cases in which "the future event or events
  are likely to occur." SFAS 5 does not permit the accrual of contingencies that
  might result in gains.

The accrual of a loss contingency involves considerable judgment on the part
  of management. The accounting aspects of loss contingencies include: (1) the
  initial identification and recording of the loss contingency; (2) the determination
  of a triggering event for reducing a recorded loss contingency; and (3) the
  on-going assessment as to whether a recorded loss contingency is reasonable.

Initial Identification and Recording of the Loss Contingency

PPL uses its internal expertise and outside experts (such as lawyers, tax specialists
  and engineers), as necessary, to help estimate the probability that a loss has
  been incurred and the amount (or range) of the loss. PPL continuously assesses
  potential loss contingencies for environmental remediation, litigation claims,
  regulatory penalties and other events.

PPL has identified certain events which could give rise to a loss, but which
  do not meet the conditions for accrual under SFAS 5. SFAS 5 requires disclosure,
  but not a recording, of potential losses when it is "reasonably possible" that
  a loss has been incurred. FASB defines "reasonably possible" as cases in which
  "the chance of the future event or events occurring is more than remote but
  less than likely." See Note 14 to the Financial Statements for disclosure of
  potential loss contingencies, most of which have not met the criteria for accrual
  under SFAS 5.

Reducing Recorded Loss Contingencies

When a loss contingency is recorded, PPL identifies, where applicable, the
  triggering events for subsequently reducing the loss contingency. The triggering
  events generally occur when the contingency has been resolved and the actual
  loss is incurred, or when the risk of loss has diminished or been eliminated.
  The following are some of the triggering events which provide for the reduction
  of certain recorded loss contingencies:

Certain loss contingencies are systematically reduced based on the expiration
    of contract terms. An example of this is the recorded liability for above-market
    NUG purchase commitments, which is described below. This loss contingency
    is being reduced over the lives of the NUG purchase contracts.

Allowances for excess or obsolete inventory are reduced as the inventory
    items are pulled from the warehouse shelves and sold as scrap or otherwise
    disposed.

Allowances for uncollectible accounts are reduced when accounts are written
    off after prescribed collection procedures have been exhausted.

Environmental loss contingencies are reduced when PPL makes payments for
    environmental remediation.

On-Going Assessment of Recorded Loss Contingencies

PPL reviews its loss contingencies on a regular basis to assure that the recorded
  potential loss exposures are reasonable. This involves on-going communication
  and analyses with internal and external legal counsel, engineers, tax specialists,
  managers in various operational areas and other parties.

All three aspects of accounting for loss contingencies - the initial identification
  and recording of a probable loss, the identification of triggering events to
  reduce the loss contingency, and the ongoing assessment of the reasonableness
  of a recorded loss contingency - require significant judgment by PPL's management.

The largest loss contingency on PPL's balance sheet, and the loss contingency
  that changed most significantly in 2003, was for above-market NUG purchase commitments.
  This loss contingency reflects the estimated difference between the above-market
  contract terms under the purchase commitments, and the fair value of electricity.
  This loss contingency was originally recorded at $854 million in 1998, when
  PPL Electric's generation business was deregulated. Under regulatory accounting,
  PPL Electric recorded the above-market cost of the purchases from NUGs as part
  of its purchased power costs on an as-incurred basis, since these costs were
  recovered in regulated rates. When the generation business was deregulated,
  the loss contingency associated with the commitment to make above-market NUG
  purchases was recorded. This loss contingency for the above-market portion of
  NUG purchase commitments was recorded because it was probable that the loss
  had been incurred and the estimate of future energy prices could be reasonably
  determined, using the then forward prices of electricity and capacity. This
  loss contingency was transferred to PPL EnergyPlus in the July 1, 2000 corporate
  realignment. The above-market loss contingency was $352 million at December 31,
  2003.

When the loss contingency related to NUG purchases was recorded in 1998, PPL
  Electric established the triggering events for when the loss contingency would
  be reduced. A schedule was established to reduce the liability based on projected
  purchases over the lives of the NUG contracts. All but one of the NUG contracts
  expire by 2009, with the last one ending in 2014. PPL EnergyPlus reduces the
  above-market NUG liability based on the aforementioned schedule. As PPL EnergyPlus
  reduces the liability for the above-market NUG purchases, it offsets the actual
  cost of NUG purchases, thereby bringing the net power purchase expense more
  in line with market prices.

PPL EnergyPlus assessed the remaining $352 million above-market liability at
  December 31, 2003, comparing the projected electricity purchases under the terms
  of the NUG contracts, with the purchases assuming projected market prices for
  the energy. This assessment was based on projected PJM market prices, including
  capacity, through 2014. The assessment also used sensitivities around the market
  prices, adjusting such prices upwards and downwards by 10%.

The assessment is dependent on the market prices of energy and the estimated
  output levels of the NUGs. Market prices of energy are dependent on many variables,
  including growth in electricity demand in PJM, available generation, and changes
  in regulatory and economic conditions. Accordingly, market price sensitivities
  were used in the assessment. If estimated market prices were adjusted upwards
  by 10% in each of the years from 2004 through 2014, the contingency for the
  above-market NUG purchase commitments would be approximately $296 million. Conversely,
  if estimated market prices were adjusted downwards by 10% during the remaining
  term of the NUG contracts, the contingency for the above-market NUG purchase
  commitments would be approximately $386 million. The recorded above-market liability
  of $352 million at December 31, 2003 falls within the range calculated in the
  year-end assessment. As noted above, it is very difficult to estimate future
  electricity prices, which are dependent on many variables and subject to significant
  volatility. However, PPL's management believes that the current recorded NUG
  above-market liability was fairly stated at December 31, 2003.

6)  Asset Retirement Obligations

In 2001, the FASB issued SFAS 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations,"
  which addresses the accounting for obligations associated with the retirement
  of tangible long-lived assets. SFAS 143 requires legal obligations associated
  with the retirement of long-lived assets to be recognized as a liability in
  the financial statements. The initial obligation should be measured at the estimated
  fair value. An equivalent amount should be recorded as an increase in the value
  of the capitalized asset and allocated to expense over the useful life of the
  asset. Until the obligation is settled, the liability should be increased, through
  the recognition of accretion expense in the income statement, for changes in
  the obligation due to the passage of time. SFAS 143 is effective for fiscal
  years beginning after June 15, 2002.

In determining asset retirement obligations, management must make significant
  judgments and estimates to calculate fair value. Fair value is developed through
  consideration of estimated retirement costs in today's dollars, inflated to
  the anticipated retirement date and then discounted back to the date the asset
  retirement obligation was incurred. Changes in assumptions and estimates included
  within the calculations of asset retirement obligations could result in significantly
  different results than those identified and recorded in the financial statements.

PPL adopted SFAS 143 effective January 1, 2003. Initial adoption of the new
  rules resulted in an increase in net PP&E of $32 million, reversal of previously
  recorded liabilities of $304 million, recognition of asset retirement obligations
  of $229 million, recognition of a deferred tax liability of $44 million and
  a cumulative effect of adoption that increased net income by $63 million. At
  December 31, 2003, PPL had asset retirement obligations totaling $242 million
  recorded on the Balance Sheet. PPL's most significant assumptions surrounding
  asset retirement obligations are the forecasted retirement cost, discount rate
  and inflation rate. A variance in the forecasted retirement cost, discount rate
  or inflation rate could have a significant impact on the ARO liability and the
  cumulative effect gain.

The following chart reflects the sensitivities associated with a change in
  these assumptions upon initial adoption. Each sensitivity below reflects an
  evaluation of the change based solely on a change in that assumption only.

Other Information

PPL's Audit Committee has approved the independent auditor to provide audit
  and audit-related services and other services permitted by the Sarbanes-Oxley
  Act of 2002 and SEC rules. The audit and audit-related services include services
  in connection with statutory and regulatory filings, reviews of offering documents
  and registration statements, employee benefit plan audits and internal control
  reviews.

PPL ENERGY SUPPLY, LLC

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Overview

PPL Energy Supply is an energy company with headquarters in Allentown, PA.
  See Item 1, "Business - Background," for a description of PPL Energy Supply's
  domestic and international businesses. See Exhibit 99 in Item 15 for a listing
  of its principal subsidiaries. Through its subsidiaries, PPL Energy Supply is
  primarily engaged in the generation and marketing of electricity in two key
  markets - the northeastern and western U.S. - and in the delivery of electricity
  in the U.K. and Latin America. PPL Energy Supply's strategy for its electricity
  generation and marketing business is to match energy supply with load, or customer
  demand, under long-term and intermediate-term contracts with creditworthy counterparties.
  PPL Energy Supply's strategy for its international electricity delivery businesses
  is to own and operate these businesses at the highest level of quality and reliability
  and at the most efficient cost.

PPL Energy Supply faces several risks in its generation business. The principal
  risks are electricity wholesale price risk, fuel supply and price risk, power
  plant performance and counterparty credit risk. PPL Energy Supply attempts to
  manage these risks through various means. For instance, PPL Energy Supply operates
  a portfolio of generation assets that is diversified as to geography, fuel source,
  cost structure and operating characteristics. PPL Energy Supply is focused on
  the operating efficiency and maintaining the availability of these power plants.
  In addition, PPL Energy Supply has in place and continues to pursue long-term
  and intermediate-term contracts for energy sales and fuel supply, and other
  means, to mitigate the risks associated with adverse changes in the difference,
  or margin, between the cost to produce electricity and the price at which PPL
  Energy Supply sells it. PPL Energy Supply's contractual commitments for energy
  sales are primarily satisfied through its own generation assets - i.e., PPL
  Energy Supply primarily markets and trades around its physical portfolio of
  generating assets through integrated generation, marketing and trading functions.
  Finally, PPL Energy Supply attempts to reduce its exposure to the various risks
  it faces through its risk management program, which, among other things, includes
  an evaluation of market risks and the creditworthiness of all counterparties.

PPL Energy Supply's international electricity delivery businesses are rate-regulated.
  Accordingly, these businesses are subject to regulatory risks in terms of the
  costs that they may recover and the investment returns that they may collect
  in customer rates. The principal challenge that PPL Energy Supply faces in its
  international electricity delivery businesses is to maintain high standards
  of customer service and reliability in a cost-effective manner. PPL Energy Supply
  faces certain financial risks by conducting international operations, such as
  fluctuations in currency exchange rates. PPL Energy Supply attempts to manage
  these financial risks through its risk management program.

A key challenge for PPL Energy Supply's business as a whole is to maintain
  a strong credit profile. In the past few years, investors, analysts and rating
  agencies that follow companies in the energy industry have been particularly
  focused on the credit quality and liquidity position of energy companies. PPL
  Energy Supply is focused on strengthening its balance sheet and improving its
  liquidity position, thereby improving its credit profile.

The purpose of "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
  and Results of Operations" is to provide information concerning PPL Energy Supply's
  past and expected future performance in implementing the strategies and managing
  the risks and challenges outlined above. Specifically:

"Results of Operations" provides an overview of PPL Energy Supply's operating
    results in 2003, 2002 and 2001, starting with a review of earnings. The earnings
    review includes a listing of certain unusual items that had significant impacts
    in these years, and it also includes a description of key factors that management
    expects may impact future earnings. "Results of Operations" also includes
    an explanation of changes during this three-year period in significant income
    statement components, such as energy margins, utility revenues, operation
    and maintenance expenses, interest expense, income taxes and cumulative effects
    of accounting changes.

"Financial Condition - Liquidity" provides an analysis of PPL Energy Supply's
    liquidity position and credit profile, including its sources of cash (including
    bank credit facilities and sources of operating cash flow) and uses of cash
    (including contractual commitments and capital expenditure requirements) and
    the key risks and uncertainties that impact PPL Energy Supply's past and future
    liquidity position and financial condition. This subsection also includes
    an explanation of recent rating agency decisions affecting PPL Energy Supply,
    as well as a listing of PPL Energy Supply's current credit ratings.

"Financial Condition - Risk Management - Energy Marketing & Trading
    and Other" includes an explanation of PPL Energy Supply's risk management
    program relating to market risk (i.e., commodity price, interest rate and
    foreign currency exchange risk) and credit risk (i.e., counterparty credit
    risk).

"New Accounting Standards" provides a description of accounting standards
    that impact PPL Energy Supply's Financial Statements and that were implemented
    in 2003 or are pending adoption.

"Application of Critical Accounting Policies" provides an overview of the
    accounting policies that are particularly important to the results of operations
    and financial condition of PPL Energy Supply and that require PPL Energy Supply's
    management to make significant estimates, assumptions and other judgments.
    Although PPL Energy Supply's management believes that these estimates, assumptions
    and other judgments are appropriate, they relate to matters that are inherently
    uncertain. Accordingly, changes in the estimates, assumptions and other judgments
    applied to these accounting policies could have a significant impact on PPL
    Energy Supply's results of operations and financial condition, as reflected
    in PPL Energy Supply's Financial Statements.

The information provided in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
  Condition and Results of Operations" should be read in conjunction with PPL
  Energy Supply's Financial Statements and the Notes thereto.

Terms and abbreviations appearing herein are explained in the glossary. Dollars
  are in millions, except per share data, unless otherwise noted.

Results of Operations

Earnings in 2003 and 2002 were impacted by the acquisition of a controlling
  interest in WPD on September 6, 2002, and the resulting consolidation, as described
  in Note 9 to the Financial Statements. Therefore, the comparison of reported
  income statement line items between 2002 and 2001 is not meaningful without
  eliminating the impact of the WPD consolidation. The following table shows the
  2002 Statement of Income as reported, the adjustments to eliminate the impact
  of the WPD consolidation (by reflecting WPD on the equity method), and as adjusted
  to exclude the WPD consolidation. The following discussion, that explains significant
  annual changes in principal items on the Statement of Income compares 2003 to
  2002, unadjusted, and compares 2002, as adjusted, to 2001.

The comparability of certain items on the Statement of Income has also been
  impacted by PPL Global's investment in CEMAR. The consolidated results of CEMAR
  are included for periods during which PPL had a controlling interest, from January
  1, 2001 to August 2002. See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for more information.

WPD's results, as consolidated in PPL Energy Supply's Statement of Income,
  are impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. For the twelve months
  ended December 31, 2003, as compared to the same period in 2002, changes in
  foreign exchange rates increased WPD's portion of revenue and expense line items
  by about 9%.

Earnings

Net income was as follows:

The after-tax changes in net income were primarily due to:

The changes in net income from year to year were, in part, attributable to
  several unusual items with significant earnings impacts, including accounting
  changes, discontinued operations and infrequently occurring items. The after-tax
  impacts of these unusual items are shown below.

The year to year changes in earnings components, including margins by activity
  and income statement line items, are discussed in the balance of the discussion
  in "Results of Operations."

PPL Energy Supply's future earnings could be, or will be, impacted by a number
  of key factors, including the following:

Based upon current electricity and natural gas price levels, there is a
    risk that PPL Energy Supply may be unable to recover its investment in new
    gas-fired generation facilities. Under GAAP, PPL Energy Supply does not believe
    that there is an impairment charge to be recorded for these facilities at
    this time. PPL Energy Supply is unable to predict the ultimate earnings impact
    of this issue, based upon future energy price levels, applicable accounting
    rules and other factors, but such impact may be material. (See "Application
    of Critical Accounting Policies - Asset Impairment" for additional information.)

PPL Energy Supply is unable to predict whether future impairments of goodwill
    may be required for its domestic and international investments. While no goodwill
    impairments were required based on the annual review performed in the fourth
    quarter of 2003, future impairments may occur due to determinations of fair
    value exceeding the carrying value of these investments. See "Application
    of Critical Accounting Policies - Asset Impairment" for additional information.

Earnings in 2004 and beyond will be impacted by the consolidation of variable
    interest entities (as discussed in Note 22 to the Financial Statements).

Earnings in 2005 and beyond may be impacted by a rate review of the delivery
    business of WPD (South West) and WPD (South Wales). WPD cannot predict the
    ultimate outcome of the rate review.

PPL Energy Supply operates a synfuel facility and receives tax credits pursuant
    to Section 29 of the Internal Revenue Code based on its sale of synfuel to
    unaffiliated third-party purchasers. See Note 14 to the Financial Statements
    for a discussion of the IRS review of synfuel production procedures, and the
    projected annual earnings attributable to PPL Energy Supply 's synfuel operations.

Future earnings may also be impacted by the ultimate exiting of the CEMAR
    investment (see Note 9 to the Financial Statements for additional information)
    or other investments.

Domestic Gross Energy Margins

The following table provides changes in income statement line items that comprise
  domestic gross energy margins:

(a)

Adjusted to exclude the impact of any revenues
        and costs not associated with domestic energy margins, in particular,
        revenues and energy costs related to the international operations of PPL
        Global. Also adjusted to include gains on sales of emission allowances,
        which are reflected in "Other operation and maintenance" expenses on the
        Statement of Income, and the reduction of the reserve for Enron receivables,
        as described in Note 17 to the Financial Statements.

Changes in Domestic Gross Energy Margins By Activity

Gross margin calculations are dependent on the allocation of fuel and purchased
  power costs to the activities listed below. That allocation is based on monthly
  MWh consumption levels compared to monthly MWh supply costs. Any costs specific
  to an activity are charged to that activity.

Wholesale - Eastern U.S.

Eastern U.S. wholesale margins were higher in 2003 compared to 2002 primarily
  due to higher volumes, which increased by 47%. The higher volumes were primarily
  driven by market opportunities to optimize the value of generating assets and
  by higher spot prices that allowed PPL Energy Supply to increase the utilization
  of its higher cost generating units including 699 MW of new generation that
  began commercial operation in mid-2002. In PJM, where the majority of PPL Energy
  Supply 's Eastern wholesale activity occurs, average on-peak spot market real
  time prices rose 34% in 2003 compared to 2002. Partially offsetting the increase
  in wholesale energy margins in 2003 compared to 2002, was the buyout of a NUG
  contract in February 2002, which reduced power purchases by $25 million.

Eastern wholesale margins were lower in 2002 compared to 2001, despite a buyout
  of a NUG contract in February 2002 that reduced purchased power costs by $25
  million. The decline in margins was primarily attributable to the decline in
  wholesale prices for energy and capacity. PJM on-peak prices averaged $6/MWh
  less, a decline of 14%, for 2002 compared to 2001. Additionally, because new
  generating capability came on-line within PJM in 2002, the prices for the PJM
  monthly auctions for unforced capacity credits fell from an average of $100/MW-month
  in 2001 to an average of $38/MW-month in 2002. However, higher volumes of energy
  sales partially offset the decline in prices, as wholesale transactions in 2002
  increased by about 33% over 2001 due to better generating unit availability.

Wholesale - Western U.S.

Western U.S. wholesale margins consist of margins in the Northwest and in the
  Southwest.

In the Northwest, margins were $31 million higher in 2003 compared to 2002,
  primarily due to higher wholesale prices. Average wholesale prices for 2003
  were $6/MWh higher than prices in 2002. A favorable settlement of $3 million
  with Energy West Resources Inc. in June 2003 also positively impacted margins
  in 2003. Margins were $74 million lower in 2002 compared to 2001, primarily
  due to a decrease in average realized wholesale prices by $15/MWh, partially
  offset by a 7% increase in volumes.

In the Southwest, margins were $9 million higher in 2003 compared to 2002,
  primarily due to the inception of new tolling agreements in Arizona and due
  to an increase of average wholesale prices in 2003 by $16/MWh compared to 2002.
  Margins were $9 million lower in 2002 compared to 2001, primarily due to a decrease
  in average wholesale prices by $40/MWh. These lower prices were offset by increased
  sales, which were three times higher than the prior period, as a result of the
  Griffith Energy and Sundance facilities coming on-line in 2002.

The above explanation is exclusive of $9 million related to the 2003 partial
  reversal of a reserve against Enron receivables, and a 2001 charge of $12 million
  for the Enron bankruptcy, both of which affected gross margins. These items
  are discussed in further detail in Note 17 to the Financial Statements.

Net Energy Trading

PPL Energy Supply enters into certain contractual arrangements that meet the
  criteria of energy trading derivatives as defined by EITF 02-3, "Issues Involved
  in Accounting for Derivative Contracts Held for Trading Purposes and Contracts
  Involved in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities." These physical and
  financial contracts cover trading activity associated with electricity, gas
  and oil. The $7 million decrease in 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due
  to realized electric swap losses in 2003. The $18 million decrease in 2002 compared
  to 2001 was primarily due to unrealized, mark-to-market gains in 2001 and lower
  energy margins in 2002. The physical volumes associated with energy trading
  were 9,100 GWh and 12.6 Bcf in 2003; 10,700 GWh and 12.4 Bcf in 2002; and 7,700
  GWh and 22.4 Bcf in 2001. The amount of energy trading margins from unrealized
  mark-to-market transactions was not significant in 2003, 2002 and 2001.

Unregulated Retail

Unregulated retail margins declined in 2003 compared to 2002 primarily due
  to significantly lower electric retail prices in the Western U.S. Western U.S.
  retail contract prices decreased about 19% in 2003 compared to 2002. The decline
  in 2002 compared to 2001 was primarily due to lower revenues resulting from
  the expiration of contracts which were not renewed in the Eastern U.S. and due
  to significantly lower retail prices in the Western U.S., somewhat offset by
  an increase in the number of customers in the Western U.S.

Regulated Retail

Regulated retail margins in the Eastern U.S. for 2003 decreased by 9% compared
  to 2002, due to higher supply costs resulting from higher purchased power prices.
  Purchased power prices were higher because of increased gas and oil prices and
  an abnormally cold winter. Regulated retail margins for 2002 were 17% higher
  than in 2001. Higher sales volumes and higher average prices, caused by changes
  in usage among customer classes, provided the improved margins. In addition,
  lower supply costs in 2002, due to lower fuel costs and increased generating
  unit availability, further improved margins.

Utility Revenues

The increase (decrease) in utility revenues was attributable to the following:

The decrease for both periods was primarily due to the deconsolidation of CEMAR.
  (See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for additional information.)

The decrease for 2003 compared with 2002 was partially offset by:

higher WPD revenues in the U.K. primarily due to the change in foreign currency
    exchange rates from period to period;

higher revenues in El Salvador primarily due to higher volumes and higher
    pass-through energy costs, partially offset by a 6% tariff reduction effective
    January 1, 2003; and

higher revenues in Chile primarily due to higher volumes and the consolidation
    of TransEmel. (See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for additional information.)

The decrease for 2002 compared with 2001 was partially offset by higher sales
  volumes in Chile and El Salvador.

Energy Related Businesses

Energy related businesses contributed $16 million less to operating income
  in 2003 compared with 2002. The decrease resulted primarily from:

$7 million of credits recorded on development projects in 2002, due largely
    to a favorable settlement on the cancellation of a generation project in Washington
    state;

a $5 million operating loss on some Hyder properties in the first quarter
    of 2003, which were subsequently sold in April 2003; and

an $8 million decrease in Latin America revenues from lower material and
    construction project sales (In 2002, a Bolivian subsidiary participated in
    the construction of a 1,500 kilometer transmission line in rural areas.);
    partially offset by

a $3 million improvement in contributions from mechanical contracting subsidiaries
    due to enhanced project controls that were implemented to minimize project
    overruns, offset by a continuing decline in construction markets in 2003.

Energy related businesses (when adjusted to include WPD on an equity basis)
  contributed $3 million less to operating income in 2002 compared with 2001.
  This was primarily due to:

a $14 million benefit recorded in 2001 from an equity interest in Griffith
    Energy related to margins on forward electricity contracts, executed prior
    to commercial operation;

a $9 million decline from the mechanical contracting and engineering subsidiaries,
    primarily due to cost overruns experienced at two major projects; and

$4 million of pre-tax operating losses from synfuel projects; partially
    offset by

a $23 million decrease in PPL Global's expenses due to lower spending on
    development projects, including a favorable settlement on the cancellation
    of a generation project in Washington state.

Although operating income from synfuel operations declined in 2002 compared
  to 2001, the synfuel projects contributed $7 million more to net income after
  the recording of tax credits.

Other Operation and Maintenance

The increase (decrease) in other operation and maintenance expenses was primarily
  due to:

The $37 million decrease in net pension income was attributable to decreased
  asset values at the end of 2002 and reductions in the discount rate assumptions
  for PPL and PPL Energy Supply domestic and international pension plans, which
  were the result of weakness in the financial markets during 2002. The 2002 year-end
  asset values and discount rates were used to measure net pension income for
  2003. Through December 31, 2003, PPL Energy Supply recorded and was allocated
  $39 million of net pension income.

Although financial markets have improved and PPL and PPL Energy Supply domestic
  and international pension plans have experienced significant asset gains in
  2003, interest rates on fixed-income obligations have continued to fall, requiring
  a further reduction in the discount rate assumption as of December 31,
  2003. The reduction in the discount rate assumption has a significant impact
  on the measurement of plan obligations and net pension cost, which will result
  in PPL and PPL Energy Supply recognizing lower levels of net pension income
  in 2004. See Note 12 to the Financial Statements for details of the funded status
  of PPL's pension plans.

Depreciation

Depreciation expense decreased by $16 million in 2002 compared with 2001. Depreciation
  on plant additions accounted for a $15 million increase. Other impacts on depreciation
  were as follows:

$14 million decrease due to extension of the Susquehanna station's depreciable
    life, in conjunction with the announced plan to seek an extension of its NRC
    operating licenses;

$10 million decrease due to no longer recording goodwill amortization due
    to adoption of SFAS 142 (see Note 18); and

$7 million decrease due to PPL Global's write-down of CEMAR assets in 2001,
    resulting in no depreciation being recorded on these assets in 2002.

Taxes, Other Than Income

Taxes, other than income, increased by $11 million in 2003 compared with 2002,
  due to higher taxes related to increases in the basis on which capital stock
  is calculated and higher real estate taxes in 2003.

Other Charges

Other charges of $198 million in 2002 consisted of the write-down of PPL Global's
  investment in CEMAR and several smaller impairment charges on other international
  investments (see Note 9 to the Financial Statements), the write-down of generation
  assets (see Note 9) and a charge for a workforce reduction program (see Note
  20).

Other charges of $486 million in 2001 consisted of the write-down of international
  energy projects and the cancellation of generation projects (See Note 9).

Other Income - net

See Note 16 to the Financial Statements for details of other income and deductions.

Interest Expense

Interest expense decreased by $11 million in 2003 compared to 2002 primarily
  due to:

a $34 million decrease in long-term debt interest from the deconsolidation
    of CEMAR in August 2002; and

a $20 million decrease in short-term debt interest expense; offset by

an $11 million write-off of unamortized swap costs on WPD debt restructuring
    in 2003;

a $7 million increase in long-term debt interest due to the issuance of
    $400 million 2.625% Convertible Senior Notes;

$5 million of interest on preferred securities of SIUK Capital Trust I due
    to reclassifications from adopting SFAS 150, "Accounting for Certain Financial
    Instruments with Characteristics of Both Liabilities and Equity" (see Note
    22 to the Financial Statements for additional information);

a $13 million decrease in capitalized interest; and

a $7 million increase in amortization expense and other.

Interest expense increased by $36 million in 2002 compared with 2001 primarily
  due to:

a $52 million increase in long-term debt interest due to a full year of
    interest in 2002 from the issuances of $500 million of senior unsecured notes
    in 2001 and debt issued by PPL Global's consolidated subsidiaries; and

a $7 million decrease in capitalized interest; offset by

a $23 million decrease in short-term debt interest from a decrease in short-term
    borrowings from affiliates.

Income Taxes

Income tax expense decreased by $81 million in 2003 compared with 2002. This
  decrease was due to:

a $31 million reduction related to deferred income tax valuation allowances
    recorded on impairment charges on PPL Energy Supply's investment in Brazil
    recorded during 2002;

an $84 million reduction in income taxes related to the tax benefit recognized
    in 2003 on foreign investment losses included in the 2002 federal income tax
    return; and

a $2 million decrease related to additional federal synfuel tax credits
    recognized; offset by

higher pre-tax domestic book income, resulting in a $39 million increase
    in income taxes.

Income tax expense decreased by $113 million in 2002 compared with 2001. This
  decrease was due to:

lower pre-tax domestic book income, resulting in a $35 million reduction
    in income taxes;

lower impairment charges on PPL Energy Supply's investment in Brazil resulting
    in a $30 million decrease in the amount of deferred income tax valuation allowances
    recorded;

a $27 million reduction in income taxes due to losses recognized on foreign
    investments; and

a $10 million decrease related to additional federal synfuel tax credits
    recognized.

Discontinued Operations

PPL Energy Supply reported a loss of $20 million in connection with the approval
  of a plan of sale of PPL Global's investment in a Latin American telecommunications
  company. See "Discontinued Operations" in Note 9 to the Financial Statements
  for additional information.

Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting Principles

In 2003, PPL Energy Supply recorded a charge of $27 million, after-tax, as
  a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle in connection with the
  adoption of FIN 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation
  of ARB No. 51," for certain entities. See "New Accounting Standards" for further
  discussion.

PPL Energy Supply adopted SFAS 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations,"
  effective January 1, 2003. SFAS 143 addresses the accounting for obligations
  associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets. It requires legal
  obligations associated with the retirement of long-lived assets to be recognized
  as a liability in the financial statements. Application of the new rules resulted
  in a cumulative effect of adoption that increased net income by $63 million
  in 2003. See Note 21 to the Financial Statements for additional information.

PPL Energy Supply adopted SFAS 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,"
  on January 1, 2002. SFAS 142 requires an annual impairment test of goodwill
  and other intangible assets that are not subject to amortization. PPL Energy
  Supply conducted a transition impairment analysis in the first quarter of 2002
  and recorded a transition goodwill impairment charge of $150 million. See Note
  18 to the Financial Statements for additional information.

In 2001, PPL changed its method of amortizing unrecognized gains or losses
  in the annual pension expense or income determined under SFAS 87, "Employers'
  Accounting for Pensions." This change resulted in an allocation to PPL Energy
  Supply of a cumulative-effect credit of $3 million. See Note 12 to the Financial
  Statements for additional information.

Financial Condition

Liquidity

PPL Energy Supply is focused on maintaining a strong liquidity position and
  strengthening its balance sheet, thereby improving its credit profile. PPL Energy
  Supply believes that its cash on hand, operating cash flows, access to debt
  capital markets and borrowing capacity, taken as a whole, provide sufficient
  resources to fund its ongoing operating requirements, future security maturities
  and estimated future capital expenditures. PPL Energy Supply currently expects
  cash on hand at the end of 2004 to be approximately $200 million, with about
  $1.2 billion in syndicated credit facilities. However, PPL Energy Supply's cash
  flows from operations and its access to cost effective bank and capital markets
  are subject to risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to, the following:

changes in market prices for electricity;

changes in commodity prices that may increase the cost of producing power
    or decrease the amount PPL Energy Supply receives from selling power;

price and credit risks associated with selling and marketing products in
    the wholesale power markets;

ineffectiveness of trading, marketing and risk management policies and programs
    used to mitigate PPL Energy Supply's risk exposure to adverse energy and fuel
    prices, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and counterparty credit;

unusual or extreme weather that may damage its international transmission
    and distribution facilities or effect energy sales to customers;

reliance on transmission and distribution facilities that PPL Energy Supply
    does not own or control to deliver its electricity;

unavailability of generating units (due to unscheduled or longer-than-anticipated
    generation outages) and the resulting loss of revenues and additional costs
    of replacement electricity;

ability to recover, and timeliness and adequacy of recovery of, costs associated
    with international electricity delivery businesses; and

a downgrade in PPL Energy Supply's or its rated subsidiaries' credit ratings
    that could negatively affect their ability to access capital and increase
    the cost of maintaining credit facilities and any new debt.

At December 31, 2003, PPL Energy Supply had $227 million in cash and cash equivalents
  and $56 million of short-term debt, as compared to $149 million in cash and
  cash equivalents and $928 million of short-term debt at December 31, 2002, and
  $815 million in cash and cash equivalents and $118 million of short-term debt
  at December 31, 2001. The changes in cash and cash equivalents resulted from
  the following:

Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities

Net cash provided by operating activities increased by 40%, or $259 million,
  in 2003 versus 2002, reflecting higher net income adjusted for non-cash items
  and lower cash income taxes. In addition, 2002 included cash outlays of $152
  million for the cancellation of generation projects and $50 million for the
  termination of a NUG contract. The higher net income in 2003 was principally
  driven by complete ownership in WPD, higher wholesale energy margins, lower
  interest expense and savings from a workforce reduction program in the U.S.
  that commenced in 2002.

Important elements supporting the stability of PPL Energy Supply's cash provided
  by operating activities are the long-term and intermediate-term commitments
  from wholesale and retail customers and long-term fuel supply contracts PPL
  Energy Supply has in place. In 2003, PPL EnergyPlus entered into several new
  wholesale agreements to provide capacity and/or electricity to utilities in
  New Jersey, Arizona and Connecticut. These agreements supplement previously
  existing long-term contracts with PPL Electric, NorthWestern and the Long Island
  Power Authority (see Note 14 to the Financial Statements for additional information).
  PPL Energy Supply estimates that, on average, approximately 80% of its expected
  annual generation output for the period 2004 through 2008 is committed under
  long-term and intermediate-term energy supply contracts. PPL EnergyPlus also
  enters into contracts under which it agrees to sell and purchase electricity,
  natural gas, oil and coal. These contracts often require cash collateral or
  other credit enhancement, or reductions or terminations of a portion or the
  entire contract through cash settlement in the event of a downgrade of PPL Energy
  Supply or the respective subsidiary's credit ratings or adverse changes in market
  prices. For example, in addition to limiting its trading ability, if PPL Energy
  Supply or its respective subsidiary's ratings were lowered to below "investment
  grade" and energy prices increased by 10%, PPL Energy Supply estimates that,
  based on its December 31, 2003 position, it would have to post collateral of
  approximately $490 million as compared to $421 million at December 31, 2002.
  PPL Energy Supply has in place risk management programs that, among other things,
  are designed to monitor and manage its exposure to volatility of cash flows
  related to changes in energy prices, interest rates, foreign currency exchange
  rates, counterparty credit quality and the operational performance of its generating
  units.

Net cash provided by operating activities in 2002 was $651 million, compared
  to $619 million in 2001. The $32 million increase in cash provided by operations
  was due to the net effect of increases in net income adjusted to a cash basis
  (i.e., adding back non-cash items such as depreciation, write-downs of projects
  and assets, change in accounting principle, etc.), partially offset by $152
  million of turbine cancellation payments made in 2002, a $50 million payment
  to terminate a NUG contract also made in 2002, and an $89 million decrease in
  dividends received from unconsolidated affiliates.

Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities

Net cash provided by investing activities in 2003 was $204 million, compared
  to net cash used in investing activities of $1.1 billion in 2002. The primary
  reasons for the $1.3 billion increase in net cash provided by investing activities
  was reduced investment in generation assets and electric energy projects, the
  acquisition of controlling interest in WPD in 2002, and a repayment of a loan
  from an affiliate. The primary use of cash for investing activities is capital
  and investment expenditures, which are summarized by category in the table in
  "Capital Expenditure Requirements." In 2004, PPL Energy Supply expects to be
  able to fund all of its capital expenditures with cash provided by operating
  activities.

Net cash used in investing activities in 2002 was $1.1 billion, compared to
  net cash provided of $278 million in 2001. The primary reasons for the $1.4
  billion increase in cash used in investing activities was due to the acquisition
  of the controlling interest in WPD in 2002 and a repayment of the loan from
  a non-consolidated affiliate in 2001.

Net Cash Used in Financing Activities

Net cash used in financing activities was $1.0 billion in 2003, compared to
  $175 million in 2002. The increase primarily reflected the repayment of short-term
  debt, retirement of long-term debt, distributions to PPL to support dividends
  to PPL's shareholders, and maturities and interest payments on PPL Capital Funding's
  debt. In 2003, PPL Energy Supply had net retirements of debt of $120 million
  compared with net issuances of $378 million in 2002. Net distributions to Member
  were $907 million in 2003 compared with $550 million in 2002.

PPL Energy Supply's debt financing activity in 2003 was as follows:

Debt issued during 2003 had stated interest rates ranging from 2.62% to 5.87%
  and maturities from 2023 through 2027. See Note 8 to the Financial Statements
  for more detailed information regarding PPL Energy Supply's borrowings.

In July 2003, PPL Energy Supply determined that, based on its current cash
  position and anticipated cash flows, it would not need to access the commercial
  paper markets through at least the end of 2003. As a result, PPL Energy Supply
  requested Standard & Poor's Ratings Services (S&P), Moody's Investors
  Service, Inc. (Moody's) and Fitch Ratings (Fitch) to withdraw their ratings
  for its currently inactive commercial paper program, which the rating agencies
  did effective as of July 9, 2003. This decision has not limited the ability
  of PPL Energy Supply to fund its short-term liquidity needs. PPL Energy Supply
  currently does not have any commercial paper outstanding, and it does not anticipate
  a need to access the commercial paper market in 2004.

At December 31, 2003, PPL Energy Supply's total committed borrowing capacity
  and the use of this borrowing capacity were as follows:

These credit agreements contain various other covenants. Failure to meet those
  covenants beyond applicable grace periods could result in acceleration of due
  dates of borrowings and/or termination of the agreements. PPL Energy Supply
  monitors the covenants on a regular basis. At December 31, 2003, PPL Energy
  Supply was in compliance with those covenants. At this time, PPL Energy Supply
  believes that these covenants and other borrowing conditions will not limit
  access to these funding sources. PPL Energy Supply intends to reduce its syndicated
  credit facilities to $800 million in the first quarter 2004 because of lower
  development and acquisition requirements related to its supply business. WPD
  (South West) intends to renew and extend all of its syndicated credit facilities
  in 2004.

Net cash used in financing activities was $175 million in 2002 compared to
  $209 million in 2001.

Operating Leases

PPL Energy Supply and its subsidiaries also have available funding sources
  that are provided through operating leases. PPL Energy Supply's subsidiaries
  lease vehicles, office space, land, buildings, personal computers and other
  equipment under master operating lease arrangements. These leasing structures
  provide PPL Energy Supply with additional operating and financing flexibility.
  The operating leases contain covenants that are typical for these agreements,
  such as maintaining insurance, maintaining corporate existence and timely payment
  of rent and other fees. Failure to meet these covenants could limit or restrict
  access to these funds or require early payment of obligations. At this time,
  PPL Energy Supply believes that these covenants will not limit access to these
  funding sources or cause acceleration or termination of the leases.

PPL Energy Supply, through its subsidiary PPL Montana, leases a 50% interest
  in Colstrip Units 1 and 2 and a 30% interest in Unit 3, under four 36-year non-cancelable
  operating leases. These operating leases are not recorded on PPL Energy Supply's
  Balance Sheet, which is in accordance with applicable accounting guidance. The
  leases place certain restrictions on PPL Montana's ability to incur additional
  debt, sell assets and declare dividends. At this time, PPL Energy Supply believes
  that these restrictions will not limit access to these funding sources or cause
  acceleration or termination of the leases. See Note 8 to the Financial Statements
  for a discussion of dividend restrictions related to PPL Global subsidiaries.

See Note 10 to the Financial Statements for further discussion of the operating
  leases.

Contractual Obligations

At December 31, 2003, the estimated contractual cash obligations of PPL Energy
  Supply were as follows:

(a)

Reflects principal maturities only, including
        maturities of consolidated lease debt.

(b)

Excludes amounts for the leases of the Sundance,
        University Park and Lower Mt. Bethel generation facilities as the lessors
        were consolidated effective December 31, 2003 as a result of the adoption
        of FIN 46 for certain entities. See "New Accounting Standards" for further
        discussion.

(c)

The payments reflected herein are subject
        to change as certain purchase obligations included are estimates based
        on projected obligated quantities and/or projected pricing under the contracts.

Credit Ratings

The following table summarizes the credit ratings of PPL Energy Supply and
  its financing subsidiaries at December 31, 2003:

*

These trust preferred securities
        were deconsolidated effective December 31, 2003 from the Balance Sheet.
        See Note 22 to the Financial Statements for additional information.

Rating Agency Actions in 2003

In 2003, S&P, Moody's and Fitch reviewed the credit ratings on the debt
  of PPL Energy Supply and its subsidiaries. Based on their respective reviews,
  the rating agencies made certain ratings revisions that are described below.
  Management does not expect these ratings decisions to impact PPL Energy Supply
  and its subsidiaries' ability to raise new debt or equity capital or to have
  a significant impact on the cost of any new capital or the cost of maintaining
  their credit facilities.

The ratings of S&P, Moody's and Fitch are not a recommendation to buy,
  sell or hold any securities of PPL Energy Supply or its subsidiaries. Such ratings
  may be subject to revisions or withdrawal by the agencies at any time and should
  be evaluated independently of each other and any other rating that may be assigned
  to their securities.

PPL Energy Supply

S&P

In April 2003, S&P notified PPL Energy Supply that it affirmed the 'BBB'
  corporate credit rating for PPL Energy Supply and the 'A-2' commercial paper
  rating of PPL Energy Supply. S&P also indicated that PPL Energy Supply remains
  on negative outlook based on S&P's view of weak debt-protection measures
  due to low wholesale energy prices.

In December 2003, S&P downgraded PPL Montana's 8.903% Pass Through Certificates
  due 2020 to BBB- from BBB. S&P indicated that its outlook for these securities
  remains negative. S&P indicated that its downgrade reflects certain risks
  that it believes PPL Montana faces, including counterparty credit risk resulting
  from the Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing of NorthWestern, which is PPL Montana's
  largest customer. S&P noted, however, that the bankruptcy court has approved
  NorthWestern's request to affirm the power sales agreements with PPL Montana
  and that NorthWestern has strong incentives to maintain this status. See Note
  14 to the Financial Statements for more detailed information regarding NorthWestern's
  bankruptcy filing.

Moody's

In May 2003, Moody's downgraded the credit ratings on PPL Energy Supply's senior
  unsecured notes, to 'Baa2' from 'Baa1'. The Moody's ratings outlook is stable
  for PPL Energy Supply. PPL Energy Supply's short-term debt rating was not impacted
  by Moody's long-term debt review.

Moody's stated that the downgrades reflect its concerns about PPL Energy Supply's
  modest exposure to merchant generation risk, the continued weakness in the wholesale
  power market and the associated financial impact on PPL Energy Supply, and concerns
  regarding the amount of cash flow to be generated from PPL Energy Supply's domestic
  operations and the free cash flow available from its regulated international
  assets. However, Moody's also indicated that the full requirements contract
  between PPL Electric and PPL EnergyPlus, which previously was approved by the
  PUC and which extends through December 2009, provides a predictable stream of
  cash flows to PPL Energy Supply during such time period. Moody's also viewed
  favorably certain actions taken by PPL Energy Supply, including a sizeable reduction
  in planned capital expenditures, the cancellation of projects under development,
  workforce reductions and write-downs of certain investments.

In September 2003, Moody's announced that it was placing PPL Montana's 8.903%
  Pass-Through Certificates due 2020 under review for possible downgrade. These
  securities currently are rated 'Baa3' by Moody's. Moody's stated that its review
  is prompted by its concerns about the credit profile of PPL Montana's largest
  customer, NorthWestern, and lower cash flow generation than was forecasted at
  the time the securities were issued in 2000. See Note 14 to the Financial Statements
  for additional information on NorthWestern's current situation. Management does
  not expect any action by Moody's based on this review to limit PPL Montana's
  ability to fund its short-term liquidity needs. PPL Montana has no plans to
  raise new long-term debt. Any ratings downgrade by Moody's would have an insignificant
  impact on PPL Montana's cost of maintaining the credit facility that it has
  in place with its affiliate. In addition, management does not expect any ratings
  downgrade by Moody's based on this review to have any adverse impact on the
  credit ratings of PPL Energy Supply.

Fitch

In May 2003, Fitch notified PPL Energy Supply that it affirmed the 'BBB+' rating
  of PPL Energy Supply's senior unsecured debt and the 'F2' rating of its commercial
  paper, and that it placed PPL Energy Supply on negative outlook.

Fitch indicated that the change in outlook for PPL Energy Supply results from
  the increase during 2002 in PPL Energy Supply's generation asset portfolio that
  is dependent on merchant generation, continued weakness in U.S. merchant energy
  markets and exposure to international distribution assets primarily in Latin
  America and the U.K. However, Fitch noted that PPL Energy Supply derives significant
  earnings and cash flow from long-term supply contracts, including the full requirements
  contract between PPL Electric and PPL EnergyPlus, that on average account for
  about 70% of PPL Energy Supply's gross margin over the next five years.

WPD and Subsidiaries

In February 2003, Moody's confirmed the ratings of WPDH Limited at 'Baa2' and
  WPD (South West) and WPD (South Wales) at 'Baa1', and downgraded WPD LLP from
  'Baa1' to 'Baa2' and SIUK Capital Trust I from 'Baa2' to 'Baa3'. The outlook
  on all ratings was stable. In March 2003, S&P assigned its 'BBB+' senior
  unsecured debt rating to the £200 million bonds issued by WPD (South West).
  At the same time, the 'BBB+' and 'A-2' corporate credit ratings on SIUK Limited
  were withdrawn as a result of the acquisition of its debt by WPD LLP. S&P
  assigned its 'BBB' long-term and 'A-2' short-term corporate credit ratings to
  WPD LLP, in line with the ratings on the rest of the WPD group.

Following a review of holding companies of U.K., regulated utilities, in July
  2003 S&P downgraded the long-term ratings from 'BBB' to 'BBB-' and short-term
  ratings from 'A-2' to 'A-3' for both WPDH Limited and WPD LLP, and retained
  a negative outlook. At the same time, S&P reaffirmed the credit ratings
  for WPD (South West) and WPD (South Wales) at 'BBB+'. S&P stated that this
  is in line with S&P U.K.'s recently announced implementation of a new methodology
  related to U.K. electric distribution holding companies, whereby electric distribution
  operating companies rated in the 'BBB' category will have the parent holding
  company (WPDH Limited) notched down by two categories from the operating company
  rating level. WPD's management does not expect the placement of WPD on negative
  outlook to limit its ability to fund its short-term liquidity needs or access
  to new long-term debt or to impact the cost of any new long-term debt.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

PPL Energy Supply provides guarantees for certain affiliate financing arrangements
  that enable certain transactions. Some of the guarantees contain financial and
  other covenants that, if not met, would limit or restrict the affiliates' access
  to funds under these financing arrangements, require early maturity of such
  arrangements or limit PPL Energy Supply's ability to enter into certain transactions.
  At this time, PPL Energy Supply believes that these covenants will not limit
  access to the relevant funding sources.

PPL Energy Supply has entered into certain guarantee agreements that are within
  the scope of FIN 45, "Guarantor's Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for
  Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others, an Interpretation
  of FASB Statements No. 5, 57, and 107 and Rescission of FASB Interpretation
  No. 34." See Note 14 to the Financial Statements for a discussion on guarantees.

Risk Management - Energy Marketing & Trading and Other

Market Risk

Background

Market risk is the potential loss PPL Energy Supply may incur as a result of
  price changes associated with a particular financial or commodity instrument.
  PPL Energy Supply is exposed to market risk from:

commodity price risk for energy and energy-related products associated with
    the sale of electricity, the purchase of fuel for the generating assets, and
    energy trading activities;

interest rate risk associated with variable-rate debt and the fair value
    of fixed-rate debt used to finance operations, as well as the fair value of
    debt securities invested in by PPL Energy Supply's nuclear decommissioning
    fund;

foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with investments in affiliates
    in Latin America and Europe, as well as purchases of equipment in currencies
    other than U.S. dollars; and

equity securities price risk associated with the fair value of equity securities
    invested in by PPL Energy Supply's nuclear decommissioning fund.

PPL Energy Supply has a risk management policy approved by PPL's Board of Directors
  to manage market risk and counterparty credit risk. (Credit risk is discussed
  below.) The RMC, comprised of senior management and chaired by the Vice President-Risk
  Management, oversees the risk management function. Key risk control activities
  designed to monitor compliance with risk policies and detailed programs include,
  but are not limited to, credit review and approval, validation of transactions
  and market prices, verification of risk and transaction limits, sensitivity
  analyses, and daily portfolio reporting, including open positions, mark-to-market
  valuations and other risk measurement metrics. In addition, efforts are ongoing
  to develop systems to improve the timeliness, quality and breadth of market
  and credit risk information.

The forward-looking information presented below provides estimates of what
  may occur in the future, assuming certain adverse market conditions, due to
  reliance on model assumptions. Actual future results may differ materially from
  those presented. These disclosures are not precise indicators of expected future
  losses, but only indicators of reasonably possible losses.

Contract Valuation

PPL Energy Supply utilizes forward contracts, futures contracts, options, swaps
  and tolling agreements as part of its risk management strategy to minimize unanticipated
  fluctuations in earnings caused by commodity price, interest rate and foreign
  currency volatility.

When available, quoted market prices are used to
  determine the fair value of a commodity or financial instrument. This may include
  exchange prices, the average mid-point bid/ask spreads obtained from brokers,
  or an independent valuation by an external source, such as a bank. However,
  market prices for energy or energy-related contracts may not be readily determinable
  because of market illiquidity. If no active trading market exists, contracts
  are valued using internally developed models, which are then reviewed by an
  independent, internal group. Although PPL Energy Supply believes that its valuation
  methods are reasonable, changes in the underlying assumptions could result in
  significantly different values and realization in future periods.

To record derivatives at their fair value, PPL Energy Supply discounts the
  forward values using LIBOR. Additionally, PPL Energy Supply reduces derivative
  assets' carrying values to recognize differences in counterparty credit quality
  and potential illiquidity in the market:

The credit adjustment takes into account the probability of default, as
    calculated by an independent service, for each counterparty that has an out-of-the
    money position with PPL Energy Supply.

The liquidity adjustment takes into account the fact that it may not be
    appropriate to value contracts at the midpoint of the bid/ask spread. PPL
    Energy Supply might have to accept the "bid" price if PPL Energy Supply wanted
    to close an open sales position or PPL Energy Supply might have to accept
    the "ask" price if PPL Energy Supply wanted to close an open purchase position.

Accounting and Reporting

PPL Energy Supply follows the provisions of SFAS 133, "Accounting for Derivative
  Instruments and Hedging Activities," as amended by SFAS 138, "Accounting for
  Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities," and SFAS 149,
  "Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,"
  and interpreted by DIG issues (together, "SFAS 133"), EITF 02-3, "Issues Involved
  in Accounting for Derivative Contracts Held for Trading Purposes and Contracts
  Involved in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities," and EITF 03-11,
  "Reporting Realized Gains and Losses on Derivative Instruments That Are Subject
  to FASB Statement No. 133 and Not 'Held for Trading Purposes' as Defined in
  Issue No. 02-3," to account for and report on contracts entered into to manage
  market risk. SFAS 133 requires that all derivative instruments be recorded at
  fair value on the balance sheet as an asset or liability (unless they meet SFAS
  133's criteria for exclusion) and that changes in the derivative's fair value
  be recognized currently in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria
  are met.

In April 2003, the FASB issued SFAS 149, which amends and clarifies SFAS 133
  to improve financial accounting and reporting for derivative instruments and
  hedging activities. To ensure that contracts with comparable characteristics
  are accounted for similarly, SFAS 149 clarifies the circumstances under which
  a contract with an initial net investment meets the characteristics of a derivative,
  clarifies when a derivative contains a financing component, amends the definition
  of an "underlying" and amends certain other existing pronouncements. Additionally,
  SFAS 149 placed additional limitations on the use of the normal purchase or
  normal sale exception. SFAS 149 was effective for contracts entered into or
  modified and for hedging relationships designated after June 30, 2003, except
  certain provisions relating to forward purchases or sales of when-issued securities
  or other securities that did not yet exist. PPL Energy Supply adopted SFAS 149
  as of July 1, 2003. The adoption of SFAS 149 did not have a significant impact
  on PPL Energy Supply.

PPL Energy Supply adopted the final provisions of EITF 02-3 during the fourth
  quarter of 2002. As such, PPL Energy Supply now reflects its net realized and
  unrealized gains and losses associated with all derivatives that are held for
  trading purposes in the "Net energy trading margins" line on the Statement of
  Income. Non-derivative contracts that met the definition of energy trading activities
  as defined by EITF 98-10, "Accounting for Energy Trading and Risk Management
  Activities" are reflected in the financial statements using the accrual method
  of accounting. Under the accrual method of accounting, unrealized gains and
  losses are not reflected in the financial statements. Prior periods were reclassified.
  No cumulative effect adjustment was required upon adoption.

PPL Energy Supply has adopted the final provisions of EITF 03-11 prospectively
  as of October 1, 2003. As a result of this adoption, non-trading bilateral sales
  of electricity at major market delivery points are netted with purchases that
  offset the sales at those same delivery points. A major market delivery point
  is any delivery point with liquid pricing available. See Note 17 to the Financial
  Statements for the impact of the adoption of EITF 03-11.

PPL Energy Supply's short-term derivative contracts are recorded as "Price
  risk management assets" and "Price risk management liabilities" on the Balance
  Sheet. Long-term derivative contracts are included in "Other Noncurrent Assets
  - Other" and "Deferred Credits and Other Noncurrent Liabilities - Other."

Accounting Designation

Energy contracts that do not qualify as derivatives receive accrual accounting.
  For energy contracts that meet the definition of a derivative, the circumstances
  and intent existing at the time that energy transactions are entered into determine
  their accounting designation. These designations are verified by PPL Energy
  Supply's risk control group on a daily basis. The following is a summary of
  the guidelines that have been provided to the traders who are responsible for
  contract designation for derivative energy contracts due to the adoption of
  SFAS 149:

Any wholesale and retail contracts to sell or buy electricity and the related
    capacity that are expected to be delivered from PPL's generation or that are
    approved by the RMC to fulfill a strategic element of PPL's overall marketing
    strategy are considered "normal." These transactions are not recorded in the
    financial statements and have no earnings impact until delivery.

Physical electricity-only transactions can receive cash flow hedge treatment
    if all of the qualifications under SFAS 133 are met. Any unrealized gains
    or losses on transactions receiving cash flow hedge treatment are recorded
    in other comprehensive income. These unrealized gains and losses become realized
    when the contracts settle and are recognized in income when the hedged transactions
    occur.

Physical electricity purchases that increase PPL Energy Supply's long position
    and any energy sale or purchase judged a "market call" are considered speculative,
    with unrealized gains or losses recorded immediately through earnings.

Financial transactions, which can be settled in cash, cannot be considered
    "normal" because they do not require physical delivery. These transactions
    receive cash flow hedge treatment if they lock-in the price PPL Energy Supply
    will receive or pay for energy expected to be generated or purchased in the
    spot market. Any unrealized gains or losses on transactions that receive cash
    flow hedge treatment are recorded in other comprehensive income. These unrealized
    gains and losses become realized when the contracts settle and are recognized
    in income when the hedged transactions occur.

Physical and financial transactions for gas and oil to meet fuel and retail
    requirements can receive cash flow hedge treatment if they lock-in the price
    PPL Energy Supply will pay in the spot market. Any unrealized gains or losses
    on transactions receiving cash flow hedge treatment are recorded in other
    comprehensive income. These unrealized gains and losses become realized when
    the contracts settle and are recognized in income when the hedged transactions
    occur.

Option contracts that do not meet the requirements of DIG Issue C15, "Scope
    Exceptions: Interpreting the Normal Purchases and Normal Sales Exception as
    an Election," do not receive hedge accounting treatment and are marked to
    market through earnings.

In addition to energy-related transactions, PPL Energy Supply enters into foreign
  currency swap contracts to hedge the fair value of firm commitments denominated
  in foreign currency and net investments in foreign operations. As with energy
  transactions, the circumstances and intent existing at the time of the transaction
  determine a contract's accounting designation, which is subsequently verified
  by PPL Energy Supply's risk control group on a daily basis. The following is
  a summary of certain guidelines that have been provided to the Treasury Department,
  which is responsible for contract designation:

Transactions to lock-in an interest rate prior to a debt issuance are considered
    cash flow hedges. Any unrealized gains or losses on transactions receiving
    cash flow hedge treatment are recorded in other comprehensive income and are
    amortized as a component of interest expense over the life of the debt.

Transactions entered into to hedge fluctuations in the value of existing
    debt are considered fair value hedges with no earnings impact until the debt
    is terminated because the hedged debt is also marked to market.

Transactions entered into to hedge the value of a net investment of foreign
    operations are considered net investment hedges. To the extent that the derivatives
    are highly effective at hedging the value of the net investment, gains and
    losses are recorded in other comprehensive income/loss and will not be recorded
    in earnings until the investment is disposed of.

Transactions which do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment are marked
    to market through earnings.

Commodity Price Risk

Commodity price risk is one of PPL Energy Supply's most significant risks due
  to the level of investment that PPL Energy Supply maintains in its generation
  assets, coupled with the volatility of prices for energy and energy-related
  products. Several factors influence price levels and volatilities. These factors
  include, but are not limited to, seasonal changes in demand, weather conditions,
  available generating assets within regions, transportation availability and
  reliability within and between regions, market liquidity, and the nature and
  extent of current and potential federal and state regulations. To hedge the
  impact of market price fluctuations on PPL Energy Supply's energy-related assets,
  liabilities and other contractual arrangements, PPL EnergyPlus sells and purchases
  physical energy at the wholesale level under FERC market-based tariffs throughout
  the U.S. and enters into financial exchange-traded and over-the-counter contracts.
  Because of the generating assets PPL Energy Supply owns or controls, the majority
  of PPL Energy Supply's energy transactions qualify for accrual or hedge accounting.

Within PPL Energy Supply's hedge portfolio, the decision to enter into energy
  contracts hinges on the expected value of PPL Energy Supply's generation. To
  address this risk, PPL Energy Supply takes a conservative approach in determining
  the number of MWhs that are available to be sold forward. In this regard, PPL
  Energy Supply reduces the maximum potential output that a plant may produce
  by three factors - planned maintenance, unplanned outages and economic conditions.
  The potential output of a plant is first reduced by the amount of unavailable
  generation due to planned maintenance on a particular unit. Another reduction,
  representing the unplanned outage rate, is the amount of MWhs that historically
  are not produced by a plant due to such factors as equipment breakage. Finally,
  the potential output of certain plants (like peaking units) are reduced because
  their higher cost of production will not allow them to economically run during
  all hours.

PPL Energy Supply's non-trading portfolio also includes full requirements energy
  contracts. The net obligation to serve these contracts changes minute by minute.
  PPL Energy Supply analyzes historical on-peak and off-peak usage patterns, as
  well as spot prices and weather patterns, to determine a monthly level of a
  block of electricity that best fits the usage patterns in order to minimize
  earnings volatility. On a forward basis, PPL Energy Supply reserves a block
  amount of generation for full requirements energy contracts that is expected
  to be the best match with their anticipated usage patterns and energy peaks.
  Anticipated usage patterns and peaks are affected by expected load growth, regional
  economic drivers and seasonality.

PPL Energy Supply's commodity derivative contracts that qualify for hedge accounting
  treatment mature at various times through 2010. The following chart sets forth
  PPL Energy Supply's net fair market value of these contracts as of December
  31, 2003.

During 2003, PPL Energy Supply realized or otherwise settled net gains of approximately
  $64 million related to contracts entered into prior to January 1, 2003. This
  amount does not reflect intra-quarter contracts that were entered into and settled
  during the period.

"Other changes in fair values," a gain of approximately $92 million, represents
  changes in the market value that occurred during 2003 for contracts that were
  outstanding at the end of 2003.

The following chart segregates estimated fair values of PPL Energy Supply's
  commodity derivative contracts that qualify for hedge accounting treatment at
  December 31, 2003 based on whether the fair values are determined by quoted
  market prices or other more subjective means.

The "Prices actively quoted" category includes the fair value of exchange-traded
  natural gas futures contracts quoted on the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX).
  The NYMEX has currently quoted prices through 2010.

The "Prices provided by other external sources" category includes PPL Energy
  Supply's forward positions and options in natural gas and power and natural
  gas basis swaps at points for which over-the-counter (OTC) broker quotes are
  available. The fair value of electricity positions recorded above use the midpoint
  of the bid/ask spreads obtained through OTC brokers. On average, OTC quotes
  for forwards and swaps of natural gas and power extend one and two years into
  the future.

The "Prices based on models and other valuation methods" category includes
  the value of transactions for which an internally developed price curve was
  constructed as a result of the long-dated nature of the transaction or the illiquidity
  of the market point, or the value of options not quoted by an exchange or OTC
  broker. Additionally, this category includes "strip" transactions whose prices
  are obtained from external sources and then modeled to monthly prices as appropriate.

Because of PPL Energy Supply's efforts to hedge the value of the energy from
  its generation assets, PPL Energy Supply has open contractual positions. If
  PPL Energy Supply were unable to deliver firm capacity and energy under its
  agreements, under certain circumstances it would be required to pay damages.
  These damages would be based on the difference between the market price to acquire
  replacement capacity or energy and the contract price of the undelivered capacity
  or energy. Depending on price volatility in the wholesale energy markets, such
  damages could be significant. Extreme weather conditions, unplanned power plant
  outages, transmission disruptions, non-performance by counterparties (or their
  counterparties) with which it has power contracts and other factors could affect
  PPL Energy Supply's ability to meet its firm capacity or energy obligations,
  or cause significant increases in the market price of replacement capacity and
  energy. Although PPL Energy Supply attempts to mitigate these risks, there can
  be no assurance that it will be able to fully meet its firm obligations, that
  it will not be required to pay damages for failure to perform, or that it will
  not experience counterparty non-performance in the future.

As of December 31, 2003, PPL Energy Supply estimated that a 10% adverse movement
  in market prices across all geographic areas and time periods would have decreased
  the value of the commodity contracts in its non-trading portfolio by approximately
  $146 million, which is equal to the estimated decrease at December 31, 2002.
  However, the change in the value of the non-trading portfolio would have been
  substantially offset by an increase in the value of the underlying commodity,
  the electricity generated, because these contracts serve to reduce the market
  risk inherent in the generation of electricity. Additionally, the value of PPL
  Energy Supply's unsold generation would be improved. Because PPL Energy Supply's
  electricity portfolio is generally in a net sales position, the adverse movement
  in prices is usually an increase in prices. Conversely, because PPL Energy Supply's
  commodity fuels portfolio is generally in a net purchase position, the adverse
  movement in prices is usually a decrease in prices. If both of these scenarios
  happened, the implied margins for the unsold generation would increase.

PPL Energy Supply also executes energy contracts to take advantage of market
  opportunities. As a result, PPL Energy Supply may at times create a net open
  position in its portfolio that could result in significant losses if prices
  do not move in the manner or direction anticipated. The margins from these trading
  activities are shown in the Statement of Income as "Net energy trading margins."

PPL Energy Supply's trading contracts mature at various times through 2005.
  The following chart sets forth PPL Energy Supply's net fair market value of
  trading contracts as of December 31, 2003:

During 2002, PPL Energy Supply realized or otherwise settled net losses of
  approximately $21 million related to contracts entered into prior to January
  1, 2003. This amount does not reflect intra-year contracts that were entered
  into and settled during the period.

The fair value of new contracts at inception is usually zero, because they
  are entered into at current market prices. However, when PPL Energy Supply enters
  into an option contract, a premium is paid or received. PPL Energy Supply paid
  $1 million, net, during 2003 for these option contracts.

"Other changes in fair values," a loss of approximately $13 million, represent
  changes in the market value of contracts outstanding at the end of 2003.

As of December 31, 2003, the net gain on PPL Energy Supply's trading activities
  expected to be recognized in earnings during the next three months is approximately
  $2 million.

The following chart segregates estimated fair values of PPL Energy Supply's
  trading portfolio at December 31, 2003 based on whether the fair values are
  determined by quoted market prices or other more subjective means.

The "Prices actively quoted" category includes the fair value of exchange-traded
  natural gas futures contracts quoted on the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX).
  The NYMEX has currently quoted prices through 2010.

The "Prices provided by other external sources" category includes PPL Energy
  Supply's forward positions and options in natural gas and power and natural
  gas basis swaps at points for which over-the-counter (OTC) broker quotes are
  available. The fair value of electricity positions recorded above use the midpoint
  of the bid/ask spreads obtained through OTC brokers. On average, OTC quotes
  for forwards and swaps of natural gas and power extend one and two years into
  the future.

The "Prices based on models and other valuation methods" category includes
  the value of transactions for which an internally developed price curve was
  constructed as a result of the long-dated nature of the transaction or the illiquidity
  of the market point, or the value of options not quoted by an exchange or OTC
  broker. Additionally, this category includes "strip" transactions whose prices
  are obtained from external sources and then modeled to monthly prices as appropriate.

As of December 31, 2003, PPL Energy Supply estimated that a 10% adverse movement
  in market prices across all geographic areas and time periods would have decreased
  the value of the commodity contracts in its trading portfolio by $3 million
  compared to a decrease of $7 million at December 31, 2002.

In accordance with its marketing strategy, PPL Energy Supply does not completely
  hedge its generation output or fuel requirements. PPL Energy Supply estimates
  that for its entire portfolio, including all generation and physical and financial
  energy positions, a 10% adverse change in power prices across all geographic
  zones and time periods will decrease expected 2004 gross margins by about $3
  million. Similarly, a 10% adverse movement in all fossil fuel prices will decrease
  2004 gross margins by $15 million.

Interest Rate Risk

PPL Energy Supply and its subsidiaries have issued debt to finance their operations.
  PPL manages interest rate risk for PPL Energy Supply by using financial derivative
  products to adjust the mix of fixed and floating interest rates in its debt
  portfolio, adjusting the duration of its debt portfolio and locking in U.S.
  Treasury rates (and interest rate spreads over treasuries) in anticipation of
  future financing, when appropriate. Risk limits under the risk management program
  are designed to balance risk exposure to volatility in interest expense and
  changes in the fair value of PPL Energy Supply's debt portfolio due to changes
  in the absolute level of interest rates.

At December 31, 2003, PPL Energy Supply's potential annual exposure to increased
  interest expense, based on a 10% increase in interest rates was insignificant,
  compared to $1 million at December 31, 2002.

PPL Energy Supply is also exposed to changes in the fair value of its debt
  portfolio. At December 31, 2003, PPL Energy Supply estimated that its potential
  exposure to a change in the fair value of its debt portfolio, through a 10%
  adverse movement in interest rates, was $125 million, compared to $79 million
  at December 31, 2002.

PPL and PPL Energy Supply utilize various risk management instruments to reduce
  PPL Energy Supply's exposure to adverse interest rate movements for future anticipated
  financings. While PPL Energy Supply is exposed to changes in the fair value
  of these instruments, they are designed such that any economic loss in value
  should be offset by interest rate savings at the time the future anticipated
  financing is completed. At December 31, 2003, PPL Energy Supply estimated that
  its potential exposure to a change in the fair value of these instruments, through
  a 10% adverse movement in interest rates, was $1 million. At December 31, 2002,
  PPL Energy Supply had not entered into any such instruments.

Foreign Currency Risk

PPL Energy Supply is exposed to foreign currency risk, primarily through investments
  in affiliates in Latin America and Europe. In addition, PPL Energy Supply may
  make purchases of equipment in currencies other than U.S. dollars.

PPL has adopted a foreign currency risk management program designed to hedge
  certain foreign currency exposures, including firm commitments, recognized assets
  or liabilities and net investments. In addition, PPL enters into financial instruments
  to protect against foreign currency translation risk.

PPL holds contracts for the forward purchase of 26 million euros to pay for
  certain equipment of PPL Susquehanna in 2004. The estimated value of these forward
  purchases as of December 31, 2003, being the amount PPL would receive to
  terminate them, was $1 million.

PPL executed forward sale transactions for £25 million to hedge a portion
  of its net investment in WPDH Limited. The estimated value of these agreements
  as of December 31, 2003 was $4 million, being the amount PPL would pay to terminate
  the transactions.

PPL executed forward sale transactions for 3.1 billion Chilean pesos to hedge
  a portion of its net investment in its subsidiary that owns CGE. The estimated
  value of these agreements as of December 31, 2003 was $1 million, being the
  amount PPL would pay to terminate the transactions.

To protect expected income in Chilean pesos, PPL entered into average rate
  options for 2.4 billion Chilean pesos. At December 31, 2003, the market
  value of these positions, representing the amount PPL would pay to terminate
  them, was insignificant.

WPDH Limited executed cross-currency swaps totaling $1.5 billion to hedge the
  interest payments and value of its U.S. dollar-denominated bonds. The estimated
  value of this position on December 31, 2003, being the amount PPL Energy Supply
  would pay to terminate them, including accrued interest, was $84 million.

On the Statement of Income, gains and loses associated with hedges of interest
  payments are reflected in "Interest Expense." Gains and losses associated with
  the purchase of equipment are reflected in "Depreciation." Gains and losses
  associated with net investment hedges remain in accumulated other comprehensive
  loss on the Balance Sheet until the investment is disposed.

Nuclear Decommissioning Fund - Securities Price Risk

In connection with certain NRC requirements, PPL Susquehanna maintains trust
  funds to fund certain costs of decommissioning the Susquehanna station. As of
  December 31, 2003, these funds were invested primarily in domestic equity securities
  and fixed-rate, fixed-income securities and are reflected at fair value on PPL
  Energy Supply's Balance Sheet. The mix of securities is designed to provide
  returns to be used to fund Susquehanna's decommissioning and to compensate for
  inflationary increases in decommissioning costs. However, the equity securities
  included in the trusts are exposed to price fluctuation in equity markets, and
  the values of fixed-rate, fixed-income securities are exposed to changes in
  interest rates. PPL Susquehanna actively monitors the investment performance
  and periodically reviews asset allocation in accordance with its nuclear decommissioning
  trust policy statement. At December 31, 2003, a hypothetical 10% increase in
  interest rates and a 10% decrease in equity prices would have resulted in an
  estimated $24 million reduction in the fair value of the trust assets, as compared
  to a $16 million reduction at December 31, 2002.

PPL Electric's 1998 restructuring settlement agreement provides for the collection
  of authorized nuclear decommissioning costs through the CTC. Additionally, PPL
  Electric is permitted to seek recovery from customers of up to 96% of certain
  increases in these costs. Under the power supply agreements between PPL Electric
  and PPL EnergyPlus, these revenues are passed on to PPL EnergyPlus. Similarly,
  these revenues are passed on to PPL Susquehanna under a power supply agreement
  between PPL EnergyPlus and PPL Susquehanna. These revenues are used to fund
  the trusts.

Credit Risk

Credit risk relates to the risk of loss that PPL Energy Supply would incur
  as a result of non-performance by counterparties of their contractual obligations.
  PPL Energy Supply maintains credit policies and procedures with respect to counterparties
  (including requirements that counterparties maintain certain credit ratings
  criteria) and requires other assurances in the form of credit support or collateral
  in certain circumstances in order to limit counterparty credit risk. However,
  PPL Energy Supply has concentrations of suppliers and customers among electric
  utilities, natural gas distribution companies and other energy marketing and
  trading companies. These concentrations of counterparties may impact PPL Energy
  Supply's overall exposure to credit risk, either positively or negatively, in
  that counterparties may be similarly affected by changes in economic, regulatory
  or other conditions. As discussed above under "Contract Valuation," PPL Energy
  Supply records certain non-performance reserves to reflect the probability that
  a counterparty with contracts that are out of the money (from the counterparty's
  standpoint) will default in its performance, in which case PPL Energy Supply
  would have to sell into a lower-priced market or purchase from a higher-priced
  market. These reserves are reflected in the fair value of assets recorded in
  "Price risk management assets" on the Balance Sheet. PPL Energy Supply also
  records reserves to reflect the probability that a counterparty will not make
  payments for deliveries PPL Energy Supply has made but not yet billed. These
  reserves are reflected in "Unbilled revenues" on the Balance Sheet. PPL Energy
  Supply has also established a reserve with respect to certain sales to the California
  ISO for which PPL Energy Supply has not yet been paid, as well as a reserve
  related to PPL Energy Supply's exposure as a result of the Enron bankruptcy,
  which are reflected in "Accounts receivable" on the Balance Sheet. See Notes
  14 and 17 to the Financial Statements.

Related Party Transactions

PPL Energy Supply is not aware of any material ownership interests or operating
  responsibility by senior management of PPL Energy Supply or PPL Montana in outside
  partnerships, including leasing transactions with variable interest entities,
  or other entities doing business with PPL Energy Supply.

For additional information on related party accounting transactions, see Note
  15 to the Financial Statements.

Capital Expenditure Requirements

The schedule below shows PPL Energy Supply's current capital expenditure projections
  for the years 2004-2008 and actual spending for the year 2003:

PPL Energy Supply's capital expenditure projections for the years 2004-2008
  total about $2.6 billion. Capital expenditure plans are revised periodically
  to reflect changes in market, and asset regulatory conditions. PPL Energy Supply
  also leases vehicles, personal computers and other equipment, as described in
  Note 10 to the Financial Statements. See Note 14 for additional information
  regarding potential capital expenditures for environmental projects.

Acquisitions, Development and Divestitures

From time-to-time, PPL Energy Supply and its subsidiaries are involved in negotiations
  with third parties regarding acquisitions, joint ventures and other arrangements
  which may or may not result in definitive agreements. See Note 9 to the Financial
  Statements for information regarding recent acquisitions and development activities.

At December 31, 2003, PPL Global had investments in foreign facilities, including
  consolidated investments in WPD, Emel, EC and others. See Note 3 to the Financial
  Statements for information on unconsolidated investments accounted for under
  the equity method.

PPL Global is exploring potential sale opportunities for its
  interest in CGE, within the context of an on-going
  review of its international minority ownership investments.

At December 31, 2003, PPL Energy Supply had domestic generation projects under
  development which will provide 663 MW of additional generation.

PPL Energy Supply is continuously reexamining development projects based on
  market conditions and other factors to determine whether to proceed with these
  projects, sell them, cancel them, expand them, execute tolling agreements or
  pursue other opportunities.

Environmental Matters

See Note 14 to the Financial Statements for a discussion of environmental matters.

Competition

See Item 1, "Business - Competition," for additional information.

New Accounting Standards

FIN 46 and FIN 46(R)

In January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 46, "Consolidation of Variable
  Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51." FIN 46 clarifies that variable
  interest entities, as defined therein, that do not disperse risks among the
  parties involved should be consolidated by the entity that is determined to
  be the primary beneficiary. FIN 46 also requires certain disclosures to be made
  by the primary beneficiary and by an enterprise that holds a significant variable
  interest in a variable interest entity but is not the primary beneficiary. FIN
  46 applies immediately to variable interest entities created after January 31,
  2003 and to variable interest entities in which an enterprise obtains an interest
  after January 31, 2003. For variable interest entities in which an enterprise
  holds a variable interest that was acquired before February 1, 2003, FIN 46
  was originally required to be adopted no later than the first fiscal year or
  interim period beginning after June 15, 2003. However, in October 2003, the
  FASB issued FSP FIN 46-6, "Effective Date of FASB Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation
  of Variable Interest Entities," which delayed the effective date for applying
  the provisions of FIN 46 to interests held by public entities in variable interest
  entities or potential variable interest entities created before February 1,
  2003 until the end of the first interim period ending after December 15, 2003.

In December 2003, the FASB revised FIN 46 by issuing Interpretation No. 46
  (revised December 2003), which is known as FIN 46(R) and replaces FIN 46. FIN
  46(R) does not change the general consolidation concepts of FIN 46. Among other
  things, FIN 46(R) again changes the effective date for applying the provisions
  of FIN 46 to certain entities, clarifies certain provisions of FIN 46 and provides
  additional scope exceptions for certain types of businesses. For entities to
  which the provisions of FIN 46 have not been applied as of December 24, 2003,
  FIN 46(R) provides that a public entity that is not a small business issuer
  should apply the provisions of FIN 46 or FIN 46(R) as follows: (i) FIN 46(R)
  shall be applied to all entities no later than the end of the first reporting
  period that ends after March 15, 2004 and (ii) FIN 46 or FIN 46(R) should be
  applied to entities that are considered to be SPEs no later than the end of
  the first reporting period that ends after December 15, 2003.

As permitted by FIN 46(R), PPL Energy Supply adopted FIN 46 effective December
  31, 2003 for entities created before February 1, 2003 that are considered to
  be SPEs. This adoption resulted in the consolidation of the lessors under the
  operating leases for the Sundance, University Park and Lower Mt. Bethel generation
  facilities, as well as the deconsolidation of a wholly-owned trust. See below
  for further discussion. Also, as permitted by FIN 46(R), PPL Energy Supply deferred
  the application of FIN 46 for other entities and plans to adopt FIN 46(R) for
  all entities on March 31, 2004.

PPL Energy Supply is in the process of evaluating entities in which it holds
  a variable interest in accordance with FIN 46(R). PPL Energy Supply is currently
  not aware of any variable interest entities that are not consolidated as of
  December 31, 2003 but which it will be required to consolidate in accordance
  with FIN 46(R) effective March 31, 2004. As it continues to evaluate the impact
  of applying FIN 46(R), PPL Energy Supply may identify additional entities that
  it would need to consolidate.

Additional Entities Consolidated

The lessors under the operating leases for the Sundance, University Park and
  Lower Mt. Bethel generation facilities are variable interest entities that are
  considered to be SPEs. PPL Energy Supply is the primary beneficiary of these
  entities. Consequently, PPL Energy Supply was required to consolidate the financial
  statements of the lessors effective December 31, 2003. Upon initial consolidation,
  PPL Energy Supply recognized $1.1 billion of additional assets and liabilities
  on its balance sheet and a charge of $27 million, after-tax, as a cumulative
  effect of a change in accounting principle. The additional assets consist principally
  of the generation facilities, and the additional liabilities consist principally
  of the lease financing. See Note 10 to the Financial Statements for a discussion
  of the leases.

Entities Deconsolidated

Effective December 31, 2003, PPL Energy Supply deconsolidated SIUK Capital
  Trust I. This trust is considered to be an SPE and was deconsolidated because
  PPL Energy Supply is not the primary beneficiary of the trust under current
  interpretations of FIN 46. Therefore, the "Company-obligated Mandatorily Redeemable
  Preferred Securities of Subsidiary Trusts Holding Solely Company Debentures"
  amounting to $86 million, which would have been recorded as a component of long-term
  debt in 2003 in accordance with SFAS 150, "Accounting for Certain Financial
  Instruments with Characteristics of Both Liabilities and Equity," if the trust
  was consolidated, are not reflected in PPL Energy Supply's Balance Sheet at
  December 31, 2003. Instead, the subordinated debt securities that support the
  trust preferred securities are reflected in "Long-term Debt with Affiliate Trust"
  as of December 31, 2003. See below for further discussion.

SIUK Capital Trust I holds subordinated debt securities of WPD LLP. As a result
  of deconsolidating the trust, the subordinated debt securities are no longer
  eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2003,
  $89 million is reflected as "Long-term Debt with Affiliate Trust" in PPL Energy
  Supply's Balance Sheet.

The effect on the Balance Sheet as a result of deconsolidating the trust was
  an increase in both total assets and total liabilities of $3 million. The increase
  in assets relates to the investment in the common securities of the trust, which
  is no longer eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. The increase
  in liabilities consists primarily of the difference between the carrying value
  of the preferred securities issued by the trust compared to the carrying value
  of the subordinated debt securities of WPD LLP. The deconsolidation of the trust
  did not impact the earnings of PPL Energy Supply.

See the Statement of Company-obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Securities contained
  in the Financial Statements for a discussion of the trust and its preferred
  securities, as well as the subordinated debt securities issued to the trust.

Other

See Note 22 to the Financial Statements for information on other new accounting
  standards adopted in 2003 or pending adoption.

Application of Critical Accounting Policies

PPL Energy Supply's financial condition and results of operations are impacted
  by the methods, assumptions and estimates used in the application of critical
  accounting policies. The following accounting policies are particularly important
  to the financial condition or results of operations of PPL Energy Supply, and
  require estimates or other judgments of matters inherently uncertain. Changes
  in the estimates or other judgments included within these accounting policies
  could result in a significant change to the information presented in the financial
  statements. (These accounting policies are also discussed in Note 1 to the Financial
  Statements.) PPL's senior management has reviewed these critical accounting
  policies, and the estimates and assumptions regarding them, with its Audit Committee.
  In addition, PPL's senior management has reviewed the following disclosures
  regarding the application of these critical accounting policies with the Audit
  Committee.

1)  Price Risk Management

See "Risk Management - Energy Marketing & Trading and Other" in Financial
      Condition.

2)  Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits

As described in Note 12 to the Financial Statements, PPL Energy Supply subsidiaries
  sponsor various pension and other postretirement plans and participate in, and
  are allocated a significant portion of the liability and net periodic pension
  cost of the PPL Retirement Plan and the PPL Postretirement Benefit Plan. PPL
  and PPL Energy Supply follow the guidance of SFAS 87, "Employers' Accounting
  for Pensions," and SFAS 106, "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits
  Other Than Pensions," when accounting for these benefits. Under these accounting
  standards, assumptions are made regarding the valuation of benefit obligations
  and the performance of plan assets. Delayed recognition of differences between
  actual results and expected or estimated results is a guiding principle of these
  standards. This delayed recognition of actual results allows for a smoothed
  recognition of changes in benefit obligations and plan performance over the
  working lives of the employees who benefit under the plans. The primary assumptions
  are as follows:

Discount Rate - The discount rate is used in calculating the present value
    of benefits, which are based on projections of benefit payments to be made
    in the future.

Expected Return on Plan Assets - Management projects the future return on
    plan assets considering prior performance, but primarily based upon the plans'
    mix of assets and expectations for the long-term returns on those asset classes.
    These projected returns reduce the net benefit costs the company will record
    currently.

Rate of Compensation Increase - Management projects employees' annual pay
    increases, which are used to project employees' pension benefits at retirement.

Health Care Cost Trend Rate - Management projects the expected increases
    in the cost of health care.

In selecting discount rates, PPL and PPL Energy Supply consider fixed-income
  security yield rates. At December 31, 2003, PPL and PPL Energy Supply decreased
  the discount rate for their domestic plans from 6.75% to 6.25% as a result of
  decreased fixed-income security returns. For its international plans, PPL Energy
  Supply decreased the discount rate for its international plans from 5.75% to
  5.50% at December 31, 2003.

In selecting an expected return on plan assets, PPL and PPL Energy Supply consider
  past performance and economic forecasts for the types of investments held by
  the plan. At December 31, 2003, PPL and PPL Energy Supply's expected return
  on plan assets for their domestic pension plans remained at 9.0%. For its international
  plans, PPL Energy Supply maintained a weighted average of 8.30% as the expected
  return on plan assets at December 31, 2003.

In selecting a rate of compensation increase, PPL and PPL Energy Supply consider
  tax implications, past experience in light of movements in inflation rates.
  At December 31, 2003, PPL and PPL Energy Supply's rates of compensation increase
  remained at 4.0% for their domestic plans. For its international plans, PPL
  Energy Supply's rate of compensation increase remained at 3.75% at December 31,
  2003.

In selecting health care cost trend rates, PPL and PPL Energy Supply consider
  past performance and forecasts of health care costs. At December 31, 2003, PPL
  and PPL Energy Supply's health care cost trend rates were 11% for 2004, gradually
  declining to 5.0% for 2010.

A variance in the assumptions listed above could have a significant impact
  on projected benefit obligations, accrued pension and other postretirement benefit
  liabilities, reported annual net periodic pension and other postretirement benefit
  cost and other comprehensive income (OCI). The following chart reflects the
  sensitivities associated with a change in certain assumptions. While the chart
  below reflects either an increase or decrease in each assumption, the inverse
  of this change would impact the projected benefit obligation, accrued pension
  and other postretirement benefit liabilities, reported annual net periodic pension
  and other postretirement benefit cost and OCI by a similar amount in the opposite
  direction. Each sensitivity below reflects an evaluation of the change based
  solely on a change in that assumption.

(a)

Excludes the impact of additional minimum
        liability

(b)

Only impacts other postretirement benefits

At December 31, 2003, PPL Energy Supply had been allocated and recognized accrued
  pension and other postretirement benefit liabilities totaling $332 million,
  included in "Deferred Credits and Other Noncurrent Liabilities - Other" on the
  Balance Sheet. At December 31, 2003, PPL Energy Supply had been allocated $1
  million of prepaid postretirement benefit costs included in "Prepayments" on
  the Balance Sheet.

In 2003, PPL Energy Supply was allocated and recognized net periodic pension
      and other postretirement income credited to operating expenses of $24 million.
      This amount represents a $34 million decrease versus the credit recognized
      during 2002. This decrease was primarily due to the decrease in the discount
      rate at December 31, 2002.

As a result of the decrease in the assumed discount rate at December 31, 2003,
  PPL Energy Supply was required to increase its recognized additional minimum
  pension liability. Recording the change in the additional minimum liability
  resulted in a $12 million increase to the pension-related charge to OCI, net
  of taxes, translation adjustment and unrecognized prior service costs, with
  no effect on net income. This charge increased the pension related balance in
  OCI, which is a reduction to Member's Equity, to $309 million at December 31,
  2003. The charges to OCI will reverse in future periods if the fair value of
  trust assets exceeds the accumulated benefit obligation.

Refer to Note 12 to the Financial Statements for additional information regarding
  pension and other postretirement benefits.

3)  Asset Impairment

PPL Energy Supply and its subsidiaries review long-lived assets for impairment
      when events or circumstances indicate carrying amounts may not be recoverable.
      Assets subject to this review, for which impairments have been recorded
      in 2003 or prior years, include international equity investments, new generation
      assets, consolidated international energy projects and goodwill.

PPL Energy Supply performs impairment analyses for tangible long-lived
      assets in accordance with SFAS 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal
      of Long-Lived Assets." For long-lived assets to be held and used, SFAS 144
      requires companies to (a) recognize an impairment loss only if the carrying
      amount is not recoverable from undiscounted cash flows and (b) measure an
      impairment loss as the difference between the carrying amount and fair value
      of the asset.

In determining asset impairments, management must make significant judgments
      and estimates to calculate the fair value of an investment. Fair value is
      developed through consideration of several valuation methods including comparison
      to market multiples, comparison to similar recent sales transactions, comparison
      to replacement cost and discounted cash flow. Discounted cash flow is calculated
      by estimating future cash flow streams, applying appropriate discount rates
      to determine the present values of the cash flow streams, and then assessing
      the probability of the various cash flow scenarios. The impairment is then
      recorded based on the excess of the carrying value of the investment over
      fair value. Changes in assumptions and estimates included within the impairment
      reviews could result in significantly different results than those identified
      and recorded in the financial statements.

During 2003, PPL Energy Supply and its subsidiaries evaluated gas-fired
      generation assets for impairment, as events and circumstances indicated
      that the carrying value of these investments may not be recoverable. PPL
      Energy Supply did not record an impairment of its new gas-fired generation
      assets in 2003. For these impairment analyses, the most significant assumption
      was the estimate of future cash flows. PPL Energy Supply estimates future
      cash flow using information from its corporate business plan adjusted for
      any recent sales or purchase commitments. Key factors that impact cash flows
      include projected prices for electricity and gas as well as firm sales and
      purchase commitments. A 10% decrease in estimated future cash flow for certain
      in-service gas-fired generation assets would have resulted in an impairment
      charge.

PPL Energy Supply performs impairment analyses of goodwill in accordance
      with SFAS 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." SFAS 142 requires
      an annual impairment test of goodwill and other intangible assets that are
      not subject to amortization.

PPL Energy Supply completed its annual goodwill impairment test in the
      fourth quarter of 2003. This test did not result in an impairment. PPL Energy
      Supply's most significant assumptions surrounding the goodwill impairment
      test relate to the determination of fair value. PPL Energy Supply determined
      fair value based upon discounted cash flows. A decrease in the forecasted
      cash flows of 10% or an increase of the discount rate by 25 basis points
      would not have resulted in impairment.

4)  Leasing

PPL Energy Supply applies the provisions of SFAS 13, "Accounting for Leases,"
      to all leasing transactions. In addition, PPL Energy Supply applies the
      provisions of numerous other accounting pronouncements issued by the FASB
      and the EITF that provide specific guidance and additional requirements
      related to accounting for various leasing arrangements. In general, there
      are two types of leases from a lessee's perspective: operating leases -
      leases accounted for off-balance sheet; and capital leases - leases capitalized
      on the balance sheet.

In accounting for leases, management makes various assumptions, including
      the discount rate, the fair market value of the leased assets and the estimated
      useful life, in determining whether a lease should be classified as operating
      or capital. Changes in these assumptions could result in the difference
      between whether a lease is determined to be an operating lease or a capital
      lease, thus significantly impacting the amounts to be recognized in the
      financial statements.

In addition to uncertainty inherent in management's assumptions, leasing
      transactions and the related accounting rules become increasingly complex
      when they involve: sale/leaseback accounting (leasing transactions where
      the lessee previously owned the leased assets); synthetic leases (leases
      that qualify for operating lease treatment for book accounting purposes
      and financing treatment for tax accounting purposes); and lessee involvement
      in the construction of leased assets.

At December 31, 2003, PPL Energy Supply subsidiaries participated in one
      significant sale/leaseback transaction which has been accounted for as an
      operating lease. As discussed in Note 22 to the Financial Statements, the
      lessors under certain synthetic operating leases previously accounted for
      off-balance sheet were consolidated effective December 31, 2003 as a result
      of the adoption of FIN 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities,
      an Interpretation of ARB No. 51," for certain entities.

Sale/Leaseback

In July 2000, PPL Montana sold its interest in the Colstrip generating
      plant to owner lessors who are leasing the assets back to PPL Montana under
      four 36-year operating leases. This transaction is accounted for as an operating
      lease in accordance with current rules related to sale/leaseback arrangements.
      If for any reason this transaction did not meet the requirements for off-balance
      sheet operating lease treatment as a sale/leaseback, PPL Energy Supply would
      have approximately $315 million of additional assets and liabilities recorded
      on its balance sheet at December 31, 2003 and would have recorded additional
      expenses currently estimated at $9 million, after-tax, in 2003.

See Note 10 to the Financial Statements for additional information related
      to operating leases.

5)  Loss Contingencies

PPL Energy Supply periodically records the estimated impacts of various conditions,
  situations or circumstances involving uncertain outcomes. These events are called
  "contingencies," and PPL Energy Supply's accounting for such events is prescribed
  by SFAS 5, "Accounting for Contingencies." SFAS 5 defines a contingency as "an
  existing condition, situation, or set of circumstances involving uncertainty
  as to possible gain or loss to an enterprise that will ultimately be resolved
  when one or more future events occur or fail to occur."

For loss contingencies, the loss must be accrued if (1) information is available
  that indicates it is "probable" that the loss has been incurred, given the likelihood
  of the uncertain future events and (2) the amount of the loss can be reasonably
  estimated. FASB defines "probable" as cases in which "the future event or events
  are likely to occur." SFAS 5 does not permit the accrual of contingencies that
  might result in gains.

The accrual of a loss contingency involves considerable judgment on the part
  of management. The accounting aspects of loss contingencies include: (1) the
  initial identification and recording of the loss contingency; (2) the determination
  of a triggering event for reducing a recorded loss contingency; and (3) the
  on-going assessment as to whether a recorded loss contingency is reasonable.

Initial Identification and Recording of the Loss Contingency

PPL Energy Supply uses its internal expertise and outside experts (such as
  lawyers, tax specialists and engineers), as necessary, to help estimate the
  probability that a loss has been incurred and the amount (or range) of the loss.
  PPL Energy Supply continuously assesses potential loss contingencies for environmental
  remediation, litigation claims, regulatory penalties and other events.

PPL Energy Supply has identified certain events which could give rise to a
  loss, but which do not meet the conditions for accrual under SFAS 5. SFAS 5
  requires disclosure, but not a recording, of potential losses when it is "reasonably
  possible" that a loss has been incurred. FASB defines "reasonably possible"
  as cases in which "the chance of the future event or events occurring is more
  than remote but less than likely." See Note 14 to the Financial Statements for
  disclosure of potential loss contingencies, most of which have not met the criteria
  for accrual under SFAS 5.

Reducing Recorded Loss Contingencies

When a loss contingency is recorded, PPL Energy Supply identifies, where applicable,
  the triggering events for subsequently reducing the loss contingency. The triggering
  events generally occur when the contingency has been resolved and the actual
  loss is incurred, or when the risk of loss has diminished or been eliminated.
  The following are some of the triggering events which provide for the reduction
  of certain recorded loss contingencies:

Certain loss contingencies are systematically reduced based on the expiration
    of contract terms. An example of this is the recorded liability for above-market
    NUG purchase commitments, which is described below. This loss contingency
    is being reduced over the lives of the NUG purchase contracts.

Allowances for excess or obsolete inventory are reduced as the inventory
    items are pulled from the warehouse shelves and sold as scrap or otherwise
    disposed.

Allowances for uncollectible accounts are reduced when accounts are written
    off after prescribed collection procedures have been exhausted.

Environmental loss contingencies are reduced when PPL Energy Supply makes
    payments for environmental remediation.

On-Going Assessment of Recorded Loss Contingencies

PPL Energy Supply reviews its loss contingencies on a regular basis to assure
  that the recorded potential loss exposures are reasonable. This involves on-going
  communication and analyses with internal and external legal counsel, engineers,
  tax specialists, managers in various operational areas and other parties.

All three aspects of accounting for loss contingencies - the initial identification
  and recording of a probable loss, the identification of triggering events to
  reduce the loss contingency, and the ongoing assessment of the reasonableness
  of a recorded loss contingency - require significant judgment by PPL Energy
  Supply's management.

The largest loss contingency on PPL Energy Supply's balance sheet, and the
  loss contingency that changed most significantly in 2003, was for above-market
  NUG purchase commitments. This loss contingency reflects the estimated difference
  between the above-market contract terms under the purchase commitments, and
  the fair value of electricity. This loss contingency was originally recorded
  at $854 million in 1998, when PPL Electric's generation business was deregulated.
  Under regulatory accounting, PPL Electric recorded the above-market cost of
  the purchases from NUGs as part of its purchased power costs on an as-incurred
  basis, since these costs were recovered in regulated rates. When the generation
  business was deregulated, the loss contingency associated with the commitment
  to make above-market NUG purchases was recorded. This loss contingency for the
  above-market portion of NUG purchase commitments was recorded because it was
  probable that the loss had been incurred and the estimate of future energy prices
  could be reasonably determined, using the then forward prices of electricity
  and capacity. This loss contingency was transferred to PPL EnergyPlus in the
  July 1, 2000 corporate realignment. The above-market loss contingency was $352
  million at December 31, 2003.

When the loss contingency related to NUG purchases was recorded in 1998, PPL
  Electric established the triggering events for when the loss contingency would
  be reduced. A schedule was established to reduce the liability based on projected
  purchases over the lives of the NUG contracts. All but one of the NUG contracts
  expire by 2009, with the last one ending in 2014. PPL EnergyPlus reduces the
  above-market NUG liability based on the aforementioned schedule. As PPL EnergyPlus
  reduces the liability for the above-market NUG purchases, it offsets the actual
  cost of NUG purchases, thereby bringing the net power purchase expense more
  in line with market prices.

PPL EnergyPlus assessed the remaining $352 million above-market liability at
  December 31, 2003, comparing the projected electricity purchases under the terms
  of the NUG contracts, with the purchases assuming projected market prices for
  the energy. This assessment was based on projected PJM market prices, including
  capacity, through 2014. The assessment also used sensitivities around the market
  prices, adjusting such prices upwards and downwards by 10%.

The assessment is dependent on the market prices of energy and the estimated
  output levels of the NUGs. Market prices of energy are dependent on many variables,
  including growth in electricity demand in PJM, available generation, and changes
  in regulatory and economic conditions. Accordingly, market price sensitivities
  were used in the assessment. If estimated market prices were adjusted upwards
  by 10% in each of the years from 2004 through 2014, the contingency for the
  above-market NUG purchase commitments would be approximately $296 million. Conversely,
  if estimated market prices were adjusted downwards by 10% during the remaining
  term of the NUG contracts, the contingency for the above-market NUG purchase
  commitments would be approximately $386 million. The recorded above-market liability
  of $352 million at December 31, 2003 falls within the range calculated in the
  year-end assessment. As noted above, it is very difficult to estimate future
  electricity prices, which are dependent on many variables and subject to significant
  volatility. However, PPL Energy Supply's management believes that the current
  recorded NUG above-market liability was fairly stated at December 31, 2003.

6)  Asset Retirement Obligations

In 2001, the FASB issued SFAS 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations,"
  which addresses the accounting for obligations associated with the retirement
  of tangible long-lived assets. SFAS 143 requires legal obligations associated
  with the retirement of long-lived assets to be recognized as a liability in
  the financial statements. The initial obligation should be measured at the estimated
  fair value. An equivalent amount should be recorded as an increase in the value
  of the capitalized asset and allocated to expense over the useful life of the
  asset. Until the obligation is settled, the liability should be increased, through
  the recognition of accretion expense in the income statement, for changes in
  the obligation due to the passage of time. SFAS 143 is effective for fiscal
  years beginning after June 15, 2002.

In determining asset retirement obligations, management must make significant
  judgments and estimates to calculate fair value. Fair value is developed through
  consideration of estimated retirement costs in today's dollars, inflated to
  the anticipated retirement date and then discounted back to the date the asset
  retirement obligation was incurred. Changes in assumptions and estimates included
  within the calculations of asset retirement obligations could result in significantly
  different results than those identified and recorded in the financial statements.

PPL Energy Supply adopted SFAS 143 effective January 1, 2003. Initial adoption
  of the new rules resulted in an increase in net PP&E of $32 million, reversal
  of previously recorded liabilities of $304 million, recognition of asset retirement
  obligations of $229 million, recognition of a deferred tax liability of $44
  million and a cumulative effect of adoption that increased net income by $63
  million. At December 31, 2003, PPL Energy Supply had asset retirement obligations
  totaling $242 million recorded on the Balance Sheet. PPL Energy Supply's most
  significant assumptions surrounding asset retirement obligations are the forecasted
  retirement cost, discount rate and inflation rate. A variance in the forecasted
  retirement cost, discount rate or inflation rate could have a significant impact
  on the ARO liability and the cumulative effect gain.

The following chart reflects the sensitivities associated with a change in
  these assumptions upon initial adoption. Each sensitivity below reflects an
  evaluation of the change based solely on a change in that assumption only.

Other Information

PPL's Audit Committee has approved the independent auditor to provide audit
  and audit-related services and other services permitted by the Sarbanes-Oxley
  Act of 2002 and SEC rules. The audit and audit-related services include services
  in connection with statutory and regulatory filings, reviews of offering documents
  and registration statements, employee benefit plan audits and internal control
  reviews.

PPL ELECTRIC UTILITIES CORPORATION

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Overview

PPL Electric provides electricity delivery service in eastern and central Pennsylvania.
  Its headquarters are in Allentown, Pennsylvania. See Item 1, "Business - Background,"
  for a description of PPL Electric's business. PPL Electric's strategy and principal
  challenge is to own and operate its electricity delivery business at the highest
  level of quality and reliability and at the most efficient cost.

PPL Electric's electricity delivery business is rate-regulated. Accordingly,
  PPL Electric is subject to regulatory risks in terms of the costs that it may
  recover and the investment returns that it may collect in customers' rates.

An important challenge for PPL Electric is to maintain a strong credit profile.
  In the past few years, investors, analysts and rating agencies that follow companies
  in the energy industry have been particularly focused on the credit quality
  and liquidity position of these companies. PPL Electric is focused on strengthening
  its balance sheet and improving its liquidity position, thereby improving its
  credit profile.

The purpose of "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
  and Results of Operations" is to provide information concerning PPL Electric's
  past and expected future performance in implementing the strategy and challenges
  outlined above. Specifically:

"Results of Operations" provides an overview of PPL Electric's operating
    results in 2003, 2002 and 2001, starting with a review of earnings. The earnings
    review identifies certain unusual items that had impacts in these years, and
    it also references the delivery rate increase that PPL Electric expects to
    file with the PUC in the spring of 2004. "Results of Operations" also includes
    an explanation of changes during this three-year period in significant income
    statement components, such as operating revenues, operation and maintenance
    expenses, financing costs, income taxes and cumulative effects of accounting
    changes.

"Financial Condition - Liquidity" provides an analysis of PPL Electric's
    liquidity position and credit profile, including its sources of cash (including
    bank credit facilities and sources of operating cash flow) and uses of cash
    (including contractual commitments and capital expenditure requirements) and
    the key risks and uncertainties that impact PPL Electric's past and future
    liquidity position and financial condition. This subsection also includes
    an explanation of recent rating agency decisions affecting PPL Electric, as
    well as a listing of PPL Electric's current credit ratings.

"Financial Condition - Risk Management" includes an explanation of PPL Electric's
    risk management activities regarding commodity price risk and interest rate
    risk.

"Application of Critical Accounting Policies" provides an overview of the
    accounting policies that are particularly important to the results of operations
    and financial condition of PPL Electric and that require PPL Electric's management
    to make significant estimates, assumptions and other judgments. Although PPL
    Electric's management believes that these estimates, assumptions and other
    judgments are appropriate, they relate to matters that are inherently uncertain.
    Accordingly, changes in the estimates, assumptions and other judgments applied
    to these accounting policies could have a significant impact on PPL Electric's
    results of operations and financial condition, as reflected in PPL Electric's
    Financial Statements.

The information provided in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
  Condition and Results of Operations" should be read in conjunction with PPL
  Electric's Financial Statements and the Notes thereto.

Terms and abbreviations appearing herein are explained in the glossary. Dollars
  are in millions unless otherwise noted.

Results of Operations

The following discussion explains significant changes in principal items on
  the Statement of Income comparing 2003 to 2002, and 2002 to 2001.

Earnings

Income available to PPL was:

The after-tax changes in income available to PPL were primarily due to:

The changes in income available to PPL from year to year were, in part, attributable
  to several unusual items with significant earnings impacts, including an accounting
  change and an infrequently occurring item. The after-tax impacts of these unusual
  items are shown below:

The year to year changes in earnings components are discussed in the balance
  of the discussion in "Results of Operations."

PPL Electric expects to file a request for a distribution rate increase with
  the PUC in March 2004. If approved, the new rates will go into effect in January
  2005, when PPL Electric's distribution rate cap expires. In addition, beginning
  January 1, 2005, PPL Electric expects to fully recover from its retail customers
  the charges that it pays to PJM for transmission-related services. See "Item
  1. Business-Background-Delivery Segment" for more information regarding
  PPL Electric's transmission and distribution rate cap.

Operating Revenues

Retail Electric (Including to Affiliate)

The increase (decrease) in revenues from retail electric operations was attributable
  to the following:

The increase in operating revenues from retail electric operations for 2003,
  compared with the same period in 2002, was primarily due to:

higher delivery revenues resulting from a 1.1% increase in delivery sales.
    The increase in sales volume was due in part to colder winter weather in the
    first quarter of 2003; and

higher PLR revenues due to higher energy and capacity rates in 2003 compared
    with 2002; partially offset by

lower sales to PPL Generation. PPL Generation's power plants began self-supplying
    their station use in April 2003, rather than taking supply from PPL Electric.

The increase in operating revenues from retail electric operations from 2002
  compared with 2001 was primarily due to higher revenues from providing electric
  generation supply as a PLR. Since December 2001, about 50% to 60% of kWh load
  in PPL Electric's service territory that had been served by alternate suppliers
  under the Customer Choice Act had returned to PPL Electric as the supplier.

Wholesale Electric

PPL Electric wholesale revenues are derived from sales to municipalities. The
  $5 million decrease in wholesale electric revenues in 2002 compared with 2001
  was due to the expiration of certain municipal contracts in February 2002.

Wholesale Electric to Affiliate

PPL Electric has a contract to sell to PPL EnergyPlus the electricity that
  PPL Electric purchases under contracts with NUGs. The termination of one NUG
  contract in April 2003 and another in February 2002 caused PPL Electric to purchase
  $8 million less NUG energy in 2003 compared to 2002 and $16 million less in
  2002 compared with 2001. PPL Electric therefore had less electricity to sell
  to PPL EnergyPlus.

Energy Purchases

Effective January 1, 2002, PPL Electric began incurring the costs of certain
  ancillary services, such as area regulation and operating reserves, in connection
  with its power supply contract with PPL EnergyPlus. Energy purchases increased
  by $31 million in 2002 compared with 2001, including $48 million in ancillary
  service costs. These costs were primarily offset by a $16 million decrease in
  NUG purchases due to the termination of an energy purchase contract with a NUG
  in February 2002.

Energy Purchases from Affiliate

Energy purchases from affiliate increased by $13 million in 2003 compared with
  2002. This increase reflects higher prices for energy purchased under the power
  supply contracts with PPL EnergyPlus needed to support PLR load.

Energy purchases from affiliate increased by $106 million in 2002 compared
  with 2001. This increase reflects higher purchases under power supply contracts
  with PPL EnergyPlus needed to support a higher PLR load, due to the return of
  customers to PPL Electric as their PLR. See Note 15 to the Financial Statements
  for a discussion of the power supply contracts.

Other Operation and Maintenance

The increase (decrease) in other operation and maintenance expenses was primarily
  due to:

The $13 million decrease in net pension income was attributable to decreased
  asset values at the end of 2002 and reductions in the discount rate assumptions
  for PPL's domestic pension plans, which was the result of weakness in the financial
  markets during 2002. The 2002 year-end asset values and discount rates were
  used to measure net pension income for 2003. Through December 31, 2003, PPL
  Electric was allocated $4 million of net pension income, based on its participation
  in PPL's primary domestic pension plan.

Although financial markets have improved and PPL domestic pension plans have
  experienced significant asset gains in 2003, interest rates on fixed-income
  obligations have continued to fall requiring a further reduction in the discount
  rate assumption as of December 31, 2003. The reduction in the discount rate
  assumption has a significant impact on the measurement of plan obligations and
  net pension cost, which will result in the allocation of a pension charge to
  PPL Electric in 2004. See Note 12 to the Financial Statements for details of
  the funded status of PPL's pension plans.

Depreciation

Depreciation increased by $9 million in 2003 compared with 2002, primarily
  due to plant and software additions, including the Automated Meter Reading project.

Taxes, Other Than Income

Taxes, other than income, increased by $11 million in 2003 compared with 2002
  due to the settlement of prior years' capital stock tax refund claims of $8
  million in 2002, and higher taxes related to an increase in the basis on which
  capital stock tax is calculated in 2003.

Taxes, other than income, increased by $37 million in 2002 compared with 2001,
  primarily due to a $45 million increase in gross receipts tax, partially offset
  by a $10 million decrease in capital stock tax.

The gross receipts tax increase in 2002 was due to an increase in the revenue-neutral
  reconciliation (RNR) tax component of the effective Pennsylvania gross receipts
  tax rate in January 2002. The RNR, which adjusts the base gross receipts tax
  rate of 4.4%, was enacted as part of the Customer Choice Act as a tax revenue
  replacement component to recoup losses to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania or
  return benefits to customers that may result from the restructuring of the electric
  industry. This increase was partially offset by the settlement of prior years'
  capital stock tax refund claims and a lower capital stock tax rate in 2002.

Workforce Reduction

See Note 20 to the Financial Statements for information on the charges recorded
  in 2003 and 2002.

Other Income - net

See Note 16 to the Financial Statements for details of other income and deductions.

Financing Costs

Interest expense on long-term debt decreased by $7 million in 2003 compared
  to 2002. This decrease was the net impact of retirements of mortgage bonds,
  Pollution Control Bonds and Transition Bonds, partially offset by the issuance
  of $100 million of Senior Secured Bonds and $90 million of Pollution Control
  Bonds.

Lower interest on long-term debt accounted for the $12 million decrease in
  interest expense in 2002 compared with 2001. This decrease was the net impact
  of retirements of mortgage bonds and Transition Bonds, partially offset by the
  issuance of $800 million of Senior Secured Bonds in August 2001.

Dividends on preferred securities decreased by $13 million from 2002 to 2003
  and by $10 million from 2001 to 2002. These decreases were due to retirements
  and redemptions of preferred securities and preferred stock.

Income Taxes

Income tax expense did not change for 2003 compared with 2002. This was due
  to lower pre-tax book income, resulting in a $5 million reduction in income
  taxes, offset by a $3 million increase in income tax expense related to the
  filing of PPL Electric's income tax returns.

Income tax expense decreased by $47 million in 2002 compared with 2001. This
  change was primarily due to a decrease in pre-tax book income.

Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle

In 2001, PPL changed its method of amortizing unrecognized gains or losses
  in the annual pension expense or income determined under SFAS 87, "Employers'
  Accounting for Pensions." This change resulted in an allocation to PPL Electric
  of a cumulative-effect credit of $5 million. See Note 12 to the Financial Statements
  for additional information.

Financial Condition

Liquidity

PPL Electric is focused on maintaining a strong liquidity position and strengthening
  its balance sheet, thereby improving its credit profile. PPL Electric believes
  that its cash on hand, operating cash flows, access to debt capital markets
  and borrowing capacity, taken as a whole, provide sufficient resources to fund
  its ongoing operating requirements, future security maturities and estimated
  future capital expenditures. PPL Electric currently expects cash on hand at
  the end of 2004 to be approximately $110 million, with about $200 million in
  syndicated credit facilities and up to $150 million in short-term debt capacity
  related to an asset-backed commercial paper program in which it plans to participate
  starting in early 2004. However, PPL Electric's cash flows from operations and
  its access to cost effective bank and capital markets are subject to risks and
  uncertainties, including but not limited to, the following:

unusual or extreme weather that may damage PPL Electric's transmission and
    distribution facilities or effect energy sales to customers;

ability to recover, and timeliness and adequacy of recovery of costs associated
    with regulated utility businesses; and

a downgrade in PPL Electric's credit ratings that could negatively affect
    its ability to access capital and increase the cost of maintaining credit
    facilities and any new debt.

At December 31, 2003, PPL Electric had $162 million in cash and cash equivalents
  and no short-term debt as compared to $29 million in cash and cash equivalents
  and $15 million of short-term debt at December 31, 2002, and $79 million in
  cash and cash equivalents and no short-term debt at December 31, 2001. The changes
  in short-term debt resulted primarily from the repayments described below under
  "Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities" and in Note 8 to the Financial
  Statements. The changes in cash and cash equivalents resulted from the following:

Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities

Net cash provided by operating activities increased by 93%, or $254 million,
  in 2003 versus 2002, reflecting working capital improvements resulting from
  a decrease in accounts receivable and an increase in accounts payable. The savings
  from a workforce reduction program that was commenced in 2002 was more than
  offset by rising transmission and distribution operating costs.

An important element supporting the stability of PPL Electric's cash from operations
  is its long-term energy purchase contracts with PPL EnergyPlus. These contracts
  provide sufficient energy for PPL Electric to meet its PLR obligation from 2003
  through 2009, at the pre-determined capped rates it is entitled to charge its
  customers during this period. These contracts require cash collateral or other
  credit enhancement, or reductions or terminations of a portion or the entire
  contract through cash settlement in the event of a downgrade of PPL Electric
  or adverse changes in market prices. For example, if PPL Electric's ratings
  were lowered to below "investment grade" and energy prices decreased by 10%,
  PPL Electric estimates that, based on its December 31, 2003 and 2002 positions,
  it would have to post collateral of approximately $300 million for both years.
  The maximum that PPL Electric would have to post under these contracts is $300
  million.

Net cash provided by operating activities in 2002 was $274 million, compared
  to $392 million in 2001. The decrease was primarily the result of lower earnings
  and an increase in accounts receivable. Cash provided by operating activities
  was lower in 2002, despite a $90 million up-front payment on the PLR contract
  made in 2001.

Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities

Net cash used in investing activities in 2003 was $145 million, as compared
  to net cash provided by investing activities in 2002 of $41 million. The difference
  primarily was the result of a lower loan repayment by an affiliate. The primary
  use of cash for investing activities is capital and investment expenditures,
  which are summarized by category in the table in "Capital Expenditure Requirements."
  In 2004, PPL Electric expects to be able to fund all of its capital expenditures
  with cash from operations.

Net cash provided by investing activities in 2002 was $41 million, as compared
  to net cash used in investing activities in 2001 of $432 million. The difference
  primarily was the result of a loan repayment by an affiliate in 2002, versus
  net lending to affiliates in 2001.

Net Cash Used in Financing Activities

Net cash used in financing activities was $250 million in 2003, compared to
  $365 million in 2002, which reflects the repayment of long-term debt. In 2003,
  the $250 million of cash used in financing activities primarily consisted of
  net debt retirements of $255 million, preferred stock retirements of $31 million,
  a contribution from parent of $75 million and common and preferred dividends
  paid of $32 million. In 2002, the $365 million primarily consisted of net debt
  retirements of $270 million, company-obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred
  securities retirements of $250 million, a contribution from parent of $240 million
  and common and preferred stock dividends paid of $85 million.

PPL Electric's debt financing activity in 2003 was as follows:

Debt issued during 2003 had stated interest rates ranging from 3.125% to 4.30%
  and maturities from 2008 through 2013. See Note 8 to the Financial Statements
  for more detailed information regarding PPL Electric's borrowings.

In July 2003, PPL Electric determined that, based on its current cash position
  and anticipated cash flows, it would not need to access the commercial paper
  markets through at least the end of 2003. As a result, PPL Electric requested
  Standard & Poor's Ratings Services (S&P), Moody's Investors Service,
  Inc. (Moody's) and Fitch Ratings (Fitch) to withdraw their ratings for its currently
  inactive commercial paper program, which the rating agencies did effective as
  of July 9, 2003. This decision has not limited the ability of PPL Electric
  to fund its short-term liquidity needs. PPL Electric currently does not have
  any commercial paper outstanding, but it expects to restart its commercial paper
  program in early 2004.

At December 31, 2003, PPL Electric's total committed borrowing capacity and
  the use of this borrowing capacity were as follows:

(a)

PPL Electric's credit facilities allow for
        borrowings at LIBOR-based rates plus a spread, depending upon the company's
        public debt rating. PPL Electric also has the capability to issue up to
        $250 million of letters of credit under these facilities, which issuance
        reduces available borrowing capacity.

These credit facilities contain a financial covenant requiring debt to
        total capitalization not greater than 70%. At December 31, 2003 and 2002,
        PPL Electric's consolidated debt to total capitalization percentages,
        as calculated in accordance with its credit facilities, were 57% and 58%.
        PPL Electric's 364-day credit facility also allows it to borrow up to
        the full amount of the credit facility on the day of expiration for up
        to a one-year period. The credit agreements also contain certain representations
        and warranties that must be made for PPL Electric to borrow under them,
        including, but not limited to, a material adverse change clause that relates
        solely to PPL Electric's ability to perform its obligations under the
        credit agreements and related loan documents.

(b)

PPL Electric has a reimbursement obligation
        to the extent any letters of credit are drawn upon. The letters of credit
        issued as of December 31, 2003 expire in 2004.

These credit agreements contain various other covenants. Failure to meet those
  covenants beyond applicable grace periods could result in acceleration of due
  dates of borrowings and/or termination of the agreements. PPL Electric monitors
  the covenants on a regular basis. At December 31, 2003, PPL Electric was in
  compliance with those covenants. At this time PPL Electric believes that these
  covenants and other borrowing conditions will not limit access to these funding
  sources. PPL Electric intends to reduce its total syndicated credit facilities
  to $200 million in the first quarter of 2004. In early 2004, PPL Electric also
  intends to participate in an Asset-Backed Commercial Paper (ABCP) Program for
  up to $150 million that would be secured by a portion of its accounts receivable.
  The ABCP Program would provide a more reliable and stable source of liquidity
  than an unsecured commercial paper program.

PPL Electric's 2001 Senior Secured Bond Indenture restricts dividend payments
  in the event that PPL Electric fails to meet interest coverage ratios or fails
  to comply with certain separateness formalities undertaken in connection with
  its strategic initiative (see Note 19 to the Financial Statements for additional
  information). PPL Electric does not, at this time, expect that any of such limitations
  would significantly impact its ability to declare dividends.

Net cash used in financing activities was $365 million in 2002, compared to
  $148 million in 2001. In 2002, the $365 million primarily consisted of net debt
  retirements of $270 million, company-obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred
  securities retirements of $250 million, preferred and common dividend payments
  of $85 million, offset by a contribution from PPL of $240 million. In 2001,
  the $148 million primarily consisted of net debt issuances of $276 million,
  preferred stock redemptions of $15 million, repurchase of common stock from
  PPL of $280 million and preferred and common dividends of $107 million.

Operating Leases

PPL Electric has operating lease agreements to finance vehicles, personal computers
  and other equipment. These leasing structures provide PPL Electric with additional
  operating and financing flexibility. The operating leases contain covenants
  that are standard for these types of arrangements, such as maintaining insurance,
  maintaining corporate existence and the timely payment of rent and other fees.
  Failure to meet these covenants could limit or restrict access to these leases
  or require early payment of obligations. At this time, PPL Electric believes
  that these covenants will not limit access to these leases or cause acceleration
  or termination of the leases.

See Note 10 to the Financial Statements for a further discussion of the operating
  leases.

Contractual Obligations

At December 31, 2003, the estimated contractual cash obligations of PPL Electric
  were as follows:

(a)

Reflects maturities only. Includes $1.4 billion
        of transition bonds issued by PPL Transition Bond Company in 1999 to securitize
        a portion of PPL Electric's stranded costs. This debt is non-recourse
        to PPL Electric.

(b)

The payments reflected herein are subject
        to change as the purchase obligation reflected is an estimate based on
        projected obligated quantities and projected pricing under the contract.

Credit Ratings

The following table summarizes the credit ratings of PPL Electric and its subsidiary,
  PPL Transition Bond Company, LLC, at December 31, 2003:

Rating Agency Actions in 2003

In 2003, S&P, Moody's and Fitch reviewed the credit ratings on the debt
  and preferred securities of PPL Electric. Based on their respective reviews,
  the rating agencies made certain ratings revisions that are described below.
  Management does not expect these ratings decisions to impact PPL Electric's
  ability to raise new debt or equity capital or to have a significant impact
  on its cost of any new capital or the cost of maintaining its credit facilities.

The ratings of S&P, Moody's and Fitch are not a recommendation to buy,
  sell or hold any securities of PPL Electric or its subsidiary, PPL Transition
  Bond Company, LLC. Such ratings may be subject to revisions or withdrawal by
  the agencies at any time and should be evaluated independently of each other
  and any other rating that may be assigned to their securities.

S&P

In April 2003, S&P notified PPL Electric that it affirmed the 'A-' ratings
  on PPL Electric's first mortgage bonds and senior secured bonds and the 'A-2'
  commercial paper ratings of PPL Electric, and that it placed PPL Electric on
  negative outlook.

Moody's

In May 2003, Moody's downgraded the credit ratings on PPL Electric's first
  mortgage bonds and senior secured bonds, to 'Baa1' from 'A3'. Moody's ratings
  outlook was stable for PPL Electric. PPL Electric's short-term debt rating was
  not impacted by Moody's long-term debt review. Moody's indicated that the full
  requirements contract between PPL Electric and PPL EnergyPlus, which previously
  was approved by the PUC and which extends through December 2009, mitigates PPL
  Electric's supply and price risk.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

PPL Electric has entered into certain guarantee agreements that are within
  the scope of FIN 45, "Guarantor's Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for
  Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others, an Interpretation
  of FASB Statements No. 5, 57, and 107 and Rescission of FASB Interpretation
  No. 34." See Note 14 to the Financial Statements for a discussion on guarantees.

Risk Management

Market Risk

Commodity Price Risk - PLR Contracts

PPL Electric and PPL EnergyPlus have power supply agreements under which PPL
  EnergyPlus sells to PPL Electric (under a predetermined pricing arrangement)
  energy and capacity to fulfill PPL Electric's PLR obligation through 2009. As
  a result, PPL Electric has shifted any electric price risk relating to its PLR
  obligation to PPL EnergyPlus for 2003 through 2009. See Note 15 to the Financial
  Statements for information on the PLR contracts.

Interest Rate Risk

PPL Electric has issued debt to finance its operations, which increases its
  interest rate risk. At December 31, 2003, PPL Electric's potential annual exposure
  to increased interest expense, based on a 10% increase in interest rates, was
  insignificant.

PPL Electric is also exposed to changes in the fair value of its debt portfolio.
  At December 31, 2003, PPL Electric estimated that its potential exposure to
  a change in the fair value of its debt portfolio, through a 10% adverse movement
  in interest rates, was approximately $51 million, compared to $45 million at
  December 31, 2002.

Related Party Transactions

PPL Electric is not aware of any material ownership interests or operating
  responsibility by senior management of PPL Electric in outside partnerships,
  including leasing transactions with variable interest entities, or other entities
  doing business with PPL Electric.

For additional information on related party accounting transactions, see Note
  15 to the Financial Statements.

Capital Expenditure Requirements

The schedule below shows PPL Electric's current capital expenditure projections
  for the years 2004-2008 and actual spending for the year 2003:

Construction expenditures include AFUDC which is expected to be less than $2
  million in each of the years 2004-2008.

PPL Electric's capital expenditure projections for the years 2004-2008 total
  $988 million. Capital expenditure plans are revised periodically to reflect
  changes in market, and asset regulatory conditions. PPL Electric also leases
  vehicles, personal computers and other equipment, as described in Note 10 to
  the Financial Statements.

Environmental Matters

See Note 14 to the Financial Statements for a discussion of environmental matters.

Competition

See Item 1, "Business - Competition," for additional information.

New Accounting Standards

See Note 22 to the Financial Statements for information on new accounting standards
  adopted in 2003 or pending adoption.

Application of Critical Accounting Policies

PPL Electric's financial condition and results of operations are impacted by
  the methods, assumptions and estimates used in the application of critical accounting
  policies. The following accounting policies are particularly important to the
  financial condition or results of operations of PPL Electric, and require estimates
  or other judgments of matters inherently uncertain. Changes in the estimates
  or other judgments included within these accounting policies could result in
  a significant change to the information presented in the financial statements.
  (These accounting policies are also discussed in Note 1 to the Financial Statements.)
  PPL's senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies, and
  the estimates and assumptions regarding them, with its Audit Committee. In addition,
  PPL's senior management has reviewed the following disclosures regarding the
  application of these critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee.

1)  Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits

As described in Note 12 to the Financial Statements, PPL Electric participates
  in, and is allocated a significant portion of the liability and net periodic
  pension cost of the PPL Retirement Plan and the PPL Postretirement Benefit Plan.
  PPL follows the guidance of SFAS 87, "Employers' Accounting for Pensions," and
  SFAS 106, "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions,"
  when accounting for these benefits. Under these accounting standards, assumptions
  are made regarding the valuation of benefit obligations and performance of plan
  assets. Delayed recognition of differences between actual results and expected
  or estimated results is a guiding principle of these standards. This delayed
  recognition of actual results allows for a smoothed recognition of changes in
  benefit obligations and plan performance over the working lives of the employees
  who benefit under the plans. The primary assumptions are as follows:

Discount Rate - The discount rate is used in calculating the present value
    of benefits, which are based on projections of benefit payments to be made
    in the future.

Expected Return on Plan Assets - Management projects the future return on
    plan assets considering prior performance, but primarily based upon the plans'
    mix of assets and expectations for the long-term returns on those asset classes.
    These projected returns reduce the net benefit costs the company will record
    currently.

Rate of Compensation Increase - Management projects employees' annual pay
    increases, which are used to project employees' pension benefits at retirement.

Health Care Cost Trend Rate - Management projects the expected increases
    in the cost of health care.

In selecting discount rates, PPL considers fixed-income security yield rates.
  At December 31, 2003, PPL decreased the discount rate for its domestic plans
  from 6.75% to 6.25% as a result of decreased fixed-income security returns.

In selecting an expected return on plan assets, PPL considers past performance
  and economic forecasts for the types of investments held by the plan. At December
  31, 2003, PPL's expected return on plan assets for its domestic pension plans
  remained at 9.0%.

In selecting a rate of compensation increase, PPL considered past experience
  in light of movements in inflation rates. At December 31, 2003, PPL's rate of
  compensation increase remained at 4.0% for its domestic plans.

In selecting health care cost trend rates, PPL considers tax implications,
  past performance and forecasts of health care costs. At December 31, 2003, PPL's
  health care cost trend rates were 11% for 2004, gradually declining to 5.0%
  for 2010.

A variance in the assumptions listed above could have a significant impact
  on the accrued pension and other postretirement benefit liabilities and reported
  annual net periodic pension and other postretirement benefit cost allocated
  to PPL Electric. The following chart reflects the sensitivities associated with
  a change in certain assumptions. While the chart below reflects either an increase
  or decrease in each assumption, PPL and its actuaries expect that the inverse
  of this change would impact the accrued pension and other postretirement benefit
  liabilities and reported annual net periodic pension and other postretirement
  benefit cost by a similar amount in the opposite direction. Each sensitivity
  below reflects an evaluation of the change based solely on a change in that
  assumption.

(a)

Only impacts other postretirement benefits.

At December 31, 2003, PPL Electric had been allocated accrued pension liabilities
  totaling $74 million, included in "Deferred Credits and Other Noncurrent Liabilities
  - Other" on the Balance Sheet. At December 31, 2003, PPL Electric had been allocated
  prepaid postretirement benefit costs totaling $2 million, included in "Prepayments"
  on the Balance Sheet.

In 2003, PPL Electric was allocated net periodic pension and other postretirement
  costs charged to operating expense of $17 million. This amount represents a
  $21 million reduction in the credit recognized during 2002. This reduction was
  primarily due to the decrease in the discount rate at December 31, 2002.

Refer to Note 12 to the Financial Statements for additional information regarding
  pension and other postretirement benefits.

2)  Loss Contingencies

PPL Electric periodically records the estimated impacts of various conditions,
  situations or circumstances involving uncertain outcomes. These events are called
  "contingencies," and PPL Electric's accounting for such events is prescribed
  by SFAS 5, "Accounting for Contingencies." SFAS 5 defines a contingency as "an
  existing condition, situation, or set of circumstances involving uncertainty
  as to possible gain or loss to an enterprise that will ultimately be resolved
  when one or more future events occur or fail to occur."

For loss contingencies, the loss must be accrued if (1) information is available
  that indicates it is "probable" that the loss has been incurred, given the likelihood
  of the uncertain future events and (2) the amount of the loss can be reasonably
  estimated. FASB defines "probable" as cases in which "the future event or events
  are likely to occur." SFAS 5 does not permit the accrual of contingencies that
  might result in gains.

The accrual of a loss contingency involves considerable judgment on the part
  of management. The accounting aspects of loss contingencies include: (1) the
  initial identification and recording of the loss contingency; (2) the determination
  of a triggering event for reducing a recorded loss contingency; and (3) the
  on-going assessment as to whether a recorded loss contingency is reasonable.

Initial Identification and Recording of the Loss Contingency

PPL Electric uses its internal expertise and outside experts (such as lawyers,
  tax specialists and engineers), as necessary, to help estimate the probability
  that a loss has been incurred and the amount (or range) of the loss. PPL Electric
  continuously assesses potential loss contingencies for environmental remediation,
  litigation claims, regulatory penalties and other events.

PPL Electric has identified certain events which could give rise to a loss,
  but which do not meet the conditions for accrual under SFAS 5. SFAS 5 requires
  disclosure, but not a recording, of potential losses when it is "reasonably
  possible" that a loss has been incurred. FASB defines "reasonably possible"
  as cases in which "the chance of the future event or events occurring is more
  than remote but less than likely." See Note 14 to the Financial Statements for
  disclosure of potential loss contingencies, most of which have not met the criteria
  for accrual under SFAS 5.

Reducing Recorded Loss Contingencies

When a loss contingency is recorded, PPL Electric identifies the triggering
  event for subsequently reducing the loss contingency. The triggering events
  generally occur when the contingency has been resolved and the actual loss is
  incurred, or when the risk of loss has diminished or been eliminated. The following
  are some of the triggering events which provide for the reduction of certain
  recorded loss contingencies:

Certain loss contingencies are systematically reduced based on the expiration
    of contract terms. An example of this is the recorded liability for above-market
    NUG purchase commitments, which is described below. This loss contingency
    was being reduced over the lives of the NUG purchase contracts, prior to the
    transfer of this loss contingency to PPL EnergyPlus.

Allowances for excess or obsolete inventory are reduced as the inventory
    items are pulled from the warehouse shelves and sold as scrap or otherwise
    disposed.

Allowances for uncollectible accounts are reduced when accounts are written
    off after prescribed collection procedures have been exhausted.

Environmental loss contingencies are reduced when PPL Electric makes payments
    for environmental remediation.

On-Going Assessment of Recorded Loss Contingencies

PPL Electric reviews its loss contingencies on a regular basis to assure that
  the recorded potential loss exposures are reasonable. This involves ongoing
  communication and analyses with internal and external legal counsel, engineers,
  tax specialists, managers in various operational areas and other parties.

All three aspects of accounting for loss contingencies - the initial identification
  and recording of a probable loss, the identification of triggering events to
  reduce the loss contingency, and the ongoing assessment of the reasonableness
  of a recorded loss contingency - require significant judgment by PPL Electric's
  management.

The largest contingency currently on PPL's balance sheet is the loss contingency
  for above-market NUG purchase commitments, being the difference between the
  above-market contract terms and the fair value of electricity. This loss contingency
  was originally recorded at $854 million in 1998, when PPL Electric's generation
  business was deregulated. Under regulatory accounting, PPL Electric recorded
  the above-market cost of the purchases from NUGs as part of its purchased power
  costs on an as-incurred basis, since these costs were recovered in regulated
  rates. When the generation business was deregulated, the loss contingency associated
  with the commitment to make above-market NUG purchases was recorded. This loss
  contingency for the above-market portion of NUG purchase commitments was recorded
  because it was probable that the loss had been incurred and the estimate of
  future energy prices could be reasonably determined, using the then forward
  prices of electricity and capacity information. This loss contingency was transferred
  to PPL EnergyPlus in the July 1, 2000 corporate realignment.

When the loss contingency related to NUG purchases was recorded in 1998, PPL
  Electric established the triggering events for when the loss contingency would
  be reduced. A schedule was established to reduce the liability based on projected
  purchases over the lives of the NUG contracts. All but one of the NUG contracts
  expire by 2009, with the last one ending in 2014.

Prior to the July 1, 2000 transfer, PPL Electric reduced the above-market NUG
  liability based on the aforementioned schedule. As PPL Electric reduced the
  liability for the above-market NUG purchases, it offset the actual cost of NUG
  purchases, thereby bringing the net power purchase expense more in line with
  market prices.

Other Information

PPL's Audit Committee has approved the independent auditor to provide audit
  and audit-related services and other services permitted by the Sarbanes-Oxley
  Act of 2002 and SEC rules. The audit and audit-related services include services
  in connection with statutory and regulatory filings, reviews of offering documents
  and registration statements, employee benefit plan audits and internal control
  reviews.

PPL MONTANA, LLC AND SUBSIDIARIES

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following analysis of the results of operations and financial condition
  of PPL Montana is abbreviated as PPL Montana meets the conditions set forth
  in General Instruction (I)(1)(a) and (b) of Form 10-K. Such analysis should
  be read in conjunction with the financial statements in Item 8. Terms and abbreviations
  appearing here are explained in the glossary.

Results of Operations

The following discussion explains significant changes in principal items on
  the Statement of Income comparing 2003 to 2002. The Statement of Income reflects
  the results of past operations and is not intended as any indication of future
  operating results. Future operating results will necessarily be affected by
  various and diverse factors and developments.

Earnings

Net income increased by $21 million in 2003 compared with 2002. The increase
  was primarily due to higher wholesale prices in the western U.S and an increase
  in generation.

Operating Revenues

Operating revenues increased by $48 million in 2003 compared with 2002. The
  increase was primarily due to an increase in wholesale energy prices of $27
  million and an increase in volume sold of $21 million.

Operating Expenses

Operating expenses increased by $26 million in 2003 compared with 2002. Operating
  expenses consist mainly of expenses for fuel, energy purchases, transmission
  tariffs, plant operations and maintenance, lease rental payments, and general
  and administrative expenses. The increase was primarily due to higher energy
  purchases of $11 million, related to the higher power costs in the western U.S.
  and higher volumes of $9 million.

Generation increased by 345 million kWh during 2003 compared with 2002. This
  increase was primarily the result of improved operational performance from the
  coal-fired generation units.

New Accounting Standards

See Note 22 to the Financial Statements for information on new accounting standards
  adopted in 2003 or pending adoption.

Risk Management - Energy Marketing & Trading and Other

Market Risk

Background

Market risk is the potential loss PPL Montana may incur as a result of price
  changes associated with a particular financial or commodity instrument. PPL
  Montana is exposed to market risk from commodity price risk for energy and energy-related
  products associated with the sale of electricity, the purchase of fuel for the
  generating assets, and energy trading activities.

PPL Montana has a risk management policy approved by PPL's Board of Directors
  to manage market risk and counterparty credit risk. (Credit risk is discussed
  below.) The RMC, comprised of senior management and chaired by the Vice President-Risk
  Management, oversees the risk management function. Key risk control activities
  designed to monitor compliance with risk policies and detailed programs include,
  but are not limited to, credit review and approval, validation of transactions
  and market prices, verification of risk and transaction limits, sensitivity
  analyses, and daily portfolio reporting, including open positions, mark-to-market
  valuations, and other risk measurement metrics. In addition, efforts are ongoing
  to develop systems to improve the timeliness, quality and breadth of market
  and credit risk information.

The forward-looking information presented below provides estimates of what
  may occur in the future, assuming certain adverse market conditions, due to
  reliance on model assumptions. Actual future results may differ materially from
  those presented. These disclosures are not precise indicators of expected future
  losses, but only indicators of reasonably possible losses.

Contract Valuation

PPL Montana utilizes forward contracts, options and swaps as part of its risk
  management strategy to minimize unanticipated fluctuations in earnings caused
  by commodity price volatility.

When available, quoted market prices are
  used to determine the fair value of a commodity or financial instrument. This
  may include exchange prices, the average mid-point bid/ask spreads obtained
  from brokers, or an independent valuation by an external source, such as a bank.
  However, market prices for energy or energy-related contracts may not be readily
  determinable because of market illiquidity. If no active trading market exists,
  contracts are valued using internally developed models, which are then reviewed
  by an independent, internal group. Although PPL Montana believes that its valuation
  methods are reasonable, changes in the underlying assumptions could result in
  significantly different values and realization in future periods.

To record derivatives at their fair value, PPL Montana discounts the forward
  values using LIBOR. Additionally, PPL Montana reduces derivative assets' carrying
  value to recognize differences in counterparty credit quality and potential
  illiquidity in the market.

The credit adjustment takes into account the probability of default, as
    calculated by an independent service, for each counterparty that has an out-of-the
    money position with PPL Montana.

The liquidity adjustment takes into account the fact that it may not be
    appropriate to value contracts at the midpoint of the bid/ask spread. PPL
    Montana might have to accept the "bid" price if PPL Montana wanted to close
    an open sales position or PPL Montana might have to accept the "ask" price
    if PPL Montana wanted to close an open purchase position.

Accounting and Reporting

PPL Montana follows the provisions of SFAS 133, "Accounting for Derivative
  Instruments and Hedging Activities," as amended by SFAS 138, "Accounting for
  Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities," and SFAS 149,
  "Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instrument and Hedging Activities,"
  interpreted by DIG issues (together, "SFAS 133"), EITF 02-3, "Issues Involved
  in Accounting for Derivative Contracts Held for Trading Purposes and Contracts
  Involved in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities," and EITF 03-11,
  "Reporting Realized Gains and Losses on Derivative Instruments That Are Subject
  to FASB Statement No. 133 and Not 'Held for Trading Purposes' as Defined in
  Issue No. 02-3," to account for and report on contracts entered into to manage
  market risk. SFAS 133 requires that all derivative instruments be recorded at
  fair value on the balance sheet as an asset or liability (unless they meet SFAS
  133's criteria for exclusion) and that changes in the derivative's fair value
  be recognized currently in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria
  are met.

In April 2003, the FASB issued SFAS 149, which amends and clarifies SFAS 133
  to improve financial accounting and reporting for derivative instruments and
  hedging activities. To ensure that contracts with comparable characteristics
  are accounted for similarly, SFAS 149 clarifies the circumstances under which
  a contract with an initial net investment meets the characteristics of a derivative,
  clarifies when a derivative contains a financing component, amends the definition
  of an "underlying" and amends certain other existing pronouncements. Additionally,
  SFAS 149 placed additional limitations on the use of the normal purchase or
  normal sale exception. SFAS 149 was effective for contracts entered into or
  modified and for hedging relationships designated after June 30, 2003, except
  certain provisions relating to forward purchases or sales of when-issued securities
  or other securities that did not yet exist. PPL Montana adopted SFAS 149 as
  of July 1, 2003. The adoption of SFAS 149 did not have a significant impact
  on PPL Montana.

PPL Montana adopted the final provisions of EITF 02-3 during the fourth quarter
  of 2002. As such, PPL Montana now reflects its net realized and unrealized gains
  and losses associated with all derivatives that are held for trading purposes
  in the "Net energy trading margins" line on the Statement of Income. Non-derivative
  contracts that met the definition of energy trading activities as defined by
  EITF 98-10, "Accounting for Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities" are
  reflected in the financial statements using the accrual method of accounting.
  Under the accrual method of accounting, unrealized gains and losses are not
  reflected in the financial statements. Prior periods were reclassified. No cumulative
  effect adjustment was required upon adoption.

PPL Montana has adopted the final provisions of EITF 03-11 prospectively as
  of October 1, 2003. As a result of this adoption, non-trading bilateral sales
  of electricity at major market delivery points are netted with purchases that
  offset the sales at those same delivery points. A major market delivery point
  is any delivery point with liquid pricing available. See Note 17 to the Financial
  Statements for the impact of adopting EITF 03-11.

PPL Montana's short-term derivative contracts are recorded as "Price risk management
  assets" and "Price risk management liabilities" on the Balance Sheet. Long-term
  derivative contracts are included in "Noncurrent Assets - Other" and "Noncurrent
  Liabilities - Other."

Accounting Designation

Energy contracts that do not qualify as derivatives receive accrual accounting.
  For energy contracts that meet the definition of a derivative, the circumstances
  and intent existing at the time that energy transactions are entered into determine
  their accounting designation. These designations are verified by PPL Montana's
  risk control group on a daily basis. The following is a summary of the guidelines
  that have been provided to the traders who are responsible for contract designation
  for derivative energy contracts due to the adoption of SFAS 149:

Any wholesale and retail contracts to sell or buy electricity and the related
    capacity that are expected to be delivered from PPL Montana's generation or
    that are approved by the RMC to fulfill a strategic element of PPL Montana's
    overall marketing strategy are considered "normal." These transactions are
    not recorded in the financial statements and have no earnings impact until
    delivery.

Physical electricity-only transactions can receive cash flow hedge treatment
    if all of the qualifications under SFAS 133 are met. Any unrealized gains
    or losses on transactions receiving cash flow hedge treatment are recorded
    in other comprehensive income. These unrealized gains and losses become realized
    when the contracts settle and are recognized in income when the hedged transactions
    occur.

Physical electricity purchases that increase PPL Montana's long position
    and any energy sale or purchase judged a "market call" are considered speculative,
    with unrealized gains or losses recorded immediately through earnings.

Financial transactions, which can be settled in cash, cannot be considered
    "normal" because they do not require physical delivery. These transactions
    receive cash flow hedge treatment if they lock-in the price PPL Montana will
    receive or pay for energy expected to be generated or purchased in the spot
    market. Any unrealized gains or losses on transactions that receive cash flow
    hedge treatment are recorded in other comprehensive income. These unrealized
    gains and losses become realized when the contracts settle and are recognized
    in income when the hedged transactions occur.

Option contracts that do not meet the requirements of DIG Issue C15, "Scope
    Exceptions: Interpreting the Normal Purchases and Normal Sales Exception as
    an Election," do not receive hedge accounting treatment and are marked to
    market through earnings.

Commodity Price Risk

Commodity price risk is one of PPL Montana's most significant risks due to
  the level of investment that PPL Montana maintains in its generation assets,
  coupled with the volatility of prices for energy and energy-related products.
  Several factors influence price levels and volatilities. These factors include,
  but are not limited to, seasonal changes in demand, weather conditions, available
  generating assets within regions, transportation availability and reliability
  within and between regions, market liquidity, and the nature and extent of current
  and potential federal and state regulations. To hedge the impact of market price
  fluctuations on PPL Montana's energy-related assets, liabilities and other contractual
  arrangements, PPL EnergyPlus sells and purchases physical energy at the wholesale
  level under FERC market-based tariffs throughout the U.S. and enters into financial
  exchange-traded and over-the-counter contracts. Because of the generating assets
  PPL Montana owns or controls, the majority of PPL Montana's energy transactions
  qualify for accrual or hedge accounting.

Within PPL Montana's hedge portfolio, the decision to enter into energy contracts
  hinges on the expected value of PPL Montana's generation. To address this risk,
  PPL Montana takes a conservative approach in determining the number of MWhs
  that are available to be sold forward. In this regard, PPL Montana reduces the
  maximum potential output that a plant may produce by three factors - planned
  maintenance, unplanned outages and economic conditions. The potential output
  of a plant is first reduced by the amount of unavailable generation due to planned
  maintenance on a particular unit. Another reduction, representing the unplanned
  outage rate, is the amount of MWhs that historically are not produced by a plant
  due to such factors as equipment breakage. Finally, the potential output of
  certain plants (like peaking units) are reduced because their higher cost of
  production will not allow them to economically run during all hours.

At times, PPL Montana's non-trading portfolio includes full requirements energy
  contracts. The obligation to serve these contracts changes minute by minute.
  PPL Montana analyzes historical on-peak and off-peak usage patterns, as well
  as spot prices and weather patterns, to determine a monthly level of block electricity
  that best fits the usage patterns in order to minimize earnings volatility.
  On a forward basis, PPL Montana reserves a block amount of generation for full
  requirements energy contracts that is expected to be the best match with their
  anticipated usage patterns and energy peaks. Anticipated usage patterns and
  peaks are affected by expected load growth, regional economic drivers and seasonality.

PPL Montana's commodity derivative contracts that qualify for hedge accounting
  treatment mature at various times through 2010. The following chart sets forth
  PPL Montana's net fair market value of these contracts as of December 31, 2003:

During 2003, PPL Montana realized or otherwise settled net losses of approximately
  $1 million related to contracts entered into prior to January 1, 2003. This
  amount does not reflect intra-quarter contracts that were entered into and settled
  during the period.

"Other changes in fair values," a gain of approximately $10 million, represent
  changes in the market value that occurred during 2003 for contracts that were
  outstanding at the end of 2003.

The following chart segregates estimated fair values of PPL Montana commodity
  derivative contracts that qualify for hedge accounting treatment at December
  31, 2003 based on whether the fair values are determined by quoted market prices
  or other more subjective means.

The "Prices provided by other external sources" category includes PPL Montana's
  forward positions and options in natural gas and power and natural gas basis
  swaps at points for which over-the-counter (OTC) broker quotes are available.
  The fair values of electricity positions recorded above use the midpoint of
  the bid/ask spreads obtained through OTC brokers. On average, OTC quotes for
  forwards and swaps of natural gas and power extend one and two years into the
  future.

The "Prices based on models and other valuation methods" category includes
  the value of transactions for which an internally developed price curve was
  constructed as a result of the long-dated nature of the transaction or the illiquidity
  of the market point, or the value of options not quoted by an exchange or OTC
  broker. Additionally, this category includes "strip" transactions whose prices
  are obtained from external sources and then modeled to monthly prices as appropriate.

Because of PPL Montana's efforts to hedge the value of the energy from its
  generation assets, PPL Montana has open contractual positions. If PPL Montana
  were unable to deliver firm capacity and energy under its agreements, under
  certain circumstances it would be required to pay damages. These damages would
  be based on the difference between the market price to acquire replacement capacity
  or energy and the contract price of the undelivered capacity or energy. Depending
  on price volatility in the wholesale energy markets, such damages could be significant.
  Extreme weather conditions, unplanned power plant outages, transmission disruptions,
  non-performance by counterparties (or their counterparties) with which it has
  power contracts and other factors could affect PPL Montana's ability to meet
  its firm capacity or energy obligations, or cause significant increases in the
  market price of replacement capacity and energy. Although PPL Montana attempts
  to mitigate these risks, there can be no assurance that it will be able to fully
  meet its firm obligations, that it will not be required to pay damages for failure
  to perform, or that it will not experience counterparty non-performance in the
  future.

As of December 31, 2003, PPL Montana estimated that a 10% adverse movement
  in market prices across all geographic areas and time periods would have decreased
  the value of the commodity contracts in its non-trading portfolio by approximately
  $80 million, as compared to a decrease of $76 million at December 31, 2002.
  However, the change in the value of the non-trading portfolio would have been
  substantially offset by an increase in the value of the underlying commodity,
  the electricity generated, because these contracts serve to reduce the market
  risk inherent in the generation of electricity. Additionally, the value of PPL
  Montana's unsold generation would be improved. Because PPL Montana's electricity
  portfolio is generally in a net sales position, the adverse movement in prices
  is usually an increase in prices.

PPL Montana also executes energy contracts to take advantage of market opportunities.
  As a result, PPL Montana may at times create a net open position in its portfolio
  that could result in significant losses if prices do not move in the manner
  or direction anticipated. The margins from these trading activities are shown
  in the Statement of Income as "Net energy trading margins."

PPL Montana's trading contracts mature at various times through 2004. PPL Montana's
  net fair market value of trading contracts as of December 31, 2003 and 2002
  was insignificant.

As of December 31, 2003, the net loss on PPL Montana's trading activities expected
  to be recognized in earnings during the next three months is insignificant.

PPL Montana estimated that a 10% adverse movement in market prices across all
  geographic areas and time periods would have decreased the value of the commodity
  contracts in its trading portfolio by an insignificant amount at December 31,
  2003 and 2002.

Interest Rate Risk

PPL Montana may use borrowings to provide funds for its operations. PPL and
  PPL Energy Supply may utilize various financial derivative products and risk
  management techniques on behalf of PPL Montana to adjust the mix of fixed and
  floating interest rates in PPL Montana's debt portfolio and thereby reduce its
  exposure to adverse interest rate movements. PPL Montana had no borrowings outstanding
  as of December 31, 2003.

Credit Risk

Credit risk relates to the risk of loss that PPL Montana would incur as a result
  of non-performance by counterparties of their contractual obligations. PPL Montana
  maintains credit policies and procedures with respect to counterparties (including
  requirements that counterparties maintain certain credit ratings criteria) and
  requires other assurances in the form of credit support or collateral in certain
  circumstances in order to limit counterparty credit risk. However, PPL Montana
  has concentrations of suppliers and customers among electric utilities and other
  energy marketing and trading companies. These concentrations of counterparties
  may impact PPL Montana's overall exposure to credit risk, either positively
  or negatively, in that counterparties may be similarly affected by changes in
  economic, regulatory or other conditions. As discussed above under "Contract
  Valuation," PPL Montana records certain non-performance reserves to reflect
  the probability that a counterparty with contracts that are out of the money
  (from the counterparty's standpoint) will default in its performance, in which
  case PPL Montana would have to sell into a lower-priced market or purchase from
  a higher-priced market. These reserves are reflected in the fair value of assets
  recorded in "Price risk management assets" on the Balance Sheet. PPL Montana
  also records reserves to reflect the probability that a counterparty will not
  make payments for deliveries PPL Montana has made but not yet billed. These
  reserves are reflected in "Unbilled revenues" on the Balance Sheet. PPL Montana
  has also established a reserve with respect to certain sales to the California
  ISO for which PPL Montana has not yet been paid. See Note 14 to the Financial
  Statements.

Competition

See Item 1, "Business - Competition," for additional information.

Application of Critical Accounting Policies

PPL Montana's financial condition and results of operations are impacted by
  the methods, assumptions and estimates used in the application of critical accounting
  policies. The following accounting policies are particularly important to the
  financial condition or results of operations of PPL Montana, and require estimates
  or other judgments of matters inherently uncertain. Changes in the estimates
  or other judgments included within these accounting policies could result in
  a significant change to the information presented in the financial statements.
  (These accounting policies are also discussed in Note 1 to the Financial Statements.)

PPL's senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies,
  and the estimates and assumptions regarding them, with its Audit Committee.
  In addition, PPL's senior management has reviewed the following disclosures
  regarding the application of these critical accounting policies with the Audit
  Committee.

1)  Price Risk Management

See "Risk Management - Energy Marketing & Trading and Other" above.

2)  Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits

PPL Montana follows the guidance of SFAS 87, "Employers' Accounting for Pensions,"
  and SFAS 106, "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than
  Pensions," when accounting for these benefits. Under these accounting standards,
  assumptions are made regarding the valuation of benefit obligations and performance
  of plan assets. Delayed recognition of differences between actual results and
  expected or estimated results is a guiding principle of these standards. This
  delayed recognition of actual results allows for a smoothed recognition of changes
  in benefit obligations and plan performance over the working lives of the employees
  who benefit under the plans. The primary assumptions are as follows:

Discount Rate - The discount rate is used in calculating the present value
    of benefits, which are based on projections of benefit payments to be made
    in the future.

Expected Return on Plan Assets - Management projects the future return on
    plan assets considering prior performance, but primarily based upon the plans'
    mix of assets and expectations for the long-term returns on those asset classes.
    These projected returns reduce the net benefit costs the company will record
    currently.

Rate of Compensation Increase - Management projects employees' annual pay
    increases, which are used to project employees' pension benefits at retirement.

Health Care Cost Trend Rate - Management projects the expected increases
    in the cost of health care.

In selecting discount rates, PPL Montana considers fixed-income security yield
  rates. At December 31, 2003, PPL Montana decreased the discount rate from 6.75%
  to 6.25% as a result of decreased fixed-income security returns.

In selecting an expected return on plan assets, PPL Montana considers past
  performance and economic forecasts for the types of investments held by the
  plan. At December 31, 2003, PPL Montana's expected return on plan assets remained
  at 9.0%.

In selecting a rate of compensation increase, PPL Montana considers past experience
  in light of movements in inflation rates. At December 31, 2002, PPL Montana's
  rate of compensation increase remained at 4.00%.

In selecting health care cost trend rates, PPL Montana considers tax implications,
  past performance and forecasts of health care costs. At December 31, 2003, PPL
  Montana's health care cost trend rates were 11% for 2004, gradually declining
  to 5.0% for 2010.

A variance in the assumption listed above could have a significant impact on
  the projected benefit obligations, accrued pension and other postretirement
  benefit liabilities, reported annual net periodic pension and other postretirement
  benefit cost and other comprehensive income (OCI).

A 25 basis point reduction in the discount rate would increase the projected
  benefit obligations and pre-tax OCI charge by $2 million and would have an insignificant
  impact on the accrued pension and other postretirement benefit liabilities (excluding
  additional minimum liability) and reported annual net periodic pension and other
  postretirement benefit cost. A 100 basis point increase in the health care cost
  trend rate would increase the projected benefit obligations by $1 million and
  would have an insignificant impact on the accrued pension and other postretirement
  benefit liabilities and the annual net periodic pension and other postretirement
  benefit cost. A 25 basis point change in the expected return on plan assets
  or rate of compensation increase would have an insignificant impact on the projected
  benefit obligations, accrued pension and other postretirement benefit liabilities,
  reported annual net periodic pension and other postretirement benefit cost and
  OCI. While the information above reflects either an increase or decrease in
  each assumption, the inverse of this change would have a similar impact in the
  opposite direction. Each sensitivity above reflects an evaluation of the change
  based solely on a change in that assumption.

At December 31, 2003, PPL Montana had recognized accrued pension and other
  postretirement benefit liabilities of $16 million, included in "Noncurrent Liabilities
  - Other" on the Balance Sheet. PPL Montana's total projected obligation for
  these benefits was approximately $66 million, but was offset by $46 million
  of assets held in a pension trust.

In 2003, PPL Montana recognized net periodic pension and other postretirement
  costs charged to operating expenses of $6 million, excluding amounts credited
  to construction and other non-expense accounts. This amount is comparable to
  the expense recognized during 2002.

During 2003, PPL Montana made contributions to its pension plan totaling $15
  million. As a result, PPL Montana was able to decrease its recognized additional
  minimum pension liability. Recording the reduction in the additional minimum
  pension liability resulted in a decrease to the pension-related charge to OCI,
  net of taxes, of $1 million. This adjustment decreased the pension-related balance
  in OCI, which is a reduction to Member's Equity, to $5 million at December 31,
  2003. The charges to OCI will reverse in future periods if the fair value of
  trust assets exceeds the accumulated benefit obligation.

Refer to Note 12 to the Financial Statements for additional information regarding
  pension and other postretirement benefits.

3)  Leasing

PPL Montana applies the provisions of SFAS 13, "Accounting for Leases,"
      to all leasing transactions. In addition, PPL Montana applies the provisions
      of numerous other accounting pronouncements issued by the FASB and the EITF
      that provide specific guidance and additional requirements related to accounting
      for various leasing arrangements. In general, there are two types of leases
      from a lessee's perspective: operating leases - leases accounted for off-balance
      sheet and capital leases - leases capitalized on the balance sheet.

In accounting for leases, management makes various assumptions, including
      the discount rate, the fair market value of the leased assets and the estimated
      useful life, in determining whether a lease should be classified as operating
      or capital. Changes in these assumptions could result in the difference
      between whether a lease is determined to be an operating lease or a capital
      lease, thus significantly impacting the amounts to be recognized in the
      financial statements.

In addition to uncertainty inherent in management's assumptions, leasing
      transactions and the related accounting rules become increasingly complex
      when they involve: sale/leaseback accounting (leasing transactions where
      the lessee previously owned the leased assets), synthetic leases (leases
      that qualify for operating lease treatment for book accounting purposes
      and financing treatment for tax accounting purposes) and lessee involvement
      in the construction of leased assets.

At December 31, 2003, PPL Montana subsidiaries participated in one significant
      sale/leaseback transaction. This transaction has been accounted for as an
      operating lease.

Sale/Leaseback

In July 2000, PPL Montana sold its interest in the Colstrip generating
      plant to owner lessors who are leasing the assets back to PPL Montana under
      four 36-year operating leases. This transaction is accounted for as an operating
      lease in accordance with current rules related to sale/leaseback arrangements.
      If for any reason this transaction did not meet the requirements for off-balance
      sheet operating lease treatment as a sale/leaseback, PPL Montana would have
      approximately $315 million of additional assets and liabilities recorded
      on its balance sheet at December 31, 2003 and would have recorded additional
      expenses currently estimated at $9 million, after-tax, in 2003.

See Note 10 to the Financial Statements for additional information related
      to operating leases.

4)  Loss Contingencies

PPL Montana periodically records the estimated impacts of various conditions,
  situations or circumstances involving uncertain outcomes. These events are called
  "contingencies," and PPL Montana's accounting for such events is prescribed
  by SFAS 5, "Accounting for Contingencies." SFAS 5 defines a contingency as "an
  existing condition, situation, or set of circumstances involving uncertainty
  as to possible gain or loss to an enterprise that will ultimately be resolved
  when one or more future events occur or fail to occur."

For loss contingencies, the loss must be accrued if (1) information is available
  that indicates it is "probable" that the loss has been incurred, given the likelihood
  of the uncertain future events; and (2) the amount of the loss can be reasonably
  estimated. FASB defines "probable" as cases in which "the future event or events
  are likely to occur." SFAS 5 does not permit the accrual of contingencies that
  might result in gains.

The accrual of a loss contingency involves considerable judgment on the part
  of management. The accounting aspects of loss contingencies include: (1) the
  initial identification and recording of the loss contingency; (2) the determination
  of a triggering event for reducing a recorded loss contingency; and (3) the
  on-going assessment as to whether a recorded loss contingency is reasonable.

Initial Identification and Recording of the Loss Contingency

PPL Montana uses its internal expertise, and outside experts (such as lawyers,
  tax specialists and engineers), as necessary, to help estimate the probability
  that a loss has been incurred and the amount (or range) of the loss. PPL Montana
  continuously assesses potential loss contingencies for environmental remediation,
  litigation claims, regulatory penalties and other events.

PPL Montana has identified certain events which could give rise to a loss,
  but which do not meet the conditions for accrual under SFAS 5. SFAS 5 requires
  disclosure, but not a recording, of potential losses when it is "reasonably
  possible" that a loss has been incurred. FASB defines "reasonably possible"
  as cases in which "the chance of the future event or events occurring is more
  than remote but less than likely." See Note 14 to the Financial Statements for
  disclosure of potential loss contingencies, most of which have not met the criteria
  for accrual under SFAS 5.

Reducing Recorded Loss Contingencies

When a loss contingency is recorded, PPL Montana identifies the triggering
  event for subsequently reducing the loss contingency. The triggering events
  generally occur when the contingency has been resolved and the actual loss is
  incurred or the risk of loss has diminished or been eliminated. The following
  are some of the triggering events which provide for the reduction of certain
  recorded loss contingencies:

Certain loss contingencies are systematically reduced based on the expiration
    of contract terms. An example of this is the recorded liability for above-market
    purchase contracts, as described below.

Allowances for excess or obsolete inventory are reduced as the inventory
    items are pulled from the warehouse shelves and sold as scrap or otherwise
    disposed.

Allowances for uncollectible accounts are reduced when accounts are written
    off after prescribed collection procedures have been exhausted.

Environmental loss contingencies are reduced when PPL Montana makes payments
    for environmental remediation.

On-Going Assessment of Recorded Loss Contingencies

PPL Montana reviews its loss contingencies on a regular basis to assure that
  the recorded potential loss exposures are reasonable. This involves ongoing
  communication and analyses with internal and external legal counsel, engineers,
  tax specialists, managers in various operational areas and other parties.

All three aspects of accounting for loss contingencies - the initial identification
  and recording of a probable loss, the identification of triggering events to
  reduce the loss contingency, and the ongoing assessment of the reasonableness
  of a recorded loss contingency - require significant judgment by PPL Montana's
  management.

The largest contingency currently on PPL Montana's balance sheet is the loss
  contingency for the above-market purchase contract being the difference between
  the out-of-market contract terms and the fair value of the energy. This loss
  contingency was originally recorded at $59 million in 1999, when PPL Montana
  purchased the assets of Montana Power and assumed the contract. Under purchase
  accounting, PPL Montana recorded the out-of-market cost of the purchase contract.
  This loss contingency for the out-of-market contract was recorded because it
  was probable that the loss had been incurred and the loss could be reasonably
  estimated, using forward pricing information. The out-of-market loss contingency
  was $57 million at December 31, 2003.

When the loss contingency related to the contract was recorded in 1999, PPL
  Montana established the triggering events for when the loss contingency would
  be reduced. A schedule was established to reduce the liability based on projected
  purchases over the life of the contract which expires in 2010. The liability
  is being reduced over the agreement terms as an adjustment to "Energy purchases"
  on the Statement of Income.

PPL Montana assessed the remaining $57 million out-of-market liability at December
  31, 2003, comparing the energy purchases under the terms of the contract, with
  the purchases assuming market prices for the energy.

Market prices for the contract were derived by using internal forward energy
  price curves. The forward energy price curves in this scenario were based on
  the revenue and sales information for 2004 through 2010, as comprehended in
  the current business plan of PPL Montana. The assessment also used sensitivities
  around the forward energy prices, adjusting such prices upwards and downwards
  by 10%.

The assessment was dependent on forward energy prices and the projected purchase
  levels of the contract. The forward prices of energy are dependent on many variables,
  including growth in electricity demand, available generation, and general economic
  conditions. Changes in these and other factors can have a dramatic impact on
  future electricity prices. Accordingly, forward energy price sensitivities were
  used in the assessment. If estimated forward market prices were adjusted upwards
  by 10% in each of the years from 2004 through 2010, the contract would have
  an estimated liability of $48 million. Conversely, if estimated forward market
  prices were adjusted downwards by 10% during the remaining term of the contract,
  the contract would have an estimated liability of $61 million. The recorded
  contingency of $57 million falls within the range calculated in the year-end
  assessment. As noted above, it is very difficult to estimate future electricity
  prices, which are dependent on many variables and subject to significant volatility.
  PPL Montana's management believes that the current recorded liability was fairly
  stated at December 31, 2003.

In connection with the December 2001 bankruptcy filings by Enron Corporation
  and its affiliates (collectively "Enron"), PPL Montana terminated certain electricity,
  gas and other trading agreements with Enron. At the time that these trading
  agreements were terminated, they were at prices more favorable to PPL Montana
  than current market prices, and PPL Montana established a reserve for uncollectible
  accounts of $29 million. In October 2002, PPL Montana filed proofs of claim
  in Enron's bankruptcy proceedings for $29 million. These claims were against
  Enron North America and Enron Power Marketing (the "Enron Subsidiaries"), and
  against Enron Corporation, which had guaranteed the Enron Subsidiaries' performance
  (the "Enron Corporation Guarantees").

During 2003, PPL Montana and Enron engaged in discussions regarding the amount
  of claims that would be allowed against the Enron Subsidiaries. Although no
  formal agreement on such amounts has been reached, based on informal discussions
  with Enron's counsel, PPL Montana believes that its claims against the Enron
  Subsidiaries will eventually be allowed in the bankruptcy at approximately $25
  million. Accordingly, PPL Montana reduced its receivables from Enron, and the
  associated reserve for uncollectible accounts, by $4 million. PPL Montana also
  determined that it is probable that it will recover approximately $6 million
  of these receivables from the Enron Subsidiaries, and may collect additional
  amounts under the Enron Corporation Guarantees. Therefore, PPL Montana determined
  that it was appropriate to reduce its reserve by an additional $6 million. PPL
  Montana will continue to reassess the reserve for uncollectible accounts associated
  with its receivables from Enron.

Other Information

PPL's Audit Committee has approved the independent auditor to provide audit
  and audit-related services and other services permitted by the Sarbanes-Oxley
  Act of 2002 and SEC rules. The audit and audit-related services include services
  in connection with statutory and regulatory filings, reviews of offering documents
  and registration statements, employee benefit plan audits and internal control
  reviews.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE
  DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

PPL Corporation, PPL Energy Supply, LLC, PPL Electric Utilities Corporation
  and PPL Montana, LLC

Reference is made to "Risk Management - Energy Marketing & Trading and
  Other" in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
  of Operations.

PPL Corporation

Management's Report on Responsibility for Financial Statements

PPL management is responsible for the preparation, integrity and objectivity
  of the consolidated financial statements and all other information in this annual
  report. The financial statements were prepared in accordance with accounting
  principles generally accepted in the United States of America and include amounts
  based on management's best estimates and judgments where necessary. Management
  believes that the financial statements are free of material misstatements and
  present fairly the financial position, results of operations and cash flows
  of PPL.

PPL management is responsible for establishing and maintaining an effective
  internal control structure and effective disclosure controls and procedures
  for financial reporting. PPL maintains a system of internal control that is
  designed to provide reasonable assurance that PPL assets are safeguarded from
  loss or unauthorized use or disposition and that transactions are executed in
  accordance with management's authorization and are properly recorded to permit
  the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
  accounting principles. This system is augmented by a careful selection and training
  of qualified personnel, specific delegations of authority, a proper division
  of responsibilities, and utilization of written policies and procedures. An
  internal audit program monitors the effectiveness of this control system. Management
  believes that its internal control structure and its disclosure controls and
  procedures for financial reporting are adequate and effective.

The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors consists entirely of independent
  directors who are not employees of PPL. The Audit Committee reviews audit plans
  related to PPL's internal controls, financial reports and related matters and
  meets regularly with management as well as the independent auditors and internal
  auditors. The independent auditors and the internal auditors have free access
  to the Audit Committee, without management present, to discuss internal accounting
  control, auditing and financial reporting matters.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the independent certified public accountants, audited
  PPL's consolidated financial statements and issued their opinion below.

PPL management also recognizes its responsibility for fostering a strong ethical
  climate so that it conducts its business affairs according to the highest standards
  of personal and corporate conduct.

William F. Hecht

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

John R. Biggar

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Report of Independent
  Auditors

To the Board of Directors and Shareowners of

PPL Corporation:

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the index appearing
  under Item 8 on page 95 present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
  position of PPL Corporation and its subsidiaries ("PPL") at December 31, 2003
  and 2002, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each
  of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2003 in conformity with
  accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In
  addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in the index
  appearing under Item 8 presents fairly, in all material respects, the information
  set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial
  statements. These financial statements and financial statement schedule are
  the responsibility of the Company's management; our responsibility is to express
  an opinion on these financial statements and financial statement schedule based
  on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with
  auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America, which
  require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
  whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit
  includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures
  in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant
  estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
  presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
  opinion.

As discussed in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements, PPL changed
  its method of accounting for derivative and hedging activities pursuant to Statement
  of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 133, Accounting for Derivative
  Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended by SFAS No. 138, Accounting for
  Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities (an amendment
  of FASB Statement 133), in 2001. As discussed in Note 12 to the consolidated
  financial statements, PPL also changed its method of accounting for the amortization
  of unrecognized gains or losses in the annual pension expense/income determined
  under SFAS No. 87, Employers' Accounting for Pensions, in 2001. As discussed
  in Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements, PPL adopted SFAS No. 142,
  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, in 2002. As discussed in Note 21 to the
  consolidated financial statements, PPL adopted SFAS No. 143, Accounting for
  Asset Retirement Obligations, in 2003. As discussed in Note 22 to the consolidated
  financial statements, PPL adopted SFAS No. 150, Accounting for Certain Financial
  Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity, Emerging Issues
  Task Force No. 03-11, Reporting Realized Gains and Losses on Derivative Instruments
  That Are Subject to FAS 133 and Not "Held for Trading Purposes" as Defined in
  Issue No. 02-3, FASB Interpretation ("FIN") No. 45, Guarantor's Accounting and
  Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness
  of Others, and FIN No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities -- an
  interpretation of ARB 51, as amended by FIN 46(R), in 2003. In addition, as
  discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, PPL elected the
  fair value method of accounting for stock-based compensation as prescribed by
  SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, as amended by SFAS No.
  148, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure, an Amendment
  FASB Statement No. 123, in 2003.

[PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (signed)]

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Philadelphia, PA

February 2, 2004

PPL Energy Supply, LLC

Management's Report on Responsibility for Financial Statements

PPL Energy Supply management is responsible for the preparation, integrity
  and objectivity of the consolidated financial statements and all other information
  in this annual report. The financial statements were prepared in accordance
  with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America
  and include amounts based on management's best estimates and judgments where
  necessary. Management believes that the financial statements are free of material
  misstatements and present fairly the financial position, results of operations
  and cash flows of PPL Energy Supply.

PPL Energy Supply management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
  an effective internal control structure and effective disclosure controls and
  procedures for financial reporting. PPL Energy Supply maintains a system of
  internal control that is designed to provide reasonable assurance that PPL Energy
  Supply assets are safeguarded from loss or unauthorized use or disposition and
  that transactions are executed in accordance with management's authorization
  and are properly recorded to permit the preparation of financial statements
  in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. This system is
  augmented by a careful selection and training of qualified personnel, specific
  delegations of authority, a proper division of responsibilities, and utilization
  of written policies and procedures. An internal audit program monitors the effectiveness
  of this control system. Management believes that its internal control structure
  and its disclosure controls and procedures for financial reporting are adequate
  and effective.

PPL's Audit Committee, which consists entirely of independent directors who
  are not employees of PPL, reviews audit plans related to PPL Energy Supply's
  internal controls, financial reports and related matters and meets regularly
  with management as well as the independent auditors and internal auditors. The
  independent auditors and the internal auditors have free access to PPL's Audit
  Committee, without management present, to discuss internal accounting control,
  auditing and financial reporting matters.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the independent certified public accountants, audited
  PPL Energy Supply's consolidated financial statements and issued their opinion
  below.

PPL Energy Supply management also recognizes its responsibility for fostering
  a strong ethical climate so that it conducts its business affairs according
  to the highest standards of personal and corporate conduct.

William F. Hecht

President

John R. Biggar

Vice President

Report of Independent Auditors

To the Board of Managers and Sole Member of

PPL Energy Supply, LLC:

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the index appearing
  under

Item 8 on page 95 present fairly, in all material respects, the
  financial position of PPL Energy Supply, LLC and its subsidiaries ("PPL Energy
  Supply") at December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the results of their operations
  and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December
  31, 2003 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
  United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement
  schedule listed in the index appearing under Item 8 presents fairly, in all
  material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction
  with the related consolidated financial statements. These financial statements
  and the financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company's
  management; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements
  and financial statement schedule based on our audits. We conducted our audits
  of these statements in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted
  in the United States of America, which require that we plan and perform the
  audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
  are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
  evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements,
  assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management,
  and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that
  our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

As discussed in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements, PPL Energy
  Supply changed its method of accounting for derivative and hedging activities
  pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 133, Accounting
  for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended by SFAS No. 138,
  Accounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities
  (an amendment of FASB Statement 133), in 2001. As discussed in Note 12 to the
  consolidated financial statements, PPL Energy Supply also changed its method
  of accounting for the amortization of unrecognized gains or losses in the annual
  pension expense/income determined under SFAS No. 87, Employers' Accounting for
  Pensions, in 2001. As discussed in Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements,
  PPL Energy Supply adopted SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,
  in 2002. As discussed in Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements, PPL
  Energy Supply adopted SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations,
  in 2003. As discussed in Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements, PPL
  Energy Supply adopted SFAS No. 150, Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments
  with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity, Emerging Issues Task Force
  No. 03-11, Reporting Realized Gains and Losses on Derivative Instruments That
  Are Subject to FAS 133 and Not "Held for Trading Purposes" as Defined in Issue
  No. 02-3, FASB Interpretation ("FIN") No. 45, Guarantor's Accounting and Disclosure
  Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of
  Others, and FIN No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities -- an interpretation
  of ARB 51, as amended by FIN 46(R), in 2003.

[PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (signed)]

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Philadelphia, PA

February 2, 2004

PPL Electric Utilities Corporation

Management's Report on Responsibility for Financial Statements

PPL Electric management is responsible for the preparation, integrity and objectivity
  of the consolidated financial statements and all other information in this annual
  report. The financial statements were prepared in accordance with accounting
  principles generally accepted in the United States of America and include amounts
  based on management's best estimates and judgments where necessary. Management
  believes that the financial statements are free of material misstatements and
  present fairly the financial position, results of operations and cash flows
  of PPL Electric.

PPL Electric management is responsible for establishing and maintaining an
  effective internal control structure and effective disclosure controls and procedures
  for financial reporting. PPL Electric maintains a system of internal control
  that is designed to provide reasonable assurance that PPL Electric assets are
  safeguarded from loss or unauthorized use or disposition and that transactions
  are executed in accordance with management's authorization and are properly
  recorded to permit the preparation of financial statements in accordance with
  generally accepted accounting principles. This system is augmented by a careful
  selection and training of qualified personnel, specific delegations of authority,
  a proper division of responsibilities, and utilization of written policies and
  procedures. An internal audit program monitors the effectiveness of this control
  system. Management believes that its internal control structure and its disclosure
  controls and procedures for financial reporting are adequate and effective.

PPL's Audit Committee, which consists entirely of independent directors who
  are not employees of PPL, reviews audit plans related to PPL Electric's internal
  controls, financial reports and related matters and meets regularly with management
  as well as the independent auditors and internal auditors. The independent auditors
  and the internal auditors have free access to PPL's Audit Committee, without
  management present, to discuss internal accounting control, auditing and financial
  reporting matters.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the independent certified public accountants, audited
  PPL Electric's consolidated financial statements and issued their opinion below.

PPL Electric management also recognizes its responsibility for fostering a
  strong ethical climate so that it conducts its business affairs according to
  the highest standards of personal and corporate conduct.

John F. Sipics

President

James E. Abel

Treasurer

Report of Independent Auditors

To the Board of Directors and Shareowner of

PPL Electric Utilities Corporation:

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the index appearing
  under Item 8 on page 95 present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
  position of PPL Electric Utilities Corporation and its subsidiaries ("PPL Electric")
  at December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the results of their operations and their
  cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2003
  in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
  of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule listed
  in the index appearing under Item 8 presents fairly, in all material respects,
  the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related
  consolidated financial statements. These financial statements and financial
  statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management; our responsibility
  is to express an opinion on these financial statements and financial statement
  schedule based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in
  accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of
  America, which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
  assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.
  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts
  and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles
  used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall
  financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
  basis for our opinion.

As discussed in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements, PPL Electric
  changed its method of accounting for the amortization of unrecognized gains
  or losses in the annual pension expense/income determined under Statement of
  Financial Accounting Standards No. 87, Employers' Accounting for Pensions, in
  2001.

[PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (signed)]

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Philadelphia, PA

February 2, 2004

PPL Montana, LLC

Management's Report on Responsibility for Financial Statements

PPL Montana management is responsible for the preparation, integrity and objectivity
  of the consolidated financial statements and all other information in this annual
  report. The financial statements were prepared in accordance with accounting
  principles generally accepted in the United States of America and include amounts
  based on management's best estimates and judgments where necessary. Management
  believes that the financial statements are free of material misstatements and
  present fairly the financial position, results of operations and cash flows
  of PPL Montana.

PPL Montana management is responsible for establishing and maintaining an effective
  internal control structure and effective disclosure controls and procedures
  for financial reporting. PPL Montana maintains a system of internal control
  that is designed to provide reasonable assurance that PPL Montana assets are
  safeguarded from loss or unauthorized use or disposition and that transactions
  are executed in accordance with management's authorization and are properly
  recorded to permit the preparation of financial statements in accordance with
  generally accepted accounting principles. This system is augmented by a careful
  selection and training of qualified personnel, specific delegations of authority,
  a proper division of responsibilities, and utilization of written policies and
  procedures. An internal audit program monitors the effectiveness of this control
  system. Management believes that its internal control structure and its disclosure
  controls and procedures for financial reporting are adequate and effective.

PPL's Audit Committee, which consists entirely of independent directors who
  are not employees of PPL, reviews audit plans related to PPL Montana's internal
  controls, financial reports and related matters and meets regularly with management
  as well as the independent auditors and internal auditors. The independent auditors
  and the internal auditors have free access to PPL's Audit Committee, without
  management present, to discuss internal accounting control, auditing and financial
  reporting matters.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the independent certified public accountants, audited
  PPL Montana's consolidated financial statements and issued their opinion below.

PPL Montana management also recognizes its responsibility for fostering a strong
  ethical climate so that it conducts its business affairs according to the highest
  standards of personal and corporate conduct.

Bradley E. Spencer

Vice President and Chief Operating Officer

Charles S. Baker

Controller

Report of Independent Auditors

To the Board of Managers and Member of

PPL Montana, LLC

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the index appearing
  under Item 8 on page 95 present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
  position of PPL Montana, LLC and its subsidiaries ("PPL Montana") at December
  31, 2003 and 2002, and the results of their operations and their cash flows
  for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2003 in conformity
  with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
  In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in the
  index appearing under Item 8 presents fairly, in all material respects, the
  information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated
  financial statements. These financial statements and financial statement schedule
  are the responsibility of PPL Montana's management; our responsibility is to
  express an opinion on these financial statements and financial statement schedule
  based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance
  with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America,
  which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance
  about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
  audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
  disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles
  used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall
  financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
  basis for our opinion.

As discussed in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements, PPL Montana
  changed its method of accounting for derivative and hedging activities pursuant
  to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, Accounting for Derivative
  Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended by Statement of Financial Accounting
  Standards No. 138, Accounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain
  Hedging Activities (an amendment of FASB Statement 133) in 2001. As discussed
  in Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements, PPL Montana adopted Emerging
  Issues Task Force No. 03-11, Reporting Realized Gains and Losses on Derivative
  Instruments That Are Subject to FAS 133 and Not "Held for Trading Purposes"
  as Defined in Issue No. 02-3. As discussed in Note 17, PPL Montana adopted Derivatives
  Implementations Group Implementation Issue C20, Interpretation of Clearly and
  Closely Related in Contracts That Qualify for the Normal Purchases and Normal
  Sales Scope Exception, in 2003.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Minneapolis, MN

February 2, 2004

(THIS PAGE LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY.)

COMBINED NOTES
  TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Terms and abbreviations appearing in Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial
  Statements are explained in the glossary. Dollars are in millions, except per
  share data, unless otherwise noted.

Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Business and Consolidation

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Electric)

PPL is an energy and utility holding company that, through its subsidiaries,
      is primarily engaged in the generation and marketing of electricity in the
      northeastern and western U.S. and in the delivery of electricity in Pennsylvania,
      the U.K. and Latin America. Based in Allentown, Pennsylvania, PPL's principal
      subsidiaries are PPL Energy Funding, PPL Electric, PPL Gas Utilities, PPL
      Services and PPL Capital Funding.

(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)

PPL Energy Funding is the parent of PPL Energy Supply, which serves as
      the holding company for PPL's principal unregulated subsidiaries. PPL Energy
      Supply is the parent of PPL Generation, PPL EnergyPlus and PPL Global.

PPL Generation owns and operates a portfolio of domestic power generating
      assets. These power plants are located in Pennsylvania, Montana, Arizona,
      Illinois, Connecticut, New York and Maine and use well-diversified fuel
      sources including coal, nuclear, natural gas, oil and hydro. PPL EnergyPlus
      markets or brokers electricity produced by PPL Generation, along with purchased
      power, natural gas and oil in competitive wholesale and deregulated retail
      markets, primarily in the northeastern and western portions of the U.S.
      PPL Global acquires and develops domestic generation projects that are,
      in turn, operated by PPL Generation as part of its portfolio of generation
      assets. PPL Global also acquires and holds international energy projects
      that are primarily focused on the distribution of electricity.

(PPL and PPL Electric)

PPL Electric is the principal regulated subsidiary of PPL. PPL Electric's
      principal businesses are the transmission and distribution of electricity
      to serve retail customers in its franchised territory in eastern and central
      Pennsylvania, and the supply of electricity to retail customers in that
      territory as a PLR.

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Montana)

PPL Montana commenced operations in 1999, after the purchase of substantially
      all of the generation assets and certain contracts of the utility division
      of Montana Power. PPL Montana operates steam generation and hydroelectric
      facilities throughout Montana. PPL Montana has been designated as an EWG
      under the Federal Power Act and sells wholesale power throughout the western
      U.S. PPL Montana Holdings, LLC is the sole Member of PPL Montana and is
      an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of PPL.

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL Montana)

The consolidated financial statements of PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric
      and PPL Montana include each company's own accounts as well as the accounts
      of all entities in which the company has a controlling financial interest.
      Investments in entities in which the company has the ability to exercise
      significant influence but does not have a controlling financial interest
      are accounted for under the equity method. All other investments are carried
      at cost. All significant intercompany transactions have been eliminated.
      Any minority interests in operating results, and equity ownership, are reflected
      in the consolidated financial statements.

(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)

It is the policy of PPL and PPL Energy Supply to consolidate foreign subsidiaries
      and record equity in earnings of other foreign entities on a lag, based
      on the availability of financial data on a U.S. GAAP basis:

•

Earnings from foreign equity method investments
            are recorded on a three-month lag.

•

PPL and PPL Energy Supply consolidate
            the results of foreign entities in which they have a controlling financial
            interest (WPD, Emel, EC, the Bolivian subsidiaries and other investments)
            on a one-month lag.

Effective August 21, 2002, PPL Energy Supply deconsolidated CEMAR and began
      accounting for it using the cost method. See Note 9 for further discussion.

Effective December 31, 2003, PPL's and PPL Energy Supply's consolidated
      financial statements include the accounts of the lessors under the operating
      leases for the Sundance, University Park and Lower Mt. Bethel generation
      facilities. These entities are not included in the consolidated financial
      statements for periods ending prior to December 31, 2003. See "FIN 46 and
      FIN 46(R)" in Note 22 for further discussion.

Effective December 31, 2003, PPL deconsolidated PPL Capital Funding Trust
      I, a wholly-owned trust, and PPL Energy Supply deconsolidated SIUK Capital
      Trust I, also a wholly-owned trust. Both entities are included in PPL's
      consolidated financial statements for periods ending prior to December 31,
      2003. SIUK Capital Trust I is included in PPL Energy Supply's consolidated
      financial statements for periods ending prior to December 31, 2003. See
      "FIN 46 and FIN 46(R)" in Note 22 for further discussion.

The consolidated financial statements of PPL and PPL Energy Supply include
      their share of undivided interests in jointly-owned facilities, as well
      as their share of the related operating costs of those facilities. See Note
      13 for additional information.

Use of Estimates

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL
      Montana)

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires
      management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
      of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the
      date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and
      expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those
      estimates.

PPL records loss accruals in accordance with SFAS 5, "Accounting for Contingencies."

Accounting Records

(PPL and PPL Electric)

The system of accounts for PPL Electric and PPL Gas Utilities are maintained
      in accordance with the Uniform System of Accounts prescribed by the FERC
      and adopted by the PUC.

Cash Equivalents

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL
      Montana)

All highly liquid debt instruments purchased with original maturities of
      three months or less are considered to be cash equivalents.

Property, Plant and Equipment

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL Montana)

PP&E is recorded at original cost, unless impaired. If impaired, the
      asset is written down to fair value at that time, which becomes the asset's
      new cost basis. Original cost includes material, labor, contractor costs,
      construction overheads and financing costs, where applicable. The cost of
      repairs and minor replacements are charged to expense as incurred. PPL records
      costs associated with planned major maintenance projects in the period in
      which the costs are incurred. No costs are accrued in advance of the period
      in which the work is performed.

When a component of PP&E is retired that was depreciated under the
      composite or group method, the original cost is charged to accumulated depreciation.
      When all or a significant portion of an operating unit is retired or sold
      that was depreciated under the composite or group method, the property and
      the related accumulated depreciation account is reduced and any gain or
      loss is included in income, unless otherwise required by regulators. Depreciation
      is computed over the estimated useful lives of property using various methods
      including the straight-line, composite and group methods. PPL and its subsidiaries
      periodically review and adjust the depreciable lives of their fixed assets.

AFUDC is capitalized as part of the construction costs for regulated projects.
      Interest is capitalized as part of construction costs for non-regulated
      projects.

Following are the classes of PP&E, with the associated accumulated
      depreciation, at December 31:

Following are the weighted-average rates of depreciation at December 31:

The annual provisions for depreciation have been computed principally in
      accordance with the following ranges, in years, of assets lives:

(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)

As of July 1, 2003, PPL Energy Supply changed the depreciable lives of
      its gas-fired peaking plants from 30 to 40 years based upon engineering
      estimates. This change decreased depreciation by $1 million in 2003 and
      is expected to decrease depreciation by $8 million in 2004 and thereafter,
      which includes the impact for certain gas-fired peaking plants consolidated
      in accordance with FIN 46.  See Note 22 for further discussion of FIN 46.

(PPL Electric)

When a component of regulated PP&E is retired, the original cost plus
      the cost of retirement, less salvage, is charged to accumulated depreciation.

Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Asset - Impairments

(PPL,
      PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL Montana)

Long-lived assets and identifiable intangibles held and used by PPL and
      its subsidiaries are reviewed for impairment when events or circumstances
      indicate carrying amounts may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is
      recognized if the carrying amount of PP&E and identifiable intangibles
      is not recoverable from undiscounted future cash flow. The impairment charge
      is measured by the difference between the carrying amount of the asset and
      its fair value. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently
      when events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be greater
      than the implied fair value. If the carrying value of the reporting unit
      exceeds its fair value, the implied fair value of goodwill must be calculated.
      If the implied fair value goodwill is less than its carrying value, the
      difference represents the amount of impairment. See Notes 9 and 18 for a
      discussion of asset impairment charges recorded.

Debt Securities

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Electric)

Debt securities that have been classified as held-to-maturity have been
      so classified due to the intent to hold such securities to maturity and
      the ability to do so. All other debt securities have been classified as
      available-for-sale or trading.

Regulation

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Electric)

PPL Electric, PPL Gas Utilities, and a Latin American affiliate account
      for regulated operations in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 71, "Accounting
      for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation," which requires rate-regulated
      entities to reflect the effects of regulatory decisions in their financial
      statements.

The following regulatory assets were included in the "Regulatory and Other
      Noncurrent Assets" section of the Balance Sheet at December 31:

Based on the PUC Final Order, PPL Electric began amortizing its competitive
      transition (or stranded) costs, $2.97 billion, over an 11-year transition
      period effective January 1, 1999. In August 1999, competitive transition
      costs of $2.4 billion were converted to intangible transition costs when
      they were securitized by the issuance of transition bonds. The intangible
      transition costs are being amortized over the life of the transition bonds,
      through December 2008, in accordance with an amortization schedule filed
      with the PUC. The assets of PPL Transition Bond Company, including the intangible
      transition property, are not available to creditors of PPL or PPL Electric.
      The transition bonds are obligations of PPL Transition Bond Company and
      are non-recourse to PPL and PPL Electric. The remaining competitive transition
      costs are also being amortized based on an amortization schedule previously
      filed with the PUC, adjusted for those competitive transition costs that
      were converted to intangible transition costs. As a result of the conversion
      of a significant portion of the competitive transition costs into intangible
      transition costs, amortization of substantially all of the remaining competitive
      transition costs will occur in 2009.

Included in "Other" above, are approximately $15 million of storm restoration
      costs associated with the September 2003 Hurricane Isabel. These costs have
      been deferred in accordance with the PUC declaratory order of January 16,
      2004. The ratemaking treatment of these losses will be addressed in the
      2004 rate proceeding. PPL and PPL Electric believe there is a reasonable
      basis for recovery of all regulatory assets.

Accounting for Derivatives and Other Contracts Held for Trading Purposes

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Montana)

PPL Energy Supply and PPL Montana enter into energy and energy-related
      contracts. PPL and PPL Energy Supply enter into interest rate derivative
      contracts to hedge their exposure to changes in the fair value of their
      debt instruments and to hedge their exposure to variability in expected
      cash flows associated with existing debt instruments or forecasted transactions.
      PPL and PPL Energy Supply also enter into foreign currency derivative contracts
      to hedge foreign currency exposures, including firm commitments, recognized
      assets or liabilities, forecasted transactions or net investments.

Contracts that meet the definition of a derivative are accounted for under
      SFAS 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,"
      as amended and interpreted. Certain energy contracts have been excluded
      from the requirements of SFAS 133 because they meet the definition of a
      "normal purchase or normal sale" under DIG Issue C15, "Scope Exceptions:
      Normal Purchases and Normal Sales Exception for Certain Option-Type Contracts
      and Forward Contracts in Electricity." These contracts are reflected in
      the financial statements using the accrual method of accounting.

Additionally, PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Montana adopted SFAS No. 149,
      "Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,"
      as of July 1, 2003. The requirements of SFAS 149, which required prospective
      application, placed additional limitations on the use of the normal purchase
      or normal sale exception. Therefore, the accounting for certain types of
      transactions has been changed on a prospective basis to conform with SFAS
      149.

Under SFAS 133, all derivatives are recognized on the balance sheet at
      their fair value. On the date the derivative contract is executed, PPL designates
      the derivative as a hedge of the fair value of a recognized asset or liability
      or of an unrecognized firm commitment ("fair value" hedge), a hedge of a
      forecasted transaction or of the variability of cash flows to be received
      or paid related to a recognized asset or liability ("cash flow" hedge),
      a foreign currency fair value or cash flow hedge ("foreign currency" hedge),
      a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation or a trading derivative.
      Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is highly effective as, and
      is designated and qualifies as, a fair value hedge, along with the loss
      or gain on the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged
      risk, are recorded in current-period earnings. Changes in the fair value
      of a derivative that is highly effective as, and is designated as and qualifies
      as, a cash flow hedge are recorded in other comprehensive income, until
      earnings are affected by the variability of cash flows being hedged. Changes
      in the fair value of derivatives that are designated as and qualify as foreign
      currency hedges are recorded in either current-period earnings or other
      comprehensive income, depending on whether the hedge transaction is a fair
      value hedge or a cash flow hedge. If a derivative is used as a hedge of
      a net investment in a foreign operation, its changes in fair value, to the
      extent effective as a hedge, are recorded within other comprehensive income.
      Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are not designated as hedging
      instruments are reported in current-period earnings.

Unrealized gains and losses from changes in market prices of energy contracts
      accounted for as fair value hedges are reflected in "Energy purchases" on
      the Statement of Income, as are changes in the underlying positions. Gains
      and losses from changes in market prices of energy contracts accounted for
      as cash flow hedges, when recognized on the Statement of Income, are reflected
      in "Wholesale energy marketing" revenues or "Energy purchases," consistent
      with the hedged item. Gains and losses from changes in the market price
      of interest rate and foreign currency derivative contracts, when recognized
      on the Statement of Income, are accounted for in "Interest Expense."

Gains or losses on interest rate derivative contracts that settled prior
      to the adoption of SFAS 133 were deferred and are being recognized over
      the life of the debt. Market gains and losses on foreign currency derivative
      contracts that settled prior to the adoption of SFAS 133 were recognized
      in accordance with SFAS 52, "Foreign Currency Translation," and are included
      in "Foreign currency translation adjustments," a component of accumulated
      other comprehensive income (loss).

In the fourth quarter of 2002, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Montana adopted
      the accounting requirements under EITF 02-3, "Issues Involved in Accounting
      for Derivative Contracts Held for Trading Purposes and Contracts Involved
      in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities." As such, PPL reflects
      its net realized and unrealized gains and losses associated with all derivatives
      that are held for trading purposes in the "Net energy trading margins" line
      on the Statement of Income. Non-derivative contracts that met the definition
      of energy trading activities as defined by EITF 98-10, "Accounting for Energy
      Trading and Risk Management Activities" are reflected in the financial statements
      using the accrual method of accounting. Prior periods were restated.

PPL Energy Supply and PPL Montana have adopted the final provisions of
      EITF 03-11, "Reporting Realized Gains and Losses on Derivative Instruments
      That Are Subject to FASB Statement No. 133 and Not 'Held for Trading Purposes'
      as Defined in Issue No. 02-3," prospectively as of October 1, 2003. As a
      result of the adoption, non-trading bilateral sales of electricity at major
      market delivery points are netted with purchases that offset the sales at
      those same delivery points. A major market delivery point is any delivery
      point with liquid pricing available. The impact of adopting EITF 03-11 was
      a reduction in both "Wholesale energy marketing" revenues and "Energy purchases"
      of $105 million in PPL's and PPL Energy Supply's Statement of Income and
      by $18 million in PPL Montana's Statement of Income.

See Note 17 for additional information on SFAS 133, its amendments and
      related accounting guidance.

Revenue Recognition

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL Montana)

Operating revenues, except for energy related businesses, are recorded
      based on energy deliveries through the end of the calendar month. Unbilled
      retail revenues result because customers' meters are read and bills are
      rendered throughout the month, rather than all being read at the end of
      the month. Unbilled revenues for a month are calculated by multiplying an
      estimate of unbilled kWh by the estimated average cents per kWh. Unbilled
      wholesale energy revenues are recorded at month end to reflect estimated
      amounts until actual dollars and MWhs are confirmed and invoiced. At that
      time unbilled revenue is reversed and actual revenue is recorded.

"Energy related businesses" revenue includes revenues from the mechanical
      contracting and engineering subsidiaries and PPL Global's proportionate
      share of affiliate earnings under the equity or cost method of accounting,
      as described in the "Business and Consolidation" section of Note 1. The
      mechanical contracting and engineering subsidiaries record profits from
      construction contracts on the percentage-of-completion method of accounting.
      Income from time and material contracts is recognized currently as the work
      is performed.

Utility Revenue

(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)

The Statement of Income "Utility" line item contains revenues from domestic
      and international rate-regulated delivery operations, including WPD.

WPD revenues are stated net of value-added tax.

(PPL Electric)

Since most of PPL Electric's operations are regulated, it is not meaningful
      to use a "Utility" caption. Therefore, the revenues of PPL Electric are
      presented according to specific types of revenue.

Income Taxes

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL Montana)

The income tax provision for PPL and its subsidiaries is calculated in
      accordance with SFAS 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes." PPL and its domestic
      subsidiaries file a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return.

(PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL Montana)

The provision for PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL Montana is calculated
      in accordance with an intercompany tax sharing policy which provides that
      the taxable income be calculated as if PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and
      PPL Montana and its domestic subsidiaries filed a separate consolidated
      return.

(PPL and PPL Electric)

The provision for PPL Electric's deferred income taxes for regulated assets
      is based upon the ratemaking principles reflected in rates established by
      the PUC and the FERC. The difference in the provision for deferred income
      taxes for regulated assets and the amount that otherwise would be recorded
      under U.S. GAAP is deferred and included in taxes recoverable through future
      rates in "Regulatory and Other Noncurrent Assets - Other" on the Balance
      Sheet. See Note 5 for additional information.

PPL Electric deferred investment tax credits when they were utilized and
      is amortizing the deferrals over the average lives of the related assets.

(PPL Montana)

PPL Montana is a limited liability company and has elected to be classified
      as an association taxable as a corporation for federal and state income
      tax purposes. The current tax benefit or provision recognized for each period
      is reported in "Accounts receivable from Member" or "Accounts payable to
      affiliates" on the Balance Sheet, as applicable.

Leases

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL Montana)

PPL and its subsidiaries apply the provisions of SFAS 13, "Accounting for
      Leases," as amended and interpreted, to all leasing transactions. See Note
      10 for a discussion of accounting for leases under which PPL, PPL Energy
      Supply, PPL Electric and PPL Montana are lessees.

(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)

In 2002, PPL began commercial operation of its 79.9 MW oil-powered station
      in Shoreham, New York. The Long Island Power Authority has contracted to
      purchase all of the plant's capacity and ancillary services as part of a
      15-year power purchase agreement with PPL EnergyPlus. The capacity payments
      in the power purchase agreement result in the plant being classified as
      a direct financing lease, under which PPL EnergyPlus is the lessor. As of
      December 31, 2003 and 2002, PPL and PPL Energy Supply had a receivable balance
      of $277 million and $260 million (included in "Current Assets - Other" and
      "Regulatory and Other Noncurrent Assets - Other" for PPL and "Current Assets
      - Other" and "Other Noncurrent Assets - Other" for PPL Energy Supply) and
      an unearned revenue balance of $167 million and $152 million (included in
      "Deferred Credits and Other Noncurrent Liabilities - Other"). Rental income
      received through this direct financing lease during 2003 and 2002 was $15
      million and $5 million. Total future minimum lease payments expected to
      be received are estimated at $16 million for each of the years from 2004
      through 2008.

Stock-Based Compensation

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL Montana)

PPL grants stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units and
      stock units to employees and directors under several stock-based compensation
      plans. SFAS 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," encourages entities
      to record compensation expense for stock-based compensation plans at fair
      value but provides the option of measuring compensation expense using the
      intrinsic value method prescribed by APB Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for
      Stock Issued to Employees." The fair value method under SFAS 123 is the
      preferable method of accounting for stock-based compensation, as it provides
      a consistent basis of accounting for all stock-based awards, thereby facilitating
      a better measure of compensation cost and improved financial reporting.

Prior to 2003, PPL accounted for stock-based compensation in accordance
      with APB Opinion No. 25, as permitted by SFAS 123. Effective January 1,
      2003, PPL and its subsidiaries adopted the fair value method of accounting
      for stock-based compensation, as prescribed by SFAS 123, using the prospective
      method of transition permitted by SFAS 148, "Accounting for Stock-Based
      Compensation - Transition and Disclosure, an Amendment of FASB Statement
      No. 123." See Note 22 for further discussion of SFAS 148. The prospective
      method of transition requires PPL and its subsidiaries to use the fair value
      method under SFAS 123 for all stock-based compensation awards granted, modified
      or settled on or after January 1, 2003. Thus, all awards granted prior to
      January 1, 2003 continue to be accounted for under the intrinsic value method
      of APB Opinion No. 25, to the extent such awards are not modified or settled.
      Stock-based compensation is included in "Other operation and maintenance"
      expense on PPL's Statement of Income.

Use of the fair value method prescribed by SFAS 123 requires PPL and its
      subsidiaries to recognize compensation expense for stock options issued.
      Fair value for the stock options is determined using the Black-Scholes options
      pricing model.

PPL and its subsidiaries were not required to recognize compensation expense
      for stock options issued under the intrinsic value method of APB Opinion
      No. 25, since PPL grants stock options with an exercise price that is not
      less than the fair market value of PPL's common stock on the date of grant.
      For stock options granted under the fair value method of SFAS 123, stock
      option expense for PPL was approximately $3 million for 2003. As currently
      structured, awards of restricted stock, restricted stock units and stock
      units result in the same amount of compensation expense under the fair value
      method of SFAS 123 as they would under the intrinsic value method of APB
      Opinion No. 25.

The following table illustrates the pro forma effect on net income and
      EPS as if the fair value method had been used to account for all outstanding
      stock-based compensation awards in the years shown:

(PPL)

(PPL Energy Supply)

Stock-based compensation expense includes an allocation of PPL Services'
      expense.

(PPL Electric and PPL Montana)

Stock-based compensation expense, including awards granted to employees
      and an allocation of costs of awards granted to employees of PPL Services,
      was insignificant under both the intrinsic value and fair value methods
      for each of 2003, 2002 and 2001.

Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply,
      PPL Electric and PPL Montana)

See Note 12 for a discussion of accounting for pension and other postretirement
      benefits.

Comprehensive Income

(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)

Comprehensive income consists of net income and other comprehensive income,
      defined as changes in common equity from transactions not related to shareowners.
      Other comprehensive income consists of foreign currency translation adjustments
      recorded by PPL Global, unrealized gains or losses on available-for-sale
      securities and qualifying derivatives, and the excess of additional pension
      liability over unamortized prior service costs, net of taxes. Comprehensive
      income is reflected on the PPL Statement of Shareowners' Common Equity and
      Comprehensive Income, and "Accumulated other comprehensive loss" is presented
      on the PPL Balance Sheet. Comprehensive income is reflected on the PPL Energy
      Supply Statement of Member's Equity and Comprehensive Income, and accumulated
      other comprehensive loss is included in Member's Equity on the PPL Energy
      Supply Balance Sheet.

The accumulated other comprehensive loss of PPL consisted of the following
      at December 31:

The accumulated other comprehensive loss of PPL Energy Supply consisted
      of the following at December 31:

(PPL Montana)

Comprehensive income consists of net income and other comprehensive income,
      defined as changes in Member's equity from transactions other than with
      the Member. Other comprehensive income consists of unrealized gains or losses
      on qualifying derivatives and the excess of additional pension liability
      over unamortized prior service costs, net of taxes. Comprehensive income
      is reflected on the Statement of Member's Equity and Comprehensive Income.
      The accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) of PPL Montana at December
      31, 2003 and 2002 was $6 million and $(2) million. The 2003 balance consisted
      of the following: minimum pension liability adjustment of $(5) million and
      unrealized gains on qualifying derivatives of $11 million.

Treasury Stock

(

PPL and PPL Electric)

Treasury shares are reflected on the balance sheet as an offset to common
      equity under the cost method of accounting. Management has no definitive
      plans for the future use of these shares. Treasury shares are not considered
      outstanding in calculating EPS.

Foreign Currency Translation and Transactions

(PPL and PPL Energy
      Supply)

Assets and liabilities of international operations, where the local currency
      is the functional currency, are translated at year-end exchange rates, and
      related revenues and expenses are translated at average exchange rates prevailing
      during the year. Adjustments resulting from translation are recorded in
      accumulated other comprehensive loss.

Gains or losses relating to foreign currency transactions are recognized
      currently in income. The aggregate transaction gain (loss) was $(1) million,
      $(9) million and $8 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001.

Independent System Operator

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Electric)

Certain PPL subsidiaries participate in PJM in several roles. Certain PPL
      subsidiaries also participate in the New England Power Pool (NEPOOL) and
      the New York ISO (NYISO) in a less significant way than in PJM. In PJM,
      PPL EnergyPlus is a marketer, a load-serving entity to its customers who
      selected it as a supplier under the Customer Choice Act and a seller for
      PPL's Pennsylvania generation subsidiaries. PPL Electric is a transmission
      owner and provider of last resort in PJM. In NEPOOL, PPL EnergyPlus is a
      marketer and a seller for PPL's New England generating assets. In the NYISO,
      PPL EnergyPlus acts as a marketer. PPL Electric does not participate in
      NEPOOL or NYISO.

A function of interchange accounting is to match participants' MWh entitlements
      (generation plus scheduled bilateral purchases) against their MWh obligations
      (load plus scheduled bilateral sales) during every hour of every day. If
      the net result during any given hour is an entitlement, the participant
      is credited with a spot market sale to the ISO at the respective market
      price for that hour; if the net result is an obligation, the participant
      is charged with a spot market purchase from the ISO at the respective market
      price for that hour. ISO purchases and sales are not allocated to individual
      customers.

PPL records the hourly net sales and purchases in its financial statements
      as sales to and purchases from the respective ISOs, in accordance with the
      FERC and industry accounting.

Reclassifications

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL
      Montana)

Certain amounts in the 2002 and 2001 financial statements have been reclassified
      to conform to the current presentation.

Other

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL Montana)

See Note 18 for a discussion of the accounting for goodwill and other intangible
      assets, Note 21 for a discussion of the accounting for asset retirement
      obligations, and Note 22 for a discussion of other new accounting standards.

Segment and Related Information

(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)

PPL's reportable segments are Supply, Delivery and International. The Supply
      segment primarily consists of the domestic energy marketing, domestic generation
      and domestic development operations of PPL Energy Supply. The Delivery segment
      includes the regulated electric and gas delivery operations of PPL Electric
      and PPL Gas Utilities. The International segment includes PPL Global's responsibility
      for the acquisition and holding of international energy projects. The majority
      of PPL Global's international investments are located in the U.K., Chile,
      El Salvador and Bolivia.

PPL Energy Supply's reportable segments are Supply and International. The
      International segment at the PPL Energy Supply level is consistent with
      the International segment at the PPL level. The Supply segment information
      reported at the PPL Energy Supply level will not agree with the Supply segment
      information reported at the PPL level. Additional Supply segment functions,
      including telecommunications, exist at PPL that are outside of PPL Energy
      Supply. Furthermore, certain income items, including PLR revenue and certain
      interest income, exist at the PPL Energy Supply level, but are eliminated
      in consolidation at the PPL level. Finally, certain expense items are fully
      allocated to the segments at the PPL level only.

Segments include direct charges, as well as an allocation of indirect corporate
      costs, for services provided by PPL Services. These service costs include
      functions such as financial, legal, human resources and information services.

Financial data for the segments are as follows:

Investment in Unconsolidated Affiliates - at Equity

(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)

In the third quarter of 2002, PPL Global acquired a controlling interest
      in WPD. As a result, PPL Global fully consolidated the financial results
      of WPD at September 30, 2002. See Note 9 for additional information.

Investment in unconsolidated affiliates accounted for under the equity
      method were as follows as of December 31 (equity ownership percentages as
      of December 31, 2003):

(a)

In 2003, PPL Global sold its investment
            in Wind Resources Limited, and fully consolidated its investment in
            TransEmel upon acquisition of the remaining interest. See Note 9 for
            additional information on TransEmel.

Summarized below is information from the financial statements of unconsolidated
      affiliates accounted for under the equity method, underlying the amounts
      included in the consolidated financial statements:

(a)

For purpose of comparability, the summarized
            information of WPD is excluded from 2001.

Earnings Per Share

(PPL)

Basic EPS is calculated by dividing "Net Income" on the Statement of Income
      by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
      Diluted EPS is calculated similarly for PPL, except that weighted average
      shares outstanding are increased for additional shares that would be outstanding
      if potentially dilutive securities were converted to common stock. Potentially
      dilutive securities consist of:

The basic and diluted EPS calculations, and the reconciliation of the shares
      (in thousands) used in the calculations, are shown below:

In May 2001, PPL and PPL Capital Funding Trust I issued 23 million PEPS
      Units that contain a purchase contract component for PPL's common stock.
      The purchase contracts will only be dilutive if the average price of PPL's
      common stock exceeds a threshold appreciation price, which is adjusted for
      cash distributions on PPL common stock. The appreciation price was initially
      set at $65.03 and has subsequently been adjusted to $63.94 as of December
      31, 2003 based on dividends paid on PPL's common stock since issuance. Since
      the average price has not exceeded the threshold appreciation price, the
      purchase contracts were excluded from the diluted EPS calculations.

In January 2004, PPL completed an exchange offer resulting in the exchange
      of approximately 4 million PEPS Units for PEPS Units, Series B. The primary
      difference in the units relates to the debt component. The purchase contract
      components of both units, which are potentially dilutive, are identical.
      The threshold appreciation price for the purchase contract component of
      the PEPS Units, Series B was set at the last adjusted threshold appreciation
      price of $63.94 for the PEPS Units and will be adjusted in the same manner
      as that of the PEPS Units. See Note 8 for a more detailed discussion of
      the exchange offer.

In May 2003, PPL Energy Supply issued $400 million of 2.625% Convertible
      Senior Notes due 2023. The notes are guaranteed by PPL and can be converted
      into shares of PPL common stock, at an initial conversion rate of 20.1106
      shares per $1,000 principal amount of notes, subject to adjustment if:

As none of these events has occurred, the Convertible Senior Notes were
      excluded from the diluted EPS calculations.

The following number of stock options to purchase PPL common shares were
      excluded in the periods' computations of diluted EPS, because the exercise
      price of the options was greater than the average market price of the common
      shares. Therefore, the effect would have been antidilutive.

Income and Other Taxes

For 2003, 2002 and 2001, the statutory U.S. corporate federal income tax
      rate was 35%. The statutory corporate net income tax rates for Pennsylvania
      and Montana were 9.99% and 6.75%.

(PPL)

The tax effects of significant temporary differences comprising PPL's net
      deferred income tax liability were as follows:

Details of the components of income tax expense, a reconciliation of federal
      income taxes derived from statutory tax rates applied to income from continuing
      operations for accounting purposes, and details of taxes other than income
      are as follows:

PPL Global had foreign net operating loss carryforwards of approximately
      $13 million and $28 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002. PPL Global also
      had foreign capital loss carryforwards of $920 million at December 31, 2003
      and $760 million at December 31, 2002. All of these losses have an unlimited
      carryforward period. However, it is more likely than not that these losses
      will not be utilized and as such, a full valuation allowance has been provided.

PPL Global does not pay or record U.S. income taxes on the undistributed
      earnings of its foreign subsidiaries where management has determined that
      the earnings are permanently reinvested. The cumulative undistributed earnings
      are included in "Earnings reinvested" on the Balance Sheet. The amounts
      considered permanently reinvested at December 31, 2003 and 2002 were $530
      million and $295 million. If the earnings were remitted as dividends, PPL
      Global may be subject to additional U.S. taxes, net of allowable foreign
      tax credits. It is not practical to estimate the amount of additional taxes
      that might be payable on these foreign earnings.

(PPL Energy Supply)

The tax effects of significant temporary differences comprising PPL Energy
      Supply's net deferred income tax liability were as follows:

Details of the components of income tax expense, a reconciliation of federal
      income taxes derived from statutory tax rates applied to income from continuing
      operations for accounting purposes, and details of taxes other than income
      are as follows:

PPL Global had foreign net operating loss carryforwards of approximately
      $13 million and $28 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002. PPL Global also
      had foreign capital loss carryforwards of $920 million at December 31, 2003
      and $760 million at December 31, 2002. All of these losses have an unlimited
      carryforward period. However, it is more likely than not that these losses
      will not be utilized and as such, a full valuation allowance has been provided.

PPL Global does not pay or record U.S. income taxes on the undistributed
      earnings of its foreign subsidiaries where management has determined that
      the earnings are permanently reinvested. The cumulative undistributed earnings
      are included in "Earnings reinvested" on the Balance Sheet. The amounts
      considered permanently reinvested at December 31, 2003 and 2002 were $530
      million and $295 million. If the earnings were remitted as dividends, PPL
      Global may be subject to additional U.S. taxes, net of allowable foreign
      tax credits. It is not practical to estimate the amount of additional taxes
      that might be payable on these foreign earnings.

(PPL Electric)

The tax effects of significant temporary differences comprising PPL Electric's
      net deferred income tax liability were as follows:

Details of the components of income tax expense, a reconciliation of federal
      income taxes derived from statutory tax rates applied to income from continuing
      operations for accounting purposes, and details of taxes other than income
      are as follows:

(PPL Montana)

The tax effects of significant temporary differences comprising PPL Montana's
      net deferred income tax asset were as follows:

Details of the components of income tax expense, a reconciliation of federal
      income taxes derived from statutory tax rates applied to income from continuing
      operations for accounting purposes, and details of taxes other than income
      are as follows:

Nuclear Decommissioning Costs

(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)

The cost to decommission the Susquehanna station is based on a 2002 site-specific
      study to dismantle and decommission each unit immediately following final
      shutdown. PPL Susquehanna's 90% share of the total estimated cost of decommissioning
      the Susquehanna station was approximately $936 million measured in 2002
      dollars. This estimate includes decommissioning the radiological portions
      of the station and the cost of removal of non-radiological structures and
      materials.

Beginning in January 1999, in accordance with the PUC Final Order, approximately
      $130 million of decommissioning costs are being recovered from customers
      through the CTC over the 11-year life of the CTC rather than the remaining
      life of Susquehanna. The recovery will include a return on unamortized decommissioning
      costs. Effective January 1, 2003, PPL adopted SFAS 143 "Accounting for Asset
      Retirement Obligations." In connection with the adoption, the previously
      recorded liability for nuclear decommissioning of $296 million was reversed
      and a liability of $202 million was recorded. Accretion expense, as determined
      under the provisions of SFAS 143, was $16 million in 2003 and is included
      in "Other operation and maintenance." In 2002 and 2001, decommissioning
      expenses were $22 million and $24 million, and were recorded as a component
      of depreciation expense. Accrued nuclear decommissioning expenses, as determined
      under the provisions of SFAS 143, were $218 million at December 31,
      2003, and are included in "Deferred Credits and Other Noncurrent Liabilities
      - Other." See Note 21 for additional information on SFAS 143.

Amounts collected from PPL Electric's customers for decommissioning, less
      applicable taxes, are deposited in external trust funds for investment and
      can be used only for future decommissioning costs.

In November 2001, PPL Susquehanna notified the NRC that it intends to file
      for 20-year license renewals for each of the Susquehanna units. If approved,
      the operating licenses would be extended from 2022 to 2042 for Unit 1 and
      from 2024 to 2044 for Unit 2.

Financial Instruments

At December 31, 2003 and 2002, the carrying value of cash and cash equivalents,
      nuclear plant decommissioning trust fund, other investments and short-term
      debt approximated fair value due to the short-term nature of the instruments,
      variable interest rates associated with the financial instruments or the
      carrying value of the instruments being based on established market prices.
      Price risk management assets and liabilities are valued using either exchange
      traded market quotes or prices obtained through third party brokers and
      are recorded at fair value. Financial instruments where the carrying amount
      on the Balance Sheet and the estimated fair value (based on quoted market
      prices for the securities where available and estimates based on current
      rates offered to PPL where quoted market prices are not available) are different,
      are set forth below:

(PPL)

(PPL Energy Supply)

(PPL Electric)

(PPL Montana)

At December 31, 2003 and 2002, the carrying value of cash and cash equivalents,
      and the revolving line of credit approximated fair value due to either the
      short-term nature of the instruments or variable interest rates associated
      with the financial instruments. Price risk management assets and liabilities
      are valued using either exchange traded market quotes or prices obtained
      through third party brokers and are recorded at fair value.

Credit Arrangements and Financing Activities

Credit Arrangements

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Electric)

In order to enhance liquidity, and as credit support to its commercial
      paper program, PPL Electric maintained a $400 million 364-day credit facility
      which matured in June 2003. PPL Electric replaced its facility with a $200
      million, 364-day facility maturing in June 2004 and a $100 million three-year
      credit facility maturing in June 2006. PPL Energy Supply maintains three
      credit facilities: a $300 million three-year credit facility maturing in
      June 2006, (this credit facility replaced a $300 million 364-day credit
      facility which matured in June 2003), a $500 million three-year credit facility
      maturing in June 2004 and a $300 million three-year credit facility maturing
      in June 2005. Both PPL Electric and PPL Energy Supply have the ability to
      cause the lenders to issue letters of credit under their respective facilities.
      At December 31, 2003, no cash borrowings were outstanding under any credit
      facilities of PPL Electric or PPL Energy Supply. At December 31, 2003,
      PPL Electric had $42 million of letters of credit outstanding under its
      $100 million three-year facility, and PPL Energy Supply had $87 million
      of letters of credit outstanding under its $500 million three-year facility.

(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)

In October 2003, WPD (South West) replaced its expiring credit facility
      with a new £100 million 364-day credit facility maturing in October
      2004 and extended its £150 million five-year credit facility to October
      2008. At December 31, 2003, WPD (South West) had £27 million ($48
      million based on current exchange rates) of outstanding borrowings under
      its 364-day credit facility and no outstanding borrowings under its five-year
      credit facility. At December 31, 2003, WPD (South West) had uncommitted
      credit line borrowings of £25 million ($44 million based on current
      exchange rates) in separate agreements with lender banks.

WPD (South West) maintained a £250 million bridge facility, which
      expired in April 2003, for short-term liquidity. This bridge facility was
      paid down with the proceeds from the issuance of long-term bonds and borrowings
      under another credit facility. The long-term bond issuance is discussed
      in more detail under "Financing Activities."

(PPL Montana)

PPL Montana has a $100 million three-year credit facility with another
      PPL Energy Supply subsidiary on market terms to meet its liquidity needs.
      At December 31, 2003, PPL Montana had no outstanding borrowings under that
      credit facility.

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL Montana)

The subsidiaries of PPL are separate legal entities. PPL's subsidiaries
      are not liable for the debts of PPL. Accordingly, creditors of PPL may not
      satisfy their debts from the assets of the subsidiaries absent a specific
      contractual undertaking by a subsidiary to pay PPL's creditors or as required
      by applicable law or regulation. Similarly, absent a specific contractual
      undertaking or as required by applicable law or regulation, PPL is not liable
      for the debts of its subsidiaries. Accordingly, creditors of PPL's subsidiaries
      may not satisfy their debts from the assets of PPL absent a specific contractual
      undertaking by PPL to pay the creditors of its subsidiaries or as required
      by applicable law or regulation.

Similarly, the subsidiaries of PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL
      Montana are separate legal entities. These subsidiaries are not liable for
      the debts of PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL Montana. Accordingly,
      creditors of PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL Montana may not satisfy
      their debts from the assets of their subsidiaries absent a specific contractual
      undertaking by a subsidiary to pay the creditors or as required by applicable
      law or regulation. In addition, absent a specific contractual undertaking
      or as required by applicable law or regulation, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric
      and PPL Montana are not liable for the debts of their subsidiaries. Accordingly,
      creditors of these subsidiaries may not satisfy their debts from the assets
      of PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric or PPL Montana absent a specific contractual
      undertaking by that parent to pay the creditors of its subsidiaries or as
      required by applicable law or regulation.

Financing Activities

(PPL)

PPL Capital Funding retired the following medium-term notes, at par, during
      2003:

•

all of its $60 million 6.375% Series
            due March 2003;

•

all of its $20 million 6.23% Series due
            October 2003; and

•

all of its $5 million 6.40% Series due
            October 2003.

In November 2003, PPL launched an offer to exchange up to $573 million
      aggregate stated amount of its outstanding PEPS Units for up to $573 million
      aggregate stated amount of its PEPS Units, Series B and a cash payment by
      PPL of $0.375 for each validly tendered and accepted outstanding PEPS Unit.
      The exchange offer, which closed in January 2004, resulted in 3,975,160
      PEPS Units, or 17.28% of the 23 million outstanding PEPS Units, being exchanged.
      PPL conducted the exchange offer to reduce its future interest expense.

During the twelve months ended December 31, 2003, PPL issued $426 million
      of common stock, including $109 million through its Structured Equity Shelf
      Program and $270 million through a public offering in May 2003. In this
      public offering, PPL issued 7.1 million shares of common stock for $38.25
      per share. PPL received net proceeds of approximately $261 million, which
      were used to repurchase commercial paper of PPL Energy Supply and for general
      corporate purposes.

(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)

In March 2003, WPD (South West) issued £200 million of 5.875% bonds
      due 2027. The proceeds from this issuance were used to repay £200
      million of borrowings under its bridge facility. Additionally, in May 2003,
      WPD (South West) issued an additional £50 million of 5.875% bonds
      due 2027. WPD (South West) used the proceeds from this issuance to pay down
      short-term borrowings. The issuance of this long-term debt resulted in an
      $11 million write-off of unamortized swap restructuring costs in the second
      quarter of 2003.

In May 2003, PPL Energy Supply issued $400 million of 2.625% Convertible
      Senior Notes due 2023, which are guaranteed by PPL and convertible into
      PPL common stock. The convertible notes were sold in a Rule 144A private
      offering to qualified institutional buyers, and PPL Energy Supply and PPL
      subsequently registered the resale of the notes with the SEC for the benefit
      of the holders. See Note 4 for additional information on the convertibility
      features of the notes. PPL Energy Supply used the proceeds from the private
      offering of the convertible notes to repurchase commercial paper and for
      general corporate purposes.

During the twelve months ended December 31, 2003, WPD retired $53 million
      of 7.375% Unsecured Bonds due 2028.

At December 31, 2003, PPL Energy Supply had no commercial paper outstanding.

During the twelve months ended December 31, 2003, PPL Energy Supply distributed
      approximately $1.2 billion to its parent company, PPL Energy Funding, and
      received capital contributions of $261 million.

(PPL and PPL Electric)

In February 2003, the Lehigh County Industrial Development Authority (LCIDA)
      issued $90 million of 3.125% Pollution Control Revenue Refunding Bonds due
      November 2008 on behalf of PPL Electric. The proceeds of the bonds were
      used to refund the LCIDA's $90 million, 6.40% Pollution Control Revenue
      Refunding Bonds due 2021. In order to secure its obligations to repay the
      LCIDA, PPL Electric issued $90 million aggregate principal amount of its
      Senior Secured Bonds under its 2001 Senior Secured Bond Indenture, having
      terms corresponding to the terms of the LCIDA bonds.

In February 2003, PPL Electric retired $19 million of its outstanding First
      Mortgage Bonds, 6-7/8% Series due February 2003, at par value.

In April 2003 and December 2003, as permitted by the 1945 First Mortgage
      Bond Indenture, PPL Electric retired approximately $46 million aggregate
      principal amount of its First Mortgage Bonds, 7-7/8% Series due 2023, and
      $19 million aggregate principal amount of its First Mortgage Bonds, 6.75%
      Series due 2023. Both issues were retired at par value, plus accrued interest,
      through the application of cash deposited with the trustee to release certain
      transmission lines and other equipment from the lien of the 1945 First Mortgage
      Bond Indenture.

In May 2003, PPL Electric issued $100 million of 4.30% Senior Secured Bonds
      due 2013. The proceeds were used for general corporate purposes including
      the refunding of higher-cost securities.

PPL Electric redeemed all outstanding shares of the following preferred
      stock, at par value of $100 per share plus accumulated and unpaid dividends,
      in accordance with the mandatory sinking fund requirements or through the
      optional redemption provisions of each series:

•

in April 2003, $10 million of 6.15% Series
            Preferred Stock;

•

in July 2003, $4 million of 6.33% Series
            Preferred Stock; and

•

in October 2003, $17 million of 6.125%
            Series Preferred Stock.

In January 2004, PPL Electric notified holders of its intent to redeem
      on March 1, 2004 approximately $6 million aggregate principal amount of
      its 7.30% First Mortgage Bonds. This issue will be retired at par value,
      plus any accrued and unpaid interest, through the application of cash deposited
      with the trustee to release certain transmission lines and other equipment
      from the lien of the 1945 First Mortgage Bond Indenture.

During the twelve months ended December 31, 2003, PPL Transition Bond Company
      made principal payments on transition bonds totaling $255 million.

During the twelve months ended December 31, 2003, PPL Electric received
      a capital contribution of $75 million from PPL.

At December 31, 2003, PPL Electric had no commercial paper outstanding.

(PPL Montana)

During the twelve months ended December 31, 2003, PPL Montana repaid $26
      million under its revolving line of credit with an affiliate. Also during
      this period, PPL Montana distributed $5 million to its parent company, PPL
      Montana Holdings, LLC.

Dividends and Dividend Restrictions

(PPL)

In February 2003, PPL announced an increase of its quarterly common stock
      dividend, effective April 1, 2003, from 36 cents per share to 38.5 cents
      per share (equivalent to $1.54 per annum). Future dividends, declared at
      the discretion of the Board of Directors, will be dependent upon future
      earnings, cash flows, financial requirements and other factors.

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Montana)

The PPL Montana Colstrip lease places certain restrictions on PPL Montana's
      ability to declare dividends. At this time, PPL believes that these covenants
      will not limit PPL Montana's ability to operate as desired and will not
      affect PPL's ability to meet any of its cash obligations. Certain of PPL
      Global's international subsidiaries also have financing arrangements which
      limit their ability to pay dividends. However, PPL does not, at this time,
      expect that any of such limitations would significantly impact its ability
      to meet its cash obligations.

(PPL and PPL Electric)

PPL Electric's 2001 Senior Secured Bond Indenture restricts dividend payments
      in the event that PPL Electric fails to meet interest coverage ratios or
      fails to comply with certain separateness formalities undertaken in connection
      with its strategic initiative (see Note 19 for additional information).
      PPL Electric does not, at this time, expect that any of such limitations
      would significantly impact its ability to declare dividends.

Acquisitions, Development and Divestitures

Domestic Generation Projects

(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)

In 2001, PPL Global made a decision to cancel approximately 2,100 MW of
      previously planned generation development in Pennsylvania and Washington
      state. These projects were in the early stage of development and would have
      had an estimated capital cost of approximately $1.3 billion. The charge
      for cancellation of these generation projects, which was primarily due to
      cancellation fees under turbine purchase contracts, was approximately $150
      million, or $88 million after-tax, and was reported on the Statement of
      Income as "Cancellation of generation projects," a component of "Other charges."
      At June 30, 2002, PPL Global had completed payment of the cancellation fees.

In November 2002, PPL Global evaluated its options with respect to six
      unassigned turbines and SCRs that were complete or substantially complete.
      These units were intended to be used at the Kings Park site on Long Island,
      New York. At that time, given low energy prices and the unavailability of
      a power contract, PPL Global was reevaluating its options with respect to
      the Kings Park project.

Due to the uncertainty of the project and the absence of other viable projects,
      a valuation based upon replacement costs of the turbines and the SCRs was
      completed. This resulted in the recognition of a $44 million impairment
      charge, which is reported on the Statement of Income as "Write-down of generation
      assets," a component of "Other charges." A deferred income tax benefit of
      $18 million was recognized on the write-down.

In January 2003, PPL announced that it had decided not to proceed with
      development of the 300 MW Kings Park project. In March, PPL Global sold
      its interest in Kings Park Energy, LLC. At that time, the six unassigned
      gas combustion turbine generators and SCRs to be used at the Kings Park
      site were retained as spare parts.

In April 2003, PPL Susquehanna completed the replacement of the Unit 2
      steam turbine at the Susquehanna station. This project provides a nominal
      power increase of 50 MW of generation capacity, of which PPL Susquehanna
      has a 90% undivided interest. An additional turbine upgrade is in progress
      for Unit 1 and is expected to be completed in 2004. Through December 31,
      2003, a total of approximately $125 million had been incurred on these projects.

In October 2003, PPL Maine entered into an agreement in principle with
      a coalition of government agencies and private groups to sell three of its
      nine hydroelectric dams in Maine. If the agreement is finalized, a non-profit
      organization designated by the coalition would have a five-year option to
      purchase the dams for approximately $25 million, and PPL Maine would receive
      rights to increase energy output at its other hydroelectric dams in Maine.
      The coalition has indicated that it plans to remove or bypass the dams subject
      to the agreement in order to restore runs of Atlantic salmon and other migratory
      fish to the Penobscot River. Any final agreement will require several approvals
      by the FERC.

In November 2003, PPL Generation sold four of the six spare gas combustion
      turbine generators and related equipment for approximately $33 million.
      PPL Generation received substantially all of the proceeds in January 2004.
      The pre-tax loss on the sale of about $3 million is included in "Other Income
      - net" on the Statement of Income.

See Note 22 for a discussion of the Lower Mt. Bethel facility.

International Energy Projects

(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)

Acquisitions

WPD

On September 6, 2002, PPL Global acquired the remaining 49% equity interest
      in WPDH Limited and WPDL from Mirant for approximately $236 million, including
      acquisition costs. The acquisition of Mirant's 49% interest provides PPL
      Global with complete ownership of WPD.

Prior to the acquisition, PPL Global held 51% of the equity interest in
      WPD but shared control with Mirant pursuant to a shareholders' agreement.
      The shareholders' agreement was terminated in connection with the closing
      of the acquisition. No regulatory approvals were required for this transaction.

The purchase of Mirant's interest in WPD was accounted for as a step-acquisition
      and resulted in the consolidation of WPD's accounts by PPL and PPL Energy
      Supply.

The assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at estimated
      fair value as determined by management based on information available at
      the time of acquisition. As of October 1, 2003, management completed
      its review and determination of the fair values assigned to assets acquired
      and liabilities assumed. The fair value of PP&E, based on an independent
      appraisal, was approximately $800 million lower than the preliminary valuation.
      Accordingly, PP&E was reduced, with offsetting increases in goodwill
      and reductions in deferred income taxes.

The following table summarizes the final allocation of purchase price based
      on fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date
      of acquisition, plus the book value of assets and liabilities underlying
      PPL Global's previous 51% equity ownership:

(a)

Includes the reversal of PPL Global's
            equity investment.

The goodwill reflected above includes the remaining value of PPL Global's
      51% share of the goodwill recognized by WPD on its acquisition of Hyder,
      in addition to the $568 million of non-deductible goodwill arising upon
      acquisition of Mirant's 49% interest.

The PPL income statements for 2003 and 2002 include consolidated WPD results
      for the twelve-month periods ended November 30, 2003 and 2002. This reflects
      PPL Global's policy of recording the results of foreign controlled subsidiaries
      on a one-month lag. The portion of earnings attributable to Mirant, $73
      million for the year ended December 31, 2002, is reported on the Statement
      of Income in "Minority Interest."

TransEmel

Emel acquired the remaining 40% interest in a provider of transmission
      service to northern Chile in July 2003 at a net cost of $3 million, bringing
      its total ownership interest in TransEmel to 100%. As a result of this acquisition,
      the operating results of TransEmel have been consolidated from the beginning
      of the year. The portion of earnings attributable to the minority shareholder
      is reported on the Statement of Income in "Minority Interest."

Write-down of International Energy Projects

CEMAR

In 2001, PPL Global estimated that the long-term viability of its CEMAR
      investment was jeopardized and that there was minimal probability of positive
      future cash flows. At that time, PPL Global recorded an impairment loss
      of $217 million in the carrying value of its net assets in CEMAR, including
      a $179 million charge to "Write-down of international energy projects,"
      a component of "Other charges" on the Statement of Income. In March 2002,
      PPL Global recorded a further impairment loss of $6 million, which was also
      charged to "Write-down of international energy projects." In June 2002,
      PPL made a decision to exit the investment. At that time, PPL Global's remaining
      portion of its CEMAR investment, which related to foreign currency translation
      adjustments (CTA), was written-off. The $94 million charge was recorded
      in "Write-down of international energy projects." Accounting guidance prohibited
      the inclusion of CTA in impairment calculations prior to designating such
      assets as held for disposal.

On August 21, 2002, ANEEL authorized an administrative intervention in
      CEMAR and fully assumed operational and financial control of the company.
      In its public announcement relating to the intervention, ANEEL said that
      its intervention and control of CEMAR would last for an initial term of
      180 days and that it could be extended.

The intervenor appointed by ANEEL issued a public statement and schedule
      for the transfer of the ownership interest in CEMAR to a new owner. Although
      the schedule announced by the intervenor reflected a closing for the transfer
      of control of CEMAR to a third party on December 20, 2002, the closing did
      not occur. The deadline for the sale process was extended to February 17,
      2003, the same day the initial term of the intervention was scheduled to
      end. No conforming bids were submitted to ANEEL by the February 17 deadline
      due to three outstanding injunctions preventing the sale process from continuing.
      ANEEL publicly announced a 180-day extension of the initial intervention
      on February 14, citing the continuing unresolved financial crisis of CEMAR
      as the primary reason for the extension. As of February 11, 2003, due to
      the inability to discharge their obligations under the continuing intervention,
      PPL-related officers and directors of CEMAR resigned from their respective
      positions.

In April 2003, PPL learned that the Brazilian Federal Appellate Court hearing
      the appeal of one of the above-mentioned injunctions accepted ANEEL's arguments
      and cancelled the injunction. In June, ANEEL's officials indicated to PPL
      that the other two injunctions outstanding against the sale process had
      been lifted as well. The intervenor appointed by ANEEL issued a public statement
      and revised schedule for the transfer of the ownership interest in CEMAR
      to a new owner. In July, ANEEL pre-qualified a Brazilian private equity
      fund, GP Investimentos (GP), as the sole qualified bidder. However, on August
      12, ANEEL announced that it could not proceed with GP's offer because, among
      other reasons, it was unacceptable to CEMAR's creditors. On August 16, ANEEL
      extended the intervention for up to an additional 180 days. On September
      4, ANEEL published a revised schedule for the sale of CEMAR to a third party
      by the end of 2003. On December 16, 2003, a federal judge enjoined the sale
      process to allow another party (MT Baker) 30 days to submit a bid for CEMAR.
      However, GP was the only party that submitted a bid by the revised deadline.
      On February 3, 2004, ANEEL announced that it had accepted the bid of GP.
      Before assuming control of CEMAR, GP must complete negotiations with CEMAR's
      creditors and other third parties. ANEEL has extended the closing date for
      the sale of CEMAR to GP to March 30, 2004. At this time, PPL Global cannot
      predict when or if GP will complete these negotiations and assume control
      of CEMAR.

PPL Global no longer controls or manages CEMAR, and PPL Global has deconsolidated
      the financial assets and liabilities of CEMAR from its financial statements.
      Consistent with the cost method of accounting, PPL Global is no longer recording
      CEMAR's operating results.

At December 31, 2003, the negative investment in CEMAR of $18 million was
      included in "Deferred Credits and Other Noncurrent Liabilities - Other."
      Any negative carrying value will be reversed upon the final sale or other
      disposition of the company.

WPD/Teesside

WPD has an equity interest in Teesside Power Limited (Teesside), the owner
      of the 1,875 MW Teesside Power Station, located in northeast England. Through
      its European affiliates, Enron was an owner, operator and power purchaser
      of the station's output. As a result of Enron being placed into receivership
      in the U.K. and its default on obligations under the power purchase agreements,
      in 2001, WPD wrote off its entire equity investment in Teesside. PPL Global's
      share of the impairment loss was $21 million and is included in "Write-down
      of international energy projects" on the Statement of Income.

In connection with the Enron bankruptcy and the probable resulting loss
      of Teesside cash flows, PPL and its subsidiaries evaluated the carrying
      value of WPD. Fair value, measured using discounted cash flows, was compared
      to the carrying value to determine whether impairment existed at December
      31, 2001. Fair value was determined considering the loss of the value of
      the future cash flows from the Teesside Power Station and a forecasted reduction
      in future operating cash flows at WPD. The probability-weighted impairment
      loss was $117 million, after-tax. The pre-tax charge was $134 million, and
      was recorded as a charge to "Write-down of international energy projects."

In 2002, PPL Global recognized an $8 million tax benefit on the worthlessness
      of WPD's investment in Teesside.

Other

In 2002, PPL Global evaluated certain investments for impairment and recorded
      a $5 million impairment charge in connection with its investment in CGE,
      a $4 million impairment of a corporate joint venture's investment in Brazil,
      and a $4 million write-down of certain non-electrical assets in Bolivia.

Discontinued Operations

In December 2003, PPL Global's Board of Managers authorized PPL Global
      to sell its investment in a Latin American telecommunications company, and
      approved a plan of sale. It was determined that the viability of this non-strategic
      business was uneconomical. PPL Global believes a sale is probable within
      one year.

As a result, PPL Global recorded a write-down in the carrying value of
      the company's net assets to their estimated fair value of approximately
      $1 million. This write-down, totaling approximately $18 million, as well
      as operating results of the Latin American telecommunications company, which
      was a loss of approximately $2 million for 2003, are reflected as "Loss
      from Discontinued Operations" on the Statement of Income. The results of
      operations have been classified as discontinued operations for all periods
      presented. The assets and liabilities of the discontinued operation totaled
      $5 million and $4 million at December 31, 2003, and are included in "Current
      Assets - Other" and "Current Liabilities - Other" on the Balance Sheet.
      Balance Sheet amounts have not been reclassified at December 31, 2002.

Sales of Property

In the second quarter of 2003, a subsidiary of WPD sold certain Hyder properties.
      PPL Global received approximately $17 million from the sales, and recorded
      a pre-tax gain of about $2 million. This gain is included in "Other Income
      - net" on the Statement of Income.

Other

(PPL)

In April 2003, a subsidiary of PPL Telcom acquired the fiber optic network
      of a Fairfax, Virginia-based company for approximately $21 million, consisting
      of $9 million in cash and a $12 million capital lease obligation for the
      right to use portions of a fiber optic network. The 1,330-route-mile metropolitan
      area fiber network connects New York, northern New Jersey, Philadelphia,
      Baltimore and Washington, D.C. The acquisition required certain regulatory
      approvals and authorizations in the area served by the network.

Leases

Colstrip Generating Plant

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Montana)

PPL Montana leases a 50% interest in Colstrip Units 1 and 2 and a 30% interest
      in Unit 3, under four 36-year non-cancelable operating leases. These leases
      provide two renewal options based on the economic useful life of the generation
      assets. PPL Montana is required to pay all expenses associated with the
      operations of the generation units. The leases place certain restrictions
      on PPL Montana's ability to incur additional debt, sell assets and declare
      dividends and require PPL Montana to maintain certain financial ratios related
      to cash flow and net worth. The amount outstanding under these leases at
      December 31, 2003 was $295 million. There are no residual value guarantees
      in these leases. However, upon an event of default or an event of loss,
      the lessee could be required to pay a termination value of amounts sufficient
      to allow the lessor to repay amounts owing on the lessor notes and make
      the lessor whole for its equity investment and anticipated return on investment.
      The events of default include payment defaults, breaches of representations
      or covenants, acceleration of other indebtedness of PPL Montana, change
      in control of PPL Montana and certain bankruptcy events. The termination
      value is estimated to be $583 million at December 31, 2003.

Other Leases

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL Montana)

In addition to the leasing arrangements discussed above, PPL and its subsidiaries
      also have leases for vehicles, office space, land, buildings, personal computers
      and other equipment. Rental expense for all operating leases was as follows:

Total future minimum rental payments for all operating leases are estimated
      as follows:

(PPL)

In connection with the acquisition of the fiber optic network discussed
      in Note 9, a subsidiary of PPL Telcom assumed a $12 million capital lease
      obligation through 2020 for the right to use portions of the fiber optic
      network. Total future minimum rental payments for this capital lease are
      estimated at $1 million for each of the years from 2004 through 2008, and
      $15 million thereafter.

(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)

See Note 22 for discussion of synthetic leases.

Stock-Based Compensation

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL Montana)

Under the PPL Incentive Compensation Plan (ICP) and the Incentive Compensation
      Plan for Key Employees (ICPKE) (together, the "Plans"), restricted shares
      of PPL common stock, restricted stock units and stock options may be granted
      to officers and other key employees of PPL, PPL Electric and other affiliated
      companies. Awards under the Plans are made by the Compensation and Corporate
      Governance Committee (CCGC) of the PPL Board of Directors, in the case of
      the ICP, and by the PPL Corporate Leadership Council (CLC), in the case
      of the ICPKE. The ICP limits the total number of awards that may be granted
      under it after April 23, 1999 to 7,884,715 awards, or 5% of the total shares
      of common stock that were outstanding at April 23, 1999. The ICPKE limits
      the total number of awards that may be granted under it after April 25,
      2003, to 8,286,804 awards, or 5% of the total shares of common stock that
      were outstanding at January 1, 2003, reduced by outstanding awards for which
      common stock was not yet issued as of April 25, 2003. In addition, each
      Plan limits the number of shares available for awards in any calendar year
      to 2% of the outstanding common stock of PPL on the first day of such calendar
      year. The maximum number of options that can be awarded under each Plan
      to any single eligible employee in any calendar year is 1.5 million shares.
      Any portion of these options that has not been granted may be carried over
      and used in any subsequent year. If any award lapses, is forfeited or the
      rights of the participant terminate, the shares of common stock underlying
      such an award are again available for grant. Shares delivered under the
      Plans may be in the form of authorized and unissued common stock, common
      stock held in treasury by PPL or common stock purchased on the open market
      (including private purchases) in accordance with applicable securities laws.

Restricted Stock

Restricted shares of PPL common stock are outstanding shares with full
      voting and dividend rights. Restricted stock awards are subject to a restriction
      or vesting period as determined by the CCGC in the case of the ICP, and
      the CLC in the case of the ICPKE. In addition, the shares are subject to
      forfeiture or accelerated payout under Plan provisions for termination,
      retirement, disability and death of employees. Restricted shares vest fully
      if control of PPL changes, as defined by the plans.

Restricted Stock Units

In 2003, the Plans were amended to allow for the grant of restricted stock
      units. Restricted stock units are awards based on the fair market value
      of PPL common stock. Actual PPL common shares will be issued upon completion
      of a restriction or vesting period as determined by the CCGC in the case
      of the ICP, and the CLC in the case of the ICPKE. Recipients of restricted
      stock units may also be granted the right to receive dividend equivalents
      through the end of the restriction period or until the award is forfeited.
      Restricted stock units are subject to forfeiture or accelerated payout under
      the Plan provisions for termination, retirement, disability and death of
      employees. Restricted stock units vest fully if control of PPL changes,
      as defined by the Plans.

A summary of restricted stock/unit grants follows:

Compensation expense related to restricted stock and restricted stock unit
      awards was $5 million, $5 million and $6 million for PPL for 2003, 2002
      and 2001. At December 31, 2003, there were 491,014 restricted shares and
      135,078 restricted units outstanding. These awards currently vest from three
      to 25 years from the date of grant.

Compensation expense related to restricted stock/unit awards for PPL Energy
      Supply in 2003, 2002 and 2001 was $4 million, $4 million and $5 million.
      Compensation expense related to restricted stock/unit awards for PPL Electric
      was $1 million for 2003, 2002 and 2001. Such compensation expense for PPL
      Montana was insignificant for all periods reported.

Stock Options

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL Montana)

Under the Plans, stock options may also be granted with an option exercise
      price per share not less than the fair market value of PPL's common stock
      on the date of grant. The options are exercisable beginning one year after
      the date of grant, assuming the individual is still employed by PPL or a
      subsidiary, in installments as determined by the CCGC in the case of the
      ICP, and the CLC in the case of the ICPKE. Options outstanding at December
      31, 2003 vest over a three-year period from the date of grant in equal installments.
      The CCGC and CLC have discretion to accelerate the exercisability of the
      options. All options expire no later than ten years from the grant date.
      The options become exercisable immediately if control of PPL changes, as
      defined by the Plans.

A summary of stock option activity follows:

The estimated fair value of each option granted was calculated using a
      Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The weighted average assumptions used
      in the model were as follows:

The following table summarizes information about stock options at December
      31, 2003:

PPL

Total options outstanding had a weighted-average remaining life of 7.6
      years at December 31, 2003.

PPL Energy Supply

Total options outstanding had a weighted-average remaining life of 7.1
      years at December 31, 2003.

PPL Electric

Total options outstanding had a weighted-average remaining life of 7.9
      years at December 31, 2003.

PPL Montana

Total options outstanding had a weighted-average remaining life of 8.0
      years at December 31, 2003.

Director Stock Units

(PPL)

Under the Directors Deferred Compensation Plan, stock units are used to
      compensate members of PPL's Board of Directors who are not employees of
      PPL. Such stock units represent shares of PPL's common stock to which board
      members are entitled after they cease serving as a member of the Board of
      Directors. Board members are also entitled to defer any or all of their
      cash compensation into stock units. The stock unit accounts of each board
      member are increased based on dividends paid or other distributions on PPL's
      common stock. There were 77,428 stock units outstanding at December 31,
      2003. Compensation expense for all periods reported was insignificant.

Stock Appreciation Rights

(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)

WPD uses stock appreciation rights to compensate senior management employees.
      Stock appreciation rights are granted with a reference price to PPL's common
      stock at the date of grant. These awards vest over a three-year period and
      have a 10-year term, during which time employees are entitled to receive
      a cash payment of any appreciation in the price of PPL's common stock over
      the grant date value. At December 31, 2003, there were 70,815 stock appreciation
      rights outstanding. Compensation expense for all periods reported was insignificant.

Method of Accounting

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL Montana)

Effective January 1, 2003, PPL and its subsidiaries adopted the fair value
      method of accounting for stock-based compensation, as prescribed by SFAS
      123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," using the prospective method
      of transition permitted by SFAS 148, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
      - Transition and Disclosure, an amendment of FASB Statement No. 123." Prior
      to 2003, PPL applied the intrinsic value method, permitted under SFAS 123
      and defined in APB Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees"
      and related interpretations. See Note 1 for additional information related
      to the adoption of the fair value method.

Retirement and Postemployment Benefits

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL Montana)

Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits

PPL and certain of its subsidiaries sponsor various pension and other postretirement
      and postemployment benefit plans. PPL follows the guidance of SFAS 87, "Employers'
      Accounting for Pensions," and SFAS 106, "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement
      Benefits Other Than Pensions," when accounting for these benefits.

PPL and certain of its subsidiaries also provide supplemental retirement
      benefits to directors, executives and other key management employees through
      unfunded nonqualified retirement plans.

The majority of employees of PPL's domestic subsidiaries will become eligible
      for certain health care and life insurance benefits upon retirement through
      contributory plans. Postretirement benefits under the PPL Retiree Health
      Plans (covering retirees of PPL Electric and various other affiliated PPL
      companies) and the North Penn Gas Plans are paid from funded VEBA trusts
      sponsored by the respective companies.

At December 31, 2003, PPL Electric had a regulatory asset of $5 million
      relating to postretirement benefits that is being amortized and recovered
      in rates, with a remaining life of nine years. PPL Electric also maintains
      an additional liability for the cost of health care of retired miners of
      former subsidiaries that had been engaged in coal mining. At December 31,
      2003, the liability was $28 million. The liability is the net of $57 million
      of estimated future benefit payments offset by $29 million of available
      assets in a PPL Electric-funded VEBA trust.

PPL Energy Supply subsidiaries engaged in the mechanical contracting business
      make contributions to various multi-employer pension and health and welfare
      plans, depending on an employee's status. Contributions of $23 million,
      $30 million and $21 million were made in 2003, 2002 and 2001. The change
      in contributions from year to year is primarily the result of the changes
      in the workforce at the mechanical contracting companies. The contribution
      rates have also increased from year to year.

In the third quarter of 2002, PPL Global acquired complete ownership of
      WPD. Included in the fully consolidated financial results of PPL Energy
      Supply for 2003 and 2002 is the impact of the various pension plans WPD
      sponsors in the U.K.

The following disclosures distinguish between PPL's domestic and international
      pension plans.

PPL uses a December 31 measurement date for its domestic pension and other
      postretirement benefit plans and its international pension plans.

Net pension and other postretirement benefit costs (credits) were as follows:

Net periodic pension cost charged (credited) to operating expense, excluding
      amounts charged to construction and other non-expense accounts, were:

(a)

The domestic amounts for 2003 and
            2002 exclude the $9 million and $62 million cost of special termination
            benefits, which are included separately on the Statement of Income,
            within the "Workforce reduction" charge for those years.

(b)

In addition to the specific plans
            sponsored by PPL Energy Supply, PPL Generation subsidiaries and PPL
            EnergyPlus are also allocated a portion of the costs of pension plans
            sponsored by PPL Services, included in the PPL total cost above, based
            on their participation in those plans.

(c)

PPL Electric is also allocated a portion
            of the costs of pension plans sponsored by PPL Services, included
            in the PPL total cost above, based on participation in those plans.

In 2001, PPL changed its method of amortizing unrecognized gains or losses
      in the annual pension expense or income determined under SFAS 87, "Employers'
      Accounting for Pensions" for its primary domestic pension plan. Under the
      old method, the net unrecognized gains or losses in excess of 10% of the
      greater of the plan's projected benefit obligation or the market-related
      value of plan assets were amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated
      average future service period of plan participants. Market-related value
      of assets is calculated by rolling forward the prior year market-related
      value with contributions, disbursements and expected return on investments.
      This expected value is then compared to the actual fair value of assets.
      One fifth of the difference between the actual value of assets and the expected
      value is added (or subtracted if negative) to the expected value to arrive
      at the new market-related value.

Under the new method, a second corridor is utilized for the net unrecognized
      gains or losses in excess of 30% of the plan's projected benefit obligation.
      The net unrecognized gains or losses outside the second corridor are now
      amortized on a straight-line basis over a period equal to one-half of the
      average future service period of the plan participants. The new method is
      preferable under SFAS 87 because it provides more current recognition of
      gains and losses, thereby lessening the accumulation of unrecognized gains
      and losses.

The pro forma effect of retroactive application of this change in accounting
      principle would have been:

The international plans adopted the double corridor approach when PPL gained
      control of WPD. This had no effect on prior figures.

Other post retirement benefit costs charged to operating expense, excluding
      amounts charged to construction and other non-expense accounts, were:

(a)

In addition to the specific plans
            sponsored by PPL Energy Supply, PPL Generation subsidiaries and PPL
            EnergyPlus are also allocated a portion of the costs of other postretirement
            benefit plans sponsored by PPL Services, included in the PPL total
            cost above, based on their participation in those plans.

(b)

PPL Electric is also allocated a portion
            of the costs of other postretirement benefit plans sponsored by PPL
            Services, included in the PPL total cost above, based on participation
            in those plans.

The following assumptions were used in the valuation of the benefit obligations
      at December 31 and determination of net periodic benefit cost for the years
      ended December 31:

PPL

PPL Energy Supply

PPL Montana

PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Montana

A one-percentage point change in the assumed health care costs trend assumption
      would have the following effects in 2003:

The expected long-term rate of return for PPL's domestic pension plans
      considers the plans' historical experience, but is primarily based on the
      plans' mix of assets and expectations for long-term returns of those asset
      classes.

(PPL)

The expected long-term rate of return for PPL's other postretirement benefit
      plans is based on the VEBA trusts' mix of assets and expectations
      for long-term returns of those asset classes considering that a portion
      of those assets are taxable.

(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)

The expected rate of return for PPL's international pension plans considers
      that a portfolio largely invested in equities would be expected to achieve
      an average rate of return in excess of a portfolio largely invested in long-term
      bonds. The historical experience has been an excess return of 2% to 4% per
      annum on average over the return on long-term bonds.

(PPL)

The funded status of the PPL plans was as follows:

Information for pension plans with projected and accumulated benefit obligations
      in excess of plan assets follows:

Information for pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess
      of plan assets follows:

Information for other postretirement benefit plans with accumulated postretirement
      benefit obligations in excess of plan assets follows:

(PPL Energy Supply)

The funded status of the PPL Energy Supply plans was as follows:

Information for pension plans with projected and accumulated benefit obligations
      in excess of plan assets follows:

Information for other postretirement benefit plans with accumulated postretirement
      benefit obligations in excess of plan assets follows:

In addition to the plans sponsored by PPL Energy Supply, PPL Generation
      subsidiaries and PPL EnergyPlus are allocated a portion of the liabilities
      and costs of the pension and other postretirement benefit plans sponsored
      by PPL Services based on their participation in those plans. The pension
      liabilities assumed by PPL Energy Supply for these plans total $55 million
      and $58 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002. The prepaid other postretirement
      benefit costs assumed by PPL Energy Supply for these plans total $1 million
      at December 31, 2003. The other postretirement benefit liabilities assumed
      by PPL Energy Supply for these plans totaled $3 million at December 31,
      2002.

(PPL Montana)

The funded status of the PPL Montana plans was as follows:

Information for pension plans with projected and accumulated benefit obligations
      in excess of plan assets follows:

Information for other postretirement benefit plans with accumulated postretirement
      benefit obligations in excess of plan assets follows:

(PPL Electric)

Although PPL Electric does not directly sponsor any pension or other postretirement
      benefit plans, PPL Electric is allocated a portion of the liabilities and
      costs of plans sponsored by PPL Services based on participation in those
      plans. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, the recorded balance of PPL Electric's
      allocated share of the total pension liability was $74 million and $71 million.
      At December 31, 2003, the balance in PPL Electric's allocated share of the
      total prepaid other postretirement benefit cost was $2 million. At December
      31, 2002, the balance in PPL Electric's allocated share of the total other
      postretirement benefit liability was $1 million.

Plan Assets - Domestic Pension Plans

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply
      and PPL Montana)

The asset allocation for the PPL Retirement Plan Master Trust and the target
      allocation, by asset category, are detailed below.

The domestic pension plan assets are managed by outside investment managers
      and are rebalanced as necessary to maintain the target asset allocation
      ranges. PPL's investment strategy with respect to the domestic pension assets
      is to achieve a satisfactory risk adjusted return on assets that, in combination
      with PPL's funding policy and tolerance for return volatility, will ensure
      that sufficient dollars are available to provide benefit payments.

Plan Assets - Domestic Other Postretirement Benefit Plans

(PPL)

The asset allocation for the PPL other postretirement benefit plans by
      asset category, are detailed below.

PPL's investment strategy with respect to its other postretirement benefit
      obligations is to fund the VEBA trusts with voluntary contributions and
      to invest in a tax efficient manner utilizing a prudent mix of assets. Based
      on the current VEBA and postretirement plan structure, a targeted asset
      allocation range of 50% to 60% equity and 40% to 50% debt is maintained.

Plan Assets - International Pension Plans

(PPL and PPL Energy
      Supply)

WPD operates three defined benefit plans, the WPD Group segment of the
      Electricity Supply Pension Scheme (ESPS), the Western Power Utilities Pension
      Scheme (WPUPS), and the Infralec 1992 Scheme (Infralec). The assets of all
      three schemes are held separately from those of WPD in trustee-administered
      funds.

PPL's international pension plan asset allocation and target allocation
      are detailed below.

In consultation with its investment advisor and with WPD, the group trustees
      of the WPD Group of the ESPS have drawn up a Statement of Investment Principles
      (the Statement) to comply with the requirements of U.K. legislation.

The group trustees' primary investment objective is to maximize investment
      returns within the constraint of avoiding excessive volatility in the funding
      position.

Expected Cash Flows - Domestic Pension Plans

(PPL)

There are no contributions required for PPL's primary domestic pension
      plan or any of PPL's other domestic subsidiary pension plans. However, PPL
      subsidiaries expect to contribute approximately $9 million to their pension
      plans in 2004 to ensure future compliance with minimum funding requirements.

PPL sponsors various non-qualified supplemental pension plans for which
      no assets are segregated from corporate assets. PPL expects to make approximately
      $2 million of benefit payments under these plans in 2004.

(PPL Energy Supply and PPL Montana)

There are no contributions required for the PPL Montana pension plan. However,
      PPL Montana expects to contribute approximately $7 million to the plan in
      2004 to ensure future compliance with minimum funding requirements.

Expected Cash Flows - Domestic Other Postretirement Benefit Plans

(PPL)

PPL is not required to make contributions to its other postretirement benefit
      plans, but has historically funded these plans in amounts equal to the postretirement
      benefit costs recognized. Continuation of this past practice would provide
      for PPL to contribute $35 million to its other postretirement benefit plans
      in 2004.

Expected Cash Flows - International Pension Plans

(PPL and PPL
      Energy Supply)

The pension plans of WPD are subject to formal actuarial valuations every
      three years, which are used to determine funding requirements. WPD expects
      to make contributions of approximately $3 million in 2004. Future contributions
      will be evaluated in accordance with these formal actuarial valuations,
      the next of which will be performed as of March 31, 2004 in respect of WPD's
      principal pension scheme, the ESPS, to determine contribution requirements
      for 2005 and forward.

Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL Montana)

On December 8, 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization
      Act of 2003 (the Act) was signed into law. The Act introduces a prescription
      drug benefit under Medicare and also provides for a federal subsidy to sponsors
      of retiree health care benefit plans that provide an actuarially equivalent
      level of prescription drug benefits. The subsidy would be 28% of eligible
      drug costs for retirees that are over age 65 and covered under PPL's other
      postretirement benefit plans.

The impact of the Act on the provisions of SFAS 106 has yet to be determined
      by the FASB. PPL has elected to defer recognition of the potential impact
      of the Act, as allowed under FSP FAS 106-1, "Accounting and Disclosure Requirements
      Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization
      Act of 2003," which was issued by the FASB in January 2004. Thus, the measures
      of PPL's accumulated postretirement benefit obligations and net postretirement
      benefit costs in the financial statements and accompanying notes do not
      reflect the effects of the Act. PPL could be required to change previously
      reported information upon issuance of final accounting guidance related
      to the Act, as PPL's other postretirement benefit plans provide prescription
      drug coverage to retirees that may be eligible for the federal subsidy.

Savings Plans

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL Montana)

Substantially all employees of PPL's domestic subsidiaries are eligible
      to participate in deferred savings plans (401(k)s). Contributions to the
      plans charged to operating expense approximated the following:

Employee Stock Ownership Plan

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL
      Electric)

PPL sponsors a non-leveraged ESOP, in which substantially all employees,
      excluding those of PPL Global, PPL Montana, PPL Gas Utilities and the mechanical
      contractors, are enrolled after one year of credited service. Dividends
      paid on ESOP shares are treated as ordinary dividends by PPL. Under existing
      income tax laws, PPL is permitted to deduct the amount of those dividends
      for income tax purposes and to contribute the resulting tax savings (dividend-based
      contribution) to the ESOP.

The dividend-based contribution is used to buy shares of PPL's common stock
      and is expressly conditioned upon the deductibility of the contribution
      for federal income tax purposes. Contributions to the ESOP are allocated
      to eligible participants' accounts as of the end of each year, based 75%
      on shares held in existing participants' accounts and 25% on the eligible
      participants' compensation.

Amounts charged as compensation expense for ESOP contributions approximated
      $5 million in each of 2003 and 2002 and $4 million in 2001. These amounts
      were offset by the dividend-based contribution tax savings and had no impact
      on PPL's earnings.

ESOP shares outstanding at December 31, 2003 totaled 4,841,488, or 3% of
      total common shares outstanding, and are included in all EPS calculations.

Postemployment Benefits

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Electric)

Certain PPL subsidiaries provide health and life insurance benefits to
      disabled employees and income benefits to eligible spouses of deceased employees.
      Postemployment benefits charged to operating expenses were not significant
      in 2003, 2002 or 2001.

(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)

Certain of PPL Global subsidiaries, including Emel, EC, Elfec and Integra,
      provide limited non-pension benefits to all current employees. All active
      employees are entitled to benefits in the event of termination or retirement
      in accordance with government-sponsored programs. These plans generally
      obligate a company to pay one month's salary per year of service to employees
      in the event of involuntary termination. Under certain plans, employees
      with five or more years of service are entitled to this payment in the event
      of voluntary or involuntary termination. There is no limit on the number
      of years of service in the calculation of the benefit obligation.

The liabilities for these plans are accounted for under the guidance of
      EITF 88-1 "Determination of Vested Benefit Obligation for a Defined Benefit
      Pension Plan" using, what is commonly referred to as, the "shut down" method,
      where a company records the undiscounted obligation as if it were payable
      at each balance sheet date. The combined liabilities for these plans at
      December 31, 2003 and 2002 were $8 million and $6 million, and are recorded
      in "Deferred Credits and Noncurrent Liabilities - Other" on the Balance
      Sheet.

Jointly-Owned Facilities

(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)

At December 31, 2003, subsidiaries of PPL and PPL Energy Supply owned undivided
      interests in the facilities listed below. The Balance Sheets of PPL and
      PPL Energy Supply include the amounts noted in the table below:

Each PPL Generation subsidiary provided its own funding for its share of
      the facility. Each receives a portion of the total output of the generating
      stations equal to its percentage ownership. The share of fuel and other
      operating costs associated with the stations is reflected on the Statement
      of Income.

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Montana)

PPL Montana is the operator of the jointly-owned, coal-fired generating
      units comprising the Colstrip steam generation facility. At December 31,
      2003 and 2002, PPL Montana had a 50% undivided leasehold interest in Colstrip
      Units 1 and 2 and a 30% undivided leasehold interest in Colstrip Unit 3
      under operating leases. See Note 10 for additional information.

PPL Montana's share of direct expenses associated with the operation and
      maintenance of these facilities is included in the corresponding operating
      expenses on the Statement of Income. Each joint-owner in these facilities
      provides its own financing. As operator of all Colstrip Units, PPL Montana
      invoices each joint-owner for their respective portion of the direct expenses.
      The amount due from joint-owners was approximately $9 million and $8 million
      at December 31, 2003 and 2002.

At December 31, 2003, Montana Power continued to own a 30% leasehold interest
      in Colstrip Unit 4. As part of the purchase of generation assets from Montana
      Power, PPL Montana and Montana Power entered into a reciprocal sharing agreement
      to govern each party's responsibilities regarding the operation of Colstrip
      Units 3 and 4, and each party is responsible for 15% of the respective operating
      and construction costs, regardless of whether a particular cost is specified
      to Colstrip Unit 3 or 4. However, each party is responsible for its own
      fuel-related costs.

Commitments and Contingent Liabilities

Energy Purchases and Sales Commitments

Liability for Above Market NUG Contracts

(PPL, PPL Energy
      Supply and PPL Electric)

In 1998, PPL Electric recorded a loss accrual for above market contracts
      with NUGs of $854 million, due to its generation business being deregulated.
      Effective January 1999, PPL Electric began reducing this liability as an
      offset to "Energy purchases" on the Statement of Income. This reduction
      is based on the estimated timing of the purchases from the NUGs and projected
      market prices for this generation. The final existing NUG contract expires
      in 2014. In connection with the corporate realignment in 2000, the remaining
      balance of this liability was transferred to PPL EnergyPlus. At December
      31, 2003, the remaining liability associated with the above market NUG contracts
      was $352 million.

Wholesale Energy Commitments

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Montana)

As part of the purchase of generation assets from Montana Power, PPL Montana
      assumed a power purchase agreement and a power sales agreement (for the
      Flathead Irrigation Project), which were still in effect at December 31,
      2003. In accordance with purchase accounting guidelines, PPL Montana recorded
      liabilities of $66 million as the estimated fair value of these agreements
      at the acquisition date. These liabilities are being reduced over the terms
      of the agreements, through 2010, as adjustments to "Wholesale energy marketing"
      revenues and "Energy purchases" on the Statement of Income. The unamortized
      balance of the liability related to the power purchase agreement at December
      31, 2003 was $57 million and is included in "Wholesale energy commitments"
      on the Balance Sheet.

On July 1, 2002, PPL EnergyPlus began to sell to NorthWestern an aggregate
      of 450 MW of energy to be supplied by PPL Montana. Under two five-year agreements,
      PPL EnergyPlus is supplying 300 MW of around-the-clock electricity and 150
      MW of unit-contingent on-peak electricity. PPL Montana also makes short-term
      energy sales to NorthWestern. Following NorthWestern's credit downgrades
      to below investment grade in late-2002, PPL Montana and NorthWestern agreed
      to modify the payment provisions of the energy contracts such that NorthWestern
      would pay PPL Montana on a weekly basis, in arrears.

In September 2003, NorthWestern filed a voluntary petition for relief seeking
      to reorganize under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. NorthWestern
      made its filing in federal bankruptcy court in Delaware. Between the time
      of NorthWestern's last weekly payment and the bankruptcy filing date, PPL
      Montana made approximately $1.6 million of energy sales to NorthWestern.

Following the date that NorthWestern filed for bankruptcy, PPL Montana
      and NorthWestern agreed to amend the power supply agreements to, among other
      things, eliminate the weekly payment arrangements and resume more typical
      monthly invoicing and payment arrangements. The amendments were contingent
      on NorthWestern's assumption of the power supply agreements in its bankruptcy
      proceeding.

In September 2003, NorthWestern filed a motion with the bankruptcy court
      seeking, among other things, to assume the two five-year power supply agreements
      (as amended) and to pay PPL Montana for the approximately $1.6 million of
      energy sales made immediately prior to the time of the bankruptcy filing.
      In October 2003, the bankruptcy court entered an order granting NorthWestern's
      motion. NorthWestern has, in accordance with the terms of the judge's order,
      paid PPL Montana for the pre-filing energy sales, and the parties have resumed
      monthly invoicing and payment arrangements.

(PPL Montana)

In June 2003, the FASB issued DIG Issue C20, "Scope Exceptions: Interpretation
      of the Meaning of Not Clearly and Closely Related in Paragraph 10(b) Regarding
      Contracts with a Price Adjustment Feature," which became effective October
      1, 2003. DIG Issue C20 clarified that prior guidance did not permit the
      use of a broad market index to serve as a proxy for an ingredient or direct
      factor. Thus, DIG Issue C20 required that contracts that had been accounted
      for as normal, but were not eligible for normal treatment because they contained
      pricing linked to a broad market index, must be reflected on the balance
      sheet at their fair value, with an offsetting amount reflected in income
      as of the date of adoption. The power sales agreement referenced above for
      the Flathead Irrigation Project has a price escalator based upon the Consumer
      Price Index. Consequently, a pre-tax mark-to-market loss of $2 million was
      recognized for this contract. This represented the difference between the
      current market value of the c ontract and the liability previously recorded
      in connection with the purchase of the Montana assets. This mark-to-market
      loss was recorded as a "Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle"
      on the Statement of Income of PPL Montana.

(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)

As a result of New Jersey's Electric Discount and Energy Competition Act,
      its Board of Public Utilities authorized and made available to power suppliers,
      on a competitive basis, the opportunity to provide Basic Generation Service
      (BGS) to all non-shopping New Jersey customers. In February 2003, PPL EnergyPlus
      was awarded 34-month fixed-price BGS and 10-month hourly energy price BGS
      for a fixed percentage of customer load (approximately 1,000 MW) for Atlantic
      City Electric Company, Jersey Central Power & Light Company and Public
      Service Electric & Gas Company. These contracts commenced in August
      2003.

In April 2003, PPL EnergyPlus entered into an agreement with Arizona Public
      Service Company to provide 112 MW of capacity and associated electricity
      from July through September of 2003 and 150 MW from June through September
      of 2004 and 2005.

In May 2003, PPL EnergyPlus entered into agreements with Tucson Electric
      Power Company to provide 37 MW of capacity and associated electricity from
      June through December of 2003 and 75 MW from January 2004 through December
      2006.

In May 2003, PPL EnergyPlus entered into a 20-year agreement with Community
      Energy, Inc. to purchase energy from its Bear Creek wind power project in
      northeastern Pennsylvania. The project is expected to produce up to 20 MW
      and be completed in 2004.

In September 2003, Connecticut Light and Power Company (CL&P) issued
      a request for proposals seeking energy supply for CL&P's Transitional
      Standard Offer retail customer load. In October 2003, PPL EnergyPlus was
      awarded a three-year, fixed-price contract beginning in January 2004 to
      supply 12.5% of CL&P's Transitional Standard Offer load. During peak
      hours, PPL EnergyPlus' obligation to supply CL&P's Transitional Standard
      Offer load may reach 625 MW.

Legal Matters

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL Montana)

PPL and its subsidiaries are involved in numerous legal proceedings, claims
      and litigation in the ordinary course of business. PPL and its subsidiaries
      cannot predict the ultimate outcome of such matters, or whether such matters
      may result in material liabilities.

Tax Assessment Appeals

(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)

Pursuant to changes in PURTA enacted in 1999, PPL subsidiaries have filed
      a number of tax assessment appeals in various Pennsylvania counties where
      PPL facilities are located. These appeals challenge existing local tax assessments,
      which now comprise the basis for payment of the PURTA tax on PPL's properties.
      Also, as of January 1, 2000, generation facilities are no longer taxed
      under PURTA, and these local assessments will be used directly to determine
      local real estate tax liability for PPL's power plants. In July 1999, PPL
      filed retroactive appeals for tax years 1998 and 1999, as permitted by the
      new law. In addition, PPL has filed appeals for 2000 and beyond, as permitted
      under normal assessment procedures. It is anticipated that assessment appeals
      may now be an annual occurrence.

Hearings on the pending appeals were held by the boards of assessment appeals
      in each county, and decisions have now been rendered by all counties. To
      the extent the appeals were denied or PPL was not otherwise satisfied with
      the results, PPL filed further appeals from the board decisions with the
      appropriate county Courts of Common Pleas.

Of the two pending proceedings in Pennsylvania, only the appeal concerning
      the assessed value of the Susquehanna nuclear station will result in annual
      local taxes exceeding $1 million. PPL's appeal of the Susquehanna station
      assessment was decided in its favor by the Luzerne County Court of Common
      Pleas, and PPL subsequently settled with the local taxing authorities, resulting
      in annual local tax liability of approximately $3 million for tax years
      2000 and beyond and no additional PURTA tax liability for tax years 1998
      and 1999. However, the settlement of the tax liability for tax years 1998
      and 1999 was subject to the outcome of claims asserted by certain intervenors
      which are described below.

In August 2000, over PPL's objections, the Luzerne County Court of Common
      Pleas permitted Philadelphia City and County, the Philadelphia School District
      and the Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority (SEPTA) (collectively,
      the "Philadelphia parties") to intervene in the case because a change in
      the assessment of the plant affected the amount they collected under PURTA
      for the tax years 1998 and 1999. Based on the appraisal obtained by the
      Philadelphia parties, PPL would have been required to pay up to an extra
      $213 million in PURTA taxes for 1998 and 1999. The court ruled in PPL's
      favor concerning the assessed value of the plant, and this determination
      was affirmed by the Commonwealth Court in October 2003. The Philadelphia
      parties subsequently petitioned the Commonwealth Court for reargument, and
      this request was denied. The Philadelphia parties did not seek further appellate
      review of this matter.

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Montana)

PPL Montana is currently protesting certain property tax assessments by
      the Montana Department of Revenue (MDOR) on its generation facilities. The
      tax liabilities in dispute are approximately $2 million for 2000 and 2001,
      $9 million for 2002 and $6 million for 2003. PPL Montana's dispute with
      respect to most of the 2002 and 2003 tax liability is based on the assessed
      value used by the MDOR for PPL Montana's hydroelectric facilities versus
      the assessed value used for the facilities of another hydroelectric generator
      in the state. The state tax appeals board is scheduled to hear the 2000
      and 2001 disputes in April 2004, while the hearing for the 2002 dispute
      is scheduled for May 2004. A hearing for the 2003 dispute has not yet been
      scheduled.

Montana Power Shareholders' Litigation

(PPL, PPL Energy
      Supply and PPL Montana)

In August 2001, a purported class-action lawsuit was filed by a group of
      shareholders of Montana Power against Montana Power, the directors of Montana
      Power, certain advisors and consultants of Montana Power and PPL Montana.
      The plaintiffs allege, among other things, that Montana Power was required
      to, and did not, obtain shareholder approval of the sale of Montana Power's
      generation assets to PPL Montana in 1999. Although most of the claims in
      the complaint are against Montana Power, its board of directors, and its
      consultants and advisors, two claims are asserted against PPL Montana. In
      the first claim, plaintiffs seek a declaration that because Montana Power
      shareholders did not vote on the 1999 sale of generating assets to PPL Montana,
      that sale "was null and void ab initio." The second claim alleges that PPL
      Montana was privy to and participated in a strategy whereby Montana Power
      would sell its generation assets to PPL Montana without first obtaining
      Montana Power shareholder approval, and that PPL Montana has made net profits
      in excess of $100 million as the result of this alleged illegal sale. In
      the second claim, plaintiffs request that the court impose a "resulting
      and/or constructive trust" on both the generation assets themselves and
      all profits, plus interest on the amounts subject to the trust. This lawsuit
      is currently pending in the U.S. District Court of Montana, Butte Division.
      PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Montana cannot predict the outcome of this
      matter.

NorthWestern Corporation Litigation

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply
      and PPL Montana)

In connection with the acquisition of the Montana generation assets, the
      Montana Power APA, which was previously assigned to PPL Montana by PPL Global,
      includes a provision concerning the proposed purchase by PPL Montana of
      a portion of NorthWestern's interest in the 500-kilovolt Colstrip Transmission
      System (CTS) for $97 million. During 2002, PPL Montana had been in discussions
      with NorthWestern regarding the proposed purchase of the CTS and the claims
      that PPL Montana believes it has against NorthWestern arising from the Montana
      Power APA and related agreements. Notwithstanding such discussions, in September
      2002, NorthWestern filed a lawsuit against PPL Montana in Montana state
      court seeking specific performance of PPL Montana's purchase of the CTS
      or, alternatively, damages for breach of contract. Pursuant to PPL Montana's
      application, the matter was removed to the U.S. District Court of Montana,
      Butte Division. Following removal, NorthWestern asserted additional claims
      for damages against PPL Mon tana, and PPL Montana filed defenses denying
      liability for NorthWestern's claims as well as counterclaims against NorthWestern
      seeking damages PPL Montana believes it has suffered under the Montana Power
      APA and related agreements. This matter currently is scheduled for trial
      in the Montana federal district court in mid-2005.

In September 2003, NorthWestern filed a petition in Delaware for reorganization
      under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, which has resulted in an automatic stay
      of PPL Montana's counterclaims against NorthWestern. PPL Montana has applied
      to the bankruptcy court for relief from the automatic stay. In December
      2003, NorthWestern filed a motion to transfer this litigation from the Montana
      federal district court to the federal district court in Delaware where NorthWestern's
      bankruptcy proceeding is pending. PPL Montana has opposed the motion for
      transfer, which will be decided by the Montana federal district court. NorthWestern
      and PPL Montana also have stipulated in NorthWestern's bankruptcy proceeding
      that the automatic stay of PPL Montana's counterclaims will be lifted ten
      days after the Montana federal district court rules on the transfer motion.
      PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Montana cannot predict the outcome of this
      litigation.

Montana Hydroelectric Litigation

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply and
      PPL Montana)

In October 2003, a lawsuit was filed against PPL Montana, PPL Services,
      Avista Corporation, PacifiCorp and nine John Doe defendants in the U.S.
      District Court of Montana, Missoula Division, by two residents allegedly
      acting in a representative capacity on behalf of the State of Montana. In
      January 2004, the complaint was amended to, among other things, include
      the Great Falls school districts as additional plaintiffs. The action seeks
      a declaratory judgment, compensatory damages for unjust enrichment, trespass
      and negligence, and attorneys fees on a "private attorney general" theory
      for use of state and/or "school trust" lands without the compensation required
      by law and to require defendants to adequately compensate the state and/or
      the State School Trust fund for full market value of lands occupied. Generally,
      the suit is founded on allegations that the bed of navigable rivers is state-owned
      property following admission to statehood, and that the use thereof for
      placement of dam structures, affiliate d structures and reservoirs should
      trigger lease payments for use of land underneath. The plaintiffs allege
      that the State Land Board and Department of Natural Resources and Conservation
      failed to exercise their duty to administer riverbeds for the maximum benefit
      of public education and/or the state. No specific amount of damages has
      been claimed. PPL Montana and PPL Services cannot predict the outcome of
      this litigation.

Regulatory Issues

California ISO and Western Markets

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply and
      PPL Montana)

Through its subsidiaries, PPL has made approximately $18 million of sales
      to the California ISO, of which $17 million has not been paid to PPL subsidiaries.
      Given the myriad of electricity supply problems presently faced by the California
      electric utilities and the California ISO, PPL cannot predict whether or
      when it will receive payment. As of December 31, 2003, PPL has
      fully reserved for possible underrecoveries of payments for these sales.

Regulatory proceedings arising out of the California electricity supply
      situation have been filed at the FERC. The FERC has determined that all
      sellers of energy into markets operated by the California ISO and the California
      Power Exchange, including PPL Montana, should be subject to refund liability
      for the period beginning October 2, 2000 through June 20, 2001 and initiated
      an evidentiary hearing concerning refund amounts. In April 2003, the FERC
      changed the manner in which this refund liability is to be computed and
      ordered further proceedings to determine the exact amounts that the sellers,
      including PPL Montana, would be required to refund.

In June 2003, the FERC took several actions as a result of a number of
      related investigations. The FERC terminated proceedings pursuant to which
      it had been considering whether to order refunds for spot market bilateral
      sales made in the Pacific Northwest, including sales made by PPL Montana,
      during the period December 2000 through June 2001. The FERC explained that
      the totality of the circumstances made refunds unfeasible and inequitable,
      and that it had provided adequate relief by adopting a price cap throughout
      the western U.S. The FERC also denied pending complaints against long-term
      contracts in the western U.S. In these complaints, various power buyers
      challenged selected long-term contracts that they entered into during 2000
      and 2001, complaining that the power prices were too high and reflected
      manipulation of those energy markets. The FERC found that the complainants
      had not met their burden of showing that changing or canceling the contracts
      was "in the public interest" and that the dysfunc tion in the California
      markets did not justify changing these long-term contracts. In two separate
      orders, the FERC also ordered 65 different companies, agencies or municipalities
      to show cause why they should not be ordered to disgorge profits for "gaming"
      or anomalous market behavior during 2000 and 2001. These orders to show
      cause address both unilateral and joint conduct identified as the "Enron
      trading strategies." Neither PPL EnergyPlus nor PPL Montana was included
      in these orders to show cause, and they previously have explained in responses
      to data requests from the FERC that they have not engaged in such trading
      strategies. Finally, the FERC issued a new investigation order directing
      its staff to investigate any bids made into the California markets in excess
      of $250/MWh during the period from May 2000 to October 2000, a period of
      time prior to the period examined in connection with most of the proceedings
      described above. To their knowledge, neither PPL EnergyPlus nor PPL Montana
      is being inve stigated by the FERC under this new order.

Litigation arising out of the California electricity supply situation has
      been filed in California courts against sellers of energy to the California
      ISO. The plaintiffs and intervenors in these legal proceedings allege, among
      other things, abuse of market power, manipulation of market prices, unfair
      trade practices and violations of state antitrust laws, and seek other relief,
      including treble damages and attorneys' fees. While PPL's subsidiaries have
      not been named by the plaintiffs in these legal proceedings alleging abuses
      of market power, manipulation of market prices, unfair trade practices and
      violations of state antitrust laws, PPL Montana was named by a defendant
      in its cross-complaint in a consolidated court proceeding, which combined
      into one master proceeding several of the lawsuits alleging antitrust violations
      and unfair trade practices. This generator denies that any unlawful, unfair
      or fraudulent conduct occurred but asserts that, if it is found liable,
      the other generators and power ma rketers, including PPL Montana, caused,
      contributed to and/or participated in the plaintiffs' alleged losses.

In May 2003, the Port of Seattle filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court
      for the Western District of Washington against eighteen defendants, including
      PPL Montana. The lawsuit asserts claims against all defendants under the
      federal and state antitrust laws, the federal Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
      Organizations Act and for common law fraud. The complaint centers on many
      of the same alleged activities that are the basis for the litigation arising
      out of the California electricity supply situation described above. The
      Port of Seattle is seeking actual, trebled and punitive damages, as well
      as attorneys' fees. PPL Montana and several other defendants have filed
      a motion to dismiss this complaint that has not been ruled on by the court.
      In December 2003, this matter was transferred to the U.S. District Court
      for the Southern District of California for inclusion with proceedings already
      centralized and pending in that court.

In February 2004, the Montana Public Service Commission initiated a limited
      investigation of the Montana retail electricity market for the years 2000
      and 2001, focusing on how that market was affected by transactions involving
      the possible manipulation of the electricity grid in the western U.S. The
      investigation includes all public utilities and licensed electricity suppliers
      in Montana, as well as other entities that may possess relevant information.
      Through its subsidiaries, PPL is a licensed electricity supplier in Montana
      and a wholesale supplier in the western U.S. As with the other investigations
      taking place as a result of the issues arising out of the electricity supply
      situation in California and other western states, PPL and its subsidiaries
      believe that they have not engaged in any improper trading or marketing
      practices affecting the Montana retail electricity market.

While PPL and its subsidiaries believe that they have not engaged in any
      improper trading practices, they cannot predict whether, or the extent to
      which, any PPL subsidiaries will be the target of any additional governmental
      investigations or named in other lawsuits or refund proceedings, the outcome
      of any such lawsuits or proceedings or whether the ultimate impact on them
      of the electricity supply situation in California and other western states
      will be material.

PJM Capacity Transactions

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply and
      PPL Electric)

In November 2001, the PJM Market Monitor publicly released a report prepared
      for the PUC entitled "Capacity Market Questions" relating to the pricing
      of installed capacity in the PJM daily market during the first quarter of
      2001. The report concluded that PPL EnergyPlus (identified in the report
      as "Entity 1") was able to exercise market power to raise the market-clearing
      price above the competitive level during that period. PPL EnergyPlus does
      not agree with the Market Monitor's conclusions that it exercised market
      power, and the Market Monitor acknowledged in his report that PJM's standards
      and rules did not prohibit PPL EnergyPlus' conduct. In November 2001, the
      PUC issued an Investigation Order directing its Law Bureau to conduct an
      investigation into the PJM capacity market and the allegations in the Market
      Monitor's report. In June 2002, the PUC issued an investigation report alleging,
      among other things, that PPL had unfairly manipulated electricity markets
      in early 2001. The PUC stated that i t was not authorized to, and was not
      attempting to, adjudicate the merits of PPL's defenses to its allegations,
      but referred the matter to the U.S. Department of Justice - Antitrust Division
      (DOJ), the FERC and the Pennsylvania Attorney General.

In June 2003, the DOJ notified PPL that it had closed its investigation
      in this matter. Also in June, the Pennsylvania Attorney General's office
      completed its investigation and notified the PUC that PPL did not violate
      antitrust or other laws in its capacity market activities. The FERC already
      has completed two investigations related to these capacity market questions
      and has found no reason to take action against PPL. PPL continues to believe
      that the PUC's report is inaccurate, that its conclusions are groundless,
      and that PPL acted ethically and legally, in compliance with all applicable
      laws and regulations.

In September 2002, PPL was served with a complaint filed by Utilimax.com,
      Inc., which was a member of PJM, in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern
      District of Pennsylvania against PPL and PPL EnergyPlus alleging, among
      other things, violations of the federal antitrust laws in connection with
      the capacity transactions described in the Market Monitor's report. The
      court dismissed the complaint with prejudice in July 2003, and Utilimax
      has appealed the court's dismissal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
      Third Circuit.

In December 2002, PPL was served with a complaint against PPL, PPL EnergyPlus
      and PPL Electric filed in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District
      of Pennsylvania by a group of 14 Pennsylvania boroughs that apparently alleges,
      in broad terms, similar violations of the federal antitrust laws. These
      boroughs were wholesale customers of PPL Electric. In addition, in November
      2003, PPL and PPL EnergyPlus were served with a complaint which was filed
      in the same court by Joseph Martorano, III (d/b/a ENERCO), that also alleges
      violations of the federal antitrust laws. The complaint indicates that ENERCO
      provides consulting and energy procurement services to clients in Pennsylvania
      and New Jersey. Although PPL, PPL EnergyPlus and PPL Electric believe the
      claims in these complaints are without merit, they cannot predict the outcome
      of these matters.

New England Investigation

(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)

In January 2004, PPL became aware of an investigation by the Connecticut
      Attorney General and the FERC's Office of Market Oversight and Investigation
      (OMOI) regarding allegations that natural gas-fired generators located in
      New England illegally sold natural gas instead of generating electricity
      during the week of January 12, 2004. Subsequently, PPL and other generators
      were served with a data request by OMOI. The data request indicated that
      PPL was not under suspicion of a regulatory violation but that OMOI was
      conducting an initial investigation. PPL has responded to this data request.
      While PPL does not believe that it committed any regulatory or other violations
      concerning the subject matter of the investigation, PPL cannot predict the
      outcome of the investigation.

FERC Market-Based Rate Authority

(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)

In December 1998, the FERC issued an order authorizing PPL EnergyPlus to
      make wholesale sales of electric power and related products at market-based
      rates. In that order, the FERC directed PPL EnergyPlus to file an updated
      market analysis within three years of the date of the order, and every three
      years thereafter. PPL EnergyPlus filed its initial updated market analysis
      in December 2001. Several parties thereafter filed interventions and protests
      requesting that, in light of the PJM Market Monitor's report described above,
      PPL EnergyPlus be required to provide additional information demonstrating
      that it has met the FERC's market power tests necessary for PPL EnergyPlus
      to continue its market-based rate authority. PPL EnergyPlus has responded
      that the FERC does not require the economic test suggested by the intervenors
      and that, in any event, it would meet such economic test if required by
      the FERC. PPL EnergyPlus cannot predict the outcome of this matter.

FERC Proposed Rules

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and
      PPL Montana)

In July 2002, the FERC issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking entitled
      "Remedying Undue Discrimination through Open Access Transmission Service
      and Standard Electricity Market Design." The proposed rule is currently
      available for public comment and contains a proposed implementation date
      of July 31, 2003. However, since the issuance of the proposed rule, the
      FERC has delayed the implementation date. This far-reaching proposed rule,
      in its current form, purports to establish uniform transmission rules and
      a standard market design by, among other things:

In April 2003, the FERC issued a white paper describing certain modifications
      to the proposed rule. The FERC has requested comments and is holding numerous
      public comment sessions concerning the white paper.

If adopted, this proposed rule may have a significant impact on PPL and
      its subsidiaries, which cannot be predicted at this time.

In November 2003, the FERC adopted a proposed rule to condition all new
      and existing electric market-based tariffs and authorizations to include
      provisions prohibiting the seller from engaging in anticompetitive behavior
      or the exercise of market power. The FERC order adopts a list of market
      behavior rules that apply to all electric market-based rate tariffs and
      authorizations, including those of PPL EnergyPlus and any other PPL subsidiaries
      that hold market-based rate authority. PPL does not expect this rule to
      have a significant impact on its subsidiaries.

Montana Hydroelectric License Contingencies

(PPL Montana)

PPL Montana has 11 hydroelectric facilities and one storage reservoir licensed
      by the FERC pursuant to the Federal Power Act under long-term licenses which
      expire on varying dates from 2009 through 2040. Pursuant to Section 8(e)
      of the Federal Power Act, the FERC approved the transfer from Montana Power
      to PPL Montana of all pertinent licenses and any amendments in connection
      with the Montana APA.

The Kerr Dam Project license was jointly issued by the FERC to Montana
      Power and the Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribes of the Flathead Reservation
      in 1985, and required Montana Power to hold and operate the project for
      30 years. The license required Montana Power, and subsequently PPL Montana
      as a result of the purchase of the Kerr Dam from Montana Power, to continue
      to implement a plan to mitigate the impact of the Kerr Dam on fish, wildlife
      and the habitat. Under this arrangement, PPL Montana has a remaining commitment
      to spend approximately $22 million between 2004 and 2015.

PPL Montana entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with state,
      federal and private entities related to the issuance in 2000 of the FERC
      renewal license for the nine dams for the Missouri-Madison project. The
      MOU requires PPL Montana to implement plans to mitigate the impact of its
      projects on fish, wildlife and the habitat, and to increase recreational
      opportunities. The MOU was created to maximize collaboration between the
      parties and possibilities for matching funds. Under this arrangement, PPL
      Montana has a remaining commitment to spend approximately $17 million between
      2004 and 2010.

Wallingford Deactivation

(

PPL and PPL Energy Supply)

In January 2003, PPL negotiated an agreement with the ISO - New England
      that would declare that four of the five units at PPL's Wallingford, Connecticut
      facility are "reliability must run" units and put those units under cost-based
      rates. This agreement and the cost-based rates are subject to the FERC's
      approval, and PPL filed a request with the FERC for such approval. PPL requested
      authority for cost-based rates because the current and anticipated wholesale
      prices in New England are insufficient to cover the costs of keeping these
      units available for operation. In March 2003, PPL filed an application with
      the New England Power Pool to temporarily deactivate these four units. In
      May 2003, FERC denied PPL's request for cost-based rates in light of FERC's
      changes to the market and bid mitigation rules of the ISO - New England
      made in a similar case involving generating units owned by NRG Energy, Inc.
      PPL subsequently has explained to the FERC that its changes to the market
      and bid mitigation rules of I SO - New England will not provide sufficient
      revenues to PPL, and PPL continues to seek approval of its cost-based rates.
      However, PPL has informed the New England Power Pool that it will not pursue
      its request to temporarily deactivate certain Wallingford units. In February
      2004, PPL appealed the FERC's denial of its request for cost-based rates
      to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. PPL cannot predict the
      outcome of this matter.

IRS Synthetic Fuels Tax Credits

(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)

Through one of its subsidiaries, PPL operates a synfuel facility in Somerset,
      Pennsylvania and receives tax credits pursuant to Section 29 of the Internal
      Revenue Code based on its sale of synfuel to unaffiliated

third-party
      purchasers. Section 29 of the Internal Revenue Code provides tax credits
      for the production and sale of solid synthetic fuels produced from coal.
      To qualify for the Section 29 tax credits, the synthetic fuel must meet
      three primary conditions: (i) there must be a significant chemical change
      in the coal feedstock, (ii) the product must be sold to an unaffiliated
      entity, and (iii) the production facility must have been placed in service
      before July 1, 1998. Section 29 tax credits are currently scheduled to expire
      at the end of 2007.

PPL received a private letter ruling from the IRS in November 2001 pursuant
      to which, among other things, the IRS concluded that the synthetic fuel
      produced at the Somerset facility qualifies for Section 29 tax credits.
      PPL uses the Covol technology to produce synfuel at the Somerset facility,
      and the IRS issued the private letter ruling after its review and approval
      of that technology. In reliance on this private letter ruling, PPL has sold
      synfuel produced at the Somerset facility resulting in an aggregate of approximately
      $147 million of tax credits as of December 31, 2003.

PPL has
      estimated that the Somerset facility will contribute approximately $0.13
      to its EPS in each year from 2004 through 2007. PPL also purchases synfuel
      from unaffiliated third parties, at prices below the market price of coal,
      for use at its coal-fired power plants.

In June 2003, the IRS announced that it had reason to question the scientific
      validity of certain test procedures and results that have been presented
      to it by taxpayers with interests in synfuel operations as evidence that
      the required significant chemical change has occurred, and that it was reviewing
      information regarding these test procedures and practices. In conjunction
      with such review, the IRS suspended the issuance of private letter rulings
      concerning whether a significant chemical change has occurred for requests
      relying on the procedures and results being reviewed. In addition, the IRS
      indicated that it might revoke existing private letter rulings that relied
      on the procedures and results under review if it determined that those test
      procedures and results do not demonstrate that a significant chemical change
      has occurred.

In October 2003, the IRS announced that it had completed its review of
      the scientific validity of test procedures and results presented by taxpayers
      as evidence of significant chemical change and determined that the test
      procedures and results used by taxpayers are scientifically valid, if the
      procedures are applied in a consistent and unbiased manner. Further, the
      IRS announced that it will continue to issue rulings on significant chemical
      change under applicable IRS guidelines, despite some question by the IRS
      as to whether those processes result in the level of significant chemical
      change required by Section 29 of the Internal Revenue Code and IRS revenue
      rulings. Finally, the IRS indicated that it would require taxpayers to comply
      with certain sampling and data/record retention practices to obtain or maintain
      a ruling on significant chemical change.

PPL believes that the October IRS announcement confirms that PPL is justified
      in its reliance on the private letter ruling for the Somerset facility,
      that the test results that PPL presented to the IRS in connection with its
      private letter ruling are scientifically valid and that PPL has operated
      the Somerset facility in compliance with the private letter ruling and Section
      29 of the Internal Revenue Code.

In October 2003, following the IRS announcement, it was reported that the
      U.S. Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, of the Committee on
      Governmental Affairs, had begun an investigation of the synthetic fuel industry
      and its producers. PPL cannot predict when the investigation will be completed
      or the potential results of the investigation.

U.K. Electricity Regulation

(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)

The principal legislation governing the structure of the electricity industry
      in Great Britain is the Electricity Act 1989 (the "Electricity Act"), as
      amended by the Utilities Act 2000 (the "Utilities Act").

The provisions in the Utilities Act include the replacement of individual
      gas and electricity regulators with the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority
      (the "Regulator"). The principal objective of the Regulator is to protect
      the interests of consumers, wherever appropriate, by promoting effective
      competition in electricity generation and supply. There currently is no
      competition in electricity distribution, but recently a small operator has
      applied to the Regulator for a license to operate in Great Britain.

Each distribution business constitutes a natural regional monopoly and
      is subject to control on the prices it can charge and the quality of supply
      it must provide. The operations of WPD are regulated under its distribution
      licenses, pursuant to which income generated is subject to an allowed revenue
      regulatory framework that provides economic incentives to minimize operating,
      capital and financing costs. Under the Electricity Act, WPD is under a statutory
      duty to offer terms to connect any customer requiring electricity within
      their area and to maintain that connection. The allowed revenue that is
      recovered from electricity supply businesses through charges by the Distribution
      Network Operator (DNO) made for the use of the distribution network is regulated
      on the basis of the Retail Price Index (RPI) minus X formula. The allowed
      revenue is increased by RPI minus X during the tenure of each price control
      period. (RPI is a measure of inflation and equals the percentage change
      in the U.K. RPI between the six-month period of July to December in the
      previous year. The X factor is established by the Regulator following review
      and represents an annual efficiency factor.) The Regulator currently sets
      the Distribution Price Control Formula for five-year periods.

The current Distribution Price Control Formula permits DNOs, within a review
      period, to partially retain additional revenues due to increased distribution
      of units and to retain all increases in operating profit due to efficient
      operations and the reduction of expenses (including financing costs). The
      Regulator may reduce this increase in operating profit through a one-off
      price reduction in the first year of the new pricing regime, if the Regulator
      determines that it is not a function of efficiency savings, or if genuine
      efficiency savings have been made and the Regulator determines that customers
      should benefit through lower prices.

In December 1999, the Regulator published final price proposals for distribution
      price control for the 12 DNOs in England and Wales. These proposals represented
      a reduction to distribution prices of 20% for WPD (South West) and 26% for
      WPD (South Wales) effective April 2000, followed by a reduction in real
      terms (i.e., before inflation is taken into account) of 3% each year from
      April 2001. This price control is scheduled to operate until March 2005.

Improvements in quality of supply form an important part of the final proposals.
      Revised targets for system performance, in terms of the security and availability
      of supply, were proposed with new targets for reductions in minutes lost
      and interruptions.

The Regulator has introduced a quality of service incentive plan for the
      period from April 2002 to March 2005. Companies will be penalized annually
      up to 2% of revenue for failing to meet their quality of supply targets
      for the incentive plan. The plan includes a mechanism for rewarding companies
      which exceed their targets based on their rate of improvement of performance
      during the period and a process for rewarding exceptional performance by
      specifying how the targets will be reset.

Distribution businesses must also meet the Guaranteed and Overall Standards
      of Performance, which are set by the Regulator to ensure an appropriate
      level of quality of supply. If a company fails to provide the level of service
      specified, it must make a fixed payment to the retail customer affected.

In June 2003, the Regulator published a report on the quality of supply
      from April 2001 through March 2002. The report confirms that WPD (South
      West) and WPD (South Wales) met or exceeded such standards and that no payments
      were required to be made by either company.

Any significant lowering of rates implemented by the Regulator after the
      current price control ends in March 2005 could lower the amount of revenue
      WPD generates in relation to its operational cost and could materially lower
      the income of WPD.

Environmental Matters - Domestic

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL Montana)

Due to the environmental issues discussed below or other environmental
      matters, PPL subsidiaries may be required to modify, replace or cease operating
      certain facilities to comply with statutes, regulations and actions by regulatory
      bodies or courts. In this regard, PPL subsidiaries also may incur capital
      expenditures or operating expenses in amounts which are not now determinable,
      but which could be significant.

Air

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Montana)

The Clean Air Act deals, in part, with acid rain, attainment of federal
      ambient ozone standards and toxic air emissions in the U.S. PPL's subsidiaries
      are in substantial compliance with the Clean Air Act. The Bush administration
      and certain members of Congress have made proposals regarding possible amendments
      to the Clean Air Act. These amendments could require significant further
      reductions in nitrogen oxide, sulfur dioxide and mercury and could possibly
      require measures to limit carbon dioxide. In addition, several states have
      taken their own actions requiring mandatory carbon dioxide emission reductions.
      Pennsylvania and Montana have not, at this time, established any formal
      programs to address carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases.

The Pennsylvania DEP has finalized regulations requiring further seasonal
      (May-June) nitrogen oxide reductions to 80% from 1990 levels starting in
      2003. These regulations are pursuant to EPA's 1998 State Implementation
      Plan (SIP) call to 22 eastern states, including Pennsylvania, to revise
      their state implementation plans. PPL achieved the 2003 nitrogen oxide reductions
      with the installation of SCR technology on the Montour units, and may install
      SCR or other additional nitrogen oxide reduction technology on one or more
      Brunner Island units at a later date.

The EPA has also developed new standards for ambient levels of ozone and
      fine particulates in the U.S. These standards have been upheld following
      court challenges. The new particulates standard may require further reductions
      in sulfur dioxide and year-round nitrogen oxide reductions commencing in
      2010-2012 at SIP-call levels in Pennsylvania for certain PPL subsidiaries,
      and at slightly less stringent levels in Montana. The revised ozone standard
      is not expected to have a material effect on facilities of PPL subsidiaries.

The EPA has proposed mercury and nickel regulations and is expected to
      finalize these regulations in 2004. The cost of complying with these regulations
      is not now determinable, but could be significant.

In 1999, the EPA initiated enforcement actions against several utilities,
      asserting that older, coal-fired power plants operated by those utilities
      have, over the years, been modified in ways that subject them to more stringent
      "New Source" requirements under the Clean Air Act. The EPA has since issued
      notices of violation and commenced enforcement activities against other
      utilities. The future direction of the EPA's enforcement initiative is presently
      unclear. Therefore, at this time, PPL is unable to predict whether such
      EPA enforcement actions will be brought with respect to any of its affiliates'
      plants. However, the EPA regional offices that regulate plants in Pennsylvania
      (Region III) and Montana (Region VIII) have indicated an intention to issue
      information requests to all utilities in their jurisdiction. The Region
      VIII office issued such a request to PPL Montana's Corette plant in 2000
      and the Colstrip plant in 2003. The Region III office issued such a request
      to PPL Generation's Martins Cre ek plant in 2002. PPL and its subsidiaries
      have responded to the Corette and Martins Creek information requests and
      are in the process of responding to the Colstrip information request. The
      EPA has taken no further action following the Martins Creek and Corette
      submittals. PPL cannot presently predict what, if any, action the EPA might
      take in this regard. Should the EPA or any state initiate one or more enforcement
      actions against PPL or its subsidiaries, compliance with any such enforcement
      actions could result in additional capital and operating expenses in amounts
      which are not now determinable, but which could be significant.

In 2003, the EPA issued changes to its "New Source" regulations that clarify
      what projects are exempt from "New Source" requirements as routine maintenance
      and repair. Under these clarifications, any project to replace existing
      equipment with functionally equivalent equipment would be considered routine
      maintenance and excluded from "New Source" review if the cost of the replaced
      equipment does not exceed 20% of the replacement cost of the entire process
      unit, the basic design is not changed and no permit limit is exceeded. These
      clarifications would substantially reduce the uncertainties under the prior
      "New Source" regulations; however, they have been stayed by the U.S. Court
      of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. PPL is therefore continuing
      to operate under the "New Source" regulations as they existed prior to the
      EPA's clarifications.

The New Jersey DEP and some New Jersey residents raised environmental concerns
      with respect to the Martins Creek plant, particularly with respect to sulfur
      dioxide emissions and the opacity of the plant's plume. These issues were
      raised in the context of an appeal by the New Jersey DEP of the Air Quality
      Plan Approval issued by the Pennsylvania DEP to the adjacent Lower Mt. Bethel
      facility, which is currently under construction. In October 2003, PPL finalized
      an agreement with the New Jersey DEP and the Pennsylvania DEP pursuant to
      which it will reduce sulfur dioxide emissions from its Martins Creek power
      plant. Under the agreement, PPL Martins Creek will shut down the plant's
      two coal-fired generating units by September 2007 and may repower them any
      time after shutting them down so long as it follows all applicable state
      and federal requirements, including installing the best available pollution
      control technology. PPL Martins Creek also will reduce the fuel sulfur content
      for those units as well as the plant's two oil-fired units beginning in
      2004. In addition, PPL will donate to a non-profit organization 70% of the
      excess emission allowances and emission reduction credits that result from
      shutting down or repowering the coal units. As a result of the agreement,
      the New Jersey DEP has withdrawn its challenge to the Air Quality Plan Approval
      for the Lower Mt. Bethel facility. The agreement will not result in material
      costs to PPL. The agreement does not address the issues raised by the New
      Jersey DEP regarding the visible opacity of emissions from the Martins Creek
      plant. If it is determined that actions must be taken to address the visible
      opacity of these emissions, such actions could result in costs that are
      not now determinable, but which could be significant.

In addition to the opacity concerns raised by the New Jersey DEP, the Pennsylvania
      DEP also has raised concerns about the opacity of emissions from the Martins
      Creek and Montour plants. PPL is discussing these concerns with the Pennsylvania
      DEP. If it is determined that actions must be taken to address the Pennsylvania
      DEP's concerns, such actions could result in costs that are not now determinable,
      but which could be significant.

In December 2003, PPL Montana, as operator of the Colstrip facility, received
      an Administrative Compliance Order (ACO) from the EPA pursuant to the Clean
      Air Act. The ACO alleges that Units 3 and 4 of the facility have been in
      violation of the Clean Air Act permit at Colstrip since 1980. The permit
      required Colstrip to submit for review and approval by the EPA an analysis
      and proposal for reducing emissions of nitrogen oxides (NO

X

)
      to address visibility concerns if and when EPA promulgates Best Available
      Retrofit Technology requirements for NO

X

. The EPA is asserting
      that regulations it promulgated in 1980 triggered this requirement. PPL
      believes that the ACO is unfounded and is discussing the matter with the
      EPA. The ACO does not expressly seek penalties, and it is unclear at this
      time what, if any, additional control technology the EPA may consider to
      be required. Accordingly, the costs to install any additional controls for
      NO

X

, if required, are not now determi nable, but could be significant.

Water/Waste

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Montana)

A final permit for water discharges (NPDES permit) has been issued to the
      Brunner Island generating plant. The permit contains a provision requiring
      further studies on the thermal impact of the cooling water discharge from
      the plant. These studies are underway and are expected to be completed in
      2006. The Pennsylvania DEP has stated that it believes the studies to date
      show that the temperature of the discharge must be lowered. The Pennsylvania
      DEP has also stated that it believes the plant is in violation of a permit
      condition prohibiting the discharge from changing the river temperature
      by more than two degrees per hour. PPL is discussing these matters with
      the agency. Depending on the outcome of these discussions, the plant could
      be subject to additional capital and operating costs that are not now determinable,
      but which could be significant.

The Pennsylvania DEP has issued a water quality certification and a draft
      NPDES permit to PPL Holtwood, LLC in the FERC license renewal proceeding
      for its Lake Wallenpaupack hydroelectric facility. PPL has appealed the
      certification and is discussing both the certification and the NPDES permit
      with the Pennsylvania DEP. If these discussions are unsuccessful, PPL expects
      to appeal the permit as well. Depending on the outcome of these appeals,
      each of the certification and the NPDES permit could impose additional costs
      on PPL, which are not now determinable, but which could be significant.

The EPA has significantly tightened the water quality standard for arsenic.
      The revised standard may require several PPL subsidiaries to either further
      treat wastewater or take abatement action at their power plants, or both.
      The cost of complying with the revised standard is not now determinable,
      but could be significant.

The EPA recently finalized requirements for new or modified water intake
      structures. These requirements will affect where generating facilities are
      built, will establish intake design standards, and could lead to requirements
      for cooling towers at new and modified power plants. If the source of water
      for the plants is surface water, these rules could impose significant capital
      and operating costs on PPL subsidiaries. Another new rule, expected to be
      finalized in 2004, will address existing structures. PPL has begun preliminary
      studies to evaluate options to comply with the expected rule. Each of these
      rules could impose additional costs on PPL subsidiaries, which are not now
      determinable, but which could be significant.

Superfund and Other Remediation

(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)

Under the Pennsylvania Clean Streams Law, subsidiaries of PPL Generation
      are obligated to remediate acid mine drainage at former mine sites and may
      be required to take additional measures to prevent potential acid mine drainage
      at previously capped refuse piles. One PPL subsidiary is pumping and treating
      mine water at two mine sites. Another PPL subsidiary plans to install passive
      wetlands treatment at a third site, and the Pennsylvania DEP has suggested
      that it may require that PPL subsidiary to pump and treat the mine water
      at that third site. At December 31, 2003, PPL had accrued $29 million to
      cover the costs of pumping and treating groundwater at two mine sites for
      50 years and for installing passive wetlands treatment at the third site.

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Electric)

In 1995, PPL Electric and PPL Generation entered into a consent order with
      the Pennsylvania DEP to address a number of sites that were not being addressed
      under another regulatory program such as Superfund, but for which PPL Electric
      or PPL Generation may be liable for remediation. This may include potential
      PCB contamination at certain PPL Electric substations and pole sites; potential
      contamination at a number of coal gas manufacturing facilities formerly
      owned or operated by PPL Electric; oil or other contamination which may
      exist at some of PPL Electric's former generating facilities; and potential
      contamination at abandoned power plant sites owned by PPL Generation. As
      of December 31, 2003, work has been completed for 94% of the sites
      included in the consent order. Additional sites formerly owned or operated
      by PPL Electric are added to the consent order on a case-by-case basis.

In 1996, PPL Gas Utilities entered into a similar consent order with the
      Pennsylvania DEP to address a number of sites where subsidiaries of PPL
      Gas Utilities may be liable for remediation. The sites primarily include
      former coal gas manufacturing facilities. Subsidiaries of PPL Gas Utilities
      are also investigating the potential for any mercury contamination from
      gas meters and regulators. Accordingly, PPL Gas Utilities and the Pennsylvania
      DEP have agreed to add 72 meter/regulation sites to the consent order. As
      of December 31, 2003, PPL Gas Utilities had addressed 24% of the sites under
      its consent order.

At December 31, 2003, PPL Electric and PPL Gas Utilities had accrued approximately
      $3 million and $9 million, representing the estimated amounts they will
      have to spend for site remediation, including those sites covered by each
      company's consent orders mentioned above. Depending on the outcome of investigations
      at sites where investigations have not begun or have not been completed,
      the costs of remediation and other liabilities could be substantial. PPL
      also could face other non-remediation liabilities at sites included in the
      consent order or other contaminated sites, the costs of which are not now
      determinable, but which could be significant.

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Montana)

In conjunction with its 1999 sale of generating assets to PPL Montana,
      Montana Power prepared a Phase I and Phase II Environmental Site Assessment.
      The assessment identified various groundwater remediation issues. Based
      upon subsequent assessments and actions taken by PPL Montana, the costs
      to PPL Montana of the groundwater remediation measures identified in those
      assessments are expected to be approximately $3 million. However, additional
      expenditures could be required in amounts which are not now determinable,
      but which could be significant.

In May 2003, approximately 40 plaintiffs brought an action in the Montana
      Second Judicial District Court, Butte-Silver Bow County, against PPL Montana
      and the other owners of the Colstrip plant alleging property damage from
      freshwater pond seepage and contamination from wastewater ponds at the plant.
      This action has been moved to the Montana Sixteenth Judicial District Court,
      Rosebud County. This action could result in PPL Montana and the other Colstrip
      owners being liable for damages and being required to take additional remedial
      measures, the costs of which are not now determinable, but which could be
      significant.

In 1999, the Montana Supreme Court held in favor of several citizens' groups
      that the right to a clean and healthful environment is a fundamental right
      guaranteed by the Montana Constitution. The court's ruling could result
      in significantly more stringent environmental laws and regulations, as well
      as an increase in citizens' suits under Montana's environmental laws. The
      effect on PPL Montana of any such changes in laws or regulations or any
      such increase in legal actions is not currently determinable, but it could
      be significant.

Future cleanup or remediation work at sites currently under review, or
      at sites not currently identified, may result in material additional operating
      costs for PPL subsidiaries that cannot be estimated at this time.

Asbestos

(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)

There have been increasing litigation claims throughout the U.S. based
      on exposure to asbestos against companies that manufacture or distribute
      asbestos products or that have these products on their premises. Certain
      of PPL's generation subsidiaries and certain of its energy services subsidiaries,
      such as those that have supplied, may have supplied or installed asbestos
      material in connection with the repair or installation of process piping
      and heating, ventilating and air conditioning systems, have been named as
      defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits. PPL cannot predict the outcome
      of these lawsuits or whether additional claims may be asserted against its
      subsidiaries in the future. PPL does not expect that the ultimate resolution
      of the current lawsuits will have a material adverse effect on its financial
      condition.

Electric and Magnetic Fields

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL
      Electric)

Concerns have been expressed by some members of the public regarding the
      potential health effects of EMFs. These fields are emitted by all devices
      carrying electricity, including electric transmission and distribution lines
      and substation equipment. Government officials in the U.S. and the U.K.
      have focused attention on this issue. PPL and its subsidiaries support the
      current efforts to determine whether EMFs cause any human health problems
      and are taking steps to reduce EMFs, where practical, in the design of new
      transmission and distribution facilities. PPL is unable to predict what
      effect, if any, the EMF issue might have on its operations and facilities
      either in the U.S. or abroad, and the associated cost, or what, if any,
      liabilities it might incur related to the EMF issue.

Lower Mt. Bethel

(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)

In August 2002, the Northampton County Court of Common Pleas issued a decision
      concerning the permissible noise levels from the Lower Mt. Bethel facility
      when it becomes operational. Specifically, the court's decision sets certain
      permissible noise levels required for plant operation. PPL appealed the
      court's decision to the Commonwealth Court, and an intervenor in the lawsuit
      cross-appealed the court's decision. In May 2003, the Commonwealth Court
      remanded the case to the Court of Common Pleas for further findings of fact
      concerning the zoning application relating to the construction of the facility.
      In September 2003, the Court of Common Pleas ruled in PPL's favor while
      also reaffirming its decision on the noise levels, and the intervenor has
      appealed this ruling to the Commonwealth Court.

The Lower Mt. Bethel
      facility is expected to be operational in 2004. However, PPL and PPL Energy
      Supply cannot predict the outcome of the ongoing litigation concerning the
      facility or its ultimate impact on the Lower Mt. Bethel facility, but such
      impact may be material.

Environmental Matters - International

(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)

U.K.

WPD's distribution businesses are subject to numerous regulatory and statutory
      requirements with respect to environmental matters. PPL believes that WPD
      has taken and continues to take measures to comply with the applicable laws
      and governmental regulations for the protection of the environment. There
      are no material legal or administrative proceedings pending against WPD
      with respect to environmental matters. See "Environmental Matters - Domestic
      - Electric and Magnetic Fields" for a discussion of EMFs.

Latin America

Certain of PPL's affiliates have electric distribution operations in Latin
      America. PPL believes that these affiliates have taken and continue to take
      measures to comply with the applicable laws and governmental regulations
      for the protection of the environment. There are no material legal or administrative
      proceedings pending against PPL's affiliates in Latin America with respect
      to environmental matters.

Other

Nuclear Insurance

(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)

PPL Susquehanna is a member of certain insurance programs which provide
      coverage for property damage to members' nuclear generating stations. Facilities
      at the Susquehanna station are insured against property damage losses up
      to $2.75 billion under these programs. PPL Susquehanna is also a member
      of an insurance program which provides insurance coverage for the cost of
      replacement power during prolonged outages of nuclear units caused by certain
      specified conditions. Under the property and replacement power insurance
      programs, PPL Susquehanna could be assessed retroactive premiums in the
      event of the insurers' adverse loss experience. At December 31, 2003, this
      maximum assessment was about $40 million.

PPL Susquehanna's public liability for claims resulting from a nuclear
      incident at the Susquehanna station is limited to about $10.9 billion under
      provisions of The Price Anderson Amendments Act of 1988. PPL Susquehanna
      is protected against this liability by a combination of commercial insurance
      and an industry assessment program. In the event of a nuclear incident at
      any of the reactors covered by The Price Anderson Amendments Act of 1988,
      PPL Susquehanna could be assessed up to $201 million per incident, payable
      at $20 million per year.

Guarantees and Other Assurances

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Electric)

In the normal course of business, PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Electric
      enter into agreements that provide financial performance assurance to third
      parties on behalf of certain subsidiaries. Such agreements include, for
      example, guarantees, stand-by letters of credit issued by financial institutions
      and surety bonds issued by insurance companies. These agreements are entered
      into primarily to support or enhance the creditworthiness attributed to
      a subsidiary on a stand-alone basis, thereby facilitating the extension
      of credit to accomplish the subsidiaries' intended commercial purposes.

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL Montana)

PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL Montana provide certain guarantees
      that are required to be disclosed in accordance with FIN 45, "Guarantor's
      Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect
      Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others, an Interpretation of FASB Statements
      No. 5, 57, and 107 and Rescission of FASB Interpretation No. 34." See Note
      22 for a discussion of FIN 45. The guarantees provided as of December 31,
      2003 are discussed below. In accordance with the provisions of FIN 45, the
      fair values of guarantees related to arrangements entered into prior to
      January 1, 2003, as well as guarantees excluded from the initial recognition
      and measurement provisions of FIN 45, are not recorded in the financial
      statements.

(

PPL

)

PPL fully and unconditionally guarantees the debt securities of PPL Capital
      Funding, a wholly-owned financing subsidiary of PPL, including PPL Capital
      Funding's medium-term notes and the notes issued by PPL Capital Funding
      in connection with the PEPS Units and PEPS Units, Series B. PPL also fully
      and unconditionally guarantees all of the obligations of PPL Capital Funding
      Trust I, an unconsolidated wholly-owned financing subsidiary of PPL, under
      the trust preferred securities that are a component of the PEPS Units. The
      aggregate face value of the trust's outstanding preferred securities was
      $575 million at December 31, 2003. See the Statement of Company-Obligated
      Mandatorily Redeemable Securities for a discussion of the terms of the trust
      preferred securities of PPL Capital Funding Trust I and Note 8 for a description
      of the exchange offer involving the PEPS Units and PEPS Units, Series B
      and

the remarketing of the trust preferred securities of PPL Capital
      Funding Trust I.

(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)

WPD LLP guarantees all of the obligations of SIUK Capital Trust I, an unconsolidated
      wholly-owned financing subsidiary of WPD LLP, under its trust preferred
      securities. The aggregate face value of the trust's outstanding preferred
      securities was $82 million at December 31, 2003. See the Statement of Company-Obligated
      Mandatorily Redeemable Securities for a discussion of the terms of the trust
      preferred securities of SIUK Capital Trust I.

(PPL Energy Supply

)

PPL Energy Supply has entered into several standby letter of credit arrangements
      under its $500 million three-year credit facility for the purposes of protecting
      various third parties against nonperformance by PPL and PPL Gas Utilities.
      As of December 31, 2003, the aggregate maximum exposure related to these
      standby letters of credit was $13 million. These letters of credit expire
      in 2004.

(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)

PPL Generation has entered into certain partnership arrangements for the
      sale of coal to third parties. PPL Generation has also executed support
      agreements, which expire in 2007, for the benefit of these third-party purchasers
      pursuant to which it guarantees the partnerships' obligations in an amount
      up to its pro rata ownership interest in the partnerships. PPL Generation's
      maximum aggregate exposure under these support arrangements was approximately
      $9 million as of December 31, 2003.

PPL Susquehanna is contingently obligated to pay $40 million related to
      potential retroactive premiums that could be assessed under its nuclear
      insurance programs. Additionally, under the Price Anderson Amendments Act
      of 1988, PPL Susquehanna could be assessed up to $201 million for each incident
      at any of the nuclear reactors covered by this Act. See "Nuclear Insurance"
      for additional information.

PPL EnergyPlus enters into written put option contracts under which, in
      exchange for a premium received, it agrees to purchase a specified quantity
      of a commodity for a specified price if the counterparty exercises the option.
      The aggregate carrying value of such contracts that were outstanding as
      of December 31, 2003 was insignificant. These option contracts expire from
      June 2004 through August 2004. The aggregate maximum amount of payments
      that PPL EnergyPlus could be required to make if the options are exercised
      by the counterparties under these contracts is $3 million.

Certain acquisition agreements relating to the acquisition of mechanical
      contractors contain provisions that require a PPL Energy Supply subsidiary
      to make contingent payments to the former owners based upon the profitability
      of the business unit. The maximum amount of potential payments is not explicitly
      stated in the acquisition agreements. These arrangements expire at the end
      of 2004. Based on current expectations, PPL Energy Supply estimates that
      any amounts to be paid under these arrangements for future performance of
      the business units will be insignificant.

Certain agreements relating to the purchase of ownership interests in synfuel
      projects contain provisions that require certain PPL Energy Supply subsidiaries
      to make contingent purchase price payments to the former owners. These payments
      are non-recourse to PPL, PPL Energy Supply and their other subsidiaries
      and are based primarily upon production levels of the synfuel projects.
      The maximum amounts of potential payments are not explicitly stated in the
      agreements. These arrangements expire in 2007. Based on current expectations,
      PPL Energy Supply estimates that the subsidiaries could pay up to an aggregate
      of approximately $60 million under these arrangements. As of December 31,
      2003, PPL Energy Supply's Balance Sheet reflects a liability of approximately
      $4 million related to the contingent purchase price obligations of a subsidiary
      of PPL Energy Supply.

(PPL and PPL Electric

)

PPL Electric provides a guarantee in the amount of approximately $7 million,
      as of December 31, 2003, related to debt of an unconsolidated entity. The
      guarantee expires in June 2008.

(

PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL Montana

)

PPL Electric and PPL Montana lease certain equipment under master operating
      lease agreements. The term for each piece of equipment leased by PPL Electric
      ranges from one to three years, after which time the lease term may be extended
      for certain equipment either (i) from month-to-month until terminated or
      (ii) for up to two additional years. The term for each piece of equipment
      leased by PPL Montana is one year, after which time the lease term may be
      extended from month-to-month until terminated. Under these lease arrangements,
      PPL Electric and PPL Montana provide residual value guarantees to the lessors.
      PPL Electric and PPL Montana generally could be required to pay a residual
      value guarantee if the proceeds received from the sale of a piece of equipment,
      upon termination of the lease, are less than the expected residual value
      of the equipment. As of December 31, 2003, the maximum aggregate amount
      of future payments that could be required to be made as a result of these
      residual value guarantees wa s approximately $88 million for PPL Electric
      and $4 million for PPL Montana. As of December 31, 2003, the aggregate carrying
      value of residual value guarantees issued subsequent to December 31, 2002
      was $16 million for PPL Electric and was insignificant for PPL Montana and
      is included in "Current Liabilities - Other" on the respective Balance Sheets.
      These guarantees generally expire within one year, unless the lease terms
      are extended.

PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL Montana and their subsidiaries
      provide other miscellaneous guarantees through contracts entered into in
      the normal course of business. These guarantees are primarily in the form
      of various indemnifications or warranties related to services or equipment,
      and vary in duration. Except as otherwise noted below, the obligated amounts
      of these guarantees often are not explicitly stated; therefore, the overall
      maximum amount of the obligation under such guarantees cannot be reasonably
      estimated. Historically, PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL Montana
      and their subsidiaries have not made any significant payments with respect
      to these types of guarantees. As of December 31, 2003, the aggregate fair
      value of these indemnifications related to arrangements entered into subsequent
      to December 31, 2002 was insignificant. These guarantees include the following:

PPL, on behalf of itself and its subsidiaries, maintains insurance that
      covers liability assumed under contract for bodily injury and property damage.
      The coverage requires a $4 million deductible per occurrence and provides
      maximum aggregate coverage of approximately $175 million. This insurance
      may be applicable to certain obligations under the contractual arrangements
      discussed above.

Related Party Transactions

Affiliate Trusts

(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)

See Note 22 for a discussion of the implementation of FIN 46, "Consolidation
      of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51." Adoption
      of this statement on December 31, 2003 for certain entities required the
      deconsolidation of wholly-owned trusts that had issued preferred securities.
      As a result, the subordinated debt securities of PPL Capital Funding, in
      the case of PPL Capital Funding Trust I, and WPD LLP, in the case of SIUK
      Capital Trust I, which support the trust preferred securities, are no longer
      eliminated in consolidation. As of December 31, 2003, $681 million is reflected
      as "Long-term Debt with Affiliate Trusts" on PPL's Balance Sheet, and $89
      million is reflected as "Long-term Debt with Affiliate Trust" on the Balance
      Sheet of PPL Energy Supply.

PLR Contracts

(PPL Energy Supply and PPL Electric)

PPL Electric has power sales agreements with PPL EnergyPlus, effective
      January 1, 2002, to supply all of PPL Electric's PLR load through 2009.
      Under these contracts, PPL EnergyPlus will provide electricity at the pre-determined
      capped prices that PPL Electric is authorized to charge its PLR customers.
      These purchases totaled $1.4 billion in 2003 and 2002, including nuclear
      decommissioning recovery and amortization of an up-front contract payment.
      These purchases totaled $1.3 billion in 2001, also including nuclear decommissioning
      recovery, under the first PLR contract. These purchases are included in
      the Statement of Income as "Energy purchases from affiliate" by PPL Electric
      and as revenues from "Wholesale energy marketing to affiliates" by PPL Energy
      Supply.

Under the PLR contracts, PPL Electric is required to make performance assurance
      deposits with PPL EnergyPlus when the market price of electricity is less
      than the contract price by more than its contract collateral threshold.
      Conversely, PPL EnergyPlus is required to make performance assurance deposits
      with PPL Electric when the market price of electricity is greater than the
      contract price by more than its contract collateral threshold. At December
      31, 2003, PPL Electric's deposit with PPL Energy Supply was $2 million,
      which is included in "Current Assets - Other" for PPL Electric's Balance
      Sheet and in "Current Liabilities - Other" for PPL Energy Supply. PPL Energy
      Supply pays interest equal to the three-month LIBOR plus 3% on this deposit,
      which is included in the Statement of Income as "Interest Expense with Affiliate."

In 2001, PPL Electric made a $90 million payment to PPL EnergyPlus in connection
      with the PLR contracts. The upfront payment is being amortized by both parties
      over the term of the PLR contracts. The unamortized balance of this payment,
      and other payments under the contract, was $70 million at December 31, 2003
      and $81 million at December 31, 2002. This balance is reported on the Balance
      Sheet as "Prepayment on PLR energy supply from affiliate" by PPL Electric
      and as "Deferred revenue on PLR energy supply from affiliate" by PPL Energy
      Supply.

NUG Purchases

(PPL Energy Supply and PPL Electric)

PPL Electric has a reciprocal contract with PPL EnergyPlus to sell electricity
      purchased under contracts with NUGs. PPL Electric purchases electricity
      from the NUGs at contractual rates and then sells the electricity at the
      same price to PPL EnergyPlus. These purchases totaled $152 million in 2003,
      $160 million in 2002 and $176 million in 2001. These amounts are included
      in the Statement of Income as revenues from "Wholesale electric to affiliate"
      by PPL Electric, and as "Energy purchases from affiliates" by PPL Energy
      Supply.

Montana Retail Supply

(PPL Montana)

PPL Montana had a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with PPL EnergyPlus
      regarding the supply of energy to satisfy PPL EnergyPlus' obligations under
      its retail contracts. This MOU will remain in effect until terminated by
      mutual consent of the parties, or upon 90 days written notice of termination
      given by either party to the other party. Under the MOU, energy sales to
      PPL EnergyPlus were $64 million in 2003, $68 million in 2002 and $80 million
      in 2001. These amounts are included in revenues from "Wholesale energy marketing
      to affiliate" on the Statement of Income.

Brokering and Contract Management Agreement

(PPL Montana)

Under a brokering and contract management agreement between PPL Montana
      and PPL EnergyPlus, PPL Montana paid PPL EnergyPlus $4 million in 2003,
      $7 million in 2002 and $5 million in 2001. PPL Montana records this expense
      as "Other operation and maintenance" on the Statement of Income.

Allocations of Corporate Service Costs

(PPL Energy Supply, PPL
      Electric and PPL Montana)

PPL Services provides corporate functions such as financial, legal, human
      resources and information services. PPL Services bills the respective PPL
      subsidiaries for the cost of such services when they can be specifically
      identified. The cost of these services that is not directly charged to PPL
      subsidiaries is allocated to certain of the subsidiaries using a three-factor
      method based on an average of the subsidiaries' relative invested capital,
      operation and maintenance expenses, and number of employees. PPL Services
      allocated the following charges to PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL
      Montana:

Intercompany Borrowings

(PPL Energy Supply)

PPL Energy Supply, primarily through its financing subsidiary, PPL Investment
      Corporation, had notes receivable from affiliates of PPL totaling $2 million
      at December 31, 2003, and $655 million at December 31, 2002. Interest earned
      on loans to affiliates, included in "Other Income - net" on the Statement
      of Income, was $16 million, $22 million and $57 million in 2003, 2002 and
      2001.

(PPL Electric)

In 2001, PPL Electric made a $150 million demand loan, requiring monthly
      interest payments at an annual interest rate of 4.0%, from excess cash to
      PPL Energy Funding. The loan was terminated on November 30, 2003. Intercompany
      interest income, included in "Other Income - net" on the Statement of Income,
      was $3 million, $9 million and $5 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001.

(PPL Montana)

In 2002, PPL Montana entered into a $100 million three-year credit facility
      with PPL Investment Corporation on market terms to meet its liquidity needs.
      At December 31, 2003, there was no outstanding balance. At December 31,
      2002 there was a $26 million outstanding balance, which is shown as "Revolving
      line of credit with affiliate" on the Balance Sheet.

Trademark Royalties

(PPL Energy Supply)

In the fourth quarter of 2002, a PPL subsidiary that owns PPL trademarks
      began billing certain affiliates which use these trademarks. PPL Energy
      Supply was allocated $39 million of this license fee in 2003 and $8 million
      in 2002, which is primarily included in "Other Operation and Maintenance"
      on the Statement of Income.

Other

(PPL Energy Supply and PPL Electric)

PPL Energy Supply owns no domestic transmission or distribution facilities,
      other than facilities to interconnect its generation with the electric transmission
      system. Therefore, PPL EnergyPlus and other PPL Generation subsidiaries
      must pay PJM, the operator of the transmission system, to deliver the energy
      these subsidiaries supply to retail and wholesale customers in PPL Electric's
      franchised territory in eastern and central Pennsylvania.

Other Income - Net

(PPL)

The breakdown of PPL's "Other Income - net" was as follows:

(PPL Energy Supply)

The breakdown of PPL Energy Supply's "Other Income - net" was as follows:

(PPL Electric)

The breakdown of PPL Electric's "Other Income - net" was as follows:

(PPL Montana)

"Other Income - net" was $9 million for the year ended 2003, primarily
      due to a $6 million reduction of the reserve provided against the Enron
      receivables. See Note 17 for additional information.

Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Montana)

PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Montana adopted SFAS 133, "Accounting for
      Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," on January 1, 2001. Upon
      adoption and in accordance with the transition provisions of SFAS 133, PPL
      Energy Supply recorded a cumulative-effect credit of $11 million in earnings,
      included as an increase to "Wholesale energy marketing" revenues and a decrease
      to "Energy purchases" on the Statement of Income. PPL Energy Supply and
      PPL Montana also recorded cumulative-effect charges of $182 million and
      $156 million, respectively, in "Accumulated other comprehensive loss," a
      component of Member's Equity.

In April 2003, the FASB issued SFAS 149, "Amendment of Statement 133 on
      Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," which amends and clarifies
      SFAS 133 to improve financial accounting and reporting for derivative instruments
      and hedging activities. To ensure that contracts with comparable characteristics
      are accounted for similarly, SFAS 149 clarifies the circumstances under
      which a contract with an initial net investment meets the characteristics
      of a derivative, clarifies when a derivative contains a financing component,
      amends the definition of an "underlying" and amends certain other existing
      pronouncements. Additionally, SFAS 149 placed additional limitations on
      the use of the normal purchase or normal sale exception. SFAS 149 was effective
      for contracts entered into or modified and for hedging relationships designated
      after June 30, 2003, except certain provisions relating to forward purchases
      or sales of when-issued securities or other securities that did not yet
      exist. PPL adopted SFAS 149 as of July 1, 2003. The adoption of SFAS 149
      did not have a significant impact on PPL, PPL Energy Supply or PPL Montana.

Management of Market Risk Exposures

Market risk is the potential loss PPL may incur as a result of price changes
      associated with a particular financial or commodity instrument. PPL is exposed
      to market risk from:

PPL has a risk management policy approved by the Board of Directors to
      manage market risk and counterparty credit risk. The RMC, comprised of senior
      management and chaired by the Vice President-Risk Management, oversees the
      risk management function. Key risk control activities designed to ensure
      compliance with risk policies and detailed programs include, but are not
      limited to, credit review and approval, validation of transactions and market
      prices, verification of risk and transaction limits, sensitivity analyses,
      and daily portfolio reporting, including open positions, mark-to-market
      valuations, and other risk measurement metrics. In addition, efforts are
      ongoing to develop systems to improve the timeliness, quality and breadth
      of market and credit risk information.

PPL utilizes forward contracts, futures contracts, options and swaps as
      part of its risk management strategy to minimize unanticipated fluctuations
      in earnings caused by commodity price, interest rate and foreign currency
      volatility. All derivatives are recognized on the balance sheet at their
      fair value, unless they meet SFAS 133 criteria for exclusion (see discussion
      in "Related Implementation Issues" below).

Fair Value Hedges

PPL Energy Supply and PPL Montana enter into financial or physical contracts
      to hedge a portion of the fair value of firm commitments of forward electricity
      sales. These contracts range in maturity through 2006. Additionally, PPL
      and PPL Energy Supply enter into financial contracts to hedge fluctuations
      in market value of existing debt issuances. These contracts range in maturity
      through 2029.

PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Montana recognized the following net gains/(losses),
      after-tax, resulting from hedges of firm commitments that no longer qualified
      as fair value hedges (reported in "Wholesale energy marketing" revenues
      and "Energy purchases" on the Statement of Income):

PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Montana did not recognize any gains/(losses)
      resulting from the ineffective portion of fair value hedges for the twelve
      months ended December 31, 2003, 2002 or 2001.

Cash Flow Hedges

PPL Energy Supply and PPL Montana enter into financial and physical contracts,
      including forwards, futures and swaps, to hedge the price risk associated
      with electric, gas and oil commodities. These contracts range in maturity
      through 2010. Additionally, PPL and PPL Energy Supply enter into financial
      interest rate swap contracts to hedge interest expense associated with both
      existing and anticipated debt issuances. These swaps range in maturity through
      2014. PPL and PPL Energy Supply also enter into foreign currency forward
      contracts to hedge exchange rates associated with firm commitments denominated
      in foreign currencies and to hedge the net investment of foreign operations.
      These forward contracts range in maturity through 2028.

Cash flow hedges may be discontinued because it is probable that the original
      forecasted transaction will not occur by the end of the originally specified
      time period. PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Montana discontinued certain
      cash flow hedges which resulted in the following net gain/(loss), after
      tax, reclassifications from other comprehensive income (reported in "Wholesale
      energy marketing" revenues, "Energy purchases" and "Interest Expense" on
      the Statement of Income):

Due to hedge ineffectiveness, PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Montana reclassified
      the following net gains/(losses), after tax, from other comprehensive income
      (reported in "Wholesale energy marketing" revenues and "Energy purchases"
      on the Statement of Income):

As of December 31, 2003, the deferred net gain/(loss), after tax, on derivative
      instruments in "Accumulated other comprehensive income" expected to be reclassified
      into earnings during the next twelve months was $(1) million, $5 million
      and $5 million for PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Montana.

The following table shows the change in accumulated unrealized gains or
      losses on derivatives in other comprehensive income for the following periods:

Related Implementation Issues

For energy contracts that meet the definition of a derivative, the circumstances
      and intent existing at the time that energy transactions are entered into
      determine their accounting designation. The following summarizes the electricity
      guidelines that have been provided to the traders who are responsible for
      contract designation for derivative energy contracts in accordance with
      SFAS 149:

Transactions that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment are marked
      to market through earnings.

In June 2001, the FASB issued definitive guidance on DIG Issue C15, "Scope
      Exceptions: Normal Purchases and Normal Sales Exception for Certain Option-Type
      Contracts and Forward Contracts in Electricity." DIG Issue C15 provides
      additional guidance on the classification and application of derivative
      accounting rules relating to purchases and sales of electricity utilizing
      forward and option contracts. This guidance became effective as of July
      1, 2001. In December 2001, the FASB revised the guidance in DIG Issue C15,
      principally related to the eligibility of options for the normal purchases
      and normal sales exception. The revised guidance was effective April 1,
      2002. In November 2003, the FASB again revised the guidance in DIG Issue
      C15 to clarify the application of derivative accounting rules for contracts
      that may involve capacity. The guidance is effective January 1, 2004 for
      PPL. PPL does not expect this guidance to have a significant impact on its
      financial statements.

In June 2003, the FASB issued DIG Issue C20, "Scope Exceptions: Interpretation
      of the Meaning of Not Clearly and Closely Related in Paragraph 10(b) Regarding
      Contracts with a Price Adjustment Feature," which became effective October
      1, 2003. DIG Issue C20 addresses a requirement in SFAS 133 that contracts
      that qualify for normal treatment must feature pricing that is clearly and
      closely related to the asset being sold. Diversity in practice had developed
      among companies. DIG Issue C20 permits normal treatment if a price adjustment
      factor, such as a broad market index (e.g., Consumer Price Index), is not
      extraneous to both the cost and the fair value of the asset being sold and
      is not significantly disproportionate in terms of the magnitude and direction
      when compared with the asset being sold. However, DIG Issue C20 also stated
      that prior guidance did not permit the use of a broad market index to serve
      as a proxy for an ingredient or direct factor. Thus, DIG Issue C20 required
      that contracts that had been accounted for as normal but were not eligible
      for normal treatment under prior guidance be reflected on the balance sheet
      at their fair value, with an offsetting amount reflected in income as of
      the date of adoption. These contracts could then be evaluated under the
      provisions of DIG Issue C20 to determine whether they could qualify for
      normal treatment prospectively. PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Montana recorded
      a pre-tax charge to income of $2 million in the fourth quarter of 2003 to
      comply with the provisions of DIG Issue C20.

In December 2001, the FASB revised guidance on DIG Issue C16, "Scope Exceptions:
      Applying the Normal Purchases and Normal Sales Exception to Contracts that
      Combine a Forward Contract and a Purchased Option Contract." DIG Issue C16
      provides additional guidance on the classification and application of SFAS
      133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," relating
      to purchases and sales of electricity utilizing forward contracts and options,
      as well as the eligibility of fuel contracts for the normal purchases and
      normal sales exception. The revised guidance was effective April 1, 2002.
      PPL had no financial statement impact from the revised guidance on fuel
      contracts classified as normal.

PPL adopted the final provisions of EITF 02-3, "Issues Involved in Accounting
      for Derivative Contracts Held for Trading Purposes and Contracts Involved
      in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities," during the fourth quarter
      of 2002. As such, PPL reflects its net realized and unrealized gains and
      losses associated with all derivatives that are held for trading purposes
      in the "Net energy trading margins" line on the Statement of Income. Non-derivative
      contracts that met the definition of energy trading activities as defined
      by EITF 98-10, "Accounting for Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities"
      are reflected in the financial statements using the accrual method of accounting.
      Under the accrual method of accounting, unrealized gains and losses are
      not reflected in the financial statements. Prior periods were reclassified.
      No cumulative effect adjustment was required upon adoption.

PPL Energy Supply and PPL Montana have adopted the final provisions of
      EITF 03-11, "Reporting Realized Gains and Losses on Derivative Instruments
      That Are Subject to FASB Statement No. 133 and Not 'Held for Trading Purposes'
      as Defined in Issue No. 02-3," prospectively as of October 1, 2003. As a
      result of this adoption, non-trading bilateral sales of electricity at major
      market delivery points are netted with purchases that offset the sales at
      those same delivery points. A major market delivery point is any delivery
      point with liquid pricing available. The impact of adopting EITF 03-11 was
      a reduction in both "Wholesale energy marketing" revenues and "Energy purchases"
      by $105 million in PPL's and PPL Energy Supply's Statement of Income and
      by $18 million in PPL Montana's Statement of Income.

Credit Concentration

PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Montana enter into contracts with many entities
      for the purchase and sale of energy. Most of these contracts are considered
      a normal part of doing business and, as such, the mark-to-market value of
      these contracts is not reflected in the financial statements. However, the
      mark-to-market value of these contracts is considered when committing to
      new business from a credit perspective.

PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Montana have credit exposures to energy
      trading partners. The majority of these exposures were the mark-to-market
      value of multi-year contracts for energy sales. Therefore, if these counterparties
      fail to perform their obligations under such contracts, the companies would
      not experience an immediate financial loss, but would experience lower revenues
      in future years to the extent that replacement sales could not be made at
      the same prices as sales under the defaulted contracts.

At December 31, 2003, PPL had a credit exposure of $234 million to energy
      trading partners. Eight counterparties accounted for 51% of this exposure.
      No other individual counterparty accounted for more than 4% of the exposure.
      With one exception, each of the eight primary counterparties had an investment
      grade credit rating from Standard & Poor's Ratings Services (S&P).
      The non-investment grade counterparty, NorthWestern, has filed for Chapter
      11 bankruptcy protection. NorthWestern has assumed the power supply agreements
      in its bankruptcy proceeding. NorthWestern has remained current on all post-bankruptcy
      obligations with PPL Montana. Payment on all pre-bankruptcy obligations
      was received in October 2003. See Note 14 under "Wholesale Energy Commitments"
      for additional information regarding the NorthWestern bankruptcy proceeding.

At December 31, 2003, PPL Energy Supply had a credit exposure of $508 million
      to energy trading partners. Nine counterparties accounted for 77% of this
      exposure. No other individual counterparty accounted for more than 2% of
      the exposure. The largest exposure, $274 million, was to PPL Electric, under
      the long-term contract to supply PPL Electric's PLR load. With one exception,
      the other eight counterparties have an investment grade credit rating from
      S&P. The non-investment grade counterparty, NorthWestern, has filed
      for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, as discussed above.

At December 31, 2003, PPL Montana had a credit exposure of $75 million
      to energy trading partners. Four counterparties accounted for 79% of this
      exposure. No other individual counterparty accounted for more than 3% of
      the exposure. Three of the four counterparties have an investment grade
      credit rating from S&P. The non-investment grade counterparty, NorthWestern,
      has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, as discussed above.

PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Montana have the right to request collateral
      from each of these counterparties, except for one government agency, in
      the event their credit ratings fall below investment grade or, in one case,
      below current levels. PPL Montana and NorthWestern have mutually agreed
      not to request collateral from each other while NorthWestern's Chapter 11
      bankruptcy proceeding is pending. It is also the policy of PPL, PPL Energy
      Supply and PPL Montana to enter into netting agreements with all of their
      counterparties to minimize credit exposure.

Enron Bankruptcy

In connection with the December 2001 bankruptcy filings by Enron Corporation
      and its affiliates (collectively "Enron"), PPL EnergyPlus and PPL Montana
      terminated certain electricity, gas and other trading agreements with Enron.
      PPL EnergyPlus' 2001 after-tax earnings exposure associated with termination
      of these contracts was approximately $8 million, which was recorded in "Wholesale
      energy marketing" and "Energy purchases" in the Statement of Income. PPL
      Montana had no 2001 earnings effect associated with the termination of these
      contracts. Additionally, at the time that these trading agreements were
      terminated, they were at prices more favorable to PPL EnergyPlus and PPL
      Montana than current market prices, and PPL established a reserve for uncollectible
      accounts in the aggregate amount of $50 million. In October 2002, PPL EnergyPlus
      and PPL Montana filed proofs of claim in Enron's bankruptcy proceedings
      for approximately $21 million and $29 million, respectively. These claims
      were against Enron North America and Enron Power Marketing (the "Enron Subsidiaries"),
      and against Enron Corporation, which had guaranteed the Enron Subsidiaries'
      performance (the "Enron Corporation Guarantees").

During 2003, PPL EnergyPlus, PPL Montana and Enron engaged in discussions
      regarding the amount of claims that would be allowed against the Enron Subsidiaries.
      Although no formal agreement on such amounts has been reached, based on
      informal discussions with Enron's counsel, PPL EnergyPlus and PPL Montana
      believe that their claims against the Enron Subsidiaries will eventually
      be allowed in the bankruptcy at approximately $21 million and $25 million,
      respectively. Accordingly, PPL reduced its receivables from Enron, and the
      associated reserve for uncollectible accounts, by $4 million. PPL also determined
      that it is probable that PPL EnergyPlus and PPL Montana will recover approximately
      $4 million and $6 million, respectively, of these receivables from the Enron
      Subsidiaries, and may collect additional amounts under the Enron Corporation
      Guarantees. Therefore, PPL determined that it was appropriate to reduce
      its reserve by an additional $10 million.

In November 2003, Enron Corporation filed suits against each of PPL EnergyPlus
      and PPL Montana, asserting that the Enron Corporation Guarantees should
      be avoided as fraudulent transfers. If Enron Corporation were successful
      in these suits, PPL EnergyPlus' and PPL Montana's claims against Enron Corporation
      under the Enron Corporation Guarantees would not be allowed in the bankruptcy
      proceeding.

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

On January 1, 2002, PPL and its subsidiaries adopted SFAS 142, "Goodwill
      and Other Intangible Assets," which eliminates the amortization of goodwill
      and other acquired intangible assets with indefinite economic useful lives.
      SFAS 142 requires an annual impairment test of goodwill at the reporting
      unit level, which compares the carrying value of the reporting unit to its
      fair value. A reporting unit is a segment or one level below a segment.
      Intangible assets other than goodwill that are not subject to amortization
      are also required to undergo an annual impairment test. PPL changed the
      classification of certain intangible assets on the balance sheet upon adopting
      SFAS 142. Previously reported information has been restated to conform to
      the current presentation. The following information is disclosed in accordance
      with SFAS 142.

Acquired Intangible Assets

(PPL)

The carrying amount and the accumulated amortization of acquired intangible
      assets were as follows:

Current intangible assets are included in "Current Assets - Other," and
      long-term intangible assets are included in "Other intangibles" on the Balance
      Sheet.

Amortization expense was approximately $6 million for 2003 and 2002. Amortization
      expense is estimated at $6 million per year for 2004 through 2008.

(PPL Energy Supply)

The carrying amount and the accumulated amortization of acquired intangible
      assets were as follows:

Current intangible assets are included in "Current Assets - Other," and
      long-term intangible assets are included in "Other intangibles" on the Balance
      Sheet.

Amortization expense was approximately $2 million for 2003 and 2002. Amortization
      expense is estimated at $3 million per year for 2004 through 2008.

(PPL Electric)

The carrying amount and the accumulated amortization of acquired intangible
      assets were as follows:

Intangible assets are shown as "Intangibles" on the Balance Sheet.

Amortization expense was approximately $2 million for 2003 and 2002. Amortization
      expense is estimated at $2 million per year for 2004 through 2008.

(PPL Montana)

The carrying amount and the accumulated amortization of acquired intangible
      assets were as follows:

Current intangible assets are included in "Prepayments and other," and
      long-term intangible assets are included in "Intangibles" on the Balance
      Sheet.

Amortization expense was approximately $1 million for 2003 and 2002. Amortization
      expense is estimated at $1 million per year for 2004 through 2008.

Goodwill

(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)

The changes in the carrying amounts of goodwill by segment were as follows:

(a)

The Delivery segment is not part of
            PPL Energy Supply.

(b)

See Note 9 for additional information.

Goodwill is included in "Goodwill" on the Balance Sheet.

The reporting units of the Supply, Delivery and International segments
      completed the transition impairment test in the first quarter of 2002. A
      transition goodwill impairment loss of $150 million was recognized in the
      Latin American reporting unit within the International segment, and is reported
      as a "Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting Principles" on the Statement
      of Income. The fair value of the reporting unit was estimated using the
      expected present value of future cash flows.

In December 2003, the PPL Global Board of Managers authorized the sale
      of its investment in a Latin American telecommunications company. As a result
      of this decision, PPL Global wrote off $6 million of goodwill.

Reconciliation of Prior Periods to Exclude Amortization

(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)

The following table reconciles reported earnings for 2001 to earnings adjusted
      to exclude amortization expense related to goodwill and equity method goodwill.
      Those expenses were no longer recorded in 2002 or 2003 in accordance with
      SFAS 142. PPL and PPL Energy Supply were not affected by changes in amortization
      periods for other intangible assets.

(PPL Electric and PPL Montana)

PPL Electric and PPL Montana had no goodwill at December 31, 2003,
      2002 and 2001. The adoption of SFAS 142 would not have affected prior period
      earnings of PPL Electric and PPL Montana.

Strategic Initiative

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Electric)

In August 2001, PPL completed a strategic initiative to confirm the structural
      separation of PPL Electric from PPL and PPL's other affiliated companies.
      This initiative enabled PPL Electric to reduce business risk by securing
      a supply contract adequate to meet its PLR obligations, enabled PPL Electric
      to lower its capital costs, enabled PPL EnergyPlus to lock in an electric
      supply agreement at current favorable prices, and enabled PPL to raise capital
      at attractive rates for its unregulated businesses, while allowing PPL to
      retain valuable advantages related to operating both energy supply and energy
      delivery businesses.

In connection with this initiative, PPL Electric:

The enhancements to PPL Electric's legal separation from its affiliates
      are intended to minimize the risk that a court would order PPL Electric's
      assets and liabilities to be substantively consolidated with those of PPL
      or another affiliate of PPL in the event that PPL or another PPL affiliate
      were to become a debtor in a bankruptcy case.

At a special meeting of PPL Electric's shareowners held on July 17, 2001,
      the plan of division and the amendments to PPL Electric's Articles of Incorporation
      and Bylaws were approved, and became effective upon filing the articles
      of division and the plan of division with the Secretary of State of the
      Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. This filing was made in August 2001.

As part of the strategic initiative, PPL Electric solicited bids to contract
      with energy suppliers to meet its obligation to deliver energy to its customers
      from 2002 through 2009. In June 2001, PPL Electric announced that PPL EnergyPlus
      was the low bidder, among six bids examined, and was selected to provide
      the energy supply requirements of PPL Electric from 2002 through 2009. Under
      this contract, PPL EnergyPlus will provide electricity at pre-determined
      capped prices that PPL Electric is authorized to charge its PLR customers,
      and received a $90 million payment to offset differences between the revenues
      expected under the capped prices and projected market prices through the
      life of the supply agreement (as projected by PPL EnergyPlus at the time
      of its bid). The contract resulted in PPL EnergyPlus having an eight-year
      contract at current market prices. PPL has guaranteed the obligations of
      PPL EnergyPlus under the new contract.

In July 2001, the energy supply contract was approved by the PUC and accepted
      for filing by the FERC.

Also in July 2001,

PPL Electric filed a shelf registration statement
      with the SEC to issue up to $900 million in debt. In August 2001, PPL Electric
      sold $800 million of senior secured bonds under this registration statement.
      The offering consisted of two series of bonds: $300 million of 5-7/8% Series
      due 2007 and $500 million of 6-1/4% Series due 2009. PPL Electric used a
      portion of the proceeds from these debt issuances to make the $90 million
      up-front payment to PPL EnergyPlus, and $280 million was used to repurchase
      a portion of its common stock from PPL. The remainder of the proceeds was
      used for general corporate purposes.

Taken collectively, the steps in the strategic initiative were intended
      to protect the customers of PPL Electric from volatile energy prices and
      lower its cost of capital. PPL's shareowners also benefited from this initiative
      because it provided low-cost capital to the higher-growth, unregulated side
      of PPL's business.

Workforce Reduction

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL Montana)

In an effort to improve operational efficiency and reduce costs, PPL and
      its subsidiaries commenced a workforce reduction assessment in June 2002
      that was expected to eliminate up to 598 employees, or about 7% of PPL's
      U.S. workforce, at an estimated cost of $74 million. The program was broad-based
      and impacted all employee groups except certain positions that are key to
      providing high-quality service to PPL's electricity delivery customers.
      Linemen, electricians and line foremen, for example, were not affected by
      the reductions. An additional $1 million workforce reduction charge was
      recorded in September 2002, when plans specific to PPL Global and PPL Montana
      subsidiaries were finalized which were expected to impact 26 employees.
      These additional reductions increased PPL's total charge for workforce reductions
      to $75 million for the elimination of up to 624 positions.

PPL recorded the charges in the Statement of Income as "Workforce reduction"
      for the year ended December 31, 2002. These charges reduced net income by
      $44 million after taxes. The program provides primarily for enhanced early
      retirement benefits and/or one-time special pension separation allowances
      based on an employee's age and years of service. These features of the program
      will be paid from the PPL Retirement Plan pension trust and increased PPL's
      pension and postretirement benefit liabilities by $65 million. The remaining
      $10 million of costs related primarily to non-pension benefits, such as
      severance payments and outplacement costs, which will be paid by PPL.

PPL Energy Supply expected to ultimately eliminate up to 221 employees
      and recorded charges of $40 million in June 2002 and $1 million in September
      2002. These charges reduced net income by $24 million for the year ended
      December 31, 2002. Included in these charges was a $10 million allocation
      of costs associated with the elimination of employees of PPL Services.

PPL Electric expected to ultimately eliminate up to 260 employees and recorded
      a charge of $33 million, which reduced net income by $19 million for the
      year ended December 31, 2002. Included in the charge was a $6 million allocation
      of costs associated with the elimination of employees of PPL Services.

In the third quarter of 2003, PPL Electric recorded an additional $9 million,
      or $5 million after-tax, charge for the completion of the workforce reduction
      program that commenced in 2002. This additional charge covers the final
      94 employees anticipated to be separated as part of the Automated Meter
      Reader implementation project. The charge was related to pension enhancements,
      which will be paid from the PPL Retirement Plan pension trust.

PPL Montana expected to ultimately eliminate up to ten employees and recorded
      an insignificant charge for the year ended December 31, 2002.

As of December 31, 2003, 490 employees of PPL subsidiaries were terminated.
      Approximately 129 positions, which are primarily bargaining unit, will be
      evaluated for termination over the next six months, due to the timing of
      the Automated Meter Reader implementation and the displacement process under
      the bargaining unit contract. Substantially all of the accrued non-pension
      benefits have been paid.

Asset Retirement Obligations

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL Montana)

In 2001, the FASB issued SFAS 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations,"
      which addresses the accounting for obligations associated with the retirement
      of tangible long-lived assets. SFAS 143 requires legal obligations associated
      with the retirement of long-lived assets to be recognized as a liability
      in the financial statements. The initial obligation should be measured at
      the estimated fair value. An equivalent amount should be recorded as an
      increase in the value of the capitalized asset and allocated to expense
      over the useful life of the asset. Until the obligation is settled, the
      liability should be increased, through the recognition of accretion expense
      in the income statement, for changes in the obligation due to the passage
      of time.

(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)

PPL and PPL Energy Supply adopted SFAS 143 effective January 1, 2003. Application
      of the new rules resulted in an increase in net PP&E of $32 million,
      reversal of previously recorded liabilities of $304 million, recognition
      of asset retirement obligations of $229 million, recognition of a deferred
      tax liability of $44 million and a cumulative effect of adoption that increased
      net income by $63 million or $0.36 per share. In 2003, as a result of applying
      SFAS 143, PPL and PPL Energy Supply recognized $18 million of accretion
      expense and an insignificant amount of depreciation expense.

PPL and PPL Energy Supply identified various legal obligations to retire
      long-lived assets, the largest of which relates to the decommissioning of
      the Susquehanna station. PPL and PPL Energy Supply identified and recorded
      other asset retirement obligations related to significant interim retirements
      at the Susquehanna station, and various environmental requirements for coal
      piles, ash basins and other waste basin retirements.

PPL and PPL Energy Supply also identified legal retirement obligations
      that were not measurable at this time. These items included the retirement
      of certain transmission assets and a reservoir. These retirement obligations
      were not measurable due to indeterminable dates of retirement.

Amounts collected from PPL Electric's customers for decommissioning, less
      applicable taxes, are deposited in external trust funds for investment and
      can only be used for future decommissioning costs. The fair value of the
      nuclear decommissioning trust was $357 million and $287 million as of December
      31, 2003 and 2002.

PPL's and PPL Energy Supply's asset retirement obligations are included
      in "Deferred Credits and Other Noncurrent Liabilities - Other" on the Balance
      Sheet. The changes in the carrying amounts of asset retirement obligations
      were as follows:

(PPL Electric)

PPL Electric adopted SFAS 143 effective January 1, 2003 and did not record
      any asset retirement obligations upon adoption. PPL Electric identified
      legal retirement obligations for the retirement of certain transmission
      assets that were not measurable at this time due to indeterminable dates
      of retirement.

(PPL Montana)

PPL Montana adopted SFAS 143 effective January 1, 2003. PPL Montana recorded
      asset retirement obligations associated with various environmental requirements
      for coal piles, ash basins and other waste basin retirements. The impact
      of these asset retirement obligations was insignificant.

Reconciliation of Prior Annual Periods

(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)

The pro forma asset retirement obligation liability balances, calculated
      as if SFAS 143 had been adopted on January 1, 2001 (rather than January
      1, 2003), were $229 million, $211 million and $196 million as of December
      31, 2002, December 31, 2001 and January 1, 2001.

The pro forma income statement effects of the application of SFAS 143,
      calculated as if it had been adopted prior to January 1, 2001 (rather than
      January 1, 2003) are presented below:

New Accounting Standards

SFAS 143

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL Montana)

See Note 21 for a discussion of SFAS 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement
      Obligations," and the impact of its adoption.

SFAS 146

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL Montana)

In 2002, the FASB issued SFAS 146, "Accounting for Costs Associated with
      Exit or Disposal Activities." SFAS 146 addresses financial accounting and
      reporting for costs associated with exit or disposal activities and nullifies
      EITF Issue No. 94-3, "Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination
      Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred
      in a Restructuring)." SFAS 146 requires the recognition of a liability for
      costs associated with exit or disposal activities when the liability is
      incurred rather than at the date of a commitment to an exit or disposal
      plan. SFAS 146 also establishes that the initial liability should be measured
      at its estimated fair value. The provisions of SFAS 146 are effective for
      exit or disposal activities initiated after December 31, 2002, with earlier
      application encouraged. PPL and its subsidiaries adopted SFAS 146 effective
      January 1, 2003. SFAS 146 did not have an impact on PPL or its subsidiaries
      during 2003.

SFAS 148

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL Montana)

In 2002, the FASB issued SFAS 148, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
      - Transition and Disclosure, an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 123." SFAS
      148 provides three transition methods for adopting the fair value method
      of accounting for stock-based compensation prescribed under SFAS 123 and
      enhances the required disclosures regarding stock-based compensation effective
      for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2002. SFAS 148 also requires
      certain disclosures in financial reports issued for interim periods beginning
      after December 15, 2002.

PPL and its subsidiaries elected to adopt the fair value method of accounting
      for stock-based compensation as of January 1, 2003 using the prospective
      method of transition, as permitted by SFAS 148. The prospective method provides
      that PPL and its subsidiaries will recognize expense for all stock-based
      compensation awards granted, modified or settled on or after January 1,
      2003. See Note 1 for a discussion of the change in accounting for stock-based
      compensation and the disclosures required by SFAS 148.

SFAS 149

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Montana)

See Note 17 for a discussion of SFAS 149, "Amendment of Statement 133 on
      Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," and the impact of its adoption.

SFAS 150

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL Montana)

In May 2003, the FASB issued SFAS 150, "Accounting for Certain Financial
      Instruments with Characteristics of Both Liabilities and Equity." SFAS 150
      establishes standards for classifying and measuring certain financial instruments
      that have characteristics of both liabilities and equity. The standards
      established by it require certain financial instruments that, under previous
      guidance, could be classified as equity or "mezzanine" equity to now be
      classified as liabilities on the balance sheet. SFAS 150 requires the following
      freestanding financial instruments to be classified as liabilities (or assets
      in some circumstances):

•

mandatorily redeemable financial instruments,

•

financial instruments that embody obligations
            to repurchase equity shares in exchange for cash or other assets,
            including written put options and forward purchase contracts, and

•

certain financial instruments that embody
            obligations to issue a variable number of shares.

SFAS 150 also requires disclosure regarding the nature and terms of those
      instruments and settlement alternatives. Except as discussed below, SFAS
      150 is effective for all financial instruments entered into or modified
      after May 31, 2003 and is otherwise effective at the beginning of the first
      interim period beginning after June 15, 2003. In November 2003, the FASB
      issued FSP FAS 150-3, "Effective Date, Disclosures, and Transition for Mandatorily
      Redeemable Financial Instruments of Certain Nonpublic Entities and Certain
      Mandatorily Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests under FASB Statement No.
      150, 'Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics
      of Both Liabilities and Equity,' " which, as it relates to public entities,
      deferred indefinitely certain provisions of SFAS 150 related to certain
      mandatorily redeemable noncontrolling interests. SFAS 150 prohibits the
      restatement of financial statements for periods prior to its adoption.

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Electric)

In accordance with SFAS 150, effective July 1, 2003, PPL changed its classification
      of the trust preferred securities of PPL Capital Funding Trust I, which
      were issued as a component of the PEPS Units, PPL Energy Supply changed
      its classification of the trust preferred securities issued by SIUK Capital
      Trust I and PPL Electric changed its classification of its preferred stock
      with sinking fund requirements. These securities are mandatorily redeemable
      financial instruments, as they require the issuer to redeem the securities
      for cash on a specified date. Thus, they should be classified as liabilities,
      as a component of long-term debt, instead of "mezzanine" equity, on the
      balance sheet. As of December 31, 2003, no amounts were included in long-term
      debt for any of these securities because of the following: PPL deconsolidated
      PPL Capital Funding Trust I in accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 46,
      "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No.
      51," PPL Energy Supply deconsolidated SIUK Capital Trust I in accordance
      with FIN 46 and there was no preferred stock with sinking fund requirements
      of PPL Electric outstanding (due to preferred stock redemptions discussed
      in Note 8). As a result of the deconsolidation of the trusts, the subordinated
      debt securities that support the trust preferred securities, rather than
      the trust preferred securities themselves, are reflected in long-term debt
      as of December 31, 2003. See "FIN 46 and FIN 46(R)" for a discussion of
      the deconsolidation of the trusts.

SFAS 150 also requires the distributions on these mandatorily redeemable
      securities to be included as a component of "Interest Expense" instead of
      "Distributions on Preferred Securities" in the Statement of Income effective
      July 1, 2003. "Interest Expense" for 2003 includes distributions on these
      securities totaling $27 million for PPL, $5 million for PPL Energy Supply
      and an insignificant amount for PPL Electric. Periods ending prior to July
      1, 2003 have not been restated to conform to these presentations since SFAS
      150 specifically prohibits the restatement of financial statements for periods
      prior to its adoption.

FIN 45

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL Montana)

In 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 45, "Guarantor's Accounting
      and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees
      of Indebtedness of Others, an Interpretation of FASB Statements No. 5, 57,
      and 107 and Rescission of FASB Interpretation No. 34." FIN 45 clarifies
      that upon issuance of certain types of guarantees, the guarantor must recognize
      an initial liability for the fair value of the obligation it assumes under
      the guarantee. The offsetting entry will be dependent upon the circumstances
      under which the guarantee is issued, and the initial liability should typically
      be reduced as the guarantor is released from risk under the guarantee. FIN
      45 also requires a guarantor to make significant new disclosures for guarantees
      even if the likelihood of the guarantor's having to make payments is remote.
      The provisions relating to the initial recognition and measurement of guarantee
      obligations must be applied on a prospective basis for guarantees issued
      or modified after December 31, 2002. PPL and its subsidiaries adopted FIN
      45 effective January 1, 2003. FIN 45 did not have a significant impact on
      earnings in 2003. See Note 14 for disclosure of guarantees and other assurances
      existing as of December 31, 2003.

FIN 46 and FIN 46(R)

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and
      PPL Montana)

In January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 46, "Consolidation
      of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51." FIN 46
      clarifies that variable interest entities, as defined therein, that do not
      disperse risks among the parties involved should be consolidated by the
      entity that is determined to be the primary beneficiary. FIN 46 also requires
      certain disclosures to be made by the primary beneficiary and by an enterprise
      that holds a significant variable interest in a variable interest entity
      but is not the primary beneficiary. FIN 46 applies immediately to variable
      interest entities created after January 31, 2003 and to variable interest
      entities in which an enterprise obtains an interest after January 31, 2003.
      For variable interest entities in which an enterprise holds a variable interest
      that was acquired before February 1, 2003, FIN 46 was originally required
      to be adopted no later than the first fiscal year or interim period beginning
      after June 15, 2003. However, in October 2003, the FASB issued FSP FIN 46-6,
      "Effective Date of FASB Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable
      Interest Entities," which delayed the effective date for applying the provisions
      of FIN 46 to interests held by public entities in variable interest entities
      or potential variable interest entities created before February 1, 2003
      until the end of the first interim period ending after December 15, 2003.

In December 2003, the FASB revised FIN 46 by issuing Interpretation No.
      46 (revised December 2003), which is known as FIN 46(R) and replaces FIN
      46. FIN 46(R) does not change the general consolidation concepts of FIN
      46. Among other things, FIN 46(R) again changes the effective date for applying
      the provisions of FIN 46 to certain entities, clarifies certain provisions
      of FIN 46 and provides additional scope exceptions for certain types of
      businesses. For entities to which the provisions of FIN 46 have not been
      applied as of December 24, 2003, FIN 46(R) provides that a public entity
      that is not a small business issuer should apply the provisions of FIN 46
      or FIN 46(R) as follows: (i) FIN 46(R) shall be applied to all entities
      no later than the end of the first reporting period that ends after March
      15, 2004, and (ii) FIN 46 or FIN 46(R) should be applied to entities that
      are considered to be SPEs no later than the end of the first reporting period
      that ends after December 15, 2003.

As permitted by FIN 46(R), PPL and its subsidiaries adopted FIN 46 effective
      December 31, 2003 for entities created before February 1, 2003 that are
      considered to be SPEs. This adoption resulted in the consolidation of the
      lessors under the operating leases for the Sundance, University Park and
      Lower Mt. Bethel generation facilities, as well as the deconsolidation of
      two wholly-owned trusts. See below for further discussion. Also, as permitted
      by FIN 46(R), PPL and its subsidiaries deferred the application of FIN 46
      for other entities and plans to adopt FIN 46(R) for all entities on March
      31, 2004.

PPL and its subsidiaries are in the process of evaluating entities in which
      they hold a variable interest in accordance with FIN 46(R). PPL and its
      subsidiaries are currently not aware of any variable interest entities that
      are not consolidated as of December 31, 2003 but which they will be required
      to consolidate in accordance with FIN 46(R) effective March 31, 2004. As
      they continue to evaluate the impact of applying FIN 46(R), PPL and its
      subsidiaries may identify additional entities that they would need to consolidate.

(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)

Additional Entities Consolidated

The lessors under the operating leases for the Sundance, University Park
      and Lower Mt. Bethel generation facilities are variable interest entities
      that are considered to be SPEs. PPL Energy Supply is the primary beneficiary
      of these entities. Consequently, PPL Energy Supply was required to consolidate
      the financial statements of the lessors effective December 31, 2003. Upon
      initial consolidation, PPL Energy Supply recognized $1.1 billion of additional
      assets and liabilities on its balance sheet and a charge of $27 million,
      after-tax, as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle. The
      additional assets consist principally of the generation facilities, and
      the additional liabilities consist principally of the lease financing. See
      below for a discussion of the leases.

In May 2001, a subsidiary of PPL Energy Supply entered into a lease arrangement,
      as lessee, for the development, construction and operation of commercial
      power generation facilities. The lessor was created for the sole purpose
      of owning the facilities and incurring the related financing costs. The
      $660 million operating lease arrangement covers the 450 MW gas-powered Sundance
      project near Coolidge, Arizona and the 540 MW gas-powered University Park
      project near University Park, Illinois. These facilities were substantially
      complete in July 2002, at which time the initial lease term commenced. See
      the Statement of Long-term Debt for a discussion of the related financing.

In December 2001, another subsidiary of PPL Energy Supply entered into
      a $455 million operating lease arrangement, as lessee, for the development,
      construction and operation of a 600 MW gas-fired combined-cycle generation
      facility located in Lower Mt. Bethel Township, Northampton County, Pennsylvania.
      The lessor was created for the sole purpose of owning the facilities and
      incurring the related financing costs. The initial lease term commences
      on the date of commercial operation, which is expected to occur in 2004,
      and ends in December 2013. See the Statement of Long-term Debt for a discussion
      of the related financing.

Entities Deconsolidated

Effective December 31, 2003, PPL deconsolidated PPL Capital Funding Trust
      I, and PPL Energy Supply deconsolidated SIUK Capital Trust I. These trusts
      are considered to be SPEs and were deconsolidated because PPL and PPL Energy
      Supply are not the primary beneficiaries of the trusts under current interpretations
      of FIN 46. Therefore, the "Company-obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred
      Securities of Subsidiary Trusts Holding Solely Company Debentures" amounting
      to $661 million (for PPL) and $86 million (for PPL Energy Supply), which
      would have been recorded as a component of long-term debt in 2003 in accordance
      with SFAS 150 if the trusts were consolidated, are not reflected in PPL's
      and PPL Energy Supply's Balance Sheet at December 31, 2003. Instead, the
      subordinated debt securities that support the trust preferred securities
      are reflected in "Long-term Debt with Affiliate Trust(s)" as of December
      31, 2003. See below for further discussion.

The trusts hold subordinated debt securities of PPL Capital Funding, in
      the case of PPL Capital Funding Trust I, and WPD LLP, in the case of SIUK
      Capital Trust I. As a result of deconsolidating the trusts, the subordinated
      debt securities are no longer eliminated in the consolidated financial statements.
      As of December 31, 2003, $681 million is reflected as "Long-term Debt with
      Affiliate Trusts" in PPL's Balance Sheet, and $89 million is reflected as
      "Long-term Debt with Affiliate Trust" in PPL Energy Supply's Balance Sheet.

The effect on the Balance Sheet as a result of deconsolidating the trusts
      was an increase in both total assets and total liabilities of $21 million
      for PPL and $3 million for PPL Energy Supply. The increase in assets relates
      to the investments in the common securities of the trusts, which are no
      longer eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. The increase
      in liabilities consists primarily of the difference between the carrying
      value of the preferred securities issued by the trusts compared to the carrying
      value of the subordinated debt securities of PPL Capital Funding and WPD
      LLP. The deconsolidation of the trusts did not impact the earnings of PPL
      and PPL Energy Supply.

See the Statement of Company-Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Securities
      for a discussion of the trusts and their preferred securities, as well as
      the subordinated debt securities issued to the trusts.

EITF 03-11

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Montana)

In August 2003, the FASB ratified EITF 03-11, "Reporting Realized Gains
      and Losses on Derivative Instruments That Are Subject to FASB Statement
      No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, and
      Not 'Held for Trading Purposes' as Defined in EITF Issue No. 02-3, 'Issues
      Involved in Accounting for Derivative Contracts Held for Trading Purposes
      and Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities'."
      EITF 03-11 addresses whether realized gains and losses on physically settled
      derivative contracts not "held for trading purposes" should be reported
      in the income statement on a gross or net basis. It requires that each entity
      make this determination for itself based on the relevant facts and circumstances
      in the context of the various activities of the entity rather than based
      solely on the terms of the individual contracts. EITF 03-11 is effective
      for transactions entered into on or after October 1, 2003. See Note 17 for
      a discussion of the impact of the adoption of EITF 03-11.

FSP FAS 106-1

(PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL Montana)

See Note 12 for a discussion of FSP FAS 106-1, "Accounting and Disclosure
      Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and
      Modernization Act of 2003."

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS
  WITH ACCOUNTANTS

ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

PPL Corporation, PPL Energy Supply, LLC, PPL Electric Utilities Corporation
  and PPL Montana, LLC

None.

PART III to Exhibit Index

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE
  OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

PPL Corporation

Additional information for this item will be set forth in the sections entitled
  "Nominees for Directors," "Directors Continuing in Office," "Section 16(a) Beneficial
  Ownership Reporting Compliance" and "Board Committees - Audit Committee" in
  PPL's 2004 Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement, which will be filed
  with the SEC not later than 120 days after December 31, 2003, and which
  information is incorporated herein by reference. Information required by this
  item concerning the executive officers of PPL is set forth at the end of Part
  I of this report.

PPL has adopted a code of ethics entitled "Standards of Conduct and Integrity"
  that applies to all directors, managers, trustees, officers (including the principal
  executive officers, principal financial officers and principal accounting officers),
  employees and agents of PPL and PPL's subsidiaries for which it has operating
  control (including PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric and PPL Montana). The "Standards
  of Conduct and Integrity" are posted on PPL's Internet Web site:

www.pplweb.com/corporategovernance.htm

and are available in print to any shareholder who requests them.

PPL also has adopted its "Guidelines of Corporate Governance," which address,
  among other things, director qualification standards and director and board
  committee responsibilities. These guidelines, and the charters of each of the
  committees of PPL's board of directors, are posted on PPL's Internet Web site:

www.pplweb.com/corporategovernance.htm

and are available in print to
  any shareholder who requests them.

PPL Energy Supply, LLC

Item 10 is omitted as PPL Energy Supply meets the conditions set forth in General
  Instruction (I)(1)(a) and (b) of Form 10-K.

PPL Electric Utilities Corporation

Information for this item will be set forth in the sections entitled "Nominees
  for Directors" and "Directors Continuing in Office" in PPL Electric's 2004 Notice
  of Annual Meeting and Information Statement, which will be filed with the SEC
  not later than 120 days after December 31, 2003, and which information
  is incorporated herein by reference. Information required by this item concerning
  the executive officers of PPL Electric is set forth at the end of Part I of
  this report.

PPL Montana, LLC

Item 10 is omitted as PPL Montana meets the conditions set forth in General
  Instruction (I)(1)(a) and (b) of Form 10-K.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATIONx

PPL Corporation

Information for this item will be set forth in the sections entitled "Compensation
  of Directors," "Board Committees - Audit Committee," "Summary Compensation Table,"
  "Option Grants in Last Fiscal Year" and "Retirement Plans for Executive Officers"
  in PPL's 2004 Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement, which will be filed
  with the SEC not later than 120 days after December 31, 2003, and which
  information is incorporated herein by reference.

PPL Energy Supply, LLC

Item 11 is omitted as PPL Energy Supply meets the conditions set forth in General
  Instruction (I)(1)(a) and (b) of Form 10-K.

PPL Electric Utilities Corporation

Information for this item will be set forth in the sections entitled "Compensation
  of Directors," "Summary Compensation Table," "Option Grants in Last Fiscal Year"
  and "Retirement Plans for Executive Officers" in PPL Electric's 2004 Notice
  of Annual Meeting and Information Statement, which will be filed with the SEC
  not later than 120 days after December 31, 2003, and which information
  is incorporated herein by reference.

PPL Montana, LLC

Item 11 is omitted as PPL Montana meets the conditions set forth in General
  Instruction (I)(1)(a) and (b) of Form 10-K.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN
  BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

PPL Corporation

Information for this item will be set forth in the section entitled "Stock
  Ownership" in PPL's 2004 Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement, which
  will be filed with the SEC not later than 120 days after December 31, 2003,
  and which information is incorporated herein by reference. In addition, provided
  below in tabular format is information as of December 31, 2003 with respect
  to compensation plans (including individual compensation arrangements) under
  which equity securities of PPL are authorized for issuance.

Equity Compensation Plan Information

Includes (a) the Amended and Restated Incentive Compensation Plan (ICP),
    under which stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, dividend
    equivalents and other stock-based awards may be awarded to executive officers
    of PPL; (b) the Amended and Restated Incentive Compensation Plan for Key Employees
    (ICPKE), under which stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units,
    dividend equivalents and other stock-based awards may be awarded to non-executive
    key employees of PPL and its subsidiaries; and (c) the Directors Deferred
    Compensation Plan (DDCP), under which stock units may be awarded to directors
    of PPL. See Note 11 to the financial statements for additional information.

All of PPL's current compensation plans under which equity securities of
    PPL are authorized for issuance have been approved by PPL's shareholders.

Relates to common stock issuable upon the exercise of stock options awarded
    under the ICP and ICPKE as of December 31, 2003. In addition, as of December
    31, 2003, the following other securities had been awarded and are outstanding
    under the ICP, DDCP and ICPKE: 182,653 shares of restricted stock under the
    ICP; 308,361 shares of restricted stock and 135,078 restricted stock units
    under the ICPKE; and 77,428 stock units under the DDCP.

Based upon the following aggregate award limitations under the ICP, ICPKE
    and DDCP: (a) under the ICP, 7,884,715 awards (i.e., 5% of the total PPL common
    stock outstanding as of April 23, 1999) granted after April 23, 1999; (b)
    under the ICPKE, 8,286,804 awards (i.e., 5% of the total PPL common stock
    outstanding as of January 1, 2003) granted after April 25, 2003, reduced by
    outstanding awards for which common stock was not yet issued as of such date;
    and (c) under the DDCP, 7,526,428 securities. In addition, each of the ICP
    and ICPKE includes an annual award limitation of 2% of total PPL common stock
    outstanding as of January 1 of each year.

PPL Energy Supply, LLC

Item 12 is omitted as PPL Energy Supply meets the conditions set forth in General
  Instruction (I)(1)(a) and (b) of Form 10-K.

PPL Electric Utilities Corporation

Information for this item will be set forth in the section entitled "Stock
  Ownership" in PPL Electric's 2004 Notice of Annual Meeting and Information Statement,
  which will be filed with the SEC not later than 120 days after December 31,
  2003, and which information is incorporated herein by reference.

PPL Montana, LLC

Item 12 is omitted as PPL Montana meets the conditions set forth in General
  Instruction (I)(1)(a) and (b) of Form 10-K.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND
  RELATED TRANSACTIONS

PPL Corporation

None.

PPL Energy Supply, LLC

Item 13 is omitted as PPL Energy Supply meets the conditions set forth in General
  Instruction (I)(1)(a) and (b) of Form 10-K.

PPL Electric Utilities Corporation

None.

PPL Montana, LLC

Item 13 is omitted as PPL Montana meets the conditions set forth in General
  Instruction (I)(1)(a) and (b) of Form 10-K.

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES
  AND SERVICES

PPL Corporation

Information for this item will be set forth in the section entitled "Fees to
  Independent Auditor for 2003 and 2002" in PPL's 2004 Notice of Annual Meeting
  and Proxy Statement, which will be filed with the SEC not later than 120 days
  after December 31, 2003, and which information is incorporated herein by reference.

PPL Energy Supply, LLC

Audit Fees

The aggregate fees billed by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP for the fiscal years
  ended December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002 for professional services rendered
  for the audit of PPL Energy Supply's annual financial statements and review
  of financial statements included in PPL Energy Supply's Quarterly Reports on
  Form 10-Q and for services in connection with statutory and regulatory filings
  or engagements, including comfort letters and consents for financings and filings
  made with the SEC, for those fiscal years were $1,576,000 and $1,284,000, respectively.

Audit-Related Fees

The aggregate fees billed for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2003 and
  December 31, 2002 for assurance and related services rendered by PricewaterhouseCoopers
  LLP that are related to the performance of the audit or review of PPL Energy
  Supply's financial statements were $116,000 and $217,000, respectively. These
  services principally related to audits of employee benefit plans and consultation
  to ensure appropriate accounting and reporting in connection with various business
  and financing transactions.

Tax Fees

The aggregate fees billed for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2003 and
  December 31, 2002 for professional services rendered by PricewaterhouseCoopers
  LLP for tax-related services were $792,000 and $1,386,000, respectively. These
  fees principally related to international tax consulting and advisory services.

All Other Fees

There were no additional fees billed by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP for the
  fiscal year ended December 31, 2003. The aggregate fees billed by PricewaterhouseCoopers
  LLP for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002 for services rendered to PPL
  Energy Supply other than the Audit Fees, Audit-Related Fees and Tax Fees included
  above were $355,000. These fees related to financial information system implementation
  and design services at an international affiliate. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
  no longer provides this type of service for PPL Energy Supply or any of its
  affiliates.

During 2002, the Audit Committee of PPL adopted procedures for pre-approving
  audit and non-audit services to be provided by the independent auditor for PPL
  and its subsidiaries. The procedures are designed to safeguard the continued
  independence of the independent auditor. More specifically, the use of the independent
  auditor to perform either audit or non-audit services is prohibited unless specifically
  approved in advance by the Audit Committee of PPL. As a result of this approval
  process, the Audit Committee of PPL has established specific categories of services
  and authorization levels. All services outside of the specified categories and
  all amounts exceeding the authorization levels are reviewed by the Chair of
  the Audit Committee of PPL, who serves as the Committee designee to review and
  approve audit and non-audit related services during the year. A listing of the
  approved audit and non-audit services is reviewed with the full Audit Committee
  of PPL no later than at its next meeting.

The Audit Committee of PPL reviewed all 2003 and 2002 audit and non-audit related
  fees. Since July 2002, when the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 was signed into law,
  the Audit Committee of PPL approved 100% of all fees. There
  were no services provided by the independent auditor during that time that would
  fall within the All Other Fees category.

PPL Electric Utilities Corporation

Information for this item will be set forth in the section entitled "Fees to
  Independent Auditor for 2003 and 2002" in PPL Electric's 2004 Notice of Annual
  Meeting and Information Statement, which will be filed with the SEC not later
  than 120 days after December 31, 2003, and which information is incorporated
  herein by reference.

PPL Montana, LLC

Audit Fees

The aggregate fees billed by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP for the fiscal years
  ended December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002 for professional services rendered
  for the audit of PPL Montana's annual financial statements and review of financial
  statements included in PPL Montana's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and for
  services in connection with statutory and regulatory filings or engagements,
  including comfort letters and consents for financings and filings made with
  the SEC, for those fiscal years were $131,000 and $135,000, respectively.

Audit-Related Fees

The aggregate fees billed for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2003 and
  December 31, 2002 for assurance and related services rendered by PricewaterhouseCoopers
  LLP that are related to the performance of the audit or review of PPL Montana's
  financial statements, were $8,000 and $7,000, respectively. These services principally
  related to audits of employee benefit plans.

Tax Fees

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP did not render any professional services for tax-related
  matters for PPL Montana for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2003 and December
  31, 2002.

All Other Fees

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP did not render any professional services for any
  other matters for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2003 and December 31,
  2002, other than the Audit Fees included above.

During 2002, the Audit Committee of PPL adopted procedures for pre-approving
  audit and non-audit services to be provided by the independent auditor for PPL
  and its subsidiaries. The procedures are designed to safeguard the continued
  independence of the independent auditor. More specifically, the use of the independent
  auditor to perform either audit or non-audit services is prohibited unless specifically
  approved in advance by the Audit Committee of PPL. As a result of this approval
  process, the Audit Committee of PPL has established specific categories of services
  and authorization levels. All services outside of the specified categories and
  all amounts exceeding the authorization levels are reviewed by the Chair of
  the Audit Committee of PPL, who serves as the Committee designee to review and
  approve audit and non-audit related services during the year. A listing of the
  approved audit and non-audit services is reviewed with the full Audit Committee
  of PPL no later than at its next meeting.

The Audit Committee of PPL reviewed all 2003 and 2002 audit and non-audit related
  fees. Since July 2002, when the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 was signed into law,
  the Audit Committee of PPL approved 100% of all fees. There were no services
  provided by the independent auditor during that time that would fall within
  Tax Fees or the All Other Fees category.

PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT

SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

SHAREOWNER AND INVESTOR INFORMATION

Annual Meetings:

The annual meeting of shareowners of PPL Corporation
  is held each year on the fourth Friday of April. The 2004 meeting for PPL Corporation
  will be held on Friday, April 23, 2004, at Lehigh University's Stabler Arena,
  at the Goodman Campus Complex located in Lower Saucon Township, outside Bethlehem,
  Pennsylvania. The 2004 meeting for PPL Electric will be held on Tuesday, April
  20, 2004, at the offices of the company at Two North Ninth Street, Allentown,
  Pennsylvania.

Proxy and Information Statement Material:

A proxy statement and information
  statement and notice of PPL's and PPL Electric's annual meetings are mailed
  to all shareowners of record as of February 27, 2004.

Dividends:

Subject to the declaration of dividends on PPL common stock
  by the PPL Board of Directors or its Executive Committee and PPL Electric preferred
  stock by the PPL Electric Board of Directors, dividends are paid on the first
  day of April, July, October and January. Dividend checks are mailed in advance
  of those dates with the intention that they arrive as close as possible to the
  payment dates. The 2004 record dates for dividends are expected to be March
  10, June 10, September 10, and December 10.

Direct Deposit of Dividends:

Shareowners may choose to have their dividend
  checks deposited directly into their checking or savings account. Quarterly
  dividend payments are electronically credited on the dividend date, or the first
  business day thereafter.

Dividend Reinvestment Plan:

Shareowners may choose to have dividends
  on their PPL common stock or PPL Electric preferred stock reinvested in PPL
  common stock instead of receiving the dividend by check.

Certificate Safekeeping:

Shareowners participating in the Dividend Reinvestment
  Plan may choose to have their common stock certificates forwarded to PPL for
  safekeeping.

Lost Dividend or Interest Checks:

Dividend or interest checks lost by
  investors, or those that may be lost in the mail, will be replaced if the check
  has not been located by the 10th business day following the payment date.

Transfer of Stock or Bonds:

Stock or bonds may be transferred from one
  name to another or to a new account in the name of another person. Please contact
  Investor Services regarding transfer instructions.

Bondholder Information:

Much of the information and many of the procedures
  detailed here for shareowners also apply to bondholders. Questions related to
  bondholder accounts should be directed to Investor Services.

Lost Stock or Bond Certificates:

Please contact Investor Services for
  an explanation of the procedure to replace lost stock or bond certificates.

PPL Annual Report:

Published and mailed in mid-March to all shareowners
  of record.

Periodic Mailings:

Letters regarding new investor programs, special
  items of interest, or other pertinent information are mailed on a non-scheduled
  basis as necessary.

Duplicate Mailings:

The annual report and other investor publications
  are mailed to each investor account. If you have more than one account, or if
  there is more than one investor in your household, you may contact Investor
  Services to request that only one publication be delivered to your address.
  Please provide account numbers for all duplicate mailings.

Shareowner Information Line:

Shareowners can get detailed corporate
  and financial information 24 hours a day using the Shareowner Information Line.
  They can hear timely recorded messages about earnings, dividends and other company
  news releases; request information by fax; and request printed materials in
  the mail.

The toll-free Shareowner Information Line is 1-800-345-3085.

Other PPL publications, such as the annual and quarterly reports to the Securities
  and Exchange Commission (Forms 10-K and 10-Q) will be mailed upon request.

Shareowners can also obtain information free of charge from PPL's Internet
  home page (www.pplweb.com). Shareowners can access PPL Securities and Exchange
  Commission filings, news releases, stock quotes and historical performance.
  Visitors to our Web site can provide their E-mail address and indicate their
  desire to receive future earnings or news releases automatically.

Investor Services:

For any questions you have or additional information
  you require about PPL and its subsidiaries, please call the Shareowner Information
  Line, or write to:

Internet Access:

For updated information throughout the year, check
  out our home page at http://www.pplweb.com. You may also contact Investor Services
  via E-mail at invserv@pplweb.com.

Registered shareowners can access account information by visiting shareowneronline.com.

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
  Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
  behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

PPL Corporation

(Registrant)

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
  Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
  behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

PPL Energy Supply, LLC

(Registrant)

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
  Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
  behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

PPL Electric Utilities Corporation

(Registrant)

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
  Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
  behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

PPL Montana, LLC

(Registrant)

EXHIBIT INDEX

The following Exhibits indicated by an asterisk preceding the Exhibit number
  are filed herewith. The balance of the Exhibits have heretofore been filed with
  the Commission and pursuant to Rule 12(b)-32 are incorporated herein by reference.
  Exhibits indicated by a [_] are filed or listed pursuant to Item 601(b)(10)(iii)
  of Regulation S-K.