10-K


ppl-1231201910k.htm

10-K

Document



Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

Common Stock of PPL Electric Utilities Corporation

Indicate by check mark if the registrants are a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.

Indicate by check mark if the registrants are not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.

Indicate by check mark whether the registrants (1) have filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrants were required to file such reports), and (2) have been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Indicate by check mark whether the registrants have submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrants were required to submit such files).


Indicate by check mark whether the registrants are large accelerated filers, accelerated filers, non-accelerated filers, smaller reporting companies or emerging growth companies. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer," "smaller reporting company" and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

If emerging growth companies, indicate by check mark if the registrants have elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act.

Indicate by check mark whether the registrants are shell companies (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).

As of June 28, 2019, PPL Corporation had

721,840,206

shares of its $0.01 par value Common Stock outstanding. The aggregate market value of these common shares (based upon the closing price of these shares on the New York Stock Exchange on that date) held by non-affiliates was

$

22,384,264,788

. As of January 31, 2020, PPL Corporation had

767,813,625

shares of its $0.01 par value Common Stock outstanding.

As of January 31, 2020, PPL Corporation held all

66,368,056

outstanding common shares, no par value, of PPL Electric Utilities Corporation.

PPL Corporation directly holds all of the membership interests in LG&E and KU Energy LLC.

As of January 31, 2020, LG&E and KU Energy LLC held all

21,294,223

outstanding common shares, no par value, of Louisville Gas and Electric Company.

As of January 31, 2020, LG&E and KU Energy LLC held all

37,817,878

outstanding common shares, no par value, of Kentucky Utilities Company.

PPL Electric Utilities Corporation, LG&E and KU Energy LLC, Louisville Gas and Electric Company and Kentucky Utilities Company meet the conditions set forth in General Instructions (I)(1)(a) and (b) of Form 10-K and are therefore filing this form with the reduced disclosure format.

Documents incorporated by reference:

PPL Corporation has incorporated herein by reference certain sections of PPL Corporation's 2020 Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission not later than 120 days after December 31, 2019. Such Statements will provide the information required by Part III of this Report.


PPL CORPORATION

PPL ELECTRIC UTILITIES CORPORATION

LG&E AND KU ENERGY LLC

LOUISVILLE GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY

KENTUCKY UTILITIES COMPANY

FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT TO

THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2019


This combined Form 10-K is separately filed by the following Registrants in their individual capacity: PPL Corporation, PPL Electric Utilities Corporation, LG&E and KU Energy LLC, Louisville Gas and Electric Company and Kentucky Utilities Company. Information contained herein relating to any individual Registrant is filed by such Registrant solely on its own behalf and no Registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other Registrant, except that information under "Forward-Looking Information" relating to subsidiaries of PPL Corporation is also attributed to PPL Corporation and information relating to the subsidiaries of LG&E and KU Energy LLC is also attributed to LG&E and KU Energy LLC.

Unless otherwise specified, references in this Report, individually, to PPL Corporation, PPL Electric Utilities Corporation, LG&E and KU Energy LLC, Louisville Gas and Electric Company and Kentucky Utilities Company are references to such entities directly or to one or more of their subsidiaries, as the case may be, the financial results of which subsidiaries are consolidated into such Registrants' financial statements in accordance with GAAP. This presentation has been applied where identification of particular subsidiaries is not material to the matter being disclosed, and to conform narrative disclosures to the presentation of financial information on a consolidated basis.




GLOSSARY OF TERMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

PPL Corporation and its subsidiaries

KU

- Kentucky Utilities Company, a public utility subsidiary of LKE engaged in the regulated generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity, primarily in Kentucky.

LG&E

- Louisville Gas and Electric Company, a public utility subsidiary of LKE engaged in the regulated generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity and the distribution and sale of natural gas in Kentucky.

LKE

- LG&E and KU Energy LLC, a subsidiary of PPL and the parent of LG&E, KU and other subsidiaries.

LKS -

LG&E and KU Services Company, a subsidiary of LKE that provides administrative, management and support services primarily to LKE and its subsidiaries.

PPL

- PPL Corporation, the parent holding company of PPL Electric, PPL Energy Funding, PPL Capital Funding, LKE and other subsidiaries.

PPL Capital Funding

- PPL Capital Funding, Inc., a financing subsidiary of PPL that provides financing for the operations of PPL and certain subsidiaries. Debt issued by PPL Capital Funding is guaranteed as to payment by PPL.

PPL Electric

- PPL Electric Utilities Corporation, a public utility subsidiary of PPL engaged in the regulated transmission and distribution of electricity in its Pennsylvania service area and that provides electricity supply to its retail customers in this area as a PLR.

PPL Energy Funding

- PPL Energy Funding Corporation, a subsidiary of PPL and the parent holding company of PPL Global and other subsidiaries.

PPL EU Services

- PPL EU Services Corporation, a subsidiary of PPL that provides administrative, management and support services primarily to PPL Electric.

PPL Global

- PPL Global, LLC, a subsidiary of PPL Energy Funding that, primarily through its subsidiaries, owns and operates WPD, PPL's regulated electricity distribution businesses in the U.K.

PPL Services

- PPL Services Corporation, a subsidiary of PPL that provides administrative, management and support services to PPL and its subsidiaries.

PPL WPD Limited

- an indirect U.K. subsidiary of PPL Global and an indirect parent to WPD plc.

Safari Energy

-

Safari Energy, LLC, an indirect subsidiary of PPL, acquired in June 2018, that provides solar energy solutions for commercial customers in the U.S.

WPD

-

refers to PPL WPD Limited and its subsidiaries.

WPD (East Midlands)

- Western Power Distribution (East Midlands) plc, a British regional electricity distribution utility company.

WPD plc

- Western Power Distribution plc, an indirect U.K. subsidiary of PPL WPD Limited. Its principal indirectly owned subsidiaries are WPD (East Midlands), WPD (South Wales), WPD (South West) and WPD (West Midlands).

WPD Midlands

-

refers to WPD (East Midlands) and WPD (West Midlands), collectively.

WPD

(South Wales)

- Western Power Distribution (South Wales) plc, a British regional electricity distribution utility company.

WPD

(South West)

- Western Power Distribution (South West) plc, a British regional electricity distribution utility company.

i


WPD (West Midlands)

-

Western Power Distribution (West Midlands) plc, a British regional electricity distribution utility company.

WKE

- Western Kentucky Energy Corp., a subsidiary of LKE that leased certain non-regulated utility generating plants in western Kentucky until July 2009.

Other terms and abbreviations

£

- British pound sterling.

401(h) account(s)

- a sub-account established within a qualified pension trust to provide for the payment of retiree medical costs.

Act 11

- Act 11 of 2012 that became effective on April 16, 2012. The Pennsylvania legislation authorized the PUC to approve two specific ratemaking mechanisms: the use of a fully projected future test year in base rate proceedings and, subject to certain conditions, a DSIC.

Act 129

- Act 129 of 2008 that became effective in October 2008. The law amended the Pennsylvania Public Utility Code and created an energy efficiency and conservation program and smart metering technology requirements, adopted new PLR electricity supply procurement rules, provided remedies for market misconduct and changed the Alternative Energy Portfolio Standard (AEPS).

Act 129 Smart Meter program

- PPL Electric's system-wide meter replacement program that installs wireless digital meters that provide secure communication between PPL Electric and the meter as well as all related infrastructure.

ADIT

- accumulated deferred income tax.

Adjusted Gross Margins

- a non-GAAP financial measure of performance used in "Item 7. Combined Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" (MD&A).

AFUDC

- allowance for funds used during construction. The cost of equity and debt funds used to finance construction projects of regulated businesses, which is capitalized as part of construction costs.

AIP

- annual iteration process.

AOCI

- accumulated other comprehensive income or loss.

ARO

- asset retirement obligation.

ATM Program

- at-the-market stock offering program.

Cane Run Unit 7

- a natural gas combined-cycle generating unit in Kentucky, jointly owned by LG&E and KU.

CCR(s)

-

coal combustion residual(s). CCRs include fly ash, bottom ash and sulfur dioxide scrubber wastes.

CDP

-

a not-for-profit organization based in the United Kingdom formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project; that runs the global disclosure system that enables investors, companies, cities, states and regions to measure and manage their environmental impacts.

Clean Air Act

- federal legislation enacted to address certain environmental issues related to air emissions, including acid rain, ozone and toxic air emissions.

Clean Water Act

- federal legislation enacted to address certain environmental issues relating to water quality including effluent discharges, cooling water intake, and dredge and fill activities.

CPCN

- Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity. Authority granted by the KPSC pursuant to Kentucky Revised Statute 278.020 to provide utility service to or for the public or the construction of certain plant, equipment, property or facility for furnishing of utility service to the public.

ii


CPI

-

consumer price index, a measure of inflation in the U.K. published monthly by the Office for National Statistics.

CPIH

- Consumer Price Index including owner-occupiers' housing costs. An aggregate measure of changes in the cost of living in the U.K., including a measure of owner-occupiers' housing costs.

Customer Choice Act

- the Pennsylvania Electricity Generation Customer Choice and Competition Act, legislation enacted to restructure the state's electric utility industry to create retail access to a competitive market for generation of electricity.

DDCP

- Directors Deferred Compensation Plan.

DNO

- Distribution Network Operator in the U.K.

DPCR5

- Distribution Price Control Review 5, the U.K. five-year rate review period applicable to WPD that commenced April 1, 2010.

DRIP

- PPL Amended and Restated Dividend Reinvestment and Direct Stock Purchase Plan.

DSIC

- Distribution System Improvement Charge. Authorized under Act 11, which is an alternative ratemaking mechanism providing more-timely cost recovery of qualifying distribution system capital expenditures.

DSM

-

Demand Side Management. Pursuant to Kentucky Revised Statute 278.285, the KPSC may determine the reasonableness of DSM programs proposed by any utility under its jurisdiction. DSM programs consist of energy efficiency programs intended to reduce peak demand and delay the investment in additional power plant construction, provide customers with tools and information regarding their energy usage and support energy efficiency.

DSO

- Distribution System Operation in the U.K. is the effective delivery of a range of functions and services that need to happen to run a smart electricity distribution network. These functions cover long-term network planning; operations, real-time processes and planning, and markets and settlement. This does not focus on a single party as an operator; but recognizes roles for a range of parties to deliver DSO.

DUoS

- Distribution Use of System. The charge to licensed third party energy suppliers who are WPD's customers and use WPD's networks to deliver electricity to their customers, the end-users.

Earnings from Ongoing Operations

-

a non-GAAP financial measure of earnings adjusted for the impact of special items and used in "Item 7. Combined Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" (MD&A).

EBPB

-

Employee Benefit Plan Board. The administrator of PPL's U.S. qualified retirement plans, which is charged with the fiduciary responsibility to oversee and manage those plans and the investments associated with those plans.

ECR

-

Environmental Cost Recovery. Pursuant to Kentucky Revised Statute 278.183, Kentucky electric utilities are entitled to the current recovery of costs of complying with the Clean Air Act, as amended, and those federal, state or local environmental requirements that apply to coal combustion wastes and by-products from the production of energy from coal.

ELG(s)

-

Effluent Limitation Guidelines, regulations promulgated by the EPA.

EPA

- Environmental Protection Agency, a U.S. government agency.

EPS

- earnings per share.

Fast pot

- Under RIIO-ED1, Totex costs that are recovered in the period they are incurred.

FERC

- Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the U.S. federal agency that regulates, among other things, interstate transmission and wholesale sales of electricity, hydroelectric power projects and related matters.

GAAP

- Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the U.S.

GBP

- British pound sterling.

iii


GHG(s)

- greenhouse gas(es).

GLT

-

gas line tracker. The KPSC approved mechanism for LG&E's recovery of costs associated with gas transmission lines, gas service lines, gas risers, leak mitigation, and gas main replacements.

GWh

- gigawatt-hour, one million kilowatt hours.

HB 487

- House Bill 487. Comprehensive Kentucky state tax legislation enacted on April 27, 2018.

ICP

- The PPL Incentive Compensation Plan. This plan provides for incentive compensation to PPL's executive officers and certain other senior executives. New awards under the ICP were suspended in 2012 upon adoption of PPL's 2012 Stock Incentive Plan.

ICPKE

- The PPL Incentive Compensation Plan for Key Employees. The ICPKE provides for incentive compensation to certain employees below the level of senior executive.

IRS

- Internal Revenue Service, a U.S. government agency.

IT

- Information Technology.

KPSC

- Kentucky Public Service Commission, the state agency that has jurisdiction over the regulation of rates and service of utilities in Kentucky.

KU 2010 Mortgage Indenture

- KU's Indenture, dated as of October 1, 2010, to The Bank of New York Mellon, as supplemented.

kVA

- kilovolt ampere.

kWh

- kilowatt hour, basic unit of electrical energy.

LCIDA

- Lehigh County Industrial Development Authority.

LG&E 2010 Mortgage Indenture

- LG&E's Indenture, dated as of October 1, 2010, to The Bank of New York Mellon, as supplemented.

LIBOR

- London Interbank Offered Rate.

Mcf

- one thousand cubic feet, a unit of measure for natural gas.

MMBtu

- one million British Thermal Units.

MOD

- a mechanism applied in the U.K. to adjust allowed base revenue in future periods for differences in prior periods between actual values and those in the agreed business plan.

Moody's

- Moody's Investors Service, Inc., a credit rating agency.

MW

- megawatt, one thousand kilowatts.

NAAQS

- National Ambient Air Quality Standards periodically adopted pursuant to the Clean Air Act.

NERC

- North American Electric Reliability Corporation.

New Source Review

- a Clean Air Act program that requires industrial facilities to install updated pollution control equipment when they are built or when making a modification that increases emissions beyond certain allowable thresholds.

NPNS

- the normal purchases and normal sales exception as permitted by derivative accounting rules. Derivatives that qualify for this exception may receive accrual accounting treatment.

OCI

- other comprehensive income or loss.

iv


Ofgem

- Office of Gas and Electricity Markets, the British agency that regulates transmission, distribution and wholesale sales of electricity and gas and related matters.

OVEC

-

Ohio Valley Electric Corporation, located in Piketon, Ohio, an entity in which LKE indirectly owns an 8.13% interest (consists of LG&E's 5.63% and KU's 2.50% interests), which is recorded at cost. OVEC owns and operates two coal-fired power plants, the Kyger Creek plant in Ohio and the Clifty Creek plant in Indiana, with combined capacities of 2,120 MW.

PEDFA

- Pennsylvania Economic Development Financing Authority.

Performance unit

- stock-based compensation award that represents a variable number of shares of PPL common stock that a recipient may receive based on PPL's attainment of (i) relative total shareowner return (TSR) over a three-year performance period as compared to companies in the Philadelphia Stock Exchange Utility Index; or (ii) corporate return on equity (ROE) based on the average of the annual ROE for each year of the three-year performance period.

PJM

- PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., operator of the electricity transmission network and electricity energy market in all or parts of Delaware, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Michigan, New Jersey, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Virginia, West Virginia and the District of Columbia.

PLR

- Provider of Last Resort, the role of PPL Electric in providing default electricity supply within its delivery area to retail customers who have not chosen to select an alternative electricity supplier under the Customer Choice Act.

PP&E

- property, plant and equipment.

PPL EnergyPlus

- prior to the June 1, 2015 spinoff of PPL Energy Supply, LLC, PPL EnergyPlus, LLC, a subsidiary of PPL Energy Supply that marketed and traded wholesale and retail electricity and gas, and supplied energy and energy services in competitive markets.

PPL Energy Supply

- prior to the June 1, 2015 spinoff, PPL Energy Supply, LLC, a subsidiary of PPL Energy Funding and the parent company of PPL EnergyPlus and other subsidiaries.

PPL Montana

- Prior to the June 1, 2015 spinoff of PPL Energy Supply, PPL Montana, LLC, an indirect subsidiary of PPL Energy Supply that generated electricity for wholesale sales in Montana and the Pacific Northwest.

PUC

- Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission, the state agency that regulates certain ratemaking, services, accounting and operations of Pennsylvania utilities.

RAV

- regulatory asset value. This term, used within the U.K. regulatory environment, is also commonly known as RAB or regulatory asset base. RAV is based on historical investment costs at time of privatization, plus subsequent allowed additions less annual regulatory depreciation, and represents the value on which DNOs earn a return in accordance with the regulatory cost of capital. RAV is indexed to Retail Price Index (RPI) in order to allow for the effects of inflation. RAV additions have been based on a percentage of annual total expenditures that have a long-term benefit to WPD (similar to capital projects for the U.S. regulated businesses that are generally included in rate base).

RCRA

- Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976.

Registrant(s)

- refers to the Registrants named on the cover of this Report (each a "Registrant" and collectively, the "Registrants").

Regulation S-X

- SEC regulation governing the form and content of and requirements for financial statements required to be filed pursuant to the federal securities laws.

RFC

- ReliabilityFirst Corporation, one of eight regional entities with delegated authority from NERC that work to safeguard the reliability of the bulk power systems throughout North America.

RIIO

- Ofgem's framework for setting U.K. regulated gas and electric utility price controls which stands for "Revenues = Incentive + Innovation + Outputs." RIIO-1 refers to the first generation of price controls under the RIIO framework. RIIO-ED1 refers to the RIIO regulatory price control applicable to the operators of U.K. electricity distribution networks, the duration of which is April 2015 through March 2023. RIIO-2 refers to the second generation of price controls under the RIIO framework.

v


RIIO-ED2 refers to the second generation of the RIIO regulatory price control applicable to the operators of U.K. electricity distribution networks, which will begin in April 2023.

Riverstone

- Riverstone Holdings LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and, as of December 6, 2016, ultimate parent company of the entities that own the competitive power generation business contributed to Talen Energy.

RPI

- retail price index, a measure of inflation in the U.K. published monthly by the Office for National Statistics.

RTO

- Regional Transmission Operator, an electric power transmission system operator that coordinates, controls and monitors a multi-state electric grid.

Sarbanes-Oxley

- Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which sets requirements for management's assessment of internal controls for financial reporting. It also requires an independent auditor to make its own assessment.

Scrubber

- an air pollution control device that can remove particulates and/or gases (primarily sulfur dioxide) from exhaust gases.

SEC

- the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, a U.S. government agency primarily responsible to protect investors and maintain the integrity of the securities markets.

SERC

- SERC Reliability Corporation, one of eight regional entities with delegated authority from NERC that work to safeguard the reliability of the bulk power systems throughout North America.

SIP

- PPL Corporation's Amended and Restated 2012 Stock Incentive Plan.

Slow pot

- Under RIIO-ED1, Totex costs that are added (capitalized) to RAV and recovered through depreciation over a 20 to 45 year period.

Smart metering technology

- technology that can measure, among other things, time of electricity consumption to permit offering rate incentives for usage during lower cost or demand intervals. The use of this technology also has the potential to strengthen network reliability.

S&P

- S&P Global Ratings, a credit rating agency.

Superfund

- federal environmental statute that addresses remediation of contaminated sites; states also have similar statutes.

Talen Energy

- Talen Energy Corporation, the Delaware corporation formed to be the publicly traded company and owner of the competitive generation assets of PPL Energy Supply and certain affiliates of Riverstone, which as of December 6, 2016, became wholly owned by Riverstone.

Talen Energy Marketing

- Talen Energy Marketing, LLC, the new name of PPL EnergyPlus subsequent to the spinoff of PPL Energy Supply.

TCJA

- Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Comprehensive U.S. federal tax legislation enacted on December 22, 2017.

Total shareowner return

- the change in market value of a share of the company's common stock plus the value of all dividends paid on a share of the common stock during the applicable performance period, divided by the price of the common stock as of the beginning of the performance period. The price used for purposes of this calculation is the average share price for the 20 trading days at the beginning and end of the applicable period.

Totex (total expenditures)

-

Totex generally consists of all the expenditures relating to WPD's regulated activities with the exception of certain specified expenditure items (Ofgem fees, National Grid transmission charges, property and corporate income taxes, pension deficit funding and cost of capital). The annual net additions to RAV are calculated as a percentage of Totex. Totex can be viewed as the aggregate net network investment, net network operating costs and indirect costs, less any cash proceeds from the sale of assets and scrap.

vi


Treasury Stock Method

- a method applied to calculate diluted EPS that assumes any proceeds that could be obtained upon exercise of options and warrants (and their equivalents) would be used to purchase common stock at the average market price during the relevant period.

TRU

- a mechanism applied in the U.K. to true-up inflation estimates used in determining base revenue.

U.K. Finance Act

- refers to the U.K. Finance Act of 2016, enacted in September 2016, which reduced the U.K. statutory corporate income tax rate from 19% to 17%, effective April 1, 2020.

VEBA

- Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association. A tax-exempt trust under the Internal Revenue Code Section 501 (c)(9) used by employees to fund and pay eligible medical, life and similar benefits.

VSCC

- Virginia State Corporation Commission, the state agency that has jurisdiction over the regulation of Virginia corporations, including utilities.

vii


Forward-looking Information

Statements contained in this Annual Report concerning expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, future events or performance and underlying assumptions and other statements that are other than statements of historical fact are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Although the Registrants believe that the expectations and assumptions reflected in these statements are reasonable, there can be no assurance that these expectations will prove to be correct. Forward-looking statements are subject to many risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in forward-looking statements. In addition to the specific factors discussed in "Item 1A. Risk Factors" and in "Item 7. Combined Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in this Annual Report, the following are among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from the forward-looking statements:

•

the outcome of rate cases or other cost recovery or revenue proceedings;

•

changes in U.S. state or federal or U.K. tax laws or regulations;

•

the direct or indirect effects on PPL or its subsidiaries or business systems of cyber-based intrusion or the threat of cyber attacks;

•

significant decreases in demand for electricity in the U.S.;

•

expansion of alternative and distributed sources of electricity generation and storage;

•

changes in foreign currency exchange rates for British pound sterling and the related impact on unrealized gains and losses on PPL's foreign currency economic hedges;

•

the effectiveness of our risk management programs, including foreign currency and interest rate hedging;

•

non-achievement by WPD of performance targets set by Ofgem;

•

the effect of changes in RPI on WPD's revenues and index linked debt;

•

developments related to the U.K.'s withdrawal from the European Union and any responses thereto;

•

the amount of WPD's pension deficit funding recovered in revenues after March 31, 2021, following the triennial pension review which began in March 2019 and is due to conclude at the end of 2020;

•

defaults by counterparties or suppliers for energy, capacity, coal, natural gas or key commodities, goods or services;

•

capital market conditions, including the availability of capital or credit, changes in interest rates and certain economic indices, and decisions regarding capital structure;

•

a material decline in the market value of PPL's equity;

•

significant decreases in the fair value of debt and equity securities and its impact on the value of assets in defined benefit plans, and the potential cash funding requirements if fair value declines;

•

interest rates and their effect on pension and retiree medical liabilities, ARO liabilities and interest payable on certain debt securities;

•

volatility in or the impact of other changes in financial markets and economic conditions;

•

the potential impact of any unrecorded commitments and liabilities of the Registrants and their subsidiaries;

•

new accounting requirements or new interpretations or applications of existing requirements;

•

changes in the corporate credit ratings or securities analyst rankings of the Registrants and their securities;

•

any requirement to record impairment charges pursuant to GAAP with respect to any of our significant investments;

•

laws or regulations to reduce emissions of GHGs or the physical effects of climate change;

•

continuing ability to access fuel supply for LG&E and KU, as well as the ability to recover fuel costs and environmental expenditures in a timely manner at LG&E and KU and natural gas supply costs at LG&E;

•

weather and other conditions affecting generation, transmission and distribution operations, operating costs and customer energy use;

•

catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, tornadoes, hurricanes and other storms, droughts, pandemic health events or other similar occurrences;

•

war, armed conflicts, terrorist attacks, or similar disruptive events;

•

changes in political, regulatory or economic conditions in states, regions or countries where the Registrants or their subsidiaries conduct business;

•

receipt of necessary governmental permits and approvals;

•

new state, federal or foreign legislation or regulatory developments;

•

the impact of any state, federal or foreign investigations applicable to the Registrants and their subsidiaries and the energy industry;

•

our ability to attract and retain qualified employees;

•

the effect of any business or industry restructuring;

•

development of new projects, markets and technologies;

•

performance of new ventures;

•

business dispositions or acquisitions and our ability to realize expected benefits from such business transactions;

•

collective labor bargaining negotiations; and



•

the outcome of litigation against the Registrants and their subsidiaries.

Any forward-looking statements should be considered in light of these important factors and in conjunction with other documents of the Registrants on file with the SEC.

New factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for the Registrants to predict all such factors, or the extent to which any such factor or combination of factors may cause actual results to differ from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and the Registrants undertake no obligation to update the information contained in the statement to reflect subsequent developments or information.



PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

General

(All Registrants)

PPL Corporation

, headquartered in Allentown, Pennsylvania, is a utility holding company, incorporated in 1994, in connection with the deregulation of electricity generation in Pennsylvania, to serve as the parent company to the regulated utility, PPL Electric, and to generation and other unregulated business activities. PPL Electric was founded in 1920 as Pennsylvania Power & Light Company. PPL, through its regulated utility subsidiaries, delivers electricity to customers in the U.K., Pennsylvania, Kentucky and Virginia; delivers natural gas to customers in Kentucky; and generates electricity from power plants in Kentucky.

PPL's principal subsidiaries at

December 31, 2019

are shown below (* denotes a Registrant).

PPL Global is not a registrant. Unaudited annual consolidated financial statements for the U.K. Regulated Segment are furnished contemporaneously with this report on a Form 8-K with the SEC.

In addition to PPL, the other Registrants included in this filing are as follows.

PPL Electric Utilities Corporation

, headquartered in Allentown, Pennsylvania, is a wholly owned subsidiary of PPL organized in Pennsylvania in 1920 and a regulated public utility that is an electricity transmission and distribution service provider in eastern and central Pennsylvania. PPL Electric is subject to regulation as a public utility by the PUC, and certain of its transmission activities are subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC under the Federal Power Act. PPL Electric delivers electricity in its Pennsylvania service area and provides electricity supply to retail customers in that area as a PLR under the Customer Choice Act.

LG&E and KU Energy LLC,

acquired in 2010 and headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, is a wholly owned subsidiary of PPL and a holding company that owns regulated utility operations through its subsidiaries, LG&E and KU, which constitute substantially all of LKE's assets. LG&E and KU are engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity. LG&E also engages in the distribution and sale of natural gas. LG&E and KU maintain separate corporate identities and serve customers in Kentucky under their respective names. KU also serves customers in Virginia under the Old Dominion Power name. LKE, formed in 2003, is the successor to a Kentucky entity incorporated in 1989.



Louisville Gas and Electric Company,

headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, is a wholly owned subsidiary of LKE and a regulated utility engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity and distribution and sale of natural gas in Kentucky. LG&E is subject to regulation as a public utility by the KPSC, and certain of its transmission activities are subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC under the Federal Power Act. LG&E was incorporated in 1913.

Kentucky Utilities Company,

headquartered in Lexington, Kentucky, is a wholly owned subsidiary of LKE and a regulated utility engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in Kentucky and Virginia. KU is subject to regulation as a public utility by the KPSC and the VSCC, and certain of its transmission and wholesale power activities are subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC under the Federal Power Act. KU serves its Kentucky customers under the KU name and its Virginia customers under the Old Dominion Power name. KU was incorporated in Kentucky in 1912 and in Virginia in 1991.

Segment Information

(PPL)

PPL is organized into three reportable segments as depicted in the chart above: U.K. Regulated, Kentucky Regulated, and Pennsylvania Regulated. The U.K. Regulated segment has no related subsidiary Registrants. PPL's other reportable segments' results primarily represent the results of its related subsidiary Registrants, except that the reportable segments are also allocated certain corporate level financing costs that are not included in the results of the applicable subsidiary Registrants. PPL also has corporate and other costs, primarily including financing costs incurred at the corporate level that have not been allocated or assigned to the segments, as well as certain other unallocated costs. The financial results of Safari Energy are also reported within Corporate and Other.

A comparison of PPL's three regulated segments is shown below.

(a)

Represents RAV for U.K. Regulated, capitalization for Kentucky Regulated and rate base for Pennsylvania Regulated.

See

Note 2

to the Financial Statements for additional financial information by segment.

(PPL Electric, LKE, LG&E and KU)

PPL Electric has two operating segments that are aggregated into a single reportable segment. LKE, LG&E and KU are individually single operating and reportable segments.

U.K. Regulated Segment

(PPL)

The U.K. Regulated segment consists of PPL Global, which primarily includes WPD's regulated electricity distribution operations, the results of hedging the translation of WPD's earnings from British pound sterling into U.S. dollars, and certain costs, such as U.S. income taxes, administrative costs and acquisition-related financing costs.

WPD operates four of the 14 Ofgem regulated DNOs providing electricity service in the U.K. through indirect wholly owned subsidiaries: WPD (South West), WPD (South Wales), WPD (East Midlands) and WPD (West Midlands). The number of network customers (end-users) served by WPD totals 7.9 million across 21,600 square miles in south Wales and southwest and central England. See

Note 3

to the Financial Statements for revenue information. WPD's operating revenues are translated from GBP to U.S. dollars using the average exchange rates in effect each month. The annual weighted average of the monthly GBP



to U.S. dollar exchange rates used for the years ended December 2019, 2018 and 2017 were $1.28 per GBP, $1.34 per GBP, and $1.28 per GBP.

Franchise and Licenses

WPD’s operations are regulated by Ofgem under the direction of the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority. Ofgem is a non-ministerial government department and an independent National Regulatory Authority responsible for protecting the interests of existing and future electricity and natural gas consumers. The Electricity Act 1989 provides the fundamental framework for electricity companies and established licenses that require each DNO to develop, maintain and operate efficient distribution networks. WPD’s operations are regulated under these licenses which set the outputs WPD needs to deliver to customers and associated revenues WPD is allowed to earn. WPD operates under a regulatory year that begins April 1 and ends March 31 of each year.

Ofgem has the formal power to propose modifications to each distribution license; however, licensees can appeal such changes to the U.K.’s Competition and Markets Authority. Generally, any potential changes to these licenses are reviewed with stakeholders in a formal regulatory consultation process prior to a formal change proposal.

Competition

Although WPD operates in non-exclusive concession areas in the U.K., it currently faces little competition with respect to end-users connected to its network. WPD's four DNOs are, therefore, regulated monopolies, operating under regulatory price controls.

Customers

WPD provides regulated electricity distribution services to licensed third-party energy suppliers who use WPD's networks to transfer electricity to their customers, the end-users. WPD bills energy suppliers for this service and the supplier is responsible for billing its end-users. Ofgem requires that all licensed electricity distributors and suppliers become parties to the Distribution Connection and Use of System Agreement. This agreement specifies how creditworthiness will be determined and, as a result, whether a supplier needs to collateralize its payment obligations.

WPD’s costs make up approximately 17% of a U.K. residential end-user's electricity bill.

U.K. Regulation and Rates

Overview

Ofgem has adopted a price control regulatory framework with a balanced objective of enhancing and developing future electricity networks, controlling costs to customers and allowing DNOs, such as WPD's DNOs, to earn a fair return on their investments. This regulatory structure is focused on outputs and performance in contrast to traditional U.S. utility ratemaking that operates under a cost recovery model. Price controls are established based on long-term business plans developed by each DNO with substantial input from its stakeholders. To measure the outputs and performance, each DNO business plan includes incentive targets that allow for increases and/or reductions in revenues based on operational performance, which are intended to align returns with quality of service, innovation and customer satisfaction.

For comparative purposes, amounts listed below are in British pounds sterling, nominal prices and in calendar years unless otherwise noted.

Key Ratemaking Mechanisms

PPL believes the U.K. electricity utility model is a premium jurisdiction in which to do business due to its significant stakeholder engagement, incentive-based structure and high-quality ratemaking mechanisms.

Current Price Control: RIIO-ED1

WPD currently operates under an eight-year price control called RIIO-ED1, which commenced for electricity distribution companies on April 1, 2015. The regulatory framework is based on an updated approach for sustainable network regulation known as the "RIIO" model where Revenue = Incentives + Innovation + Outputs.



In coordination with numerous stakeholders, WPD developed its business plans for RIIO-ED1 building off its historical track record and long-term strategy of delivering industry-leading levels of performance at an efficient level of cost. As a result, all four of WPD’s DNOs' business plans were accepted by Ofgem as "well justified" and were "fast-tracked" ahead of all other DNOs. WPD's DNOs were rewarded for being fast-tracked with preferential financial incentives, a higher return on equity and higher cost savings retention under their business plans as discussed further below. However, an unintended consequence of being fast-tracked resulted in WPD being disadvantaged from a cost of debt recovery standpoint, as further discussed within “

(2) Real Return on capital from RAV

” below.

WPD's combined RIIO-ED1 business plans as accepted by Ofgem included funding for total expenditures of approximately £12.8 billion (nominal) over the eight-year period, as follows:

•

Totex - £8.5 billion (£6.8 billion recovered as additions to RAV over time ("Slow pot"); £1.7 billion recovered in the year spent in the plan ("Fast pot"));

•

Pension deficit funding - £1.2 billion;

•

Cost of debt recovery - £1.0 billion;

•

Pass Through Charges - £1.6 billion (Property taxes, Ofgem fees and National Grid transmissions charges); and

•

Corporate income taxes recovery - £0.5 billion.

The chart below illustrates the building blocks of allowed revenue and GAAP net income for the U.K. Regulated Segment. The revenue components are shown in either 2012/13 prices or nominal prices, consistent with the formulas Ofgem established for RIIO-ED1. The reference numbers shaded in each block correspond with the descriptions that follow.

(a)

Primarily pension deficit funding, pass through costs, profiling adjustments and legacy price control adjustments.

(b)

Primarily pass through true-ups and £5 per residential customer reduction completed in the regulatory year ended March 31, 2017.

(c)

Reference Form 8-K filed February 14, 2020 for U.K. Regulated Segment GAAP Statement of Income component values.

(d)

Includes the service cost component of GAAP pension costs/income. See “Defined Benefits, Net periodic defined benefit costs (credits)” in

Note 11

to the Financial Statements.

(e)

Primarily property taxes.

(f)

Primarily includes the non-service cost (credit) components of GAAP pension costs/income and gains and losses on foreign currency hedges.

(g)

Includes WPD interest and $32 million of allocated interest expense to finance the acquisition of WPD Midlands.

(h)

GAAP income taxes represent an effective tax rate of 16% for 2019, 17% for 2018, 19% for 2017 and approximately 17% going forward.

(1) Base Revenue

The base revenue a DNO can collect in each year of the current price control period is the sum of the following, discussed further below:

•

a return on capital from RAV;

•

a return of capital from RAV (i.e., depreciation);

•

the Fast pot recovery, see discussion “

(4) Expenditure efficiency mechanisms

” below;



•

an allowance for cash taxes paid less a potential reduction for tax benefits from excess leverage if a DNO is levered more than 65% Debt/RAV;

•

pension deficit funding;

•

certain pass-through costs over which the DNO has no control;

•

profiling adjustments, see discussion “

(6) Other revenue included in base revenue

” below;

•

certain legacy price control adjustments from preceding price control periods, including the information quality incentive (also known as the rolling RAV incentive); and

•

fast-track incentive - because WPD's four DNOs were fast-tracked through the price control review process for RIIO-ED1, their base revenue also includes the fast-track incentive.

(2) Real Return on capital from RAV

Real-time returns on cost of regulated equity (real)

-

Ofgem establishes an allowed return on regulated equity that DNOs earn in their base business plan revenues as a consideration of the financial parameters for each RIIO-ED1 business plan. For WPD, the base cost of equity collected in revenues was set at 6.4% (real). Base equity returns exclude inflation adjustments, allowances for incentive rewards/penalties and over/under collections driven by cost efficiencies. WPD’s DNO base equity returns are calculated using an equity ratio of 35% of RAV. The equity ratio was reviewed and set during the RIIO-ED1 business plan process taking various stakeholder impacts into consideration such as costs to consumers, credit ratings and investor needs. The amounts of base real equity return for 2019, 2018 and 2017 were £168 million, £160 million and £151 million.

Indexed cost of debt recovery (real)

-

As part of WPD’s fast-track agreement with Ofgem for RIIO-ED1, WPD collects in revenues an assumed real cost of debt that is derived from a historical 10-year bond index (iBoxx) and adjusted annually for inflation. This calculated real cost of debt is then applied to 65% of RAV at the DNOs to determine the cost of debt revenue recovery. The cost of debt was set at 2.55% in the original "well justified" business plans. The recovery amounts are trued up annually as a component of the MOD true-up mechanism described within "

(9) MOD and Inflation True-Up (TRU)

" below.

As discussed above, WPD’s cost of debt revenue allowances are derived from using a rolling 10-year trailing average of

historical 10-year bond index (iBoxx); however, the cost of debt revenue allowances for all slow track companies are derived

using an extending trailing average of the index. Under this approach, the trailing average period used is progressively extended from 10 to 20 years and consequently short-term fluctuations in the interest rate have a less pronounced effect on the regulatory cost of debt applied. Therefore, WPD’s cost of debt recovery is significantly lower than it would have been had it been derived under the approach used for the slow-track companies.

Over the 8-year RIIO-ED1 period WPD is expected to under-recover its cost of debt at the four DNOs, based upon the latest inflation assumptions and projected 10-year iBoxx bond indices rates, by approximately £231 million primarily driven by the previously discussed differing cost of debt recovery calculations. Under the terms of the fast track process, fast tracked companies were not supposed to be disadvantaged financially to slow track companies. It is currently uncertain, however, if WPD will be able to recover any of this under-recovery in the next price control period, RIIO-ED2, beginning April 1, 2023.

Interest costs relating to long-term debt issued at WPD’s holding companies are not recovered in revenues and for 2019, 2018 and 2017 were approximately £57 million, £46 million and £49 million.

(3) Recovery of depreciation in revenues

-

Recovery of depreciation in regulatory revenues is one of the key mechanisms Ofgem uses to support financeable business plans that provide incentives to attract the continued substantial investment required in the U.K. Differences between GAAP and regulatory depreciation exist primarily due to differing assumptions on asset lives and because RAV is adjusted for inflation using RPI.

Compared to asset lives established for GAAP, asset lives established for ratemaking are set by Ofgem based on economic lives which results in improved DNO near-term revenues and cash flows during investment cycles. Under U.K. regulation prior to RIIO-ED1, electric distribution assets were depreciated on a 20-year asset life for the purpose of setting revenues. After review and consultation, Ofgem decided to use 45-year asset lives for RAV additions after April 1, 2015, with transitional arrangements available for DNOs fully demonstrating a need to ensure financeable plans. WPD adopted a transition that has a linear increase in asset lives from 20 to 45 years for additions to RAV in each year of RIIO-ED1 (with additions averaging a life of approximately 35 years over this period), which adds support to its credit metrics. RAV additions prior to March 31, 2015 continue to be recovered in revenues over 20 years.

The asset lives used to determine depreciation expense for GAAP purposes are not the same as those used for the depreciation of the RAV in setting revenues and, as such, vary by asset type and are based on the expected useful lives of the assets.



Effective January 1, 2015, after completing a review of the useful lives of its distribution network assets, WPD set the weighted average useful lives to 69 years for GAAP depreciation expense.

Because Ofgem uses a real cost of capital, the RAV and recovery of depreciation are adjusted for inflation using RPI. The inflation revenues collected in this line item help recover the cost of equity and debt returns on a "nominal" basis, compared to the "real" rates used to set the return component of base revenues.

This regulatory construct, in combination with the different assets lives used for ratemaking and GAAP, results in amounts collected by WPD as recovery of depreciation in revenues being significantly higher than the amounts WPD recorded for depreciation expense under GAAP. For 2019, 2018 and 2017, this difference was £450 million, £444 million and £424 million (pre-tax) and positively impacted net income. The difference is expected to continue in the £400 million to £450 million (pre-tax) range at least through 2022 (the last full calendar year of RIIO-ED1), assuming RPI of approximately 3.0% per year from 2020 through 2022 and based on expected RAV additions of approximately £800 million per year to prepare the distribution system for future U.K. energy objectives while maintaining premier levels of reliability and customer service.

(4) Expenditure efficiency mechanisms

-

Ofgem introduced the concept of Totex in RIIO to ensure all DNOs face equal incentives in choosing between operating and capital solutions. Totex is split between immediate recovery (called "Fast pot") and deferred recovery as an addition to RAV (called "Slow pot"). The ratio of Slow pot to Fast pot was determined by each DNO in its business plan development. WPD established a Totex split of 80% Slow pot and 20% Fast pot for RIIO-ED1 to balance maximizing RAV growth with immediate cost recovery to support investment grade credit ratings. Comparatively, other DNOs on average used a ratio of approximately 70% Slow pot and 30% Fast pot for RIIO-ED1.

Ofgem also allows a Totex Incentive Mechanism that is intended to reward DNOs for cost efficiency. WPD's DNOs are able to retain 70% of any amounts not spent against their RIIO-ED1 plan and bear 70% of any over-spends. Any amounts to be returned to customers are trued up in the AIP discussed below.

Because Fast pot cost recovery represents 20% of Totex expenditures and certain other costs are recovered in other components of revenue, Fast pot will not equal operation and maintenance expenses recorded for GAAP purposes.

(5) Income Tax Allowance

-

For price control purposes, WPD collects income tax based on Ofgem’s notional tax charge, which will not equal the amount of income tax expense recorded for GAAP purposes. The following table shows the amount of taxes collected in revenues and recorded under GAAP.

(6) Other revenue included in base revenue

-

Other revenue included in base revenue primarily consists of pension deficit funding, pass through costs, profiling adjustments and legacy price control adjustments.

Recovery of annual (normal) pension cost and pension deficit funding

- Ofgem allows DNOs to recover annual (normal) pension costs through the Totex allocation, split between the previously described Fast pot (immediate recovery) and Slow pot recovery (as an addition to RAV). The amount of normal pension cost is computed by the pension trustees, using assumptions that differ from those used in calculating pension costs/income under GAAP. In addition, the timing of the revenue collection may not match the actual pension payment schedule, resulting in a timing difference of cash flows.

In addition, WPD recovers approximately 80% of pension deficit funding for certain of WPD's defined benefit pension plans in conjunction with actual costs similar to the Fast pot mechanism. The pension deficit is determined by the pension trustees on a triennial basis in accordance with their funding requirements. Pension deficit funding recovered in revenues was £151 million, £147 million and £142 million in 2019, 2018 and 2017. WPD expects similar amounts to be collected in revenues through March 31, 2021, but cannot predict amounts that will be collected in revenues beyond then as the plans are approaching a fully funded status. The current triennial pension review commenced in March 2019 and is expected to conclude by the end of 2020.

See

Note 11

to the Financial Statements for additional information on pension costs/income recognized under GAAP.

Recovery of pass through costs

- WPD recovers certain pass-through costs over which the DNO has no control such as property taxes, National Grid transmission charges and Ofgem fees. Although these items are intended to be pass-through charges there could be timing differences, primarily related to property taxes, as to when amounts are collected in revenues and when amounts are expensed in the Statements of Income. WPD over-collected property taxes by £37 million, £38 million and £19



million in 2019, 2018 and 2017. WPD expects to continue to over-recover property taxes until the end of RIIO-ED1. Amounts under-or over-recovered in revenues in a regulatory year are trued up through revenues two regulatory years later.

Profiling adjustments

- Ofgem permitted DNOs the flexibility to make profiling adjustments to their base revenues within their business plans. These adjustments do not affect the total base revenue in real terms over the eight-year price control period, but change the year in which the revenue is collected. In the first year of RIIO-ED1, WPD’s base revenue decreased by 11.8% compared to the final year of the prior price control period (DPCR5), primarily due to a change in profiling methodology and a lower weighted-average cost of capital. Base revenue then increased by approximately 2.5% per annum before inflation for regulatory years up to March 31, 2019 and will increase by approximately 1% per annum before inflation for each regulatory year thereafter for the remainder of RIIO-ED1.

(7) Incentives for developing high-quality business plans (known as fast-tracking)

-

For RIIO-ED1, Ofgem incentivized DNOs with certain financial rewards to develop "well justified" business plans that drive value to customers. WPD was awarded the following fast-track incentives:

•

an annual fast-track revenue incentive worth 2.5% of Totex (approximately £25 million annually for WPD);

•

a real cost of equity rate of 6.4% compared to 6.0% for slow-tracked DNOs; and,

•

cost savings retention was established at 70% for WPD compared to approximately 55% for slow-tracked DNOs.

(8) Allowed Revenue

-

Allowed revenue is the amount that a DNO can collect from its customers in order to fund its investment requirements.

Base revenues are adjusted annually during RIIO-ED1 to arrive at allowed revenues. These adjustments are discussed in sections (9) through (13) below.

(9) MOD and Inflation True-Up (TRU)

MOD

- RIIO-ED1 includes an AIP that allows future base revenues, agreed with the regulator as part of the price control review, to be updated during the price control period for financial adjustments including taxes, pensions, cost of debt, legacy price control adjustments from preceding price control periods and adjustments relating to actual and allowed total expenditure together with the Totex Incentive Mechanism (TIM). The AIP calculates an incremental change to base revenue, known as the "MOD" adjustment.

•

The MOD provided by Ofgem in November 2016 included the TIM for the 2015/16 regulatory year, as well as the cost of debt calculation based on the 10-year trailing average to October 2016. This MOD of £12 million reduced base revenue in calendar years 2017 and 2018 by £8 million and £4 million.

•

The MOD provided by Ofgem in November 2017 for the 2016/17 regulatory year was a £39 million reduction to revenue that reduced base revenue in calendar years 2018 and 2019 by £26 million and £13 million.

•

The MOD provided by Ofgem in November 2018 for the 2017/18 regulatory year was a £42 million reduction to revenue that reduced base revenue in calendar year 2019 by £28 million and will reduce base revenue in calendar year 2020 by £14 million.

•

The MOD provided by Ofgem in November 2019 for the 2018/19 regulatory year was an £81 million reduction to revenue that will reduce base revenue in calendar years 2020 and 2021 by £54 million and £27 million.

•

The projected MOD for the 2019/20 regulatory year is a £128 million reduction to revenue that is expected to reduce base revenue in calendar years 2021 and 2022 by £85 million and £43 million.

TRU

- As discussed below in "

(10) Inflation adjusted, multi-year rate cycle

," the base revenue for the RIIO-ED1 period was set based on 2012/13 prices. Therefore, an inflation factor as determined by forecasted RPI, provided by HM Treasury, is applied to base revenue. Forecasted RPI is trued up to actuals and affects future base revenue two regulatory years later. This revenue change is called the "TRU" adjustment.

•

The TRU for the 2015/16 regulatory year was a £31 million reduction to revenue that reduced base revenue in calendar years 2017 and 2018 by £21 million and £10 million.

•

The TRU for the 2016/17 regulatory year was a £6 million reduction to revenue that reduced base revenue in calendar years 2018 and 2019 by £4 million and £2 million.



•

The TRU for the 2017/18 regulatory year was a £4 million increase to revenue that increased base revenue in calendar year 2019 by £3 million and will increase base revenue in calendar year 2020 by £1 million.

•

The TRU for the 2018/19 regulatory year was a £2 million reduction to revenue that will reduce base revenue in calendar years 2020 and 2021 by £1 million.

•

The projected TRU for the 2019/20 regulatory year is a £13 million reduction to revenue that is expected to reduce base revenue in calendar years 2021 and 2022 by £9 million and £4 million.

As both MOD and TRU are changes to future base revenues as determined by Ofgem, these adjustments are recognized as a component of revenues in future years in which service is provided and revenues are collected or returned to customers.

(10) Inflation adjusted, multi-year rate cycle

- Ofgem built its price control framework to better coincide with the long-term nature of electricity distribution investments. The current price control for electricity distribution is for the eight-year period from April 1, 2015 through March 31, 2023. This both required and enabled WPD to design a base business plan with predictable revenues and expenses over the long-term to drive value for its customers through predetermined outputs and for its investors through preset base returns. A key aspect to the multi-year cycle is an annual inflation adjustment for revenue and cost components, which are inflated using RPI from the base 2012/13 prices used to establish the business plans. Consistent with Ofgem’s formulas, the inflation adjustment is applied to base revenue, MOD and TRU when determining allowed revenue. This inflation adjustment also has the effect of inflating RAV, and real returns are earned on the inflated RAV.

(11) Incentive revenues for strong operational performance and innovation

-

Ofgem has established incentives to provide opportunities for DNOs to enhance overall returns by improving network efficiency, reliability and customer service. These incentives can result in an increase or reduction in revenues based on incentives or penalties for actual performance against pre-established targets based on past performance. Some of the more significant incentives that may affect allowed revenue include the Interruptions Incentive Scheme (IIS), the broad measure of customer service (BMCS) and the time to connect (TTC) incentive:

•

The IIS has two major components: (1) Customer interruptions (CIs) and (2) Customer minutes lost (CMLs), and both are designed to incentivize the DNOs to invest in and operate their networks to manage and reduce both the frequency and duration of power outages.

•

The BMCS encompasses customer satisfaction in supply interruptions, connections and general inquiries, complaints, stakeholder engagement and delivery of social obligations.

•

The TTC incentive rewards DNOs for reducing connection times for minor connections against an Ofgem set target.

The annual incentives and penalties are reflected in customer rates on a two-year lag from the time they are earned and/or assessed. Based on applicable GAAP, incentive revenues and penalties are recorded in revenues when they are billed to customers. The following table shows the amount of incentive revenues (in total), primarily from IIS, BMCS and TTC that WPD has received and is projected to receive on a calendar year basis:

(a)

Reflects projected incentive revenues.

(12) Correction Factor (K-factor)

-

During the price control period, WPD sets its tariffs to recover allowed revenue. However, in any fiscal period, WPD's revenue could be negatively affected if its tariffs and the volume delivered do not fully recover the allowed revenue for a particular period. Conversely, WPD could over-recover revenue. Over- and under-recoveries are subtracted from or added to allowed revenue in future years, known as the "Correction Factor" or "K-factor." Over and under-recovered amounts during RIIO-ED1 will be refunded/recovered two regulatory years later.

•

The K-factor for the 2015/16 regulatory year was a £4 million under-recovery that increased allowed revenue in calendar years 2017 and 2018 by £3 million and £1 million.

•

The K-factor for the 2016/17 regulatory year was a £23 million over-recovery that reduced allowed revenue in calendar years 2018 and 2019 by £15 million and £8 million.



•

The K-factor for the 2017/18 regulatory year was a £3 million over-recovery that reduced allowed revenue in calendar year 2019 by £2 million and will reduce allowed revenue in calendar year 2020 by £1 million.

•

The K-factor for the 2018/19 regulatory year was a £16 million over-recovery that will reduce allowed revenue in calendar years 2020 and 2021 by £11 million and £5 million.

•

The projected K-factor for the 2019/20 regulatory year is a £20 million under-recovery that is expected to increase allowed revenue in calendar years 2021 and 2022 by £13 million and £7 million.

Historically, tariffs have been set a minimum of three months prior to the beginning of the regulatory year (April 1). In 2015, Ofgem determined that, beginning with the 2017/18 regulatory year, tariffs would be established a minimum of fifteen months in advance. This change will potentially increase volatility in future revenue forecasts due to the need to forecast components of allowed revenue including MOD, TRU, K-factor and incentive revenues.

(13)

Other Allowed Revenue

-

Other Allowed Revenue primarily consists of pass through true-ups and a £5 per residential customer reduction completed in the regulatory year ended March 31, 2017. For a discussion on property tax true-ups, see recovery of pass through costs in "

(6) Other revenue included in base revenue

" above.

In the 2016/17 regulatory year, WPD recovered a £5 per residential network customer reduction given through reduced tariffs in 2014/15. As a result, revenues were positively affected in calendar year 2017 by £13 million.

(14) GAAP Operating Revenue

- Operating revenue under GAAP primarily consists of allowed revenue, which has been converted to rates and earned as electricity was delivered in the calendar year, converted to U.S. dollars. It also includes miscellaneous revenue primarily from engineering recharge work and ancillary activity revenue. Engineering recharge is work performed for a third party by WPD which is not for general network maintenance or to increase reliability. Examples are diversions and running new lines and equipment for a new housing complex. Ancillary activity revenue includes revenue primarily from WPD’s Telecoms and Property companies. The amounts of miscellaneous revenue for 2019, 2018 and 2017 were £115 million, £115 million and £90 million. The margin or profit on these activities, however, was not significant.

(15) Currency Hedging

- Earnings generated by PPL's U.K. subsidiaries are subject to foreign currency translation risk. Due to the significant earnings contributed from WPD, PPL enters into foreign currency contracts to economically hedge the value of the GBP versus the U.S. dollar. These hedges do not receive hedge accounting treatment under GAAP. See "Overview - Financial and Operational Developments - U.K. Membership in European Union" in "Item 7. Combined Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for a discussion of U.K. earnings hedging activity.

GAAP Accounting implications

As the regulatory model in the U.K. is incentive based rather than a cost recovery model, WPD is not subject to accounting for the effects of certain types of regulation as prescribed by GAAP. Therefore, the accounting treatment for the differences in the amounts collected in revenues and the amounts recorded for expenses related to depreciation, pensions, cost of debt and income taxes, and the adjustments to base revenue and/or allowed revenue are evaluated primarily based on revenue recognition guidance.

See "Revenue Recognition" in

Note 1

to the Financial Statements for additional information.

See "Overview - Financial and Operational Developments - RIIO-2 Framework" in "Item 7. Combined Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for information on the RIIO-2 Framework which will commence on April 1, 2023.

Kentucky Regulated Segment

(PPL)

The Kentucky Regulated segment consists of the operations of LKE, which owns and operates regulated public utilities engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity and distribution and sale of natural gas, representing primarily the activities of LG&E and KU. In addition, certain acquisition-related financing costs are allocated to the Kentucky Regulated segment.

(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)

LG&E and KU, direct subsidiaries of LKE, are engaged in the regulated generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in Kentucky and, in KU's case, also Virginia. LG&E also engages in the distribution and sale of natural gas in Kentucky. LG&E provides electricity service to approximately

418,000

customers in Louisville and adjacent areas in Kentucky,



covering approximately


square miles in

nine

counties and provides natural gas service to approximately

329,000

customers in its electricity service area and

eight

additional counties in Kentucky. KU provides electric service to approximately

530,000

customers in


counties in central, southeastern and western Kentucky and approximately

28,000

customers in

five

counties in southwestern Virginia, covering approximately

4,800

non-contiguous square miles. KU also sells wholesale electricity to

two

municipalities in Kentucky under load following contracts. See

Note 3

to the Financial Statements for revenue information.

Franchises and Licenses

LG&E and KU provide electricity delivery service, and LG&E provides natural gas distribution service, in their respective service territories pursuant to certain franchises, licenses, statutory service areas, easements and other rights or permissions granted by state legislatures, cities or municipalities or other entities.

Competition

There are currently no other electric public utilities operating within the electricity service areas of LKE. From time to time, bills are introduced into the Kentucky General Assembly which seek to authorize, promote or mandate increased distributed generation, customer choice or other developments. Neither the Kentucky General Assembly nor the KPSC has adopted or approved a plan or timetable for retail electric industry competition in Kentucky. The nature or timing of legislative or regulatory actions, if any, regarding industry restructuring and their impact on LKE, which may be significant, cannot currently be predicted. Virginia, formerly a deregulated jurisdiction, has enacted legislation that implemented a hybrid model of cost-based regulation. KU's operations in Virginia have been and remain regulated.

Alternative energy sources such as electricity, oil, propane and other fuels indirectly impact LG&E's natural gas revenues. Marketers may also compete to sell natural gas to certain large end-users. LG&E's natural gas tariffs include gas price pass-through mechanisms relating to its sale of natural gas as a commodity. Therefore, customer natural gas purchases from alternative suppliers do not generally impact LG&E's profitability. Some large industrial and commercial customers, however, may physically bypass LG&E's facilities and seek delivery service directly from interstate pipelines or other natural gas distribution systems.

Power Supply

At

December 31, 2019

, LKE owned generating capacity of

7,561

MW, of which

2,786

MW related to LG&E and

4,775

MW related to KU. See "Item 2. Properties - Kentucky Regulated Segment" for a complete list of LKE's generating facilities.

The system capacity of LKE's owned or controlled generation is based upon a number of factors, including the operating experience and physical condition of the units, and may be revised periodically to reflect changes in circumstances.

During


, LKE's power plants generated the following amounts of electricity:

(a)

This generation represents decreases for LKE, LG&E and KU of

6.6%

,

3.2%

and

8.8%

from


output.

The majority of LG&E's and KU's generated electricity was used to supply their retail customer bases.

LG&E and KU jointly dispatch their generation units with the lowest cost generation used to serve their customers. When LG&E has excess generation capacity after serving its own customers and its generation cost is lower than that of KU, KU purchases electricity from LG&E and vice versa.

As a result of environmental requirements and energy efficiency measures, KU retired two older coal-fired electricity generating units at the E.W. Brown plant in February 2019 with a combined summer rating capacity of 272 MW.



LG&E and KU received approval from the KPSC to develop a 4 MW Solar Share facility to service a Solar Share program. The Solar Share program is a voluntary program that allows customers to subscribe capacity in the Solar Share facility. Construction commences, in 500-kilowatt phases, when subscription is complete. The first 500-kilowatt phase was constructed in 2019. The subscription for the second 500-kilowatt phase was completed in 2019, with expected construction to be completed in 2020. LG&E and KU continue to market the program and have started receiving subscriptions for the third 500-kilowatt phase.

On January 23, 2020, LG&E and KU applied to the KPSC for approval of arrangements relating to the purchase of 100 MW of solar power in connection with the Green Tariff option established in the most recent Kentucky base rate cases. Pursuant to the agreements, LG&E and KU would purchase the initial 20 years of output of a proposed third-party solar generation facility and resell the bulk of the power as renewable energy to two large industrial customers and use the remaining power for other customers. The transactions are subject to KPSC approval and other standard conditions. PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU do not anticipate that these arrangements will have a significant impact on their results of operations or financial condition.

Fuel Supply

Coal and natural gas will continue to be the predominant fuels used by LG&E and KU for generation for the foreseeable future. Natural gas used for generation is primarily purchased using contractual arrangements separate from LG&E's natural gas distribution operations. Natural gas and oil are also used for intermediate and peaking capacity and flame stabilization in coal-fired boilers.

Fuel inventory is maintained at levels estimated to be necessary to avoid operational disruptions at coal-fired generating units. Reliability of coal deliveries can be affected from time to time by a number of factors including fluctuations in demand, coal mine production issues and other supplier or transporter operating difficulties.

LG&E and KU have entered into coal supply agreements with various suppliers for coal deliveries through 2024 and augment their coal supply agreements with spot market purchases, as needed.

For their existing units, LG&E and KU expect, for the foreseeable future, to purchase most of their coal from western Kentucky, southern Indiana and southern Illinois. LG&E and KU continue to purchase certain quantities of ultra-low sulfur content coal from Wyoming for blending at Trimble County Unit 2. Coal is delivered to the generating plants primarily by barge and rail.

To enhance the reliability of natural gas supply, LG&E and KU have secured firm long-term pipeline transport capacity with contracts of various durations from 2020 to 2024 on the interstate pipeline serving Cane Run Unit 7. This pipeline also serves the six simple cycle combustion turbine units located at the Trimble County site as well as three other simple cycle units at the Paddy's Run site. For the seven simple cycle combustion turbines at the E.W. Brown facility, no firm long-term pipeline transport capacity has been purchased due to the facility being interconnected to two pipelines and some of the units having dual fuel capability.

LG&E and KU have firm contracts for a portion of the natural gas fuel for Cane Run Unit 7 through February 2022. The bulk of the natural gas fuel remains purchased on the spot market.

(PPL, LKE and LG&E)

Natural Gas Distribution Supply

Five

underground natural gas storage fields, with a current working natural gas capacity of approximately


billion cubic feet (Bcf), are used to provide natural gas service to LG&E's firm sales customers. Natural gas is stored during the summer season for withdrawal during the following winter heating season. Without this storage capacity, LG&E would need to purchase additional natural gas and pipeline transportation services during winter months when customer demand increases and the prices for natural gas supply and transportation services are expected to be higher. At

December 31, 2019

, LG&E had

12 Bcf

of natural gas stored underground with a carrying value of

$35 million

.

LG&E has a portfolio of supply arrangements of varying durations and terms that provide competitively priced natural gas designed to meet its firm sales obligations. These natural gas supply arrangements include pricing provisions that are market-responsive. In tandem with pipeline transportation services, these natural gas supplies provide the reliability and flexibility necessary to serve LG&E's natural gas customers.



LG&E purchases natural gas supply transportation services from two pipelines. LG&E has contracts with one pipeline that are subject to termination by LG&E between 2021 and 2025. Total winter season capacity under these contracts is 184,900 MMBtu/day and summer season capacity is 60,000 MMBtu/day. With this same pipeline, LG&E also has another contract for pipeline capacity through 2026 for 60,000 MMBtu/day during both the winter and summer seasons. LG&E has a single contract with a second pipeline with a total capacity of 20,000 MMBtu/day during both the winter and summer seasons that expires in 2023.

LG&E expects to purchase natural gas supplies for its gas distribution operations from onshore producing regions in South Texas, East Texas, North Louisiana and Arkansas, as well as gas originating in the Marcellus and Utica production areas.

(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)

Transmission

LG&E and KU contract with the Tennessee Valley Authority to act as their transmission reliability coordinator and contract with TranServ International, Inc. to act as their independent transmission organization.

Rates

LG&E is subject to the jurisdiction of the KPSC and the FERC, and KU is subject to the jurisdiction of the KPSC, the FERC and the VSCC. LG&E and KU operate under a FERC-approved open access transmission tariff.

LG&E's and KU's Kentucky base rates are calculated based on a return on capitalization (common equity, long-term debt and short-term debt) including adjustments for certain net investments and costs recovered separately through other means. As such, LG&E and KU generally earn a return on regulatory assets in Kentucky.

KU's Virginia base rates are calculated based on a return on rate base (net utility plant plus working capital less accumulated deferred income taxes and miscellaneous deductions). As all regulatory assets and liabilities, except the levelized fuel factor and regulatory assets or liabilities recorded for pension and postretirement benefits and AROs related to certain CCR impoundments, are excluded from the return on rate base utilized in the calculation of Virginia base rates, no return is earned on the related assets.

KU's rates to municipal customers for wholesale power requirements are calculated based on annual updates to a formula rate that utilizes a return on rate base (net utility plant plus working capital less accumulated deferred income taxes and miscellaneous deductions). As all regulatory assets and liabilities are excluded from the return on rate base utilized in the development of municipal rates, no return is earned on the related assets. In April 2014, certain municipalities submitted notices of termination to cease taking power under the wholesale requirements contracts. KU's service to eight municipalities terminated effective April 30, 2019. KU continues to provide service to two municipalities.

See "Financial and Operational Developments" in "Item 7. Combined Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and

Note 7

to the Financial Statements for additional information on current rate proceedings and rate mechanisms.

Pennsylvania Regulated Segment

(PPL)

The Pennsylvania Regulated segment consists of PPL Electric, a regulated public utility engaged in the distribution and transmission of electricity.

(PPL and PPL Electric)

PPL Electric delivers electricity to approximately 1.4 million customers in a 10,000-square mile territory in 29 counties within eastern and central Pennsylvania. PPL Electric also provides electricity to retail customers in this territory as a PLR under the Customer Choice Act. See

Note 3

to the Financial Statements for revenue information.

Franchise, Licenses and Other Regulations

PPL Electric is authorized to provide electric public utility service throughout its service area as a result of grants by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in corporate charters to PPL Electric and companies which it has succeeded, and as a result of certification by the PUC. PPL Electric is granted the right to enter the streets and highways by the Commonwealth subject to



certain conditions. In general, such conditions have been met by ordinance, resolution, permit, acquiescence or other action by an appropriate local political subdivision or agency of the Commonwealth.

Competition

Pursuant to authorizations from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the PUC, PPL Electric operates a regulated distribution monopoly in its service area. Accordingly, PPL Electric does not face competition in its electricity distribution business. Pursuant to the Customer Choice Act, generation of electricity is a competitive business in Pennsylvania, and PPL Electric does not own or operate any generation facilities.

The PPL Electric transmission business, operating under a FERC-approved PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff, is subject to competition pursuant to FERC Order 1000 from entities that are not incumbent PJM transmission owners with respect to the construction and ownership of transmission facilities within PJM.

Rates and Regulation

Transmission

PPL Electric's transmission facilities are within PJM, which operates the electricity transmission network and electric energy market in the Mid-Atlantic and Midwest regions of the U.S.

PJM serves as a FERC-approved Regional Transmission Operator (RTO) to promote greater participation and competition in the region it serves. In addition to operating the electricity transmission network, PJM also administers regional markets for energy, capacity and ancillary services. A primary objective of any RTO is to separate the operation of, and access to, the transmission grid from market participants that buy or sell electricity in the same markets. Electric utilities continue to own the transmission assets and to receive their share of transmission revenues, but the RTO directs the control and operation of the transmission facilities. Certain types of transmission investments are subject to competitive processes outlined in the PJM tariff.

As a transmission owner, PPL Electric's transmission revenues are recovered through PJM and billed in accordance with a FERC-approved Open Access Transmission Tariff that allows recovery of incurred transmission costs, a return on transmission-related plant and an automatic annual update based on a formula-based rate recovery mechanism. Under this formula, rates are put into effect in June of each year based upon prior year actual expenditures and current year forecasted capital additions. Rates are then adjusted the following year to reflect actual annual expenses and capital additions, as reported in PPL Electric’s annual FERC Form 1, filed under the FERC’s Uniform System of Accounts. Any difference between the revenue requirement in effect for the prior year and actual expenditures incurred for that year is recorded as a regulatory asset or regulatory liability. Any change in the prior year PPL zonal peak load billing factor applied on January 1 of each year will result in an increase or decrease in revenue until the next annual rate update is effective on June 1 of that same year.

As a PLR, PPL Electric also purchases transmission services from PJM. See "PLR" below.

See

Note 7

to the Financial Statements for additional information on rate mechanisms.

Distribution

PPL Electric's distribution base rates are calculated based on a return on rate base (net utility plant plus a cash working capital allowance less plant-related deferred taxes and other miscellaneous additions and deductions). All regulatory assets and liabilities are excluded from the return on rate base. Therefore, no return is earned on the related assets unless specifically provided for by the PUC. Currently, PPL Electric's Smart Meter rider and the DSIC are the only riders authorized to earn a return. Certain operating expenses are also included in PPL Electric's distribution base rates including wages and benefits, other operation and maintenance expenses, depreciation and taxes.

Pennsylvania's Alternative Energy Portfolio Standard (AEPS) requires electricity distribution companies and electricity generation suppliers to obtain from alternative energy resources a portion of the electricity sold to retail customers in Pennsylvania. Under the default service procurement plans approved by the PUC, PPL Electric purchases all of the alternative energy generation supply it needs to comply with the AEPS.

Act 129 created an energy efficiency and conservation program, a demand side management program, smart metering technology requirements, new PLR generation supply procurement rules, remedies for market misconduct and changes to the existing AEPS.



Act 11 authorizes the PUC to approve two specific ratemaking mechanisms: the use of a fully projected future test year in base rate proceedings and, subject to certain conditions, the use of a DSIC. Such alternative ratemaking procedures and mechanisms provide opportunity for accelerated cost-recovery and, therefore, are important to PPL Electric as it is in a period of significant capital investment to maintain and enhance the reliability of its delivery system, including the replacement of aging assets. PPL Electric utilized the fully projected future test year mechanism in its 2015 base rate proceeding. PPL has had the ability to utilize the DSIC recovery mechanism since July 2013.

See "Financial and Operational Developments" in "Item 7. Combined Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and

Note 7

to the Financial Statements for additional information on legislative and regulatory matters.

PLR

The Customer Choice Act requires electric distribution companies, including PPL Electric, or an alternative supplier approved by the PUC, to act as a PLR of electricity supply for customers who do not choose to shop for supply with a competitive supplier and provides that electricity supply costs will be recovered by the PLR pursuant to PUC regulations. In 2019, the following average percentages of PPL Electric's customer load were provided by competitive suppliers: 43% of residential, 82% of small commercial and industrial and 96% of large commercial and industrial customers. The PUC continues to favor expanding the competitive market for electricity.

PPL Electric's cost of electricity generation is based on a competitive solicitation process. The PUC approved PPL Electric's default service plan for the period June 2015 through May 2017, which included four solicitations for electricity supply held semiannually in April and October. The PUC approved PPL Electric's default service plan for the period June 2017 through May 2021, which includes a total of eight solicitations for electricity supply held semiannually in April and October. Pursuant to the plans, PPL Electric contracts for all of the electricity supply for residential customers and commercial and industrial customers who elect to take that service from PPL Electric. These solicitations include a mix of 6- and 12-month fixed-price load-following contracts for residential and small commercial and industrial customers, and 12-month real-time pricing contracts for large commercial and industrial customers to fulfill PPL Electric's obligation to provide customer electricity supply as a PLR.

Numerous alternative suppliers have offered to provide generation supply in PPL Electric's service area. As the cost of generation supply is a pass-through cost for PPL Electric, its financial results are not impacted if its customers purchase electricity supply from these alternative suppliers.

Corporate and Other

(PPL)

PPL Services provides PPL subsidiaries with administrative, management and support services. The costs of these services are charged directly to the respective recipients for the services provided or indirectly charged to applicable recipients based on an average of the recipients' relative invested capital, operation and maintenance expenses and number of employees or a ratio of overall direct and indirect costs.

PPL Capital Funding, PPL's financing subsidiary, provides financing for the operations of PPL and certain subsidiaries. PPL's growth in rate-regulated businesses provides the organization with an enhanced corporate level financing alternative, through PPL Capital Funding, that enables PPL to cost effectively support targeted credit profiles across all of PPL's rated companies. As a result, PPL plans to utilize PPL Capital Funding as a source of capital in future financings, in addition to continued direct financing by the operating companies.

Unlike PPL Services, PPL Capital Funding's costs are not generally charged to PPL subsidiaries. Costs are charged directly to PPL. However, PPL Capital Funding participated significantly in the financing for the acquisitions of LKE and WPD Midlands and certain associated financing costs were allocated to the Kentucky Regulated and U.K. Regulated segments. The associated financing costs, as well as the financing costs associated with prior issuances of certain other PPL Capital Funding securities, have been assigned to the appropriate segments for purposes of PPL management's assessment of segment performance. The financing costs associated primarily with PPL Capital Funding's securities issuances beginning in 2013, with certain exceptions, have not been directly assigned or allocated to any segment.

During the second quarter of 2018, PPL completed the acquisition of all the outstanding membership interests of Safari Energy, a privately held provider of solar energy solutions for commercial customers in the U.S. The acquisition is not material to PPL and the financial results of Safari Energy are reported within Corporate and Other.



ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

(All Registrants)

The Registrants are subject to certain existing and developing federal, regional, state and local laws and regulations with respect to air and water quality, land use and other environmental matters. The EPA has issued numerous environmental regulations relating to air, water and waste that directly affect the electric power industry. Due to these environmental issues, it may be necessary for the Registrants to modify or cease certain operations or operation of certain facilities to comply with statutes, regulations and other requirements of regulatory bodies or courts. In addition, legal challenges to new environmental permits or rules add uncertainty to estimating future costs of complying with such permits and rules.

See “Legal Matters” in Note 13 to the Financial Statements for a discussion of environmental commitments and contingencies. See "Financial Condition - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Forecasted Uses of Cash - Capital Expenditures" in "Item 7. Combined Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for information on projected environmental capital expenditures for 2020 through 2024.

LG&E and KU are entitled to recover, through the ECR mechanism, certain costs of complying with the Clean Air Act, as amended, and other federal, state and local environmental requirements applicable to coal combustion wastes and by-products from coal-fired generating facilities upon KPSC review. Costs not covered by the ECR mechanism for LG&E and KU and all such costs for PPL Electric are subject to rate recovery at the discretion of the companies' respective state regulatory authorities, or the FERC, if applicable. WPD's distribution businesses are subject to certain statutory and regulatory environmental requirements. It may be necessary for WPD to incur significant compliance costs, which may be recoverable through rates subject to Ofgem approval. Because neither WPD nor PPL Electric own any generating plants, their exposure to related environmental compliance costs is reduced. PPL, PPL Electric, LKE, LG&E and KU can provide no assurances as to the ultimate outcome of future proceedings before regulatory authorities.

Air

(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)

NAAQS

The Clean Air Act has a significant impact on the operation of fossil fuel generation plants. The Clean Air Act requires the EPA periodically to establish and review National Ambient Air Quality Standards, known as NAAQS, for six pollutants: carbon monoxide, lead, nitrogen dioxide, ozone (contributed to by nitrogen oxide emissions), particulate matter and sulfur dioxide. The EPA is scheduled to evaluate the current NAAQS for particulate matter in 2020. PPL, LKE, LG&E, and KU are unable to predict the outcome of future evaluations by the EPA and the states with respect to the NAAQS for particulate matter.

Applicable regulations require each state to identify areas within its boundaries that fail to meet the NAAQS, (known as nonattainment areas), and develop a state implementation plan to achieve and maintain compliance. In addition, for attainment of ozone and fine particulates standards, certain states, including Kentucky, are subject to a regional EPA program known as the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR). In January 2018, the EPA designated Jefferson County, Kentucky (Louisville) as being in nonattainment with the existing 2015 ozone standard. In December 2018, the EPA finalized the CSAPR "Close-Out Rule," determining that the existing CSAPR "Update Rule" for the 2008 ozone NAAQS fully addresses applicable states' interstate pollution transport obligations. Various states and others challenged the rule in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit (D.C. Circuit). In September 2019, the D.C. Circuit granted these petitions and remanded a portion of the CSAPR Update Rule to the EPA. Compliance with the NAAQS and related requirements may require installation of additional pollution controls, the costs of which PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU believe are subject to rate recovery.

States that are found to contribute significantly to another state's nonattainment with ozone standards are required to establish “good neighbor” state implementation plans. In October 2019, New York and other interested parties filed a petition for review in the D.C. Circuit of Appeals challenging the EPA’s determination that no additional reductions beyond existing and planned controls are necessary to prevent significant interstate impacts. In 2018 and 2019, the EPA denied petitions filed by Maryland, Delaware, and New York alleging that states including Kentucky contribute to nonattainment in the petitioning states.



Climate Change

There is continuing world-wide attention focused on issues related to climate change. In 2015, 195 nations, including the U.S., signed the Paris Agreement on Climate, establishing non-binding targets to reduce GHG emissions from both developed and developing nations. In 2017, the President announced a U.S. withdrawal from the Paris Agreement, which withdrawal would not be complete until November 2020. The President also issued an Executive Order directing rescission of certain guidance, directives, and prior Presidential actions regarding climate change. At present, there are ongoing efforts by various U.S. federal, state, and local governments to assess potential changes to legislation, rules, policies, directives, and other requirements applicable to greenhouse gas emissions. PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU cannot predict the outcome of such assessments.

The U.K. has enacted binding carbon reduction requirements that are applicable to WPD. Under the U.K. law, WPD must purchase carbon allowances to offset emissions associated with WPD's operations. The cost of these allowances is not significant and is included in WPD's current operating expenses.

The EPA's Affordable Clean Energy Rule

In July 2019, the EPA repealed the Clean Power Plan and finalized the Affordable Clean Energy (ACE) Rule which gives states broad latitude to establish emission guidelines providing for plant-specific efficiency upgrades or "heat-rate improvements" to reduce GHG emissions per unit of electricity generated. States are generally allowed three years to submit plans establishing standards of performance, while the EPA anticipates that most facilities will be required to demonstrate compliance within two years of plan approval. The EPA intends to take additional action to finalize new criteria for determining whether efficiency projects will trigger New Source Review and thus be subject to more stringent emission controls. Various entities have filed petitions for review and petitions for reconsideration. PPL, LKE, LG&E, and KU cannot predict the outcome of the pending litigation and regulatory proceedings, but believe that the costs would be subject to rate recovery.

Water/Waste

(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)

Clean Water Act

Regulations under the federal Clean Water Act dictate permitting and mitigation requirements for facilities and construction projects that impact "Waters of the United States." Many other requirements relate to power plant operations, including the treatment of pollutants in effluents prior to discharge, the temperature of effluent discharges and the location, design and construction of cooling water intake structures at generating facilities, and standards intended to protect aquatic organisms that become trapped at or pulled through cooling water intake structures at generating facilities. These requirements could impose significant costs for LG&E and KU, which are expected to be subject to rate recovery.

Clean Water Act Jurisdiction

Environmental groups and others have claimed that discharges to groundwater from leaking CCR impoundments at power plants are subject to Clean Water Act permitting. A citizen suit raising such claims has been filed against KU with respect to the E.W. Brown plant, as discussed under “Legal Matters” - “E.W. Brown Environmental Claims” in Note 13 to the Financial Statements. On April 12, 2019, the EPA released regulatory clarification finding that Clean Water Act jurisdiction does not cover such discharges to groundwater. On January 23, 2020, the EPA announced a final rule modifying the jurisdictional scope of the Clean Water Act. The announced rule revises the definition of the "Waters of the United States," including a revision to exclude groundwater from the definition. Additionally, a ruling from the U.S. Supreme Court in a pending case, likely in the first half of 2020, is expected to provide additional clarification on the scope of Clean Water Act jurisdiction. Extending Clean Water Act jurisdiction to discharges to groundwater could potentially subject certain releases from CCR impoundments to additional permitting and remediation requirements, which could impose substantial costs. PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU are unable to predict the outcome or financial impact of current regulatory proceedings and litigation.

Seepages and Groundwater Infiltration

In addition to the actions described above, LG&E and KU have completed, or are completing, assessments of seepages or groundwater infiltration at various facilities and have completed, or are working with agencies to implement, further testing, monitoring or abatement measures, where applicable. Depending on the circumstances in each case, certain costs, which may be subject to rate recovery, could be significant.



Superfund and Other Remediation

(All Registrants)

From time to time, PPL's subsidiaries in the United States undertake testing, monitoring or remedial action in response to spills or other releases at various on-site and off-site locations, negotiate with the EPA and state and local agencies regarding actions necessary to comply with applicable requirements, negotiate with property owners and other third parties alleging impacts from PPL's operations and undertake similar actions necessary to resolve environmental matters that arise in the course of normal operations. Based on analyses to date, resolution of these environmental matters is not expected to have a significant adverse impact on the operations of PPL Electric, LG&E and KU.

Future cleanup or remediation work at sites not yet identified may result in significant additional costs for PPL, PPL Electric, LKE, LG&E and KU. Insurance policies maintained by LKE, LG&E and KU may be available to cover certain of the costs or other obligations related to these matters, but the amount of insurance coverage or reimbursement cannot be estimated or assured.

See “Legal Matters” in Note 13 to the Financial Statements for additional information.

(All Registrants)

SEASONALITY

The demand for and market prices of electricity and natural gas are affected by weather. As a result, the Registrants' operating results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis, especially when unpredictable weather conditions make such fluctuations more pronounced. The pattern of this fluctuation may change depending on the type and location of the facilities owned. See "Item 1. Business - Environmental Matters - Air" for additional information regarding climate change.

FINANCIAL CONDITION

See "Financial Condition" in "Item 7. Combined Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for this information.

CAPITAL EXPENDITURE REQUIREMENTS

See "Financial Condition - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Forecasted Uses of Cash - Capital Expenditures" in "Item 7. Combined Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for information concerning projected capital expenditure requirements for


through


. See "Item 1. Business - Environmental Matters" for additional information concerning the potential impact on capital expenditures from environmental matters.

EMPLOYEE RELATIONS

At

December 31, 2019

, PPL and its subsidiaries had the following full-time employees and employees represented by labor unions:

PPL's domestic workforce has 1,862 employees, or 33%, that are members of labor unions.

WPD has 3,925 employees who are members of labor unions (or 60% of PPL's U.K. workforce). WPD recognizes four unions, the largest of which represent 41% of its union workforce. WPD's Electricity Business Agreement, which covers 3,868 union employees, may be amended by agreement between WPD and the unions and can be terminated with 12 months' notice by either side.



CYBERSECURITY MANAGEMENT

The Registrants and their subsidiaries are subject to risks from cyber-attacks that have the potential to cause significant interruptions to the operation of their businesses. The frequency of these attempted intrusions has increased in recent years and the sources, motivations and techniques of attack continue to evolve and change rapidly. PPL has adopted a variety of measures to monitor and address cyber-related risks. Cybersecurity and the effectiveness of PPL’s cybersecurity strategy are regular topics of discussion at Board meetings. PPL's strategy for managing cyber-related risks is risk-based and, where appropriate, integrated within PPL's enterprise risk management processes. PPL’s Chief Information Security Officer (CISO), who reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer, leads a dedicated cybersecurity team and is responsible for the design, implementation, and execution of cyber-risk management strategy. Among other things, the CISO and the cybersecurity team actively monitor the Registrants' systems, regularly review policies, compliance, regulations and best practices, perform penetration testing, lead response exercises and internal campaigns, and provide training and communication across the organization to strengthen secure behavior. The cybersecurity team also routinely participates in industry-wide programs to further information sharing, intelligence gathering, and unity of effort in responding to potential or actual attacks. In addition, in 2018, PPL revised and formalized its internal policy and procedures for communicating cybersecurity incidents on an enterprise-wide basis.

In addition to these enterprise-wide initiatives, PPL’s Kentucky and Pennsylvania operations are subject to extensive and rigorous mandatory cybersecurity requirements that are developed and enforced by NERC and approved by FERC to protect grid security and reliability. Finally, PPL purchases insurance to protect against a wide range of costs that could be incurred in connection with cyber-related incidents. There can be no assurance, however, that these efforts will be effective to prevent interruption of services or other damage to the Registrants' businesses or operations or that PPL's insurance coverage will cover all costs incurred in connection with any cyber-related incident.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

PPL's Internet website is www.pplweb.com. Under the Investors heading of that website, PPL provides access to SEC filings of the Registrants (including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(d) or 15(d)) free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing with the SEC. Additionally, the Registrants' filings are available at the SEC's website (www.sec.gov).



ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

The Registrants face various risks associated with their businesses. Our businesses, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. In addition, this report also contains forward-looking and other statements about our businesses that are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. See "Forward-Looking Information," "Item 1. Business," "Item 7. Combined Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and

Note 13

to the Financial Statements for more information concerning the risks described below and for other risks, uncertainties and factors that could impact our businesses and financial results.

As used in this Item 1A., the terms "we," "our" and "us" generally refer to PPL and its consolidated subsidiaries taken as a whole, or PPL Electric and its consolidated subsidiaries taken as a whole within the Pennsylvania Regulated segment discussion, or LKE and its consolidated subsidiaries taken as a whole within the Kentucky Regulated segment discussion.

Order of Subsection Presentation

A.

Risks Related to Our U.K. Regulated Segment

B.

Risks Related to Registrant Holding Companies

C.

Risks Related to Domestic Regulated Utility Operations

D.

Risks Specific to Kentucky Regulated Segment

E.

Risks Specific to Pennsylvania Regulated Segment

F.

Risks Related to All Segments

(PPL)

A. Risks Related to Our U.K. Regulated Segment

Our U.K. distribution business contributes a significant amount of PPL's earnings and exposes us to the following additional risks related to operating outside the U.S., including risks associated with changes in U.K. laws and regulations, taxes, economic conditions and political conditions and policies of the U.K. government and the European Union. These risks may adversely impact the results of operations of our U.K. distribution business or affect our ability to access U.K. revenues for payment of distributions or for other corporate purposes in the U.S.

•

changes in laws or regulations relating to U.K. operations, including rate regulations beginning in April 2023 under RIIO-ED2, operational performance and tax laws and regulations;

•

changes in government policies, personnel or approval requirements;

•

changes in general economic conditions affecting the U.K.;

•

regulatory reviews of tariffs for DNOs;

•

changes in labor relations;

•

limitations on foreign investment or ownership of projects and returns or distributions to foreign investors;

•

limitations on the ability of foreign companies to borrow money from foreign lenders and lack of local capital or loans;

•

changes in U.S. tax law applicable to taxation of foreign earnings;

•

compliance with U.S. foreign corrupt practices laws; and

•

prolonged periods of low inflation or deflation.

PPL's earnings may be adversely affected by the U.K. withdrawal from the European Union.

In 2019, approximately 56% of PPL’s net income was generated from its U.K. businesses. Significant uncertainty continues to exist concerning the financial, foreign currency exchange rate and other consequences of the U.K. withdrawal from the European Union, including the outcome of negotiations between the U.K. and European Union as to the terms to be negotiated by December 31, 2020 concerning trade, security and certain other matters. PPL cannot predict the impact on PPL’s U.K. operations that may be experienced as a result of these negotiations, although such impacts could be material.

We are subject to foreign currency exchange rate risks because a significant portion of our cash flows and reported earnings are currently generated by our U.K. business operations.

These risks relate primarily to changes in the relative value of the British pound sterling and the U.S. dollar between the time we initially invest U.S. dollars in our U.K. businesses, and our strategy to hedge against such changes, and the time that cash is repatriated to the U.S. from the U.K., including cash flows from our U.K. businesses that may be distributed to PPL or used for repayments of intercompany loans or other general corporate purposes. In addition, PPL's consolidated reported earnings on a



GAAP basis may be subject to earnings translation risk, which results from the conversion of earnings as reported in our U.K. businesses on a British pound sterling basis to a U.S. dollar basis in accordance with GAAP requirements.

Our U.K. segment's earnings are subject to variability based on fluctuations in RPI, which is a measure of inflation.

In RIIO-ED1, WPD's base revenue was established by Ofgem based on 2012/13 prices. Base revenue is subsequently adjusted to reflect any increase or decrease in RPI for each year to determine the amount of revenue WPD can collect in tariffs. The RPI is forecasted annually by HM Treasury and subject to true-up in subsequent years. Consequently, fluctuations between forecasted and actual RPI can result in variances in base revenue. Although WPD also has debt indexed to RPI and certain components of operations and maintenance expense are affected by inflation, these may not offset changes in base revenue and timing of such offsets would likely not be correlated precisely with the calendar year in which the variance in demand revenue was initially incurred. Further, as RAV is indexed to RPI under U.K. rate regulations, a reduction in RPI could adversely affect a borrower's debt-to-RAV ratio, potentially limiting future borrowings at WPD's holding company.

Our U.K. delivery business is subject to revenue variability based on operational performance.

Our U.K. delivery businesses operate under an incentive-based regulatory framework. Managing operational risk and delivering agreed-upon performance are critical to the U.K. Regulated segment's financial performance. Disruption to these distribution networks could reduce profitability both directly by incurring costs for network restoration and also through the system of penalties and rewards that Ofgem administers relating to customer service levels.

Our ability to collect current levels of pension deficit funding for certain WPD pension plans after March 2021 is uncertain.

WPD recovers approximately 80% of pension deficit funding for certain of WPD's defined benefit pension plans in conjunction with actual costs under the RIIO-ED1 price control. The pension deficit is determined by the pension trustees on a triennial basis in accordance with their funding requirements. Pension deficit funding recovered in revenues was £151 million, £147 million and £142 million in 2019, 2018 and 2017. WPD expects similar amounts to be collected in revenues through March 31, 2021, but cannot predict amounts that will be collected in revenues beyond then as the plans are approaching a fully funded status. The current triennial pension review commenced in March 2019 and is expected to conclude by the end of 2020.

A failure by any of our U.K. regulated businesses to comply with the terms of a distribution license may lead to the issuance of an enforcement order by Ofgem that could have an adverse impact on PPL.

Ofgem has powers to levy fines of up to ten percent of revenue for any breach of a distribution license or, in certain circumstances, such as insolvency, the distribution license itself may be revoked. Ofgem also has formal powers to propose modifications to each distribution license and there can be no assurance that a restrictive modification will not be introduced in the future, which could have an adverse effect on the operations and financial condition of the U.K. regulated businesses and PPL.

(PPL and LKE)

B. Risk Related to Registrant Holding Companies

PPL and LKE are holding companies and their cash flows and ability to meet their obligations with respect to indebtedness and under guarantees, and PPL's ability to pay dividends, largely depends on the financial performance of their respective subsidiaries and, as a result, is effectively subordinated to all existing and future liabilities of those subsidiaries.

PPL and LKE are holding companies and conduct their operations primarily through subsidiaries. Substantially all of the consolidated assets of these Registrants are held by their subsidiaries. Accordingly, these Registrants' cash flows and ability to meet debt and guaranty obligations, as well as PPL's ability to pay dividends, are largely dependent upon the earnings of those subsidiaries and the distribution or other payment of such earnings in the form of dividends, distributions, loans, advances or repayment of loans and advances. The subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have no obligation to pay dividends or distributions to their parents or to make funds available for such a payment. The ability of the Registrants' subsidiaries to pay dividends or distributions in the future will depend on the subsidiaries' future earnings and cash flows and the needs of their businesses, and may be restricted by their obligations to holders of their outstanding debt and other creditors, as well as any contractual or legal restrictions in effect at such time, including the requirements of state corporate law applicable to payment of dividends and distributions, and regulatory requirements, including restrictions on the ability of PPL Electric, LG&E and KU to pay dividends under Section 305(a) of the Federal Power Act.



Because PPL and LKE are holding companies, their debt and guaranty obligations are effectively subordinated to all existing and future liabilities of their subsidiaries. Although certain agreements to which certain subsidiaries are parties limit their ability to incur additional indebtedness, PPL and LKE and their subsidiaries retain the ability to incur substantial additional indebtedness and other liabilities. Therefore, PPL's and LKE's rights and the rights of their creditors, including rights of debt holders, to participate in the assets of any of their subsidiaries, in the event that such a subsidiary is liquidated or reorganized, will be subject to the prior claims of such subsidiary's creditors.

(PPL Electric, LG&E and KU)

C. Risks Related to Domestic Regulated Utility Operations

Our domestic regulated utility businesses face many of the same risks, in addition to those risks that are unique to each of the Kentucky Regulated and Pennsylvania Regulated segments. Set forth below are risk factors common to both domestic regulated segments, followed by sections identifying separately the risks specific to each of these segments.

Our profitability is highly dependent on our ability to recover the costs of providing energy and utility services to our customers and earn an adequate return on our capital investments. Regulators may not approve the rates we request and existing rates may be challenged.

The rates we charge our utility customers must be approved by one or more federal or state regulatory commissions, including the FERC, KPSC, VSCC and PUC. Although rate regulation is generally premised on the recovery of prudently incurred costs and a reasonable rate of return on invested capital, there can be no assurance that regulatory authorities will consider all of our costs to have been prudently incurred or that the regulatory process by which rates are determined will always result in rates that achieve full or timely recovery of our costs or an adequate return on our capital investments. Federal or state agencies, intervenors and other permitted parties may challenge our current or future rate requests, structures or mechanisms, and ultimately reduce, alter or limit the rates we receive. Although our rates are generally regulated based on an analysis of our costs incurred in a base year or on future projected costs, the rates we are allowed to charge may or may not match our costs at any given time. Our domestic regulated utility businesses are subject to substantial capital expenditure requirements over the next several years, which will likely require rate increase requests to the regulators. If our costs are not adequately recovered through rates, it could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.

Our domestic utility businesses are subject to significant and complex governmental

regulation.

In addition to regulating the rates we charge, various federal and state regulatory authorities regulate many aspects of our domestic utility operations, including:

•

the terms and conditions of our service and operations;

•

financial and capital structure matters;

•

siting, construction and operation of facilities;

•

mandatory reliability and safety standards under the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and other standards of conduct;

•

accounting, depreciation and cost allocation methodologies;

•

tax matters;

•

affiliate transactions;

•

acquisition and disposal of utility assets and issuance of securities; and

•

various other matters, including energy efficiency.

Such regulations or changes thereto may subject us to higher operating costs or increased capital expenditures and failure to comply could result in sanctions or possible penalties which may not be recoverable from customers.

Our domestic regulated businesses undertake significant capital projects and these activities are subject

to unforeseen costs, delays or failures, as well as risk of inadequate recovery of

resulting costs.

The domestic regulated utility businesses are capital intensive and require significant investments in energy generation (in the case of LG&E and KU) and transmission, distribution and other infrastructure projects, such as projects for environmental compliance and system reliability. The completion of these projects without delays or cost overruns is subject to risks in many areas, including:

•

approval, licensing and permitting;

•

land acquisition and the availability of suitable land;



•

skilled labor or equipment shortages;

•

construction problems or delays, including disputes with third-party intervenors;

•

increases in commodity prices or labor rates; and

•

contractor performance.

Failure to complete our capital projects on schedule or on budget, or at all, could adversely affect our financial performance, operations and future growth if such expenditures are not granted rate recovery by our regulators.

We are or may be subject to costs of remediation of environmental contamination at facilities owned or operated by our former subsidiaries.

We may be subject to liability for the costs of environmental remediation of property now or formerly owned by us with respect to substances that we may have generated regardless of whether the liabilities arose before, during or after the time we owned or operated the facilities. We also have current or previous ownership interests in sites associated with the production of manufactured gas for which we may be liable for additional costs related to investigation, remediation and monitoring of these sites. Remediation activities associated with our former manufactured gas plant operations are one source of such costs. Citizen groups or others may bring litigation regarding environmental issues including claims of various types, such as property damage, personal injury and citizen challenges to compliance decisions on the enforcement of environmental requirements, which could subject us to penalties, injunctive relief and the cost of litigation. We cannot predict the amount and timing of all future expenditures (including the potential or magnitude of fines or penalties) related to such environmental matters, although they could be material.

D. Risks Specific to Kentucky Regulated Segment

(

PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU

)

We are subject to financial, operational, regulatory and other risks related to requirements, developments and uncertainties in environmental regulation, including those affecting coal-fired generation facilities.

Extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations are applicable to LG&E's and KU's generation supply, including its air emissions, water discharges (ELGs) and the management of hazardous and solid wastes (CCRs), among other business-related activities, and the costs of compliance or alleged non-compliance cannot be predicted but could be material. In addition, our costs may increase significantly if the requirements or scope of environmental laws, regulations or similar rules are expanded or changed as the environmental standards governing LG&E’s and KU’s businesses, particularly as applicable to coal-fired generation and related activities, continue to be subject to uncertainties due to rulemaking and other regulatory developments, legislative activities and litigation, administrative or permit challenges. Depending on the extent, frequency and timing of such changes, the companies may face higher risks of unsuccessful implementation of environmental-related business plans, noncompliance with applicable environmental rules, delayed or incomplete rate recovery or increased costs of implementation. Costs may take the form of increased capital expenditures or operating and maintenance expenses, monetary fines, penalties or forfeitures, operational changes, permit limitations or other restrictions. At some of our older generating facilities it may be uneconomic for us to install necessary pollution control equipment, which could cause us to retire those units. Market prices for energy and capacity also affect this cost-effectiveness analysis. Many of these environmental law considerations are also applicable to the operations of our key suppliers or customers, such as coal producers, power producers and industrial power users, and may impact the costs of their products and demand for our services.

(

PPL, LKE and LG&E

)

We are subject to operational, regulatory and other risks regarding natural gas supply infrastructure.

A natural gas pipeline explosion or associated incident could have a significant impact on LG&E’s natural gas operations or result in significant damages and penalties that could have an adverse impact on LG&E’s financial position and results of operations. The Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration enforces regulations that govern the design, construction, operation and maintenance of pipeline facilities. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in the assessment of fines or penalties against LG&E. These regulations require, among other things, that pipeline operators engage in a pipeline integrity program. Depending on the results of these integrity tests and other integrity program activities, we could incur significant and unexpected costs to perform remedial activities on our natural gas infrastructure to ensure our continued safe and reliable operation. Recent pipeline incidents in the U.S. have also led to the introduction of proposed rules and possible federal legislative actions which could impose restrictions on LG&E’s operations or require more stringent testing to



ensure pipeline integrity. Implementation of these regulations could increase our costs to comply with pipeline integrity and safety regulations.

E. Risks Specific to Pennsylvania Regulated Segment

(

PPL and PPL Electric

)

We face competition for transmission projects, which could adversely affect our rate base growth.

FERC Order 1000, issued in July 2011, establishes certain procedural and substantive requirements relating to participation, cost allocation and non-incumbent developer aspects of regional and inter-regional electricity transmission planning activities. The PPL Electric transmission business, operating under a FERC-approved PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff, is subject to competition pursuant to FERC Order 1000 from entities that are not incumbent PJM transmission owners with respect to the construction and ownership of transmission facilities within PJM. Increased competition can result in lower rate base growth.

We could be subject to higher costs and/or penalties related to Pennsylvania Conservation and Energy Efficiency Programs.

PPL Electric is subject to Act 129, which contains requirements for energy efficiency and conservation programs and for the use of smart metering technology, imposes PLR electricity supply procurement rules, provides remedies for market misconduct, and made changes to the existing Alternative Energy Portfolio Standard. The law also requires electric utilities to meet specified goals for reduction in customer electricity usage and peak demand. Utilities not meeting these Act 129 requirements are subject to significant penalties that cannot be recovered in rates. Numerous factors outside of our control could prevent compliance with these requirements and result in penalties to us.

F. Risks Related to All Segments

(

All Registrants

)

The operation of our businesses is subject to cyber-based security and data integrity risks.

Numerous functions affecting the efficient operation of our businesses are dependent on the secure and reliable storage, processing and communication of electronic data and the use of sophisticated computer hardware and software systems. The operation of our transmission and distribution systems, as well as our generation plants, are all reliant on cyber-based technologies and, therefore, subject to the risk that these systems could be the target of disruptive actions by terrorists or criminals or otherwise be compromised by unintentional events. As a result, operations could be interrupted, property could be damaged and sensitive customer information lost or stolen, causing us to incur significant losses of revenues, other substantial liabilities and damages, costs to replace or repair damaged equipment and damage to our reputation. In addition, under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, users, owners and operators of the bulk power transmission system, including PPL Electric, LG&E and KU, are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by NERC and enforced by FERC. As an operator of natural gas distribution systems, LG&E is also subject to mandatory reliability standards of the U.S. Department of Transportation. Failure to comply with these standards could result in the imposition of fines or civil penalties, and potential exposure to third party claims for alleged violations of the standards.

We are subject to risks associated with federal and state tax laws and regulations.

Changes in tax law as well as the inherent difficulty in quantifying potential tax effects of business decisions could negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows. We are required to make judgments in order to estimate our obligations to taxing authorities. These tax obligations include income, property, gross receipts, franchise, sales and use, employment-related and other taxes. We also estimate our ability to utilize deferred tax assets and tax credits. Dependent upon the revenue needs of the jurisdictions in which our businesses operate, various tax and fee increases may be proposed or considered. We cannot predict changes in tax law or regulation or the effect of any such changes on our businesses. Any such changes could increase tax expense and could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. We have completed or made reasonable estimates of the effects of the TCJA reflected in our December 31, 2018 financial statements, and we continue to evaluate the application of the law in calculating income tax expense.

Increases in electricity prices and/or a weak economy, can lead to changes in legislative and regulatory policy, including the promotion of energy efficiency, conservation and distributed generation or self-generation, which may adversely impact our business.



Energy consumption is significantly impacted by overall levels of economic activity and costs of energy supplies. Economic downturns or periods of high energy supply costs can lead to changes in or the development of legislative and regulatory policy designed to promote reductions in energy consumption and increased energy efficiency, alternative and renewable energy sources, and distributed or self-generation by customers. This focus on conservation, energy efficiency and self-generation may result in a decline in electricity demand, which could adversely affect our business.

We could be negatively affected by rising interest rates, downgrades to our credit ratings, adverse credit market conditions or other negative developments in our ability to access capital markets.

Our businesses are capital-intensive and, in the ordinary course of business, we are reliant upon adequate long-term and short-term financing to fund our significant capital expenditures, debt service and operating needs. As a result, we are sensitive to developments in interest rates, credit rating considerations, insurance, security or collateral requirements, market liquidity and credit availability and refinancing opportunities necessary or advisable to respond to credit market changes. Changes in these conditions could result in increased costs and decreased availability of credit. In addition, certain sources of debt and equity capital have expressed reservations about investing in companies that rely on fossil fuels. If sources of our capital are reduced, capital costs could increase materially.

A downgrade in our credit ratings could negatively affect our ability to access capital and increase the cost of maintaining our credit facilities and any new debt.

Credit ratings assigned by Moody's and S&P to our businesses and their financial obligations have a significant impact on the cost of capital incurred by our businesses. A ratings downgrade could increase our short-term borrowing costs and negatively affect our ability to fund liquidity needs and access new long-term debt at acceptable interest rates. See "Item 7. Combined Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Financial Condition - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Ratings Triggers" for additional information on the financial impact of a downgrade in our credit ratings.

Our operating revenues could fluctuate on a seasonal basis, especially as a result of extreme weather conditions.

Our businesses are subject to seasonal demand cycles. For example, in some markets demand for, and market prices of, electricity peak during hot summer months, while in other markets such peaks occur in cold winter months. As a result, our overall operating results may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis if weather conditions diverge adversely from seasonal norms.

Operating expenses could be affected by weather conditions, including storms, as well as by significant man-made or accidental

disturbances, including terrorism or natural disasters.

Weather and other factors can significantly affect our profitability or operations by causing outages, damaging infrastructure and requiring significant repair costs. Storm outages and damage often directly decrease revenues and increase expenses, due to reduced usage and restoration costs.

Our businesses are subject to physical, market and economic risks relating to potential

effects of climate change.

Climate change may produce changes in weather or other environmental conditions, including temperature or precipitation levels, and thus may impact consumer demand for electricity. In addition, the potential physical effects of climate change, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods, and other climatic events, could disrupt our operations and cause us to incur significant costs to prepare for or respond to these effects. These or other meteorological changes could lead to increased operating costs, capital expenses or power purchase costs. Greenhouse gas regulation could increase the cost of electricity, particularly power generated by fossil fuels, and such increases could have a depressive effect on regional economies. Reduced economic and consumer activity in our service areas -- both generally and specific to certain industries and consumers accustomed to previously lower cost power -- could reduce demand for the power we generate, market and deliver. Also, demand for our energy-related services could be similarly lowered by consumers' preferences or market factors favoring energy efficiency, low-carbon power sources or reduced electricity usage.

We cannot predict the outcome of legal proceedings or investigations related to our businesses in which we are periodically involved. An unfavorable outcome or determination in any of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

We are involved in legal proceedings, claims and litigation and periodically are subject to state and federal investigations arising out of our business operations, the most significant of which are summarized in Item 1. Business and "Regulatory



Matters" in

Note 7

to the Financial Statements and in "Legal Matters" and "Regulatory Issues" in

Note 13

to the Financial Statements. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these matters, nor can we reasonably estimate the costs or liabilities that could potentially result from a negative outcome in each case.

Significant increases in our operation and maintenance expenses, including health care and pension costs, could adversely affect our future earnings and liquidity.

We continually focus on limiting and reducing our operation and maintenance expenses. However, we expect to continue to face increased cost pressures in our operations. Increased costs of materials and labor may result from general inflation, increased regulatory requirements (especially in respect of environmental regulations), the need for higher-cost expertise in the workforce or other factors. In addition, pursuant to collective bargaining agreements, we are contractually committed to provide specified levels of health care and pension benefits to certain current employees and retirees. These benefits give rise to significant expenses. Due to general inflation with respect to such costs, the aging demographics of our workforce and other factors, we have experienced significant health care cost inflation in recent years, and we expect our health care costs, including prescription drug coverage, to continue to increase despite measures that we have taken and expect to take to require employees and retirees to bear a higher portion of the costs of their health care benefits. In addition, we expect to continue to incur significant costs with respect to the defined benefit pension plans for our employees and retirees. The measurement of our expected future health care and pension obligations, costs and liabilities is highly dependent on a variety of assumptions, most of which relate to factors beyond our control. These assumptions include investment returns, interest rates, health care cost trends, inflation rates, benefit improvements, salary increases and the demographics of plan participants. If our assumptions prove to be inaccurate, our future costs and cash contribution requirements to fund these benefits could increase significantly.

We may incur liabilities in connection with discontinued operations.

In connection with various divestitures, and certain other transactions, we have indemnified or guaranteed parties against certain liabilities. These indemnities and guarantees relate, among other things, to liabilities which may arise with respect to the period during which we or our subsidiaries operated a divested business, and to certain ongoing contractual relationships and entitlements with respect to which we or our subsidiaries made commitments in connection with the divestiture. See "Guarantees and Other Assurances" in

Note 13

to the Financial Statements.

We are subject to liability risks relating to our generation,

transmission and distribution operations.

The conduct of our physical and commercial operations subjects us to many risks, including risks of potential physical injury, property damage or other financial liability, caused to or by employees, customers, contractors, vendors, contractual or financial counterparties and other third parties.

Our facilities may not operate as planned, which may increase our expenses and decrease our revenues and have an adverse effect on our financial performance.

Operation of power plants, transmission and distribution facilities, information technology systems and other assets and activities subjects us to a variety of risks, including the breakdown or failure of equipment, accidents, security breaches, viruses or outages affecting information technology systems, labor disputes, obsolescence, delivery/transportation problems and disruptions of fuel supply and performance below expected levels. These events may impact our ability to conduct our businesses efficiently and lead to increased costs, expenses or losses. Operation of our delivery systems below our expectations may result in lost revenue and increased expense, including higher maintenance costs, which may not be recoverable from customers. Planned and unplanned outages at our power plants may require us to purchase power at then-current market prices to satisfy our commitments or, in the alternative, pay penalties and damages for failure to satisfy them.

Although we maintain insurance coverage for certain of these risks, we do not carry insurance for all of these risks and no assurance can be given that such insurance coverage will be sufficient to compensate us in the event losses occur.



We are required to obtain, and to comply with, government permits and approvals.

We are required to obtain, and to comply with, numerous permits, approvals, licenses and certificates from governmental agencies. The process of obtaining and renewing necessary permits can be lengthy and complex and sometimes result in the establishment of permit conditions that make the project or activity for which a permit was sought unprofitable or otherwise unattractive. In addition, such permits or approvals may be subject to denial, revocation or modification under circumstances. Failure to obtain or comply with the conditions of permits or approvals, or failure to comply with any applicable laws or regulations, may result in delay or temporary suspension of our operations and electricity sales or the curtailment of our power delivery and may subject us to penalties and other sanctions. Although various regulators routinely renew existing licenses, renewal could be denied or jeopardized by various factors, including failure to provide adequate financial assurance for closure; failure to comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations or permit conditions; local community, political or other opposition; and executive, legislative or regulatory action.

Our cost or inability to obtain and comply with the permits and approvals required for our operations could have a material adverse effect on our operations and cash flows. In addition, new environmental legislation or regulations, if enacted, or changed interpretations of existing laws may elicit claims that historical routine modification activities at our facilities violated applicable laws and regulations. In addition to the possible imposition of fines in such cases, we may be required to undertake significant capital investments in pollution control technology and obtain additional operating permits or approvals, which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.

War, other armed conflicts or terrorist attacks could have a material adverse effect on our business.

War, terrorist attacks and unrest have caused and may continue to cause instability in the world's financial and commercial markets and have contributed to high levels of volatility in prices for oil and gas. In addition, unrest in the Middle East could lead to acts of terrorism in the United States, the United Kingdom or elsewhere, and acts of terrorism could be directed against companies such as ours. Armed conflicts and terrorism and their effects on us or our markets may significantly affect our business and results of operations in the future. In addition, we may incur increased costs for security, including additional physical plant security and security personnel or additional capability following a terrorist incident.

We are subject to counterparty performance, credit or other risk in the provision of goods or services to us, which could adversely affect our ability to operate our facilities or conduct business activities.

We purchase from a variety of suppliers energy, capacity, fuel, natural gas, transmission service and certain commodities used in the physical operation of our businesses, as well as goods or services, including information technology rights and services, used in the administration of our businesses. Delivery of these goods and services is dependent on the continuing operational performance and financial viability of our contractual counterparties and also the markets, infrastructure or third parties they use to provide such goods and services to us. As a result, we are subject to risks of disruptions, curtailments or increased costs in the operation of our businesses if such goods or services are unavailable or become subject to price spikes or if a counterparty fails to perform. Such disruptions could adversely affect our ability to operate our facilities or deliver services and collect revenues, which could result in lower sales and/or higher costs and thereby adversely affect our results of operations. The performance of coal markets and producers may be the subject of increased counterparty risk to LKE, LG&E and KU currently due to weaknesses in such markets and suppliers. The coal industry is subject to increasing competitive pressures from natural gas markets, political pressures and new or more stringent environmental regulation, including regulation of combustion byproducts and water inputs or discharges.

We are subject to the risk that our workforce and its knowledge base may become depleted in coming years.

We are experiencing an increase in attrition due primarily to the number of retiring employees, with the risk that critical knowledge will be lost and that it may be difficult to replace departed personnel, and to attract and retain new personnel, with appropriate skills and experience, due to an increase in competition for such workers.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

PPL Corporation, PPL Electric Utilities Corporation, LG&E and KU Energy LLC, Louisville Gas and Electric Company and Kentucky Utilities Company

None.



ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

U.K. Regulated Segment

(PPL)

For a description of WPD's service territory, see "Item 1. Business - General - Segment Information - U.K. Regulated Segment." WPD has electric distribution lines in public streets and highways pursuant to legislation and rights-of-way secured from property owners. At

December 31, 2019

, WPD's distribution system in the U.K. includes 1,882 substations with a total capacity of 74 million kVA, 55,757 circuit miles of overhead lines and 84,977 underground cable miles.

Kentucky Regulated Segment

(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)

LG&E's and KU's properties consist primarily of regulated generation facilities, electricity transmission and distribution assets and natural gas transmission and distribution assets in Kentucky. The capacity of generation units is based on a number of factors, including the operating experience and physical condition of the units, and may be revised periodically to reflect changed circumstances. The electricity generating capacity at

December 31, 2019

was:

(a)

Trimble County Unit 1 and Trimble County Unit 2 are jointly owned with Illinois Municipal Electric Agency and Indiana Municipal Power Agency. Each owner is entitled to its proportionate share of the units' total output and funds its proportionate share of capital, fuel and other operating costs. See

Note 12

to the Financial Statements for additional information.

(b)

There is an inlet air cooling system attributable to these units. This inlet air cooling system is not jointly owned; however, it is used to increase production on the units to which it relates, resulting in an additional 12 MW of capacity for LG&E and an additional 86 MW of capacity for KU.

(c)

This unit is a 10 MW facility and achieves such production. The 8 MW solar facility summer capacity rating is reflective of an average expected output across the peak hours during the summer period based on average weather conditions at the solar facility.

For a description of LG&E's and KU's service areas, see "Item 1. Business - General - Segment Information - Kentucky Regulated Segment." At

December 31, 2019

, LG&E's transmission system included, in the aggregate,


substations (


of which are shared with the distribution system) with a total capacity of


million kVA and


pole miles of lines. LG&E's distribution system included


substations (


of which are shared with the transmission system) with a total capacity of




million kVA,

3,884

circuit miles of overhead lines and

2,660

underground cable miles. KU's transmission system included


substations (


of which are shared with the distribution system) with a total capacity of


million kVA and

4,062

pole miles of lines. KU's distribution system included


substations (


of which are shared with the transmission system) with a total capacity of


million kVA,

14,020

circuit miles of overhead lines and

2,593

underground cable miles.

LG&E's natural gas transmission system includes

4,384

miles of gas distribution mains and


miles of gas transmission mains, consisting of


miles of gas transmission pipeline,


miles of gas transmission storage lines,


miles of gas combustion turbine lines and

one

mile of gas transmission pipeline in regulator facilities.

Five

underground natural gas storage fields, with a total working natural gas capacity of approximately


Bcf, are used in providing natural gas service to ultimate consumers. KU's service area includes an additional


miles of gas transmission pipeline providing gas supply to natural gas combustion turbine electricity generating units.

Substantially all of LG&E's and KU's respective real and tangible personal property located in Kentucky and used or to be used in connection with the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity and, in the case of LG&E, the storage and distribution of natural gas, is subject to the lien of either the LG&E 2010 Mortgage Indenture or the KU 2010 Mortgage Indenture. See

Note 8

to the Financial Statements for additional information.

LG&E and KU continuously reexamine development projects based on market conditions and other factors to determine whether to proceed with the projects, sell, cancel or expand them or pursue other options. See Item 1. Business for a discussion related to LG&E's and KU's Solar Share program.

Pennsylvania Regulated Segment

(PPL and PPL Electric)

For a description of PPL Electric's service area, see "Item 1. Business - General - Segment Information - Pennsylvania Regulated Segment." PPL Electric has electric transmission and distribution lines in public streets and highways pursuant to franchises and rights-of-way secured from property owners. At

December 31, 2019

, PPL Electric's transmission system includes 51 substations with a total capacity of 31 million kVA and 5,439 circuit miles in service. PPL Electric's distribution system includes 353 substations with a total capacity of 14 million kVA, 36,385 circuit miles of overhead lines and 8,517 underground circuit miles. All of PPL Electric's facilities are located in Pennsylvania. Substantially all of PPL Electric's distribution properties and certain transmission properties are subject to the lien of the PPL Electric 2001 Mortgage Indenture. See

Note 8

to the Financial Statements for additional information.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

See Notes


,


and


to the Financial Statements for information regarding legal, tax and regulatory matters and proceedings.

ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES

Not applicable.



PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY,

RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND

ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

See "Item 7. Combined Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Financial Condition - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Forecasted Uses of Cash" for information regarding certain restrictions on the ability to pay dividends for all Registrants.

PPL Corporation

Additional information for this item is set forth in the sections entitled "Quarterly Financial and Dividend Data," "Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters" and "Shareowner and Investor Information" of this report. At January 31, 2020, there were 51,702 common stock shareowners of record.

There were no purchases by PPL of its common stock during the fourth quarter of 2019.

PPL Electric Utilities Corporation

There is no established public trading market for PPL Electric's common stock, as PPL owns 100% of the outstanding common shares. Dividends paid to PPL on those common shares are determined by PPL Electric's Board of Directors. PPL Electric paid common stock dividends to PPL of

$486 million

in


and

$390 million

in


.

LG&E and KU Energy LLC

There is no established public trading market for LKE's membership interests. PPL owns all of LKE's outstanding membership interests. Distributions on the membership interests are paid as determined by LKE's Board of Directors. LKE made cash distributions to PPL of $308 million in 2019 and $302 million in 2018.

Louisville Gas and Electric Company

There is no established public trading market for LG&E's common stock, as LKE owns 100% of the outstanding common shares. Dividends paid to LKE on those common shares are determined by LG&E's Board of Directors. LG&E paid common stock dividends to LKE of $182 million in 2019 and $156 million in 2018.

Kentucky Utilities Company

There is no established public trading market for KU's common stock, as LKE owns 100% of the outstanding common shares. Dividends paid to LKE on those common shares are determined by KU's Board of Directors. KU paid common stock dividends to LKE of $229 million in 2019 and $246 million in 2018.



ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA

(a)

The earnings each year were affected by several items that management considers special. See "Results of Operations - Segment Earnings" in "Item 7. Combined Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for a description of special items in


and


. The earnings for 2015 were also affected by the spinoff of PPL Energy Supply and the sale of the Montana hydroelectric generating facilities.

(b)

See "Item 1A. Risk Factors" and Notes


,


and


to the Financial Statements for a discussion of uncertainties that could affect PPL's future financial condition.

(c)

2015 through 2017 reflect the retrospective application of new accounting guidance related to the income statement presentation of net periodic benefit costs adopted by PPL in January 2018.

(d)

2015 reflects the impact of the spinoff of PPL Energy Supply and a $3.2 billion related dividend.

(e)

Based on diluted EPS.

(f)

2015 includes an $879 million loss on the spinoff of PPL Energy Supply, reflecting the difference between PPL's recorded value for the Supply segment and the estimated fair value determined in accordance with GAAP. 2015 also includes five months of Supply segment earnings.

(g)

Based on year-end market prices.



ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA

PPL Electric Utilities Corporation, LG&E and KU Energy LLC, Louisville Gas and Electric Company and Kentucky Utilities Company

Item 6 is omitted as PPL Electric, LKE, LG&E and KU meet the conditions set forth in General Instructions (I)(1)(a) and (b) of Form 10-K.



Item 7. Combined Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

(All Registrants)

This "Item 7. Combined Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" is separately filed by PPL, PPL Electric, LKE, LG&E and KU. Information contained herein relating to any individual Registrant is filed by such Registrant solely on its own behalf, and no Registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other Registrant. The specific Registrant to which disclosures are applicable is identified in parenthetical headings in italics above the applicable disclosure or within the applicable disclosure for each Registrant's related activities and disclosures. Within combined disclosures, amounts are disclosed for individual Registrants when significant.

The following should be read in conjunction with the Registrants' Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying Notes. Capitalized terms and abbreviations are defined in the glossary. Dollars are in millions, except per share data, unless otherwise noted.

"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" includes the following information:

•

"Overview" provides a description of each Registrant's business strategy and a discussion of important financial and operational developments.

•

"Results of Operations" for all Registrants includes a "Statement of Income Analysis," which discusses significant changes in principal line items on the Statements of Income, comparing


with


. For PPL, "Results of Operations" also includes "Segment Earnings" and "Adjusted Gross Margins" which provide a detailed analysis of earnings by reportable segment. These discussions include non-GAAP financial measures, including "Earnings from Ongoing Operations" and "Adjusted Gross Margins" and provide explanations of the non-GAAP financial measures and a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP measure. The "


Outlook" discussion identifies key factors expected to impact


earnings.

•

"Financial Condition - Liquidity and Capital Resources" provides an analysis of the Registrants' liquidity positions and credit profiles. This section also includes a discussion of forecasted sources and uses of cash and rating agency actions.

•

"Financial Condition - Risk Management" provides an explanation of the Registrants' risk management programs relating to market and credit risk.

•

"Application of Critical Accounting Policies" provides an overview of the accounting policies that are particularly important to the results of operations and financial condition of the Registrants and that require their management to make significant estimates, assumptions and other judgments of inherently uncertain matters.

For comparison of the Registrants’ results of operations and cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2018 to December 31, 2017, refer to “Item 7. Combined Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in the 2018 Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on February 14, 2019.

Overview

For a description of the Registrants and their businesses, see "Item 1. Business."

Business Strategy

(All Registrants)

PPL operates seven fully regulated high-performing utilities. These utilities are located in the U.K., Pennsylvania and Kentucky, constructive regulatory jurisdictions with distinct regulatory structures and customer classes. PPL believes this business portfolio positions the company well for continued success and provides earnings and dividend growth potential.

PPL's strategy, and that of the other Registrants, is to deliver best-in-sector operational performance, invest in a sustainable energy future, maintain a strong financial foundation, and engage and develop its people. PPL's business plan is designed to achieve growth by providing efficient, reliable and safe operations and strong customer service, maintaining constructive regulatory relationships and achieving timely recovery of costs. These businesses are expected to achieve strong, long-term



growth in rate base in the U.S. and RAV in the U.K. Rate base growth is being driven by planned significant capital expenditures to maintain existing assets and improve system reliability and, for LKE, LG&E and KU, to comply with federal and state environmental regulations related to coal-fired electricity generation facilities.

For the U.S. businesses, central to PPL's strategy is recovering capital project costs efficiently through various rate-making mechanisms, including periodic base rate case proceedings using forward test years, annual FERC formula rate mechanisms and other regulatory agency-approved recovery mechanisms designed to limit regulatory lag. In Kentucky, the KPSC has adopted a series of regulatory mechanisms (ECR, DSM, GLT, fuel adjustment clause and gas supply clause) and recovery on construction work-in-progress that reduce regulatory lag and provide timely recovery of and return on, as appropriate, prudently incurred costs. In addition, the KPSC requires a utility to obtain a CPCN prior to constructing a facility, unless the construction is an ordinary extension of existing facilities in the usual course of business or does not involve sufficient capital expenditures to materially affect the utility's financial condition. Although such KPSC proceedings do not directly address cost recovery issues, the KPSC, in awarding a CPCN, concludes that the public convenience and necessity require the construction of the facility on the basis that the facility is the lowest reasonable cost alternative to address the need. In Pennsylvania, the FERC transmission formula rate, DSIC mechanism, Smart Meter Rider and other recovery mechanisms are in place to reduce regulatory lag and provide for timely recovery of and a return on, as appropriate, prudently incurred costs.

To manage financing costs and access to credit markets, and to fund capital expenditures, a key objective of the Registrants is to maintain their investment grade credit ratings and adequate liquidity positions. In addition, the Registrants have financial and operational risk management programs that, among other things, are designed to monitor and manage exposure to earnings and cash flow volatility, as applicable, related to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and counterparty credit quality. To manage these risks, PPL generally uses contracts such as forwards, options and swaps. See "Financial Condition - Risk Management" below for further information.

Earnings generated by PPL's U.K. subsidiaries are subject to foreign currency translation risk. Because WPD's earnings represent such a significant portion of PPL's consolidated earnings, PPL enters into foreign currency contracts to economically hedge the value of the GBP versus the U.S. dollar. These hedges do not receive hedge accounting treatment under GAAP. See "Financial and Operational Developments - U.K. Membership in European Union" for additional discussion of the U.K. earnings hedging activity.

The U.K. subsidiaries also have currency exposure to the U.S. dollar to the extent of their U.S. dollar denominated debt. To manage these risks, PPL generally uses contracts such as forwards, options and cross-currency swaps that contain characteristics of both interest rate and foreign currency exchange contracts.

As discussed above, a key component of this strategy is to maintain constructive relationships with regulators in all jurisdictions in which the Registrants operate (U.K., U.S. federal and state). This is supported by a strong culture of integrity and delivering on commitments to customers, regulators and shareowners, and a commitment to continue to improve customer service, reliability and operational efficiency.

Financial and Operational Developments

U.S. Tax Reform

(All Registrants)

The IRS issued proposed regulations for certain provisions of the TCJA in 2018, including interest deductibility and Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (GILTI). In 2019, final and new proposed regulations were issued relating to the GILTI provisions. PPL has determined that neither the final or new proposed regulations materially change PPL's conclusion that currently no incremental tax arises under these rules. Proposed regulations relating to the limitation on the deductibility of interest expense were issued in November 2018 and such regulations provide detailed rules implementing the broader statutory provisions. These proposed regulations should not apply to the Registrants until the year in which the regulations are issued in final form, which is expected to be in 2020. It is uncertain what form the final regulations will take and, therefore, the Registrants cannot predict what impact the final regulations will have on the tax deductibility of interest expense. However, if the proposed regulations were issued as final in their current form, the Registrants could have a limitation on a portion of their interest expense deduction for tax purposes and such limitation could be significant. PPL expressed its views on these proposed regulations in a comment letter addressed to the IRS on February 26, 2019.

U.K. Membership in European Union

(PPL)

Following the June 2016 referendum, on March 29, 2017, the U.K. Government invoked Article 50 (Article 50) of the Lisbon Treaty, formally beginning the two-year period provided by Article 50 for the U.K. to negotiate an agreement specifying the



terms of its withdrawal from the European Union (EU), popularly referred to as Brexit. After repeated extensions, on October 28, 2019, the EU agreed to extend the Article 50 process until January 31, 2020. The U.K. Parliament subsequently approved an early general election for December 12, 2019, which resulted in a substantial Conservative Party Parliamentary majority and subsequent U.K. and EU Parliamentary votes to approve the EU withdrawal agreement negotiated by Prime Minister Boris Johnson.

The U.K. formally left the EU on January 31, 2020 with agreed upon withdrawal terms, entering a transition period that is scheduled to end on December 31, 2020. During the transition period, the U.K. will seek to negotiate a free trade arrangement with the EU and also negotiate new trade terms with countries outside of the EU. Significant uncertainty continues to surround the outcome of the transition period. PPL believes that its greatest risk related to the remaining Brexit uncertainties is an extended period of depressed value of the GBP or the potential further decline in the value of the GBP compared to the U.S. dollar. A decline in the value of the GBP compared to the U.S. dollar will reduce the value of WPD's earnings to PPL.

PPL has executed hedges to mitigate the foreign exchange risk to its U.K. earnings. As of January 31, 2020, PPL's foreign exchange exposure related to budgeted earnings is 90% hedged for 2020 at an average rate of $1.48 per GBP and 5% hedged for 2021 at an average rate of $1.33 per GBP.

PPL cannot predict the impact, in either the short-term or long-term, on foreign exchange rates or PPL's financial condition that may be experienced as a result of the actions taken by the U.K. government to withdraw from the EU, although such impacts could be material.

PPL does not expect the financial condition and results of operations of WPD, itself, to change significantly as a result of Brexit. The regulatory environment and operation of WPD's businesses are not expected to change. RIIO-ED1, the current price control, with allowed revenues agreed with Ofgem runs through March 2023. The impact of a slower economy or recession on WPD would be mitigated in part because U.K. regulation provides that any reduction in the volume of electricity delivered will be recovered in allowed revenues in future periods through the K-factor adjustment. See "Item 1. Business - Segment Information - U.K. Regulated Segment" for additional information on the current price control and K-factor adjustment. In addition, an increase in inflation would have a positive effect on revenues and RAV as annual inflation adjustments are applied to both revenues and RAV (and real returns are earned on inflated RAV). This impact, however, would be partially offset by higher operation and maintenance and interest expense on index-linked debt. With respect to access to financing, WPD has substantial borrowing capacity under existing credit facilities and expects to continue to have access to all major financial markets. With respect to access to and cost of equipment and other materials, WPD management continues to review U.K. government issued advice on preparations for Brexit and has taken actions to mitigate potential increasing costs and disruption to its critical sources of supply. Additionally, less than 1% of WPD's employees are non-U.K. EU nationals and no change in their domicile is expected.

Regulatory Requirements

(

All Registrants)

The Registrants cannot predict the impact that future regulatory requirements may have on their financial condition or results of operations.

(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)

The businesses of LKE, LG&E and KU are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws, rules and regulations, including those pertaining to CCRs, GHG, and ELGs. See "Item 1. Business" and Notes


, 13 and


to the Financial Statements for a discussion of these significant environmental matters. These and other environmental requirements led PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU to retire approximately 1,000 MW of coal-fired generating plants in Kentucky since 2015.

TCJA Impact on FERC Rates (All Registrants)

In November 2019, the FERC published Final Rules providing that public utility transmission providers include mechanisms in their formula rates to deduct excess ADIT from, or add deficient ADIT to, rate base and adjust their income tax allowances by amortized excess or deficient ADIT, and to make a related compliance filing.

In February 2019, PPL Electric filed with the FERC proposed revisions to its transmission formula rate template pursuant to Section 205 of the Federal Power Act and Section 35.13 of the FERC Rules and Regulations. Specifically, PPL Electric proposed to modify its formula rate to permit the return or recovery of excess or deficient ADIT resulting from the TCJA and



permit PPL Electric to prospectively account for the income tax expense associated with the depreciation of the equity component of the AFUDC. In April 2019, the FERC accepted the proposed revisions to the formula rate template, which were effective June 1, 2019, as well as the proposed adjustments to ADIT, effective January 1, 2018.

In February 2019, in connection with the requirements of the TCJA and Kentucky HB 487, LG&E and KU filed a request with the FERC to amend their transmission formula rates resulting from the laws’ reductions to corporate income tax rates. The FERC approved this request effective June 1, 2019. LG&E and KU are currently reviewing the Final Rule and will submit a compliance filing addressing excess ADIT by June 1, 2020. LG&E and KU do not anticipate the impact of the TCJA and Kentucky HB 487 related to their FERC-jurisdictional rates to be significant.

Pennsylvania Alternative Ratemaking (PPL and PPL Electric)

In June 2018, Governor Tom Wolf signed into law Act 58 of 2018 (codified at 66 Pa. C.S. § 1330) authorizing public utilities to implement alternative rates and rate mechanisms in base rate proceedings before the PUC. The effective date of Act 58 was August 27, 2018. Under the new law, a public utility may file an application to establish alternative rates and rate mechanisms in a base rate proceeding. These alternative rates and rate mechanisms include, but are not limited to, decoupling mechanisms, performance-based rates, formula rates, multi-year rate plans, or a combination of those or other mechanisms.

On April 25, 2019, the PUC issued an Implementation Order adopting its interpretation and implementation of Act 58 and establishing the procedures through which utilities may seek PUC approval of alternative rates and rate mechanisms.

RIIO-2 Framework (PPL)

In 2018, Ofgem issued its consultation document on the RIIO-2 framework, covering all U.K. gas and electricity transmission and distribution price controls. The current electricity distribution price control, RIIO-ED1, continues through March 31, 2023 and will not be impacted by the RIIO-2 consultation process. Later in 2018, Ofgem published its decision following its RIIO-2 framework consultation after consideration of comments received including those from WPD and PPL.

In August 2019, Ofgem published an open letter seeking views on its proposed sector specific approach on the RIIO-ED2 framework. WPD and PPL provided responses to this open letter. In December 2019, Ofgem published its decision on the RIIO-ED2 framework, thus confirming the following points in its RIIO-2 and RIIO-ED2 framework decision documents:

•

RIIO-ED2 will be a five-year price control period, compared to eight years in the current RIIO-ED1 price control.

•

CPI or CPIH will be used for inflation measurement in calculating both RAV and allowed returns rather than RPI.

•

The baseline allowed return on equity will be set using the same methodology in all RIIO-2 sectors. The new methodology includes; (a) an equity indexation, whereby the allowed return on equity is updated to reflect changes in the risk-free rate, and (b) potentially setting the allowed return 0.5% below the expected return.

•

Full debt indexation will be retained.

•

The early settlement process (fast tracking) will be removed and replaced with an alternative mechanism to incentivize high-quality, rigorous and ambitious business plans.

•

The Totex incentive rate will be based on a confidence level for setting baseline cost allowances.

•

A new enhanced engagement model will be introduced requiring distribution companies to set up a customer engagement group to provide Ofgem with a public report of local stakeholders’ views on the companies’ business plans. Ofgem will also establish an independent RIIO-2 challenge group comprised of consumer experts to provide Ofgem with a public report on companies’ business plans.

•

There will be no change to the existing depreciation policy of using economic asset lives as the basis for depreciating RAV as part of base revenue calculations. WPD is currently transitioning to 45-year asset lives for new additions in RIIO-ED1 based on Ofgem’s extensive review of asset lives in RIIO-ED1.

•

A focus of RIIO-2 will be on whole-system outcomes. Ofgem intends network companies and system operators working together to ensure the energy system as a whole is efficient and delivers the best value to consumers. Ofgem is undertaking further work to clarify the definition of whole-system and the appropriate roles of the network companies in supporting this objective. Ofgem is still undecided on how DSO functions are to be treated. Ofgem will include a DSO reopener to reassess progress made in the establishment of DSO activities.



Ofgem will now shift focus to the development of the RIIO-ED2 price control methodology, with the consultation expected to be published by the third quarter of 2020. WPD and PPL continue to be fully engaged in the RIIO-ED2 process. PPL cannot predict the outcome of this process or the long-term impact the final RIIO-ED2 price control will have on its financial condition or results of operations. Any decision for RIIO-ED2 will not be finalized until November 2022. The RIIO-ED2 price control will come into effect on April 1, 2023.

FERC Transmission Rate Filing

(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)

In 2018, LG&E and KU applied to the FERC requesting elimination of certain on-going credits to a sub-set of transmission customers relating to the 1998 merger of LG&E's and KU's parent entities and the 2006 withdrawal of LG&E and KU from the Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc. (MISO), a regional transmission operator and energy market. The application seeks termination of LG&E's and KU's commitment to provide certain Kentucky municipalities mitigation for certain horizontal market power concerns arising out of the 1998 LG&E and KU merger and 2006 MISO withdrawal. The amounts at issue are generally waivers or credits granted to a limited number of Kentucky Municipalities for either certain LG&E and KU or MISO transmission charges incurred for transmission service received.

Due to the development of robust, accessible energy markets over time, LG&E and KU believe the mitigation commitments are no longer relevant or appropriate. In March 2019, the FERC granted LG&E's and KU's request to remove the on-going credits, conditioned upon the implementation by LG&E and KU of a transition mechanism for certain existing power supply arrangements, subject to FERC review and approval. In July 2019, LG&E and KU proposed their transition mechanism to the FERC and in September 2019, the FERC rejected the proposed transition mechanism and issued a separate order providing clarifications of certain aspects of the March order. In October 2019, LG&E and KU filed requests for rehearing and clarification on the two September orders. These rehearing requests are currently pending before FERC. Additionally, certain petitions for review of FERC's orders have been filed by multiple parties, including LG&E and KU, at the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals. LG&E and KU cannot predict the outcome of the proceedings. LG&E and KU currently receive recovery of waivers and credits provided through other rate mechanisms.

(

PPL and PPL Electric)

In April 2019, PPL Electric filed its annual transmission formula rate update with the FERC, reflecting a revised revenue requirement, which includes the impact of the TCJA. The filing established the revenue requirement used to set rates that took effect in June 2019.

Rate Case Proceedings

(

PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)

In September 2018, LG&E and KU filed requests with the KPSC for an increase in annual base electricity rates and gas rates and the elimination of the TCJA bill credit mechanism. In April 2019, the KPSC issued orders eliminating the TCJA bill credit mechanism and increasing annual base electricity and gas rates providing for an annual revenue increase of $187 million ($114 million at KU and $73 million at LG&E), based on a 9.725% return-on-equity. The new base rates and all elements of the orders became effective May 1, 2019. See Note


to the Financial Statements for additional information.

(

KU)

In July 2019, KU filed a request with the VSCC for an increase in annual Virginia base electricity revenues of approximately $13 million, representing an increase of 18.2%. In January 2020, KU reached a partial settlement agreement including an increase in annual Virginia base electricity revenues of $9 million effective May 1, 2020, representing an increase of 12.9%. A hearing on the settlement of remaining issues was held in January 2020. A VSCC ruling in the proceeding is expected in April 2020.

Distribution of TCJA Savings

(

PPL and PPL Electric)

In November 2019, the PUC approved PPL Electric's October 2019 petition to distribute the

$43 million

of TCJA tax savings for the period between January 1, 2018 and June 30, 2018 over the period January 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020.



Results of Operations

(PPL)

The "Statement of Income Analysis" discussion below describes significant changes in principal line items on PPL's Statements of Income, comparing 2019 with 2018. The "Segment Earnings" and "Adjusted Gross Margins" discussions for PPL provide a review of results by reportable segment. These discussions include non-GAAP financial measures, including "Earnings from Ongoing Operations" and "Adjusted Gross Margins," and provide explanations of the non-GAAP financial measures and a reconciliation of those measures to the most comparable GAAP measure. The "


Outlook" discussion identifies key factors expected to impact


earnings.

Tables analyzing changes in amounts between periods within "Statement of Income Analysis," "Segment Earnings" and "Adjusted Gross Margins" are presented on a constant GBP to U.S. dollar exchange rate basis, where applicable, in order to isolate the impact of the change in the exchange rate on the item being explained. Results computed on a constant GBP to U.S. dollar exchange rate basis are calculated by translating current year results at the prior year weighted-average GBP to U.S. dollar exchange rate.

(PPL Electric, LKE, LG&E and KU)

A "Statement of Income Analysis" is presented separately for PPL Electric, LKE, LG&E and KU. The "Statement of Income Analysis" discussion below describes significant changes in principal line items on the Statements of Income, comparing 2019 with 2018. The results of operations section for PPL Electric, LKE, LG&E and KU is presented in a reduced disclosure format in accordance with General Instructions (I)(2)(a) of Form 10-K.

PPL: Statement of Income Analysis, Segment Earnings and Adjusted Gross Margins

Statement of Income Analysis

Net income for the years ended December 31 includes the following results:



Operating Revenues

The increase (decrease) in operating revenues was due to:

(a)

The increase was primarily due to reconcilable cost recovery mechanisms approved by the PUC.

(b)

The increase was primarily due to $77 million from returns on additional transmission capital investments partially offset by a $27 million unfavorable impact of the TCJA, which reduced the new revenue requirement that went into effect June 1, 2018.

(c)

The decrease was due to the estimated income tax savings owed to or already returned to distribution customers related to the reduced U.S federal corporate income taxes as a result of the TCJA. See Note 7 to the Financial Statements for additional information.

(d)

The increase was primarily due to higher base rates, inclusive of the termination of the TCJA bill credit mechanism, effective May 1, 2019.

(e)

The increase was primarily due to higher returns on additional environmental capital investments and higher recoverable depreciation expense as a result of higher depreciation rates effective May 1, 2019.

(f)

The decrease was primarily due to weather.

(g)

The decrease was primarily due to the termination of eight supply contracts with Kentucky municipalities on April 30, 2019.

(h)

The decrease was primarily due to lower recoveries of fuel and energy purchases due to lower commodity costs.

Fuel

Fuel decreased

$90 million

in 2019 compared with 2018 at LKE, primarily due to a $42 million decrease in commodity costs, a $33 million decrease in volumes driven by weather and a $20 million decrease in volumes driven by the termination of eight supply contracts with Kentucky municipalities on April 30, 2019.

Energy Purchases

Energy purchases decreased $

22 million

in 2019 compared with 2018, primarily due to a $27 million decrease at LKE (primarily due to a $14 million decrease in commodity costs and a $7 million decrease in gas volumes driven by weather in 2019), partially offset by a $5 million increase at PPL Electric (primarily due to higher PLR volumes of $33 million, partially offset by lower PLR prices of $25 million).



Other Operation and Maintenance

The increase (decrease) in other operation and maintenance was due to:

(a)

The increase is primarily due to 2019 including a full year of other operation and maintenance expense of Safari Energy, which was acquired on June 1, 2018.

Depreciation

The increase (decrease) in depreciation was due to:

(a)

Higher depreciation rates were effective May 1, 2019 at LG&E and KU.

Other Income (Expense) - net

The increase (decrease) in other income (expense) - net was due to:

Interest Expense

The increase (decrease) in interest expense was due to:



Income Taxes

The increase (decrease) in income taxes was due to:

(a)

In 2018, LKE recorded deferred income tax expense, primarily associated with LKE's non-regulated entities, due to the Kentucky corporate income tax rate reduction from 6% to 5%, as enacted by HB 487, effective January 1, 2018.

(b)

In 2019, LKE recorded a deferred income tax benefit associated with two projects placed into service that prepare a generation waste material for reuse and, as a result, qualify for a Kentucky recycling credit. The applicable credit provides tax benefits for a portion of the equipment costs for major recycling projects in Kentucky.

See

Note 6

to the Financial Statements for additional information on income taxes.

Segment Earnings

PPL's net income by reportable segments were as follows:

(a)

Primarily represents financing and certain other costs incurred at the corporate level that have not been allocated or assigned to the segments, which are presented to reconcile segment information to PPL's consolidated results.

Earnings from Ongoing Operations

Management utilizes "Earnings from Ongoing Operations" as a non-GAAP financial measure that should not be considered as an alternative to net income, an indicator of operating performance determined in accordance with GAAP. PPL believes that Earnings from Ongoing Operations is useful and meaningful to investors because it provides management's view of PPL's earnings performance as another criterion in making investment decisions. In addition, PPL's management uses Earnings from Ongoing Operations in measuring achievement of certain corporate performance goals, including targets for certain executive incentive compensation. Other companies may use different measures to present financial performance.

Earnings from Ongoing Operations is adjusted for the impact of special items. Special items are presented in the financial tables on an after-tax basis with the related income taxes on special items separately disclosed. Income taxes on special items, when applicable, are calculated based on the statutory tax rate of the entity where the activity is recorded. Special items may include items such as:

•

Unrealized gains or losses on foreign currency economic hedges (as discussed below).

•

Gains and losses on sales of assets not in the ordinary course of business.

•

Impairment charges.

•

Significant workforce reduction and other restructuring effects.

•

Acquisition and divestiture-related adjustments.

•

Other charges or credits that are, in management's view, non-recurring or otherwise not reflective of the company's ongoing operations.

Unrealized gains or losses on foreign currency economic hedges include the changes in fair value of foreign currency contracts used to hedge GBP-denominated anticipated earnings. The changes in fair value of these contracts are recognized immediately within GAAP earnings. Management believes that excluding these amounts from Earnings from Ongoing Operations until settlement of the contracts provides a better matching of the financial impacts of those contracts with the economic value of



PPL's underlying hedged earnings. See

Note 17

to the Financial Statements and "Risk Management" below for additional information on foreign currency economic activity.

PPL's Earnings from Ongoing Operations by reportable segment were as follows:

See "Reconciliation of Earnings from Ongoing Operations" below for a reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to Net Income.

U.K. Regulated Segment

The U.K. Regulated segment consists of PPL Global, which primarily includes WPD's regulated electricity distribution operations, the results of hedging the translation of WPD's earnings from GBP into U.S. dollars, and certain costs, such as U.S. income taxes, administrative costs, and certain acquisition-related financing costs.

The U.K. Regulated segment represents

56%

of PPL's Net Income for


and

39%

of PPL's assets at

December 31, 2019

.

Net Income and Earnings from Ongoing Operations include the following results:

The following after-tax gains (losses), which management considers special items, impacted the U.K. Regulated segment's results and are excluded from Earnings from Ongoing Operations:

(a)

Unrealized gains (losses) on contracts that economically hedge anticipated GBP-denominated earnings.

(b)

Settlement of a contractual dispute.

(c)

Adjustments to certain provisional amounts recognized in the December 31, 2017 Statement of Income related to the enactment of the TCJA.

(d)

Primarily a payment related to the death of the WPD Chief Executive.

The changes in the components of the U.K. Regulated segment's results between these periods were due to the factors set forth below, which reflect amounts classified as U.K. Adjusted Gross Margins, the items that management considers special and the effects of movements in foreign currency exchange, including the effects of foreign currency hedge contracts, on separate lines and not in their respective Statement of Income line items.



•

See "Adjusted Gross Margins - Changes in Adjusted Gross Margins" for an explanation of U.K. Adjusted Gross Margins.

•

Higher other income (expense) - net in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily due to higher pension income.

Kentucky Regulated Segment

The Kentucky Regulated segment consists primarily of LKE's regulated electricity generation, transmission and distribution operations of LG&E and KU, as well as LG&E's regulated distribution and sale of natural gas. In addition, certain acquisition-related financing costs are allocated to the Kentucky Regulated segment.

The Kentucky Regulated segment represents

25%

of PPL's Net Income for


and

34%

of PPL's assets at

December 31, 2019

.

Net Income and Earnings from Ongoing Operations include the following results:

The following after-tax gains (losses), which management considers special items, impacted the Kentucky Regulated segment's results and are excluded from Earnings from Ongoing Operations:

(a)

Adjustments to certain provisional amounts recognized in the December 31, 2017 Statement of Income related to the enactment of the TCJA.

(b)

In 2018, LKE recorded deferred income tax expense, primarily associated with LKE's non-regulated entities, due to the Kentucky corporate income tax rate reduction from 6% to 5%, as enacted by HB 487, effective January 1, 2018.



The changes in the components of the Kentucky Regulated segment's results between these periods were due to the factors set forth below, which reflect amounts classified as Kentucky Adjusted Gross Margins and the items that management considers special on separate lines and not in their respective Statement of Income line item.

•

See "Adjusted Gross Margins - Changes in Adjusted Gross Margins" for an explanation of Kentucky Adjusted Gross Margins.

•

Higher depreciation expense in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily due to a $15 million increase related to higher depreciation rates effective May 1, 2019 and an $11 million increase related to additional assets placed into service, net of retirements.

•

Higher interest expense in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily due to increased borrowings and higher interest rates.

•

Lower income taxes in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily due to the recording of a deferred income tax benefit related to a Kentucky recycling credit.

Pennsylvania Regulated Segment

The Pennsylvania Regulated segment includes the regulated electricity transmission and distribution operations of PPL Electric. In addition, certain costs are allocated to the Pennsylvania Regulated segment.

The Pennsylvania Regulated segment represents

26%

of PPL's Net Income for


and

26%

of PPL's assets at

December 31, 2019

.

Net Income and Earnings from Ongoing Operations include the following results:

The following after-tax gains (losses), which management considers special items, impacted the Pennsylvania Regulated segment's results and are excluded from Earnings from Ongoing Operations:



(a)

In June 2018, PPL EU Services' IT department announced an internal reorganization, which was substantially completed in the third quarter of 2018. As a result, $5 million of after-tax costs, which includes separation benefits as well as outside services for strategic consulting to establish the new IT organization, were incurred.

The changes in the components of the Pennsylvania Regulated segment's results between these periods were due to the factors set forth below, which reflect amounts classified as Pennsylvania Adjusted Gross Margins and the items that management considers special on separate lines and not in their respective Statement of Income line items.

•

See "Adjusted Gross Margins - Changes in Adjusted Gross Margins" for an explanation of Pennsylvania Adjusted Gross Margins.

•

Higher depreciation expense in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily due to additional assets placed into service, related to the ongoing efforts to ensure the reliability of the delivery system and the replacement of aging infrastructure, net of retirements.

Reconciliation of Earnings from Ongoing Operations

The following tables contain after-tax gains (losses), in total, which management considers special items, that are excluded from Earnings from Ongoing Operations and a reconciliation to PPL's "Net Income" for the years ended December 31:



(a)

PPL incurred legal expenses related to litigation with its former affiliate, Talen Montana. See

Note 13

to the Financial Statements for additional information.

(b)

PPL recorded adjustments to certain provisional amounts recognized in the December 31, 2017 Statement of Income relating to the enactment of the TCJA. See

Note 6

to the Financial Statements for additional information.

Adjusted Gross Margins

Management also utilizes the following non-GAAP financial measures as indicators of performance for its businesses.

•

"U.K. Adjusted Gross Margins" is a single financial performance measure of the electricity distribution operations of the U.K. Regulated segment. In calculating this measure, direct costs such as connection charges from National Grid, which owns and manages the electricity transmission network in England and Wales, and Ofgem license fees (recorded in "Other operation and maintenance" on the Statements of Income) are deducted from operating revenues, as they are costs passed through to customers. As a result, this measure represents the net revenues from the delivery of electricity across WPD's distribution network in the U.K. and directly related activities.

•

"Kentucky Adjusted Gross Margins" is a single financial performance measure of the electricity generation, transmission and distribution operations of the Kentucky Regulated segment, as well as the Kentucky Regulated segment's distribution and sale of natural gas. In calculating this measure, fuel, energy purchases and certain variable costs of production (recorded in "Other operation and maintenance" on the Statements of Income) are deducted from operating revenues. In addition, certain other expenses, recorded in "Other operation and maintenance", "Depreciation" and "Taxes, other than income" on the Statements of Income, associated with approved cost recovery mechanisms are offset against the recovery of those expenses, which are included in revenues. These mechanisms allow for direct recovery of these expenses and, in some cases, returns on capital investments and performance incentives. As a result, this measure represents the net revenues from electricity and gas operations.

•

"Pennsylvania Adjusted Gross Margins" is a single financial performance measure of the electricity transmission and distribution operations of the Pennsylvania Regulated segment. In calculating this measure, utility revenues and expenses associated with approved recovery mechanisms, including energy provided as a PLR, are offset with minimal impact on earnings. Costs associated with these mechanisms are recorded in "Energy purchases," "Other operation and maintenance," (which are primarily Act 129, Storm Damage and Universal Service program costs), "Depreciation" (which is primarily related to the Act 129 Smart Meter program) and "Taxes, other than income," (which is primarily gross receipts tax) on the Statements of Income. This measure represents the net revenues from the Pennsylvania Regulated segment's electricity delivery operations.

These measures are not intended to replace "Operating Income," which is determined in accordance with GAAP, as an indicator of overall operating performance. Other companies may use different measures to analyze and report their results of operations. Management believes these measures provide additional useful criteria to make investment decisions. These performance measures are used, in conjunction with other information, by senior management and PPL's Board of Directors to manage operations and analyze actual results compared with budget.



Changes in Adjusted Gross Margins

The following table shows Adjusted Gross Margins by PPL's reportable segments and by component, as applicable, for the year ended December 31 as well as the changes between periods. The factors that gave rise to the changes are described following the table:

U.K. Adjusted Gross Margins

U.K. Adjusted Gross Margins, excluding the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, increased in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily due to $83 million from the April 1, 2018 and 2019 price increases, partially offset by $64 million of lower volumes.

Kentucky Adjusted Gross Margins

Kentucky Adjusted Gross Margins increased in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily due to higher retail rates approved by the KPSC of $123 million, inclusive of the termination of the TCJA bill credit mechanism, and higher returns on additional environmental capital investments of $21 million. These increases were partially offset by $37 million of decreased sales volumes primarily due to weather and a $32 million decrease due to the termination of eight supply contracts with Kentucky municipalities on April 30, 2019.

Pennsylvania Adjusted Gross Margins

Distribution

Distribution Adjusted Gross Margins increased in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily due to returns on additional distribution system improvement capital investments of $10 million and returns on additional Smart Meter capital investments of $5 million, partially offset by a $12 million net of gross receipts tax impact of the estimated income tax savings owed to customers as a result of the impact of the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate reduction from 35% to 21% as enacted by the TCJA.

Transmission

Transmission Adjusted Gross Margins increased in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily due to an increase of $77 million from returns on additional transmission capital investments focused on replacing aging infrastructure and improving reliability, partially offset by $27 million from the impact of the reduced U.S. federal corporate income taxes as a result of the TCJA in the first five months of 2019.

Reconciliation of Adjusted Gross Margins

The following tables contain the components from the Statement of Income that are included in the non-GAAP financial measures and a reconciliation to PPL's "Operating Income" for the years ended December 31:



(a)

Represents amounts excluded from Adjusted Gross Margins.

(b)

As reported on the Statements of Income.

(c)

2019 and 2018 exclude $38 million of ancillary revenues.


Outlook

(PPL)

Higher net income is projected in


compared with


. The following projections and factors underlying these projections (on an after-tax basis) are provided for PPL's segments and the Corporate and Other category and the related Registrants.

(PPL's U.K. Regulated Segment)

Higher net income is projected in


compared with


. Excluding


special items, the increase is driven primarily by higher base demand revenues and higher assumed GBP exchange rates, partially offset by lower true-up mechanisms, lower pension income and higher interest expense.

(PPL's Kentucky Regulated Segment and LKE)

Higher net income is projected in


compared with


,

driven primarily by higher retail rates, partially offset by higher depreciation expense and higher income tax expense.

(LG&E)

Higher net income is projected in 2020 compared with 2019, driven primarily by higher retail rates, partially offset by higher depreciation expense.



(KU)

Net income is projected in 2020 to be comparable with 2019, driven primarily by higher retail rates, offset by higher depreciation expense.

(PPL's Pennsylvania Regulated Segment and PPL Electric)

Higher net income is projected in


compared with


, driven primarily by higher returns on transmission investments and lower operation and maintenance expense, partially offset by higher depreciation expense.

(PPL's Corporate and Other Category)

Lower costs are projected in


compared with


, driven primarily by lower expenses and other factors.

(All Registrants)

Earnings in future periods are subject to various risks and uncertainties. See "Forward-Looking Information," "Item 1. Business," "Item 1A. Risk Factors," the rest of this Item 7, and Notes


,


and


to the Financial Statements (as applicable) for a discussion of the risks, uncertainties and factors that may impact future earnings.

PPL Electric: Statement of Income Analysis

Net income for the years ended December 31 includes the following results:

Operating Revenues

The increase (decrease) in operating revenues was due to:

(a)

Distribution price variances were primarily due to reconcilable cost recovery mechanisms approved by the PUC.

(b)

Transmission Formula Rate revenues increased primarily due to $77 million from returns on additional transmission capital investments partially offset by a $27 million unfavorable impact of the TCJA, which reduced the new revenue requirement that went into effect June 1, 2018.

(c)

Represents the estimated income tax savings owed to or already returned to distribution customers related to the reduced U.S federal corporate income taxes as a result of the TCJA. See

Note 7

to the Financial Statements for additional information.



Energy Purchases

Energy purchases increased

$5 million

in


compared with


. This increase was primarily due to higher PLR volumes of $33 million, partially offset by lower PLR prices of $25 million and lower transmission enhancement expenses of $3 million.

Other Operation and Maintenance

The increase (decrease) in other operation and maintenance was due to:

Depreciation

Depreciation increased by

$34 million

in


compared with


. This increase was primarily due to additional assets placed into service, related to the ongoing efforts to ensure the reliability of the delivery system and the replacement of aging infrastructure as well as the roll-out of the Act 129 Smart Meter program, net of retirements.

Interest Expense

Interest expense increased

$11 million

in


compared with


, primarily due to the June 2018 issuance of $400 million of 4.15% First Mortgage Bonds due 2048 and the September 2019 issuance of $400 million of 3.00% First Mortgage Bonds due 2049.

Income Taxes

Income taxes increased $13 million in 2019 compared with 2018. The increase was primarily due to a change in pre-tax income. See

Note 6

to the Financial Statements for additional information on income taxes.

LKE: Statement of Income Analysis

Net income for the years ended December 31 includes the following results:



Operating Revenues

The increase (decrease) in operating revenues was due to:

(a)

The decrease was primarily due to weather.

(b)

The decrease was primarily due to the termination of eight supply contracts with Kentucky municipalities on April 30, 2019.

(c)

The decrease was primarily due to lower recoveries of fuel and energy purchases due to lower commodity costs.

(d)

The increase was primarily due to higher base rates, inclusive of the termination of the TCJA bill credit mechanism, effective May 1, 2019.

(e)

The increase was primarily due to higher returns on additional environmental capital investments and higher recoverable depreciation expense as a result of higher depreciation rates effective May 1, 2019.

Fuel

Fuel decreased

$90 million

in 2019 compared with 2018, primarily due to a $42 million decrease in commodity costs, a $33 million decrease in volumes driven by weather and a $20 million decrease in volumes driven by the termination of eight supply contracts with Kentucky municipalities on April 30, 2019.

Energy Purchases

Energy purchases decreased

$27 million

in 2019 compared with 2018, primarily due to a $14 million decrease in commodity costs and a $7 million decrease in gas volumes driven by weather in 2019.

Depreciation

Depreciation increased

$72 million

in 2019 compared with 2018, primarily due to a $52 million increase related to higher depreciation rates effective May 1, 2019 and a $15 million increase related to additional assets placed into service, net of retirements.

Income Taxes

The increase (decrease) in income taxes was due to:

(a)

In 2019, LKE recorded a deferred income tax benefit associated with two projects placed into service that prepare a generation waste material for reuse and, as a result, qualify for a Kentucky recycling credit. The applicable credit provides tax benefits for a portion of the equipment costs for major recycling projects in Kentucky.

(b)

In 2018, LKE recorded deferred income tax expense, primarily associated with LKE's non-regulated entities, due to the Kentucky corporate income tax rate reduction from 6% to 5%, as enacted by HB 487, effective January 1, 2018.

See

Note 6

to the Financial Statements for additional information on income taxes.



LG&E: Statement of Income Analysis

Net income for the years ended December 31 includes the following results:

Operating Revenues

The increase (decrease) in operating revenues was due to:

(a)

The increase was due to higher base rates, inclusive of the termination of the TCJA bill credit mechanism, effective May 1, 2019.

(b)

The increase was primarily due to higher returns on additional environmental capital investments and higher recoverable depreciation expense as a result of higher depreciation rates effective May 1, 2019.

(c)

The decrease was primarily due to weather.

(d)

The decrease was primarily due to lower recoveries of fuel and energy purchases due to lower commodity costs.

Fuel

Fuel decreased

$19 million

in 2019 compared with 2018, primarily due to a $10 million decrease in commodity costs and a $10 million decrease in volumes driven by weather.

Energy Purchases

Energy purchases decreased

$29 million

in 2019 compared with 2018, primarily due to a $14 million decrease in commodity costs and a $7 million decrease in gas volumes driven by weather in 2019.

Depreciation

Depreciation increased

$36 million

in 2019 compared with 2018, primarily due to a $26 million increase related to higher depreciation rates effective May 1, 2019 and a $9 million increase related to additional assets placed into service, net of retirements.



KU: Statement of Income Analysis

Net income for the years ended December 31 includes the following results:

Operating Revenue

The increase (decrease) in operating revenue was due to:

(a)

The decrease was primarily due to the termination of eight supply contracts with Kentucky municipalities on April 30, 2019.

(b)

The decrease was primarily due to weather.

(c)

The decrease was primarily due to lower recoveries of fuel due to lower commodity costs.

(d)

The increase was due to higher base rates, inclusive of the termination of the TCJA bill credit mechanism, effective May 1, 2019.

(e)

The increase was primarily due to higher returns on additional environmental capital investments and higher recoverable depreciation expense as a result of higher depreciation rates effective May 1, 2019.

Fuel

Fuel decreased

$71 million

in 2019 compared with 2018, primarily due to a $32 million decrease in commodity costs, a $23 million decrease in volumes driven by weather and a $20 million decrease in volumes driven by the termination of eight supply contracts with Kentucky municipalities on April 30, 2019.

Depreciation

Depreciation increased

$36 million

in 2019 compared with 2018, primarily due to a $26 million increase related to higher depreciation rates effective May 1, 2019 and a $6 million increase related to additional assets placed into service, net of retirements.



Financial Condition

The remainder of this Item 7 in this Form 10-K is presented on a combined basis, providing information, as applicable, for all Registrants.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

(All Registrants)

The Registrants' cash flows from operations and access to cost effective bank and capital markets are subject to risks and uncertainties. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors" for a discussion of risks and uncertainties that could affect the Registrants' cash flows.

The Registrants had the following at:

(a)

At

December 31, 2019

, $155 million of cash and cash equivalents were denominated in GBP. If these amounts would be remitted as dividends, PPL would not anticipate an incremental U.S. tax cost. See

Note 6

to the Financial Statements for additional information on undistributed earnings of WPD.

(All Registrants)

Net cash provided by (used in) operating, investing and financing activities for the years ended December 31 and the changes between periods were as follows:

Operating Activities

The components of the change in cash provided by (used in) operating activities were as follows:



(PPL)

PPL cash provided by operating activities in 2019 decreased

$394 million

compared with 2018.

•

Net income decreased

$81 million

between periods and included an increase in net non-cash charges of

$241 million

. The increase in net non-cash charges was primarily due to an increase in depreciation expense (primarily due to additional assets placed into service, related to the ongoing efforts to ensure reliability of the delivery system and the replacement of aging infrastructure, net of retirements and higher depreciation rates) and unrealized losses on hedging activities partially offset by an increase in the U.K. net periodic defined benefit credits (primarily due to lower levels of unrecognized losses being amortized) and a decrease in deferred income taxes (primarily due to book versus tax plant timing differences).

•

The

$451 million

decrease in cash from changes in working capital was primarily due to a decrease in accounts payable (primarily due to timing of payments), an increase in net regulatory assets and liabilities (primarily due to the impact of the TCJA and timing of recovery rate mechanisms), an increase in other current liabilities (primarily due to timing of payments and operating lease liability), an increase in unbilled revenue (primarily due to weather, higher retail rates effective May 1, 2019 and a change in pricing method in the model), an increase in fuel, materials and supplies (primarily due to inventory management) and an increase in other (primarily due to a decrease in taxes payable and a decrease in counter-party collateral partially offset by an increase in customer deposits).

•

The

$114 million

decrease in cash provided by other operating activities was primarily due to the $65 million transfer of excess benefit funds, in 2018, related to the favorable private letter ruling received by PPL from the IRS permitting a transfer of excess funds from the PPL Bargaining Unit Retiree Health Plan VEBA to a new sub-account within the VEBA, to be used to pay for medical claims of active bargaining unit employees, decrease in non-current regulatory liabilities (due to timing of rate recovery mechanisms) and an increase in other assets (primarily due to settlement of interest rate swaps and purchase of solar panels).

(PPL Electric)

PPL Electric's cash provided by operating activities in 2019 decreased

$65 million

compared with 2018.

•

Net income increased

$27 million

between the periods and included a decrease in non-cash components of

$17 million

. The decrease in non-cash components was primarily due to a $35 million decrease in deferred income tax expense (due to book versus tax plant timing differences and Federal net operating losses, partially offset by a book to tax timing difference related to the TCJA regulatory liability) and a $15 million decrease in Other (primarily due to an increase in AFUDC and a decrease in canceled projects), partially offset by a $34 million increase in depreciation expense (primarily due to additional assets placed into service, net of retirements, related to the ongoing efforts to ensure the reliability of the delivery system and the replacement of aging infrastructure as well as the roll-out of the Act 129 Smart Meter program).

•

The $

90 million

decrease in cash from changes in working capital was primarily due to an increase in net regulatory assets and liabilities (due to timing of rate recovery mechanisms), an increase in unbilled revenue (primarily due to a change in pricing method in the model), an increase in other net current assets and current liabilities (primarily due to an increase in 2019 material and supplies) and an increase in accounts receivable (primarily due to timing of receipts).

•

The $8 million increase in cash provided by other operating activities was primarily due to a decrease in non-current regulatory assets (due to timing of rate recovery mechanisms, amortization of storm costs incurred in the prior year and $22 million of storm costs incurred in 2018), partially offset by a decrease in non-current liabilities (primarily due to a $41 million TCJA liability in 2018).



(LKE)

LKE had a

$23 million

increase in cash provided by operating activities in


compared with


.

•

Net income increased

$23 million

between the periods and included an increase in non-cash components of

$64 million

. The increase in non-cash components was primarily driven by an increase in depreciation expense (primarily due to higher depreciation rates and additional assets placed into service, net of retirements).

•

The

decrease

in cash from changes in working capital was primarily driven by an increase in net regulatory assets and liabilities (primarily due to the impact of the TCJA and timing of rate recovery mechanisms), a decrease in accounts payable (primarily due to timing of payments) and an increase in unbilled revenues (primarily due to weather).

•

Defined benefit plan funding was

$97 million

lower in


.

•

The increase in cash provided by other operating activities was driven primarily by a decrease in other assets (primarily due to non-current regulatory asset increases as a result of significant storm activity in 2018).

(LG&E)

LG&E had a

$49 million

increase in cash provided by operating activities in


compared with


.

•

Net income decreased

$1 million

between the periods and included an increase in non-cash components of

$33 million

. The increase in non-cash components was primarily driven by an increase in depreciation expense (primarily due to higher depreciation rates and additional assets placed into service, net of retirements).

•

The

decrease

in cash from changes in working capital was primarily driven by an increase in net regulatory assets and liabilities (primarily due to the impact of the TCJA and timing of rate recovery mechanisms), a decrease in accounts payable (primarily due to timing of payments) and an increase in accounts receivable and unbilled revenues (primarily due to weather).

•

Defined benefit plan funding was

$55 million

lower in


.

•

The increase in cash provided by other operating activities was driven primarily by a decrease in other assets (primarily due to non-current regulatory asset increases as a result of significant storm activity in 2018).

(KU)

KU had a

$28 million

decrease in cash provided by operating activities in


compared with


.

•

Net income increased

$7 million

between the periods and included an increase in non-cash components of

$34 million

. The increase in non-cash components was primarily driven by an increase in depreciation expense (primarily due to higher depreciation rates and additional assets placed into service, net of retirements).

•

The

decrease

in cash from changes in working capital was primarily driven by an increase in net regulatory assets and liabilities (primarily due to the impact of the TCJA and timing of rate recovery mechanisms), a decrease in accounts payable (primarily due to timing of payments) and an increase in unbilled revenues (primarily due to weather).

•

Defined benefit plan funding was

$51 million

lower in


.

Investing Activities

(All Registrants)

The components of the change in cash provided by (used in) investing activities were as follows:



For PPL, in


compared with


, the decrease in expenditures was due to lower project expenditures at WPD, PPL Electric, LKE and LG&E, partially offset by higher project expenditures at KU. The decrease in expenditures at WPD was primarily due to a decrease in expenditures to enhance system reliability and a decrease in foreign currency exchange rates. The decrease in expenditures for PPL Electric was primarily due to timing differences on capital spending projects related to ongoing efforts to improve reliability and replace aging infrastructure. The decrease in expenditures at LKE was primarily due to decreased spending for environmental water projects at LG&E and KU's Trimble County plant, LG&E’s Mill Creek plant and KU's Ghent plant, partially offset by spending on various other projects at KU that are not individually significant.

See "Forecasted Uses of Cash" for detail regarding projected capital expenditures for the years


through


.

Financing Activities

(All Registrants)

The components of the change in cash provided by (used in) financing activities were as follows:

(PPL)

For PPL, in 2019 compared with 2018, cash provided by financing activities increased primarily as a result of an increase in cash required to fund capital and general corporate expenditures to offset a decrease in cash from operations of $394 million.

(PPL Electric)

For PPL Electric, in 2019 compared with 2018, cash provided by financing activities decreased primarily as a result of a decrease in cash required to fund capital and general expenditures.

(LKE, LG&E and KU)

For LKE and LG&E, in


compared with


, cash provided by financing activities decreased primarily as a result of a decrease in cash required to fund capital and general expenditures. For KU, in 2019 compared with 2018, cash provided by financing activities increased primarily as a result of an increase in cash required to fund capital and general expenditures.



(All Registrants)

See "Long-term Debt and Equity Securities" below for additional information on current year activity. See "Forecasted Sources of Cash" for a discussion of the Registrants' plans to issue debt and equity securities, as well as a discussion of credit facility capacity available to the Registrants. Also see "Forecasted Uses of Cash" for a discussion of PPL's plans to pay dividends on common securities in the future, as well as the Registrants' maturities of long-term debt.

Long-term Debt and Equity Securities

Long-term debt and equity securities activity for


included:

(a)

Issuances are net of pricing discounts, where applicable, and exclude the impact of debt issuance costs. Includes debt issuances with affiliates.

See

Note 8

to the Financial Statements for additional long-term debt information.

(PPL)

Equity Securities Activities

Equity Forward Contracts

In May 2018, PPL completed a registered underwritten public offering of

55 million

shares of its common stock. In conjunction with that offering, the underwriters exercised an option to purchase

8.25 million

additional shares of PPL common stock solely to cover over-allotments.

In connection with the registered public offering, PPL entered into forward sale agreements with

two

counterparties covering the total

63.25 million

shares of PPL common stock. Under the forward sale agreements, PPL was obligated to settle these forward sale agreements no later than November 2019. The forward sale agreements were classified as equity transactions.

In September 2018, PPL settled a portion of the initial forward sale agreements by issuing

20 million

shares of PPL common stock, resulting in net cash proceeds of

$520 million

. In November 2019, PPL settled the remaining 43.25 million shares of PPL common stock, resulting in net cash proceeds of $1.1 billion. The net proceeds received will be used for general corporate purposes. See

Note 5

for information on the forward sale agreements impact on the calculation of diluted EPS.

See

Note 8

to the Financial Statements for additional information.

ATM Program

In February 2018, PPL entered into an equity distribution agreement, pursuant to which PPL may sell, from time to time, up to an aggregate of

$1.0 billion

of its common stock through an at-the-market offering program, including a forward sales component. The compensation paid to the selling agents by PPL may be up to

2%

of the gross offering proceeds of the shares. There were no issuances under the ATM program for the twelve months ended December 31, 2019. PPL issued 42 million shares of common stock and received proceeds of $119 million for the year ended December 31, 2018.

Forecasted Sources of Cash

(All Registrants)

The Registrants expect to continue to have adequate liquidity available from operating cash flows, cash and cash equivalents, credit facilities and commercial paper issuances. Additionally, subject to market conditions, the Registrants and their



subsidiaries may access the capital markets, and PPL Electric, LG&E and KU anticipate receiving equity contributions from their parent or member in 2020.

Credit Facilities

The Registrants maintain credit facilities to enhance liquidity, provide credit support and provide a backstop to commercial paper programs. Amounts borrowed under these credit facilities are reflected in "Short-term debt" on the Balance Sheets. At

December 31, 2019

, the total committed borrowing capacity under credit facilities and the borrowings under these facilities were:

External

(a)

The syndicated credit facilities, KU's letter of credit facility and PPL Capital Funding's bilateral facility, each contain a financial covenant requiring debt to total capitalization not to exceed 70% for PPL Capital Funding, PPL Electric, LKE, LG&E and KU, as calculated in accordance with the facility, and other customary covenants.

The commitments under the domestic credit facilities are provided by a diverse bank group, with no one bank and its affiliates providing an aggregate commitment of more than the following percentages of the total committed capacity: PPL - 8%, PPL Electric - 6%, LKE - 6%, LG&E - 6% and KU - 6%.

(b)

Each company pays customary fees under its respective syndicated credit facility. Borrowings generally bear interest at LIBOR-based rates plus an applicable margin.

(c)

The facilities contain financial covenants to maintain an interest coverage ratio of not less than 3.0 times consolidated earnings before income taxes, depreciation and amortization and total net debt not in excess of 85% of its RAV, calculated in accordance with the credit facility.

The amounts borrowed at

December 31, 2019

, include a USD-denominated borrowing of

$200 million

and GBP-denominated borrowings of

£88 million

, which equated to $113 million. At

December 31, 2019

, the USD equivalent of unused capacity under the U.K. committed credit facilities was approximately $1.0 billion.

The commitments under the U.K.'s credit facilities are provided by a diverse bank group with no one bank providing more than 13% of the total committed capacity.

In addition to the financial covenants noted in the table above, the credit agreements governing the above credit facilities contain various other covenants. Failure to comply with the covenants after applicable grace periods could result in acceleration of repayment of borrowings and/or termination of the agreements. The Registrants monitor compliance with the covenants on a regular basis. At

December 31, 2019

, the Registrants were in compliance with these covenants. At this time, the Registrants believe that these covenants and other borrowing conditions will not limit access to these funding sources.

See

Note 8

to the Financial Statements for further discussion of the Registrants' credit facilities.

Intercompany

(LKE, LG&E and KU)



(a)

LG&E and KU participate in an intercompany agreement whereby LKE, LG&E and/or KU make available funds up to $500 million at an interest rate based on a market index of commercial paper issues. However, the FERC has authorized a maximum aggregate short-term debt limit for each utility at $500 million from all covered sources.

See

Note 14

to the Financial Statements for further discussion of intercompany credit facilities.

Commercial Paper

(All Registrants)

PPL, PPL Electric, LG&E and KU maintain commercial paper programs to provide an additional financing source to fund short-term liquidity needs, as necessary. Commercial paper issuances, included in "Short-term debt" on the Balance Sheets, are supported by the respective Registrant's credit facilities. The following commercial paper programs were in place at:

Long-term Debt and Equity Securities

(PPL)

PPL and its subsidiaries are authorized to issue, at the discretion of management and subject to market conditions, up to $7 billion of long-term debt and equity securities, the proceeds of which would be used to fund capital expenditures and for general corporate purposes.

(PPL Electric)

PPL Electric is authorized to issue, at the discretion of management and subject to market conditions and regulatory approvals, up to $700 million of long-term debt securities, the proceeds of which would be used to fund capital expenditures and for general corporate purposes.

(LKE, LG&E and KU)

LKE is authorized to issue, at the discretion of management, up to $800 million of long-term debt with a PPL affiliate, the proceeds of which would be used to repay $475 million of Senior Unsecured Notes maturing in November 2020 and for general corporate purposes.

LG&E is authorized to issue, at the discretion of management and subject to market conditions and regulatory approvals, up to $400 million of long-term debt securities, the proceeds of which would be used to repay short-term debt incurred to fund capital expenditures and for general corporate purposes.

KU is authorized to issue, at the discretion of management and subject to market conditions and regulatory approvals, up to $800 million of long-term debt securities, the proceeds of which would be used to repay $500 million of First Mortgage Bonds maturing in November 2020, repay short-term debt incurred to fund capital expenditures and for general corporate purposes.

Contributions from Parent/Member

(PPL Electric, LKE, LG&E and KU)

From time to time, LKE's member or the parents of PPL Electric, LG&E and KU make capital contributions to subsidiaries. The proceeds from these contributions are used to fund capital expenditures and for other general corporate purposes and, in the case of LKE, to make contributions to its subsidiaries.



Forecasted Uses of Cash

(All Registrants)

In addition to expenditures required for normal operating activities, such as purchased power, payroll, fuel and taxes, the Registrants currently expect to incur future cash outflows for capital expenditures, various contractual obligations, payment of dividends on its common stock, distributions by LKE to its member, and possibly the purchase or redemption of a portion of debt securities.

Capital Expenditures

The table below shows the Registrants' current capital expenditure projections for the years


through


. Expenditures for the domestic regulated utilities are expected to be recovered through rates, pending regulatory approval.

(a)

Construction expenditures include capitalized interest and AFUDC, which are expected to total approximately $93 million for PPL and $77 million for PPL Electric over the five-year period.



(b)

The 2020 total excludes amounts included in accounts payable as of December 31, 2019.

Capital expenditure plans are revised periodically to reflect changes in operational, market and regulatory conditions. For the years presented, this table includes PPL Electric's asset optimization program to replace aging transmission and distribution assets.

Contractual Obligations

The Registrants have assumed various financial obligations and commitments in the ordinary course of conducting business. At

December 31, 2019

, estimated contractual cash obligations were as follows:



(a)

Reflects principal maturities based on stated maturity or earlier put dates. See

Note 8

to the Financial Statements for a discussion of variable-rate remarketable bonds issued on behalf of LG&E and KU. The Registrants do not have any significant finance lease obligations.

(b)

Assumes interest payments through stated maturity or earlier put dates. For PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU the payments herein are subject to change, as payments for debt that is or becomes variable-rate debt have been estimated and for PPL, payments denominated in British pounds sterling have been translated to U.S. dollars at a current foreign currency exchange rate.

(c)

See

Note 9

to the Financial Statements for additional information.

(d)

The amounts include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Primarily includes, as applicable, the purchase obligations of electricity, coal, natural gas and limestone, as well as certain construction expenditures, which are also included in the Capital Expenditures table presented above.

(e)

The amounts for PPL include WPD's contractual deficit pension funding requirements arising from actuarial valuations performed in March 2016. The U.K. electricity regulator currently allows a recovery of a substantial portion of the contributions relating to the plan deficit. The amounts also include contributions made or committed to be made in 2020 for PPL's and LKE's U.S. pension plans (for PPL Electric, LG&E and KU includes their share of these amounts). Based on the current funded status of these plans, except for WPD's plans, no cash contributions are required. See

Note 11

to the Financial Statements for a discussion of expected contributions.

(f)

Represents contracts to purchase coal, natural gas and natural gas transportation. See

Note 13

to the Financial Statements for additional information.

(g)

Represents future minimum payments under OVEC power purchase agreements through June 2040. See

Note 13

to the Financial Statements for additional information.

(h)

Represents construction commitments, which are also reflected in the Capital Expenditures table presented above.

Dividends/Distributions

(PPL)

PPL views dividends as an integral component of shareowner return and expects to continue to pay dividends in amounts intended to maintain a capitalization structure that supports investment grade credit ratings. In

November 2019

, PPL declared its quarterly common stock dividend, payable January 2, 2020, at

41.25 cents

per share (equivalent to

$1.65

per annum). On

February 14, 2020

, PPL announced an increase of its quarterly common stock dividend to

41.5

cents per share (equivalent to $

1.66

per annum). Future dividends, declared at the discretion of the Board of Directors, will depend upon future earnings, cash flows, financial and legal requirements and other factors.

Subject to certain exceptions, PPL may not declare or pay any cash dividend or distribution on its capital stock during any period in which PPL Capital Funding defers interest payments on its 2007 Series A Junior Subordinated Notes due


or 2013 Series B Junior Subordinated Notes due


. At

December 31, 2019

, no interest payments were deferred.

(PPL Electric, LKE, LG&E and KU)

From time to time, as determined by their respective Board of Directors, the Registrants pay dividends or distributions, as applicable, to their respective shareholders or members. Certain of the credit facilities of PPL Electric, LKE, LG&E and KU include minimum debt covenant ratios that could effectively restrict the payment of dividends or distributions.

(All Registrants)

See

Note 8

to the Financial Statements for these and other restrictions related to distributions on capital interests for the Registrants and their subsidiaries.



Purchase or Redemption of Debt Securities

The Registrants will continue to evaluate outstanding debt securities and may decide to purchase or redeem these securities in open market or privately negotiated transactions, in exchange transactions or otherwise, depending upon prevailing market conditions, available cash and other factors, and may be commenced or suspended at any time. The amounts involved may be material.

Rating Agency Actions

Moody's and S&P periodically review the credit ratings of the debt of the Registrants and their subsidiaries. Based on their respective independent reviews, the rating agencies may make certain ratings revisions or ratings affirmations.

A credit rating reflects an assessment by the rating agency of the creditworthiness associated with an issuer and particular securities that it issues. The credit ratings of the Registrants and their subsidiaries are based on information provided by the Registrants and other sources. The ratings of Moody's and S&P are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold any securities of the Registrants or their subsidiaries. Such ratings may be subject to revisions or withdrawal by the agencies at any time and should be evaluated independently of each other and any other rating that may be assigned to the securities.

The credit ratings of the Registrants and their subsidiaries affect their liquidity, access to capital markets and cost of borrowing under their credit facilities. A downgrade in the Registrants' or their subsidiaries' credit ratings could result in higher borrowing costs and reduced access to capital markets. The Registrants and their subsidiaries have no credit rating triggers that would result in the reduction of access to capital markets or the acceleration of maturity dates of outstanding debt.

The following table sets forth the Registrants' and their subsidiaries' credit ratings for outstanding debt securities or commercial paper programs as of

December 31, 2019

.

The rating agencies have taken the following actions related to the Registrants and their subsidiaries.

(PPL)

In September 2019, Moody's and S&P assigned ratings of Baa1 and A- to WPD (East Midlands) £250 million of 1.75% Senior Notes due 2031.

(PPL and PPL Electric)

In September 2019, Moody's and S&P assigned ratings of A1 and A to PPL Electric's $400 million 3.00% First Mortgage Bonds due 2049.



(PPL, LKE and LG&E)

In March 2019, Moody’s and S&P assigned ratings of A1 and A to LG&E’s $400 million 4.25% First Mortgage Bonds due 2049. The bonds were issued April 1, 2019.

In March 2019, Moody’s and S&P assigned ratings of A1 and A to the County of Jefferson, Kentucky’s $128 million 1.85% Pollution Control Revenue Bonds, 2001 Series A, due 2033, previously issued on behalf of LG&E. The bonds were remarketed April 1, 2019.

In May 2019, Moody's assigned a rating of A1, and in June 2019, S&P assigned a rating of A to the County of Jefferson, Kentucky's $31 million 1.65% Series A Environmental Facilities Revenue Refunding Bonds, due 2033, previously issued on behalf of LG&E. The bonds were remarketed June 1, 2019.

In May 2019, Moody's assigned a rating of A1, and in June 2019, S&P assigned a rating of A to the County of Jefferson, Kentucky's $35 million 1.65% Series B Environmental Facilities Revenue Refunding Bonds, due 2033, previously issued on behalf of LG&E. The bonds were remarketed June 1, 2019.

In September 2019, Moody's and S&P assigned ratings of A1 and A to the County of Jefferson, Kentucky's $40 million 1.75% Pollution Control Revenue Bonds, 2005 Series A, due 2035, previously issued on behalf of LG&E. The bonds were remarketed September 17, 2019.

(PPL, LKE and KU)

In March 2019, Moody’s assigned a rating of A1 and S&P assigned a rating of A to KU’s $300 million 4.375% First Mortgage Bonds due 2045. The bonds were issued April 1, 2019.

In August 2019, Moody's assigned a rating of A1, and in September 2019, S&P assigned a rating of A to the County of Carroll, Kentucky's $96 million 1.55% Pollution Control Revenue Refunding Bonds, 2016 Series A (Kentucky Utilities Company Project), due 2042, previously issued on behalf of KU. The bonds were remarketed September 3, 2019.

In August 2019, Moody's assigned a rating of A1, and in September 2019, S&P lowered its rating to A to the following bonds:

•

County of Carroll, Kentucky’s $50 million 1.75% Environmental Facilities Revenue Bonds, 2004 Series A due 2034;

•

County of Carroll, Kentucky’s $54 million 1.20% Environmental Facilities Revenue Refunding Bonds, 2006 Series B due 2034;

•

County of Carroll, Kentucky’s $78 million 1.20% Environmental Facilities Revenue Bonds, 2006 Series B due 2032;

•

County of Mercer, Kentucky’s $13 million 1.30% Solid Waste Disposal Facility Revenue Bonds, 2000 Series A due 2023.

The bonds, previously issued on behalf of KU, were remarketed September 3, 2019. S&P and Moody’s lowered their ratings as a result of KU's termination of the letters of credit that previously provided credit enhancement for these bonds. See Note 8 to the Financial Statements for additional information.

Ratings Triggers

(PPL)

As discussed in

Note 8

to the Financial Statements, certain of WPD's senior unsecured notes may be put by the holders to the issuer for redemption if the long-term credit ratings assigned to the notes are withdrawn by any of the rating agencies (Moody's or S&P) or reduced to a non-investment grade rating of Ba1 or BB+ or lower in connection with a restructuring event. A restructuring event includes the loss of, or a material adverse change to, the distribution licenses under which WPD (East Midlands), WPD (South West), WPD (South Wales) and WPD (West Midlands) operate and would be a trigger event for each company. These notes totaled £5.4 billion (approximately $6.9 billion) nominal value at

December 31, 2019

.

(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)

Various derivative and non-derivative contracts, including contracts for the sale and purchase of electricity and fuel, commodity transportation and storage, interest rate and foreign currency instruments (for PPL), contain provisions that require the posting of additional collateral, or permit the counterparty to terminate the contract, if PPL's, LKE's, LG&E's or KU's or their subsidiaries' credit rating, as applicable, were to fall below investment grade. See

Note 17

to the Financial Statements for a



discussion of "Credit Risk-Related Contingent Features," including a discussion of the potential additional collateral requirements for PPL, LKE and LG&E for derivative contracts in a net liability position at

December 31, 2019

.

Guarantees for Subsidiaries

(PPL)

PPL guarantees certain consolidated affiliate financing arrangements. Some of the guarantees contain financial and other covenants that, if not met, would limit or restrict the consolidated affiliates' access to funds under these financing arrangements, accelerate maturity of such arrangements or limit the consolidated affiliates' ability to enter into certain transactions. At this time, PPL believes that these covenants will not limit access to relevant funding sources. See

Note 13

to the Financial Statements for additional information about guarantees.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

(All Registrants)

The Registrants have entered into certain agreements that may contingently require payment to a guaranteed or indemnified party. See

Note 13

to the Financial Statements for a discussion of these agreements.

Risk Management

Market Risk

(All Registrants)

See Notes


,


and


to the Financial Statements for information about the Registrants' risk management objectives, valuation techniques and accounting designations.

The forward-looking information presented below provides estimates of what may occur in the future, assuming certain adverse market conditions and model assumptions. Actual future results may differ materially from those presented. These are not precise indicators of expected future losses, but are rather only indicators of possible losses under normal market conditions at a given confidence level.

Interest Rate Risk

The Registrants and their subsidiaries issue debt to finance their operations, which exposes them to interest rate risk. The Registrants and their subsidiaries utilize various financial derivative instruments to adjust the mix of fixed and floating interest rates in their debt portfolios, adjust the duration of their debt portfolios and lock in benchmark interest rates in anticipation of future financing, when appropriate. Risk limits under the risk management program are designed to balance risk exposure to volatility in interest expense and changes in the fair value of the debt portfolios due to changes in the absolute level of interest rates. In addition, the interest rate risk of certain subsidiaries is potentially mitigated as a result of the existing regulatory framework or the timing of rate cases.

The following interest rate hedges were outstanding at December 31:



(a)

Includes accrued interest, if applicable.

(b)

Effects of adverse movements decrease assets or increase liabilities, as applicable, which could result in an asset becoming a liability. Sensitivities represent a 10% adverse movement in interest rates, except for cross-currency swaps which also includes a 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates.

(c)

Changes in the fair value of these instruments are recorded in equity and reclassified into earnings in the same period during which the item being hedged affects earnings.

(d)

Realized changes in the fair value of such economic hedges are recoverable through regulated rates and any subsequent changes in the fair value of these derivatives are included in regulatory assets or regulatory liabilities.

The Registrants are exposed to a potential increase in interest expense and to changes in the fair value of their debt portfolios. The estimated impact of a 10% adverse movement in interest rates on interest expense at

December 31, 2019

and


was insignificant for PPL, PPL Electric, LKE, LG&E and KU. The estimated impact of a 10% adverse movement in interest rates on the fair value of debt at December 31 is shown below.

Foreign Currency Risk

(PPL)

PPL is exposed to foreign currency risk primarily through investments in and earnings of U.K. affiliates. Under its risk management program, PPL may enter into financial instruments to hedge certain foreign currency exposures, including translation risk of expected earnings, firm commitments, recognized assets or liabilities, anticipated transactions and net investments.

The following foreign currency hedges were outstanding at December 31:

(a)

Effects of adverse movements decrease assets or increase liabilities, as applicable, which could result in an asset becoming a liability.

(b)

To economically hedge the translation of expected earnings denominated in GBP.

(All Registrants)

Commodity Price Risk

PPL is exposed to commodity price risk through its domestic subsidiaries as described below.

•

PPL Electric is required to purchase electricity to fulfill its obligation as a PLR. Potential commodity price risk is insignificant and mitigated through its PUC-approved cost recovery mechanism and full-requirement supply agreements to serve its PLR customers which transfer the risk to energy suppliers.

•

LG&E's and KU's rates include certain mechanisms for fuel, fuel-related expenses and energy purchases. In addition, LG&E's rates include a mechanism for natural gas supply expenses. These mechanisms generally provide for timely recovery of market price fluctuations associated with these expenses.

Volumetric Risk

Volumetric risk is the risk related to the changes in volume of retail sales due to weather, economic conditions or other factors.

PPL is exposed to volumetric risk through its subsidiaries as described below.



•

WPD is exposed to volumetric risk which is significantly mitigated as a result of the method of regulation in the U.K. Under the RIIO-ED1 price control regulations, recovery of such exposure occurs on a two year lag. See

Note 1

to the Financial Statements for additional information on revenue recognition under RIIO-ED1.

•

PPL Electric, LG&E and KU are exposed to volumetric risk on retail sales, mainly due to weather and other economic conditions for which there is limited mitigation between rate cases.

Defined Benefit Plans - Equity Securities Price Risk

See "Application of Critical Accounting Policies - Defined Benefits" for additional information regarding the effect of equity securities price risk on plan assets.

Credit Risk

(All Registrants)

Credit risk is the risk that the Registrants would incur a loss as a result of nonperformance by counterparties of their contractual obligations. The Registrants maintain credit policies and procedures with respect to counterparty credit (including requirements that counterparties maintain specified credit ratings) and require other assurances in the form of credit support or collateral in certain circumstances in order to limit counterparty credit risk. However, the Registrants, as applicable, have concentrations of suppliers and customers among electric utilities, financial institutions and energy marketing and trading companies. These concentrations may impact the Registrants' overall exposure to credit risk, positively or negatively, as counterparties may be similarly affected by changes in economic, regulatory or other conditions.

(PPL and PPL Electric)

In January 2017, the PUC issued a Final Order approving PPL Electric's PLR procurement plan for the period June 2017 through May 2021, which includes a total of eight semi-annual solicitations for electricity supply in April and October. To date, PPL Electric has conducted six of its planned eight competitive solicitations.

Under the standard Supply Master Agreement (the Agreement) for the competitive solicitation process, PPL Electric requires all suppliers to post collateral if their credit exposure exceeds an established credit limit. In the event a supplier defaults on its obligation, PPL Electric would be required to seek replacement power in the market. All incremental costs incurred by PPL Electric would be recoverable from customers in future rates. At

December 31, 2019

, most of the successful bidders under all of the solicitations had an investment grade credit rating from S&P and were not required to post collateral under the Agreement. A small portion of bidders were required to post an insignificant amount of collateral under the Agreement. There is no instance under the Agreement in which PPL Electric is required to post collateral to its suppliers.

See

Note 17

to the Financial Statements for additional information on credit risk.

Foreign Currency Translation

(PPL)

The value of the British pound sterling fluctuates in relation to the U.S. dollar. In


, changes in this exchange rate resulted in a foreign currency translation gain of $106 million, which reflected a $181 million increase to PP&E, $34 million increase to goodwill and $12 million decrease to other net liabilities partially offset by a $121 million increase to long-term debt. In


, changes in this exchange rate resulted in a foreign currency translation loss of $453 million, which reflected a $754 million decrease to PP&E and $150 million decrease to goodwill partially offset by a $445 million decrease to long-term debt and a decrease of $6 million to other net liabilities. In


, changes in this exchange rate resulted in a foreign currency translation gain of $537 million, which reflected a $935 million increase to PP&E and $198 million increase to goodwill partially offset by a $549 million increase to long-term debt and an increase of $47 million to other net liabilities.

(All Registrants)

Related Party Transactions

The Registrants are not aware of any material ownership interests or operating responsibility by senior management in outside partnerships, including leasing transactions with variable interest entities, or other entities doing business with the Registrants. See

Note 14

to the Financial Statements for additional information on related party transactions for PPL Electric, LKE, LG&E and KU.



Acquisitions, Development and Divestitures

The Registrants from time to time evaluate opportunities for potential acquisitions, divestitures and development projects. Development projects are reexamined based on market conditions and other factors to determine whether to proceed with, modify or terminate the projects. Any resulting transactions may impact future financial results.

Capacity Needs

(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)

As a result of environmental requirements and energy efficiency measures, KU retired

two

older coal-fired electricity generating units at the E.W. Brown plant in February 2019 with a combined summer rating capacity of


MW. Despite the retirement of these units, LG&E and KU maintain sufficient generating capacity to serve their anticipated load.

Environmental Matters

(All Registrants)

Extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations are applicable to PPL's, PPL Electric's, LKE's, LG&E's and KU's air emissions, water discharges and the management of hazardous and solid waste, as well as other aspects of the Registrants' businesses. The costs of compliance or alleged non-compliance cannot be predicted with certainty but could be significant. In addition, costs may increase significantly if the requirements or scope of environmental laws or regulations, or similar rules, are expanded or changed. Costs may take the form of increased capital expenditures or operating and maintenance expenses, monetary fines, penalties or other restrictions. Many of these environmental law considerations are also applicable to the operations of key suppliers, or customers, such as coal producers and industrial power users, and may impact the costs for their products or their demand for the Registrants' services. Increased capital and operating costs are subject to rate recovery. PPL, PPL Electric, LKE, LG&E and KU can provide no assurances as to the ultimate outcome of future environmental or rate proceedings before regulatory authorities.

See "Legal Matters" in

Note 13

to the Financial Statements for a discussion of the more significant environmental claims. See "Financial Condition - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Forecasted Uses of Cash - Capital Expenditures" in "Item 7. Combined Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for information on projected environmental capital expenditures for


through


. See

Note 19

to the Financial Statements for information related to the impacts of CCRs on AROs.

Sustainability

Increasing attention has been focused on a broad range of corporate activities under the heading of “sustainability”, which has resulted in a significant increase in the number of requests from interested parties for information on sustainability topics. These parties range from investor groups focused on environmental, social, governance and other matters to non-investors concerned with a variety of public policy matters. Often the scope of the information sought is very broad and not necessarily relevant to an issuer’s business or industry. As a result, a number of private groups have proposed to standardize the subject matter constituting sustainability, either generally or by industry. Those efforts remain ongoing. In addition, certain of these private groups have advocated that the SEC promulgate regulations requiring specific sustainability reporting under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “’34 Act”), or that issuers voluntarily include certain sustainability disclosure in their ’34 Act reports. To date, no new reporting requirements have been adopted or proposed by the SEC.

As has been PPL’s practice, to the extent sustainability issues have or may have a material impact on the Registrants’ financial condition or results of operation, PPL discloses such matters in accordance with applicable securities law and SEC regulations. With respect to other sustainability topics that PPL deems relevant to investors but that are not required to be reported under applicable securities law and SEC regulation, PPL will continue each spring to publish its annual sustainability report including tracking reductions related to the company's goal to reduce carbon emissions and post that report on its corporate website at www.pplweb.com and on www.pplsustainability.com. Neither the information in such annual sustainability report nor the information at such websites is incorporated in this Form 10-K by reference, and it should not be considered a part of this Form 10-K. In preparing its sustainability report, PPL is guided by the framework established by the Global Reporting Initiative, which identifies environmental, social, governance and other subject matter categories. PPL also participates in efforts by the Edison Electric Institute to provide the appropriate subset of sustainability information that can be applied consistently across the electric utility industry. Additionally, PPL publicly discloses its corporate political contributions and responds to the CDP climate survey.



Cybersecurity

See “Cybersecurity Management” in “Item 1. Business” and “Item 1A. Risk factors” for a discussion of cybersecurity risks affecting the Registrants and the related strategies for managing these risks.

Competition

See "Competition" under each of PPL's reportable segments in "Item 1. Business - General - Segment Information" and "Item 1A. Risk Factors" for a discussion of competitive factors affecting the Registrants.

New Accounting Guidance

See Notes


and


to the Financial Statements for a discussion of new accounting guidance adopted and pending adoption.

Application of Critical Accounting Policies

Financial condition and results of operations are impacted by the methods, assumptions and estimates used in the application of critical accounting policies. The following accounting policies are particularly important to an understanding of the reported financial condition or results of operations and require management to make estimates or other judgments of matters that are inherently uncertain. Changes in the estimates or other judgments included within these accounting policies could result in a significant change to the information presented in the Financial Statements (these accounting policies are also discussed in

Note 1

to the Financial Statements). Senior management has reviewed with PPL's Audit Committee these critical accounting policies, the following disclosures regarding their application, and the estimates and assumptions regarding them.

Defined Benefits

(All Registrants)

Certain of the Registrants and/or their subsidiaries sponsor or participate in certain qualified funded and non-qualified unfunded defined benefit pension plans and both funded and unfunded other postretirement benefit plans. See Notes


,


and


to the Financial Statements for additional information about the plans and the accounting for defined benefits.

A summary of plan sponsors by Registrant and whether a Registrant or its subsidiaries sponsor (S) or participate in and receives allocations (P) from those plans is shown in the table below.

(a)

Does not sponsor or participate in other postretirement benefits plans.

(b)

The pension plans sponsored by LKE and LG&E were merged effective January 1, 2020 into the LG&E and KU Pension Plan. The merged plan is sponsored by LKE. LG&E and KU participate in this plan.

Management makes certain assumptions regarding the valuation of benefit obligations and the performance of plan assets. As such, annual net periodic defined benefit costs are recorded in current earnings or regulatory assets and liabilities based on estimated results. Any differences between actual and estimated results are recorded in AOCI or, in the case of PPL Electric, LG&E and KU, regulatory assets and liabilities for amounts that are expected to be recovered through regulated customer rates. These amounts in AOCI or regulatory assets and liabilities are amortized to income over future periods. The significant assumptions are:

•

Discount Rate - In selecting the discount rates for U.S. defined benefit plans, the plan sponsors start with a cash flow analysis of the expected benefit payment stream for their plans. The plan-specific cash flows are matched against the coupons and expected maturity values of Aa-rated non-callable (or callable with make-whole provisions) bonds that could be purchased for a hypothetical settlement portfolio. The plan sponsors then use the single discount rate derived from matching the discounted benefit payment stream to the market value of the selected bond portfolio.



In selecting the discount rate for its U.K. pension plans, WPD starts with a cash flow analysis of the expected benefit payment stream for its plans. These plan-specific cash flows are matched against a spot-rate yield curve to determine the assumed discount rate. The spot-rate yield curve uses an iBoxx British pounds sterling denominated corporate bond index as its base. From this base, those bonds with the lowest and highest yields are eliminated to develop an appropriate subset of bonds. WPD uses the single weighted-average discount rate derived from the spot rates to discount the benefit obligation. In addition, the spot rates that match the cash flows associated with the service cost and interest cost are used to discount those components of net periodic defined benefit cost.

•

Expected Return on Plan Assets - The expected long-term rates of return for pension and other postretirement benefits are based on management's projections using a best-estimate of expected returns, volatilities and correlations for each asset class. Each plan's specific current and expected asset allocations are also considered in developing a reasonable return assumption.

•

Rate of Compensation Increase - Management projects employees' annual pay increases, which are used to project employees' pension benefits at retirement. In selecting a rate of compensation increase, plan sponsors consider past experience, the potential impact of movements in inflation rates and expectations of ongoing compensation practices.

See Note


to the Financial Statements for details of the assumptions selected for pension and other postretirement benefits. A variance in the assumptions could significantly impact accrued defined benefit liabilities or assets, reported annual net periodic defined benefit costs and AOCI or regulatory assets and liabilities.

The following tables reflect changes in certain assumptions based on the Registrants' primary defined benefit plans. The inverse of this change would have the opposite impact on accrued defined benefit liabilities or assets, reported annual net periodic defined benefit costs and AOCI or regulatory assets and liabilities. The sensitivities below reflect an evaluation of the change based solely on a change in that assumption.



Income Taxes

(All Registrants)

Significant management judgment is required in developing the Registrants' provision for income taxes, primarily due to the uncertainty related to tax positions taken or expected to be taken in tax returns, valuation allowances on deferred tax assets, as well as whether the undistributed earnings of WPD are considered indefinitely reinvested.

Additionally, significant management judgment is required to determine the amount of benefit recognized related to an uncertain tax position. On a quarterly basis, uncertain tax positions are reassessed by considering information known as of the reporting date. Based on management's assessment of new information, a tax benefit may subsequently be recognized for a previously unrecognized tax position, a previously recognized tax position may be derecognized, or the benefit of a previously recognized tax position may be remeasured. The amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of issues raised by taxing authorities may differ materially from the amounts accrued and may materially impact the financial statements in the future.

The need for valuation allowances to reduce deferred tax assets also requires significant management judgment. Valuation allowances are initially recorded and reevaluated each reporting period by assessing the likelihood of the ultimate realization of a deferred tax asset. Management considers a number of factors in assessing the realization of a deferred tax asset, including the reversal of temporary differences, future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. Any tax planning strategy utilized in this assessment must meet the recognition and measurement criteria utilized to account for an uncertain tax position. Management also considers the uncertainty posed by political risk and the effect of this uncertainty on the various factors that management takes into account in evaluating the need for valuation allowances. The amount of deferred tax assets ultimately realized may differ materially from the estimates utilized in the computation of valuation allowances and may materially impact the financial statements in the future.

See

Note 6

to the Financial Statements for income tax disclosures, including the impact of the TCJA and management's conclusion that the undistributed earnings of WPD are considered indefinitely reinvested. Based on this conclusion, PPL Global does not record deferred U.S. federal income taxes on WPD's undistributed earnings.

Regulatory Assets and Liabilities

(All Registrants)

PPL Electric, LG&E and KU are subject to cost-based rate regulation. As a result, the effects of regulatory actions are required to be reflected in the financial statements. Assets and liabilities are recorded that result from the regulated ratemaking process that may not be recorded under GAAP for non-regulated entities. Regulatory assets generally represent incurred costs that have been deferred because such costs are probable of future recovery in regulated customer rates. Regulatory liabilities are recognized for amounts expected to be returned through future regulated customer rates. In certain cases, regulatory liabilities are recorded based on an understanding or agreement with the regulator that rates have been set to recover costs that are expected to be incurred in the future, and the regulated entity is accountable for any amounts charged pursuant to such rates and not yet expended for the intended purpose.

Management continually assesses whether the regulatory assets are probable of future recovery by considering factors such as changes in the applicable regulatory and political environments, the ability to recover costs through regulated rates, recent rate orders to the Registrants and other regulated entities, and the status of any pending or potential deregulation legislation. Based



on this continual assessment, management believes the existing regulatory assets are probable of recovery. This assessment reflects the current political and regulatory climate at the state and federal levels and is subject to change in the future. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, the regulatory asset would be written-off. Additionally, the regulatory agencies can provide flexibility in the manner and timing of recovery of regulatory assets.

See Note


to the Financial Statements for regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities recorded at

December 31, 2019

and


, as well as additional information on those regulatory assets and liabilities. All regulatory assets are either currently being recovered under specific rate orders, represent amounts that are expected to be recovered in future rates or benefit future periods based upon established regulatory practices.

(PPL)

WPD's operations are regulated by Ofgem. Ofgem has adopted a price control regulatory framework focused on outputs and performance in contrast to traditional U.S. utility ratemaking that operates under a cost recovery model. Because the regulatory model is incentive-based, WPD is not subject to accounting for the effects of certain types of regulation as prescribed by GAAP for entities subject to cost-based rate regulation and does not record regulatory assets and liabilities. See "General - Regulation" in

Note 1

to the Financial Statements for additional information.

Price Risk Management

(PPL)

See "Financial Condition - Risk Management" above.

Goodwill Impairment

(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)

Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level. PPL has determined its reporting units to be primarily at the same level as its reportable segments. LKE, LG&E and KU are individually single operating and reportable segments. A goodwill impairment test is performed annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the reporting unit may be greater than the reporting unit's fair value. Additionally, goodwill is tested for impairment after a portion of goodwill has been allocated to a business to be disposed of.

PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU may elect either to initially make a qualitative evaluation about the likelihood of an impairment of goodwill or to bypass the qualitative evaluation and test goodwill for impairment using a two-step quantitative test. See “Long-Lived and Intangible Assets - Asset Impairment (Excluding Investments)” in

Note 1

to the Financial Statements for further discussion of qualitative and quantitative goodwill impairment tests

.

See

Note 18

to the Financial Statements for information on goodwill balances at

December 31, 2019

.

PPL elected to perform the two-step quantitative impairment test of goodwill for the U.K. Regulated segment reporting unit in the fourth quarter of 2019. Management used both discounted cash flows and market multiples including implied RAV premiums, which required significant assumptions, to estimate the fair value of the reporting units. Significant assumptions used in the discounted cash flows include discount and growth rates, outcomes of future rate filings, and projected operating and capital cash flows. Projected operating and capital cash flows is based on the Registrants' internal business plan, which assumes the occurrence of certain future events. Significant assumptions used in the market multiples include utility sector market performance and comparable transactions.

Application of an appropriate weighting to both the discounted cash flow and market multiple valuations for the most recent impairment test performed as of October 1, 2019 did not require the second-step assessment and did not result in any impairment.

A high degree of judgment is required to develop estimates related to fair value conclusions. A decrease in the forecasted cash flows of 10%, an increase in the discount rate of 0.25%, or a 10% decrease in the market multiples would not have resulted in an impairment of goodwill for this reporting unit.

PPL (for its Kentucky Regulated segment), and individually, LKE, LG&E and KU elected to perform the qualitative step zero evaluation of goodwill, as of October 1, 2019. Based on these evaluations, management concluded it was not more likely than not that the fair value of these reporting units was less than their carrying values. As such, the two-step quantitative impairment test was not performed.



Asset Retirement Obligations

(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)

ARO liabilities are required to be recognized for legal obligations associated with the retirement of long-lived assets. Initial obligations are measured at estimated fair value. An ARO must be recognized when incurred if the fair value of the ARO can be reasonably estimated. An equivalent amount is recorded as an increase in the value of the capitalized asset and amortized to expense over the asset's useful life.

In determining AROs, management must make significant judgments and estimates to calculate fair value. Fair value is developed using an expected present value technique based on assumptions of market participants that consider estimated retirement costs in current period dollars, inflated to the anticipated retirement date and discounted back to the date the ARO was incurred. Changes in assumptions and estimates included within the calculations of the fair value of AROs could result in significantly different results than those identified and recorded in the financial statements. Estimated ARO costs and settlement dates, which affect the carrying value of the ARO and the related capitalized asset, are reviewed periodically to ensure that any material changes are incorporated into the ARO estimate. Any change to the capitalized asset is generally amortized over the remaining life of the associated long-lived asset.

See “Long-Lived and Intangible Assets - Asset Retirement Obligations” in

Note 1

,

Note 7

and

Note 19

to the Financial Statements for additional information on AROs.

At

December 31, 2019

, the total recorded balances and information on the most significant recorded AROs were as follows.

The most significant assumptions surrounding AROs are the forecasted retirement costs (including settlement dates and the timing of cash flows), discount and inflation rates. At

December 31, 2019

, a 10% increase to retirement cost would increase these ARO liabilities by $33 million. A 0.25% decrease in the discount rate would increase these ARO liabilities by $4 million and a 0.25% increase in the inflation rate would increase these ARO liabilities by $2 million. There would be no significant change to the annual depreciation expense of the ARO asset or the annual accretion expense of the ARO liability as a result of these changes in assumptions.

Revenue Recognition - Unbilled Revenues

(LKE, LG&E and KU)

Revenues related to the sale of energy are recorded when service is rendered or when energy is delivered to customers. Because customers are billed on cycles which vary based on the timing of actual meter reads taken throughout the month, estimates are recorded for unbilled revenues at the end of each reporting period. For LG&E and KU, such unbilled revenue amounts reflect estimates of deliveries to customers since the date of the last reading of their meters. The unbilled revenue estimates reflect consideration of factors including daily load models, estimated usage for each customer class, the effect of current and different rate schedules, the meter read schedule, the billing schedule, actual weather data, and, where applicable, the impact of weather normalization or other regulatory provisions of rate structures. See "Unbilled revenues" on the Registrants' Balance Sheets for balances at

December 31, 2019

and


.

Other Information

(All Registrants)

PPL's Audit Committee has approved the independent auditor to provide audit and audit-related services, tax services and other services permitted by Sarbanes-Oxley and SEC rules. The audit and audit-related services include services in connection with statutory and regulatory filings, reviews of offering documents and registration statements, and internal control reviews.



ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

PPL Corporation, PPL Electric Utilities Corporation, LG&E and KU Energy LLC, Louisville Gas and Electric Company and Kentucky Utilities Company

Reference is made to "Risk Management" for the Registrants in "Item 7. Combined Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Shareowners and the Board of Directors of PPL Corporation

Opinion on the Financial Statements

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of PPL Corporation and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, equity, and cash flows, for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2019, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the "financial statements"). In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2019, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2019, based on criteria established in

Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013)

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 14, 2020, expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting.

Basis for Opinion

These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

Critical Audit Matters

The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current-period audit of the financial statements that were communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (1) relate to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below, providing separate opinions on the critical audit matters or on the accounts or disclosures to which they relate.

Regulatory Assets and Liabilities - Impact of Rate Regulation on Various Account Balances and Disclosures - Refer to Notes 1 and 7 to the Financial Statements

Critical Audit Matter Description

As discussed in Note 1 to the financial statements, PPL Corporation owns and operates three cost-based rate-regulated utilities in the United States (U.S.) for which rates are set by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), the Kentucky Public Service Commission (KPSC), the Virginia State Corporation Commission (VSCC) and the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission (PUC) to enable the regulated utilities to recover the costs of providing electric or gas service, as applicable, and to provide a reasonable return to shareholders. Base rates are generally established based on a future test period. As a result, the financial statements are subject to the accounting for certain types of regulation as prescribed by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and reflect the effects of regulatory actions. Regulatory assets are recognized for the effect of transactions or events where future recovery of underlying costs is probable in regulated customer rates. The effect of such accounting is to defer certain or qualifying costs that would otherwise currently be charged to expense. Regulatory liabilities are recognized for amounts expected to be returned through future regulated customer rates.



The accounting for regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities is based on specific ratemaking decisions or precedent for each transaction or event as prescribed by the FERC, KPSC, VSCC and PUC. The accounting for the economics of rate regulation also impacts other financial statement line items, including regulated utility plant, operating revenues, depreciation, and income taxes and impacts multiple note disclosures. As of December 31, 2019, PPL Corporation had a recorded regulatory assets balance of $1,559 million and regulatory liabilities balance of $2,687 million.

PPL Corporation’s U.S. regulated utilities’ rates are subject to cost-based rate-setting processes and annual earnings oversight. Rates are established based on an analysis of the costs incurred and the regulated utility’s capital structure, and must be approved by one or more federal or state regulatory commissions, including the FERC, KPSC, VSCC and PUC. Regulatory decisions can have an impact on the recovery of costs, the rate earned on invested capital, and the timing and amount of assets to be recovered by rates. The FERC, KPSC, VSCC and PUC regulation of rates is premised on the full recovery of prudently incurred costs and an adequate return on capital investments. Decisions to be made by the FERC, KPSC, VSCC and PUC in the future will impact the accounting for regulated operations, including decisions about the amount of allowable costs and return on invested capital included in rates and any refunds that may be required. While PPL Corporation’s U.S. utilities have indicated that they expect to recover costs from customers through regulated rates, there is a risk that the FERC, KPSC, VSCC or PUC will not approve full recovery of such costs or approve recovery on a timely basis in future regulatory decisions.

We identified the impact of rate regulation as a critical audit matter due to the significant judgments made by management in continually assessing whether the regulatory assets are probable of future recovery by considering factors, such as changes in the applicable regulatory and political environments, the ability to recover costs through regulated rates, recent rate orders and the status of any pending legislation. Auditing these judgments required specialized knowledge of accounting for rate regulation and the rate-setting process due to its inherent complexities.

How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit

Our audit procedures related to the uncertainty of future decisions by the FERC, KPSC, VSCC and PUC included the following, among others:

•

We tested the effectiveness of management’s internal controls over evaluating the likelihood of recovery in future rates of costs deferred as regulatory assets. We tested the effectiveness of management’s controls over the recognition of amounts as regulated utility plant, regulatory assets or liabilities, operating revenues, depreciation, income taxes, and note disclosures and the monitoring and evaluation of regulatory developments that may affect the likelihood of recovering costs in future rates or of a future reduction in rates.

•

We obtained and read relevant regulatory orders issued by the FERC, KPSC, VSCC and PUC for PPL Corporation’s U.S. regulated utilities to assess the likelihood of recovery in future rates or of a future reduction in rates.

•

We inquired of management about regulated utility plant that may be abandoned. We inspected minutes of the board of directors, regulatory orders and other filings with the commission to identify any evidence that may contradict management’s assertion regarding probability of an abandonment.

•

We evaluated PPL Corporation’s disclosures related to the impacts of rate-regulation, including the balances recorded and regulatory developments, in the financial statements.

Goodwill - U.K. Regulated Reporting Unit - Refer to Notes 1 and 18 to the Financial Statements

Critical Audit Matter Description

PPL Corporation’s balance sheet includes $3.2 billion of goodwill as of December 31, 2019, of which $2.5 billion was allocated to the U.K. Regulated reporting unit. The fair value of the U.K. Regulated reporting unit exceeded its carrying value as of the measurement date and, therefore, no impairment was recognized. PPL Corporation elected to perform the two-step quantitative impairment test of goodwill for the U.K. Regulated reporting unit in the fourth quarter of 2019. Management used both discounted cash flows and market multiples, which required significant assumptions, to estimate the fair value of the reporting units. Significant assumptions used in the discounted cash flows included discount and growth rates, and projected operating and capital cash flows. Projected operating and capital cash flows are based on PPL Corporation’s internal business plan, which assumes the occurrence of certain events in the future. Significant assumptions used in the market multiples include utility sector market performance and comparable transactions.



We identified goodwill for the U.K. Regulated reporting unit as a critical audit matter because of the significant judgments made by management to estimate the fair value of the U.K. Regulated reporting unit, specifically due to changes in the economy in the U.K. This required a high degree of auditor judgment and an increased extent of effort, including the need to involve our fair value specialists, when performing audit procedures to evaluate the reasonableness of management’s estimates and assumptions related to the regulatory asset value premiums (RAV premiums), discount and growth rates, and projected operating and capital cash flows.

How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit

Our audit procedures related to the RAV premiums, discount and growth rates, and projected operating and capital cash flows used by management to estimate the fair value of the U.K. Regulated reporting unit included the following, among others:

•

We tested the effectiveness of management’s internal controls over their goodwill impairment evaluation, including those over the determination of the fair value of the U.K. Regulated reporting unit, such as controls related to management’s RAV premiums estimate, and selection of discount and growth rates and projected operating and capital cash flows.

•

We evaluated the reasonableness of management’s projected operating and capital cash flows by comparing the forecasts to:

◦

Historical operating and capital cash flows.

◦

Internal communications to management and the board of directors.

◦

Forecasted information included in PPL Corporation’s press releases as well as in analyst and industry reports for PPL Corporation.

•

We evaluated the impact of changes in management’s forecasts from the October 1, 2019 annual measurement date to December 31, 2019.

•

With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the reasonableness of the (1) valuation methodology, (2) RAV premiums and (3) discount and growth rates by:

◦

Testing the source information underlying the determination of the RAV premiums, and discount and growth rates and the mathematical accuracy of the calculation.

◦

Developing a range of independent estimates and comparing those to the RAV premiums, and discount and growth rates selected by management.

Income Taxes - Valuation Allowances - Estimates of future taxable income and management’s determination of whether it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets will be realized - Refer to Note 1 and 6 to the Financial Statements

Critical Audit Matter Description

Deferred income taxes reflect the net future tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for accounting purposes and their basis for income tax purposes and the tax effects of net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Net deferred tax assets have been recognized based on management’s estimates of future taxable income for the U.S. and the U.K. PPL Corporation files tax returns in multiple jurisdictions with complex tax laws and regulations. Valuation allowances have been established for the amount that, more likely than not, will not be realized. PPL Corporation has $834 million of valuation allowances recorded on $1,479 million of deferred tax assets related to federal, state and foreign loss and credit carryforwards as of December 31, 2019.

Management considers a number of factors in assessing the realization of a deferred tax asset associated with net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards, including the reversal of temporary differences, future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax-planning strategies. Management also considers the uncertainty posed by political risk and the effect of this uncertainty on the various factors that management takes into account in evaluating the need for valuation allowances. The amount of deferred tax assets ultimately realized may differ materially from the estimates utilized in the computation of valuation allowances and may materially impact the financial statements in the future.



We identified management’s estimation of the valuation allowances associated with loss and credit carryforwards as a critical audit matter because the need for valuation allowances to reduce deferred tax assets requires significant management judgment. This required a high degree of auditor judgment and an increased extent of effort, including the need to involve our income tax specialists, when performing audit procedures to evaluate the reasonableness of management’s estimates of future taxable income and the determination of whether it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized.

How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit

Our audit procedures related to estimated future taxable income and the determination of whether it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized included the following, among others:

•

We tested the effectiveness of management’s internal controls over the valuation allowance for income taxes, including management’s internal controls over the estimates of future taxable income and the determination of whether it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized.

•

We evaluated the reasonableness of the methods, assumptions, and judgments used by management to determine whether a valuation allowance was necessary.

•

With the assistance of our income tax specialists, we evaluated whether the sources of management’s estimated taxable income were of the appropriate character and sufficient to utilize the deferred tax assets under the relevant tax laws.

•

We evaluated management’s ability to accurately estimate taxable income by comparing actual results to management’s historical estimates and evaluating whether there have been any changes that would affect management’s ability to continue accurately estimating taxable income.

•

We tested the reasonableness of management’s estimates of future taxable income by comparing the estimates to:

◦

Internal budgets.

◦

Historical taxable income, as adjusted for nonrecurring items.

◦

Internal communications to management and the board of directors.

◦

Forecasted information included in PPL Corporation’s press releases as well as in analyst and industry reports for PPL Corporation.

/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP

Parsippany, New Jersey

February 14, 2020

We have served as the Company's auditor since 2015.



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Shareowners and the Board of Directors of PPL Corporation

Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of PPL Corporation and subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2019, based on criteria established in

Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013)

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2019, based on criteria established in

Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013)

issued by COSO.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2019, of the Company and our report dated February 14, 2020, expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements.

Basis for Opinion

The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting at Item 9A. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP

Parsippany, New Jersey

February 14, 2020



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Shareowner and the Board of Directors of PPL Electric Utilities Corporation

Opinion on the Financial Statements

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of PPL Electric Utilities Corporation and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the related consolidated statements of income, equity, and cash flows, for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2019, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the "financial statements"). In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2019, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.

Basis for Opinion

These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. As part of our audits, we are required to obtain an understanding of internal control over financial reporting but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion.

Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP

Parsippany, New Jersey

February 14, 2020

We have served as the Company's auditor since 2015.



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Sole Member and the Board of Directors of LG&E and KU Energy LLC

Opinion on the Financial Statements

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of LG&E and KU Energy LLC and Subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, equity, and cash flows, for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2019, and the related notes and the schedule listed in the Index at Item 15 (collectively referred to as the “financial statements”). In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2019, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.

Basis for Opinion

These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. As part of our audits, we are required to obtain an understanding of internal control over financial reporting but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion.

Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP

Louisville, Kentucky

February 14, 2020

We have served as the Company’s auditor since 2015.



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Stockholder and the Board of Directors of Louisville Gas and Electric Company

Opinion on the Financial Statements

We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of Louisville Gas and Electric Company (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the related statements of income, equity, and cash flows, for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2019, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the “financial statements”). In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2019, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.

Basis for Opinion

These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. As part of our audits, we are required to obtain an understanding of internal control over financial reporting but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion.

Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP

Louisville, Kentucky

February 14, 2020

We have served as the Company’s auditor since 2015.



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Stockholder and the Board of Directors of Kentucky Utilities Company

Opinion on the Financial Statements

We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of Kentucky Utilities Company (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the related statements of income, equity, and cash flows, for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2019, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the “financial statements”). In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2019, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.

Basis for Opinion

These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. As part of our audits, we are required to obtain an understanding of internal control over financial reporting but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion.

Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP

Louisville, Kentucky

February 14, 2020

We have served as the Company’s auditor since 2015.



ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,

PPL Corporation and Subsidiaries

(Millions of Dollars, except share data)

The accompanying Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of the financial statements.



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,

PPL Corporation and Subsidiaries

(Millions of Dollars)

The accompanying Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of the financial statements.



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,

PPL Corporation and Subsidiaries

(Millions of Dollars)

The accompanying Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of the financial statements.



CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS AT DECEMBER 31,

PPL Corporation and Subsidiaries

(Millions of Dollars, shares in thousands)

The accompanying Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of the financial statements.



CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS AT DECEMBER 31,

PPL Corporation and Subsidiaries

(Millions of Dollars, shares in thousands)

(a)

1,560,000

shares authorized;

767,233

and

720,323

shares issued and outstanding at

December 31, 2019

and December 31,


.

The accompanying Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of the financial statements.



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY

PPL Corporation and Subsidiaries

(Millions of Dollars)

(a)

Shares in thousands. Each share entitles the holder to one vote on any question presented at any shareowners' meeting.

(b)

Dividends declared per share of common stock at December 31,


,


and


were:

$

1.65

,

$

1.64

and

$

1.58

.

The accompanying Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of the financial statements.



(THIS PAGE LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY.)



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,

PPL Electric Utilities Corporation and Subsidiaries

(Millions of Dollars)

(a)

Net income equals comprehensive income.

The accompanying Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of the financial statements.



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,

PPL Electric Utilities Corporation and Subsidiaries

(Millions of Dollars)

The accompanying Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of the financial statements.



CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS AT DECEMBER 31,

PPL Electric Utilities Corporation and Subsidiaries

(Millions of Dollars, shares in thousands)

The accompanying Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of the financial statements.



CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS AT DECEMBER 31,

PPL Electric Utilities Corporation and Subsidiaries

(Millions of Dollars, shares in thousands)

(a)

170,000

shares authorized;

66,368

shares issued and outstanding at

December 31, 2019

and December 31,


.

The accompanying Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of the financial statements.



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY

PPL Electric Utilities Corporation and Subsidiaries

(Millions of Dollars)

(a)

Shares in thousands. All common shares of PPL Electric stock are owned by PPL.

The accompanying Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of the financial statements.



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,

LG&E and KU Energy LLC and Subsidiaries

(Millions of Dollars)

The accompanying Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of the financial statements.



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,

LG&E and KU Energy LLC and Subsidiaries

(Millions of Dollars)

The accompanying Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of the financial statements.



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,

LG&E and KU Energy LLC and Subsidiaries

(Millions of Dollars)

The accompanying Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of the financial statements.



CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS AT DECEMBER 31,

LG&E and KU Energy LLC and Subsidiaries

(Millions of Dollars)

The accompanying Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of the financial statements.



CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS AT DECEMBER 31,

LG&E and KU Energy LLC and Subsidiaries

(Millions of Dollars)

The accompanying Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of the financial statements.



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY

LG&E and KU Energy LLC and Subsidiaries

(Millions of Dollars)

The accompanying Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of the financial statements.



(THIS PAGE LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY.)



STATEMENTS OF INCOME FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,

Louisville Gas and Electric Company

(Millions of Dollars)

(a)

Net income equals comprehensive income.

The accompanying Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of the financial statements.



STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,

Louisville Gas and Electric Company

(Millions of Dollars)

The accompanying Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of the financial statements.



BALANCE SHEETS AT DECEMBER 31,

Louisville Gas and Electric Company

(Millions of Dollars, shares in thousands)

The accompanying Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of the financial statements.



BALANCE SHEETS AT DECEMBER 31,

Louisville Gas and Electric Company

(Millions of Dollars, shares in thousands)

(a)

75,000 shares authorized; 21,294 shares issued and outstanding at

December 31, 2019

and

December 31, 2018

.

The accompanying Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of the financial statements.



STATEMENTS OF EQUITY

Louisville Gas and Electric Company

(Millions of Dollars)

(a)

Shares in thousands. All common shares of LG&E stock are owned by LKE.

The accompanying Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of the financial statements.



(THIS PAGE LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY.)



STATEMENTS OF INCOME FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,

Kentucky Utilities Company

(Millions of Dollars)

(a)

Net income approximates comprehensive income.

The accompanying Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of the financial statements.



STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,

Kentucky Utilities Company

(Millions of Dollars)

The accompanying Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of the financial statements.



BALANCE SHEETS AT DECEMBER 31,

Kentucky Utilities Company

(Millions of Dollars, shares in thousands)

The accompanying Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of the financial statements.



BALANCE SHEETS AT DECEMBER 31,

Kentucky Utilities Company

(Millions of Dollars, shares in thousands)

(a)

80,000

shares authorized;

37,818

shares issued and outstanding at

December 31, 2019

and

December 31, 2018

.

The accompanying Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of the financial statements.



STATEMENTS OF EQUITY

Kentucky Utilities Company

(Millions of Dollars)

(a)

Shares in thousands. All common shares of KU stock are owned by LKE.

The accompanying Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of the financial statements.



COMBINED NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Index to Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

The notes to the consolidated financial statements that follow are a combined presentation. The following list indicates the Registrants to which the footnotes apply:

1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

(All Registrants)

General

Capitalized terms and abbreviations appearing in the combined notes to financial statements are defined in the glossary. Dollars are in millions, except per share data, unless otherwise noted. The specific Registrant to which disclosures are applicable is identified in parenthetical headings in italics above the applicable disclosure or within the applicable disclosure for each Registrants' related activities and disclosures. Within combined disclosures, amounts are disclosed for any Registrant when significant.

Business and Consolidation

(PPL)

PPL is a utility holding company that, through its regulated subsidiaries, is primarily engaged in: 1) the distribution of electricity in the U.K.; 2) the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity and the distribution and sale of natural gas, primarily in Kentucky; and 3) the transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in Pennsylvania. Headquartered in Allentown, PA, PPL's principal subsidiaries are PPL Global, LKE (including its principal subsidiaries, LG&E and KU) and PPL Electric. PPL's corporate level financing subsidiary is PPL Capital Funding.



WPD, a subsidiary of PPL Global, through indirect, wholly owned subsidiaries, operates distribution networks providing electricity service in the U.K. WPD serves end-users in South Wales and southwest and central England. Its principal subsidiaries are WPD (South Wales), WPD (South West), WPD (East Midlands) and WPD (West Midlands).

PPL consolidates WPD on a

one

-month lag. Material events, such as debt issuances that occur in the lag period, are recognized in the current period financial statements. Events that are significant but not material are disclosed.

(PPL and PPL Electric)

PPL Electric is a cost-based rate-regulated utility subsidiary of PPL. PPL Electric's principal business is the transmission and distribution of electricity to serve retail customers in its franchised territory in eastern and central Pennsylvania and the regulated supply of electricity to retail customers in that territory as a PLR.

(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)

LKE is a utility holding company with cost-based rate-regulated utility operations through its subsidiaries, LG&E and KU. LG&E and KU are engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity. LG&E also engages in the distribution and sale of natural gas. LG&E and KU maintain their separate identities and serve customers in Kentucky under their respective names. KU also serves customers in Virginia under the Old Dominion Power name.

(All Registrants)

The financial statements of the Registrants include each company's own accounts as well as the accounts of all entities in which the company has a controlling financial interest. Entities for which a controlling financial interest is not demonstrated through voting interests are evaluated based on accounting guidance for Variable Interest Entities (VIEs). The Registrants consolidate a VIE when they are determined to have a controlling interest in the VIE and, as a result, are the primary beneficiary of the entity. The Registrants are not the primary beneficiary in any significant VIEs. Investments in entities in which a company has the ability to exercise significant influence but does not have a controlling financial interest are accounted for under the equity method. All other investments are carried at cost or fair value. All significant intercompany transactions have been eliminated.

The financial statements of PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU include their share of any undivided interests in jointly owned facilities, as well as their share of the related operating costs of those facilities. See

Note 12

for additional information.

Regulation

(PPL)

WPD operates in an incentive-based regulatory structure under distribution licenses granted by Ofgem. Electricity distribution revenues are set by Ofgem for a given time period through price control reviews that are not directly based on cost recovery. The price control formula that governs WPD's allowed revenue is designed to provide economic incentives to minimize operating, capital and financing costs. As a result, WPD is not subject to accounting for the effects of certain types of regulation as prescribed by GAAP and does not record regulatory assets and liabilities.

(All Registrants)

PPL Electric, LG&E and KU are cost-based rate-regulated utilities for which rates are set by regulators to enable PPL Electric, LG&E and KU to recover the costs of providing electric or gas service, as applicable, and to provide a reasonable return to shareholders. Base rates are generally established based on a future test period. As a result, the financial statements are subject to the accounting for certain types of regulation as prescribed by GAAP and reflect the effects of regulatory actions. Regulatory assets are recognized for the effect of transactions or events where future recovery of underlying costs is probable in regulated customer rates. The effect of such accounting is to defer certain or qualifying costs that would otherwise currently be charged to expense. Regulatory liabilities are recognized for amounts expected to be returned through future regulated customer rates. In certain cases, regulatory liabilities are recorded based on an understanding or agreement with the regulator that rates have been set to recover expected future costs, and the regulated entity is accountable for any amounts charged pursuant to such rates and not yet expended for the intended purpose. The accounting for regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities is based on specific ratemaking decisions or precedent for each transaction or event as prescribed by the FERC or the applicable state regulatory commissions. See

Note 7

for additional details regarding regulatory matters.



Accounting Records

The system of accounts for domestic regulated entities is maintained in accordance with the Uniform System of Accounts prescribed by the FERC and adopted by the applicable state regulatory commissions.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Loss Accruals

Potential losses are accrued when (1) information is available that indicates it is "probable" that a loss has been incurred, given the likelihood of uncertain future events and (2) the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Accounting guidance defines "probable" as cases in which "the future event or events are likely to occur." The Registrants continuously assess potential loss contingencies for environmental remediation, litigation claims, regulatory penalties and other events. Loss accruals for environmental remediation are discounted when appropriate.

The accrual of contingencies that might result in gains is not recorded, unless realization is assured.

Earnings Per Share

(PPL)

EPS is computed using the two-class method, which is an earnings allocation method for computing EPS that treats a participating security as having rights to earnings that would otherwise have been available to common shareowners. Share-based payment awards that provide recipients a non-forfeitable right to dividends or dividend equivalents are considered participating securities.

Price Risk Management

(All Registrants)

Interest rate contracts are used to hedge exposure to changes in the fair value of debt instruments and to hedge exposure to variability in expected cash flows associated with existing floating-rate debt instruments or forecasted fixed-rate issuances of debt. Foreign currency exchange contracts are used to hedge foreign currency exposures, primarily associated with PPL's investments in U.K. subsidiaries. Similar derivatives may receive different accounting treatment, depending on management's intended use and documentation.

Certain contracts may not meet the definition of a derivative because they lack a notional amount or a net settlement provision. In cases where there is no net settlement provision, markets are periodically assessed to determine whether market mechanisms have evolved to facilitate net settlement. Certain derivative contracts may be excluded from the requirements of derivative accounting treatment because NPNS has been elected. These contracts are accounted for using accrual accounting. Contracts that have been classified as derivative contracts are reflected on the balance sheets at fair value. The portion of derivative positions that deliver within a year are included in "Current Assets" and "Current Liabilities," while the portion of derivative positions that deliver beyond a year are recorded in "Other Noncurrent Assets" and "Deferred Credits and Other Noncurrent Liabilities."

Cash inflows and outflows related to derivative instruments are included as a component of operating, investing or financing activities on the Statements of Cash Flows, depending on the classification of the hedged items.

PPL and its subsidiaries have elected not to offset net derivative positions against the right to reclaim cash collateral (a receivable) or the obligation to return cash collateral (a payable) under master netting arrangements.

(PPL)

Processes exist that allow for subsequent review and validation of contract information as it relates to interest rate and foreign currency derivatives. The accounting department provides the treasury department with guidelines on appropriate accounting



classifications for various contract types and strategies. Examples of accounting guidelines provided to the treasury department staff include, but are not limited to:

•

Transactions to lock in an interest rate prior to a debt issuance can be designated as cash flow hedges, to the extent the forecasted debt issuances remain probable of occurring.

•

Cross-currency transactions to hedge interest and principal repayments can be designated as cash flow hedges.

•

Transactions to hedge fluctuations in the fair value of existing debt can be designated as fair value hedges.

•

Transactions to hedge the value of a net investment of foreign operations can be designated as net investment hedges.

•

Derivative transactions that do not qualify for cash flow or net investment hedge treatment are marked to fair value through earnings. These transactions generally include foreign currency forwards and options to hedge GBP-denominated earnings translation risk associated with PPL's U.K. subsidiaries that report their financial statements in GBP. As such, these transactions reduce earnings volatility due solely to changes in foreign currency exchange rates.

(All Registrants)

•

Derivative transactions may be marked to fair value through regulatory assets/liabilities at PPL Electric, LG&E and KU, if approved by the appropriate regulatory body. These transactions generally include the effect of interest rate swaps that are included in customer rates.

(PPL and PPL Electric)

To meet its obligation as a PLR to its customers, PPL Electric has entered into certain contracts that meet the definition of a derivative. However, NPNS has been elected for these contracts.

See Notes


and


for additional information on derivatives.

Revenue

(All Registrants)

Operating revenues are primarily recorded based on energy deliveries through the end of each calendar month. Unbilled retail revenues result because customers' bills are rendered throughout the month, rather than bills being rendered at the end of the month. For LKE, LG&E and KU, unbilled revenues for a month are calculated by multiplying an estimate of unbilled kWh by the estimated average cents per kWh. Any difference between estimated and actual revenues is adjusted the following month when the previous unbilled estimate is reversed and actual billings occur. For PPL Electric, unbilled revenues for a month are calculated by multiplying the actual unbilled kWh by an average rate per customer class.

PPL Electric's, LG&E's and KU's base rates are determined based on cost of service. Some regulators have also authorized the use of additional alternative revenue programs, which enable PPL Electric, LG&E and KU to adjust future rates based on past activities or completed events. Revenues from alternative revenue programs are recognized when the specific events permitting future billings have occurred. Revenues from alternative revenue programs are required to be presented separately from revenues from contracts with customers. These amounts are, however, presented as revenues from contracts with customers, with an offsetting adjustment to alternative revenue program revenue, when they are billed to customers in future periods. See

Note 3

for additional information.

(PPL)

WPD is currently operating under the eight-year price control period of RIIO-ED1, which commenced for electric distribution companies on April 1, 2015. Ofgem has adopted a price control mechanism that establishes the amount of base demand revenue WPD can earn, subject to certain true-ups, and provides for increased or reduced revenues based on incentives or penalties for performance relative to pre-established targets. WPD's allowed revenue primarily includes base demand revenue (adjusted for inflation using RPI), performance incentive revenues/penalties and adjustments for over or under-recovery from prior periods.



As the regulatory model is incentive based rather than a cost recovery model, WPD is not subject to accounting for the effects of certain types of regulation as prescribed by GAAP. Therefore, the accounting treatment of adjustments to base demand revenue and/or allowed revenue is evaluated based on revenue recognition accounting guidance.

Unlike prior price control reviews, base demand revenue under RIIO-ED1 is adjusted during the price control period. The most significant of those adjustments are:

•

Inflation True-Up - The base demand revenue for the RIIO-ED1 period was set based on 2012/13 prices. Therefore, an inflation factor as determined by forecasted RPI, provided by HM Treasury, is applied to base demand revenue.

Forecasted RPI is trued up to actuals and affects future base demand revenue two regulatory years later. This revenue change is called the "TRU" adjustment.

•

Annual Iteration Process (AIP) - The RIIO-ED1 price control period also includes an AIP. This allows future base demand revenues agreed with Ofgem as part of the price control review, to be updated during the price control period for financial adjustments including tax, pensions, cost of debt, legacy price control adjustments from preceding price control periods and adjustments relating to actual and allowed total expenditure, together with the Totex Incentive Mechanism (TIM). Under the TIM, WPD's DNOs are able to retain


%

of any amounts not spent against the RIIO-ED1 plan and bear


%

of any over-spends. The AIP calculates an incremental change to base demand revenue, known as the "MOD" adjustment.

As both MOD and TRU are changes to future base demand revenues as determined by Ofgem, these adjustments are recognized as a component of revenues in future years in which service is provided and revenues are collected or returned to customers.

In addition to base demand revenue, certain other items are added or subtracted to arrive at allowed revenue. The most significant of these are:

•

Incentives - Ofgem has established incentives to provide opportunities for DNO's to enhance overall returns by improving network efficiency, reliability and customer service. These incentives can result in an increase or reduction in revenues based on incentives or penalties for actual performance against pre-established targets based on past performance. The annual incentives and penalties are reflected in customers' rates on a two-year lag from the time they are earned and/or assessed. Incentive revenues and penalties are included in revenues when they are billed to customers.

•

Correction Factor - During the current price control period, WPD sets its tariffs to recover allowed revenue. However, in any fiscal period, WPD's revenue could be negatively affected if its tariffs and the volume delivered do not fully recover the revenue allowed for a particular period. Conversely, WPD could also over-recover revenue. Over and under-recoveries are subtracted from or added to allowed revenue in future years when billed to customers, known as the "Correction Factor" or "K-factor." Over and under-recovered amounts arising for the period are refunded/recovered on a two year lag.

Accounts Receivable

(All Registrants)

Accounts receivable are reported on the Balance Sheets at the gross outstanding amount adjusted for an allowance for doubtful accounts.

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

Accounts receivable collectibility is evaluated using a combination of factors, including past due status based on contractual terms, trends in write-offs and the age of the receivable. Specific events, such as bankruptcies, are also considered when applicable. Adjustments to the allowance for doubtful accounts are made when necessary based on the results of analysis, the aging of receivables and historical and industry trends.

Accounts receivable are written off in the period in which the receivable is deemed uncollectible.

The changes in the allowance for doubtful accounts were:



(a)

Primarily related to uncollectible accounts written off.

Cash

(All Registrants)

Cash Equivalents

All highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less are considered to be cash equivalents.

(PPL and PPL Electric)

Restricted Cash and Cash Equivalents

Bank deposits and other cash equivalents that are restricted by agreement or that have been clearly designated for a specific purpose are classified as restricted cash and cash equivalents. On the Balance Sheets, the current portion of restricted cash and cash equivalents is included in "Other current assets," while the noncurrent portion is included in "Other noncurrent assets."

Reconciliation of Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash

The following provides a reconciliation of Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash reported within the Balance Sheets that sum to the total of the same amounts shown on the Statements of Cash Flows:



(a)

Primarily consists of funds received by WPD, which are to be spent on approved initiatives to support a low carbon environment.

(All Registrants)

Fair Value Measurements

The Registrants value certain financial and nonfinancial assets and liabilities at fair value. Generally, the most significant fair value measurements relate to price risk management assets and liabilities, investments in securities in defined benefit plans, and cash and cash equivalents. PPL and its subsidiaries use, as appropriate, a market approach (generally, data from market transactions), an income approach (generally, present value techniques and option-pricing models) and/or a cost approach (generally, replacement cost) to measure the fair value of an asset or liability. These valuation approaches incorporate inputs such as observable, independent market data and/or unobservable data that management believes are predicated on the assumptions market participants would use to price an asset or liability. These inputs may incorporate, as applicable, certain risks such as nonperformance risk, which includes credit risk.

The Registrants classify fair value measurements within one of three levels in the fair value hierarchy. The level assigned to a fair value measurement is based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are as follows:

•

Level 1

- quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that are accessible at the measurement date. Active markets are those in which transactions for the asset or liability occur with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis.

•

Level 2

- inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are either directly or indirectly observable for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.

•

Level 3

- unobservable inputs that management believes are predicated on the assumptions market participants would use to measure the asset or liability at fair value.

Assessing the significance of a particular input requires judgment that considers factors specific to the asset or liability. As such, the Registrants' assessment of the significance of a particular input may affect how the assets and liabilities are classified within the fair value hierarchy.

Investments

(All Registrants)

Generally, the original maturity date of an investment and management's intent and ability to sell an investment prior to its original maturity determine the classification of investments as either short-term or long-term. Investments that would otherwise be classified as short-term, but are restricted as to withdrawal or use for other than current operations or are clearly designated for expenditure in the acquisition or construction of noncurrent assets or for the liquidation of long-term debts, are classified as long-term.

Short-term Investments

Short-term investments generally include certain deposits as well as securities that are considered highly liquid or provide for periodic reset of interest rates. Investments with original maturities greater than three months and less than a year, as well as investments with original maturities of greater than a year that management has the ability and intent to sell within a year, are included in "Other current assets" on the Balance Sheets.



Long-Lived and Intangible Assets

Property, Plant and Equipment

(All Registrants)

PP&E is recorded at original cost, unless impaired. PP&E acquired in business combinations is recorded at fair value at the time of acquisition. If impaired, the asset is written down to fair value at that time, which becomes the new cost basis of the asset. Original cost for constructed assets includes material, labor, contractor costs, certain overheads and financing costs, where applicable. Included in PP&E are capitalized costs of software projects that were developed or obtained for internal use. The cost of repairs and minor replacements are charged to expense as incurred. The Registrants record costs associated with planned major maintenance projects in the period in which work is performed and costs are incurred.

AFUDC is capitalized at PPL Electric as part of the construction costs for cost-based rate-regulated projects for which a return on such costs is recovered after the project is placed in service. The debt component of AFUDC is credited to "Interest Expense" and the equity component is credited to "Other Income (Expense) - net" on the Statements of Income. LG&E and KU generally do not record AFUDC as a return is provided on construction work in progress.

(PPL)

PPL capitalizes interest costs as part of construction costs.

Capitalized interest, including the debt component of AFUDC for PPL, was

$


million

in


,

$


million

in


and

$


million


.

Depreciation

(All Registrants)

Depreciation is recorded over the estimated useful lives of property using various methods including the straight-line, composite and group methods. When a component of PP&E that was depreciated under the composite or group method is retired, the original cost is charged to accumulated depreciation. When all or a significant portion of an operating unit that

was depreciated under the composite or group method is retired or sold, the property and the related accumulated depreciation account is reduced and any gain or loss is included in income, unless otherwise required by regulators.

LG&E and KU accrue costs of removal net of estimated salvage value through depreciation, which is included in the calculation of customer rates over the assets' depreciable lives in accordance with regulatory practices. Cost of removal amounts accrued through depreciation rates are accumulated as a regulatory liability until the removal costs are incurred. For LKE, LG&E and KU, all ARO depreciation expenses are reclassified to a regulatory asset. See "Asset Retirement Obligations" below and

Note 7

for additional information. PPL Electric records net costs of removal when incurred as a regulatory asset. The regulatory asset is subsequently amortized through depreciation over a five-year period, which is recoverable in customer rates in accordance with regulatory practices.

Following are the weighted-average annual rates of depreciation, for regulated utility plant, for the years ended December 31:

(All Registrants)

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price paid over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired in a business combination.

Other acquired intangible assets are initially measured based on their fair value. Intangibles that have finite useful lives are amortized over their useful lives based upon the pattern in which the economic benefits of the intangible assets are consumed



or otherwise used. Costs incurred to obtain an initial license and renew or extend terms of licenses are capitalized as intangible assets.

When determining the useful life of an intangible asset, including intangible assets that are renewed or extended, PPL and its subsidiaries consider:

•

the expected use of the asset;

•

the expected useful life of other assets to which the useful life of the intangible asset may relate;

•

legal, regulatory, or contractual provisions that may limit the useful life;

•

the company's historical experience as evidence of its ability to support renewal or extension;

•

the effects of obsolescence, demand, competition, and other economic factors; and,

•

the level of maintenance expenditures required to obtain the expected future cash flows from the asset.

Asset Impairment (Excluding Investments)

The Registrants review long-lived assets that are subject to depreciation or amortization, including finite-lived intangibles, for impairment when events or circumstances indicate carrying amounts may not be recoverable.

A long-lived asset classified as held and used is impaired when the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. If impaired, the asset's carrying value is written down to its fair value.

A long-lived asset classified as held for sale is impaired when the carrying amount of the asset (disposal group) exceeds its fair value less cost to sell. If impaired, the asset's (disposal group's) carrying value is written down to its fair value less cost to sell.

PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU review goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level annually or more frequently when events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a reporting unit may be greater than the unit's fair value. Additionally, goodwill must be tested for impairment in circumstances when a portion of goodwill has been allocated to a business to be disposed. PPL's, LKE's, LG&E's and KU's reporting units are primarily at the operating segment level.

PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU may elect either to initially make a qualitative evaluation about the likelihood of an impairment of goodwill or to bypass the qualitative evaluation and test goodwill for impairment using a two-step quantitative test. If the qualitative evaluation (referred to as "step zero") is elected and the assessment results in a determination that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than the carrying amount, the two-step quantitative impairment test is not necessary. However, the quantitative impairment test is required if management concludes it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than the carrying amount based on the step zero assessment.

If the carrying amount of the reporting unit, including goodwill, exceeds its fair value, the implied fair value of goodwill must be calculated in the same manner as goodwill in a business combination. The fair value of a reporting unit is allocated to all assets and liabilities of that unit as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination. The excess of the fair value of the reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities is the implied fair value of goodwill. If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying amount, goodwill is written down to its implied fair value.

PPL elected to bypass the qualitative step zero evaluation of goodwill and quantitatively tested the goodwill at its WPD reporting unit while LKE, LG&E and KU qualitatively tested the goodwill of its reporting units for impairment as of the fourth quarter of 2019. No impairment was recognized.

(

PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU

)

Asset Retirement Obligations

PPL and its subsidiaries record liabilities to reflect various legal obligations associated with the retirement of long-lived assets. Initially, this obligation is measured at fair value and offset with an increase in the value of the capitalized asset, which is depreciated over the asset's useful life. Until the obligation is settled, the liability is increased through the recognition of accretion expense classified within "Other operation and maintenance" on the Statements of Income

to reflect changes in the obligation due to the passage of time. For LKE, LG&E and KU, all ARO accretion and depreciation expenses are reclassified as a regulatory asset. ARO regulatory assets associated with certain CCR projects are amortized to expense in accordance with regulatory approvals. For other AROs, at the time of retirement, the related ARO regulatory asset is offset against the associated cost of removal regulatory liability, PP&E and ARO liability.



Estimated ARO costs and settlement dates, which affect the carrying value of the ARO and the related capitalized asset, are reviewed periodically to ensure that any material changes are incorporated into the latest estimate of the ARO. Any change to the capitalized asset, positive or negative, is generally amortized over the remaining life of the associated long-lived asset. See

Note 7

and

Note 19

for additional information on AROs.

Compensation and Benefits

Defined Benefits

(All Registrants)

Certain PPL subsidiaries sponsor various defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans. An asset or liability is recorded to recognize the funded status of all defined benefit plans with an offsetting entry to AOCI or, for LG&E, KU and PPL Electric, to regulatory assets or liabilities. Consequently, the funded status of all defined benefit plans is fully recognized on the Balance Sheets.

The expected return on plan assets is determined based on a market-related value of plan assets, which is calculated by rolling forward the prior year market-related value with contributions, disbursements and long-term expected return on investments. One-fifth of the difference between the actual value and the expected value is added (or subtracted if negative) to the expected value to determine the new market-related value.

PPL uses an accelerated amortization method for the recognition of gains and losses for its defined benefit pension plans. Under the accelerated method, actuarial gains and losses in excess of


%

of the plan's projected benefit obligation are amortized on a straight-line basis over one-half of the required amortization period. Actuarial gains and losses in excess of


%

of the greater of the plan's projected benefit obligation or the market-related value of plan assets and less than


%

of the plan's projected benefit obligation are amortized on a straight-line basis over the full required amortization period.

See

Note 7

for a discussion of the regulatory treatment of defined benefit costs and

Note 11

for a discussion of defined benefits.

Stock-Based Compensation

(PPL, PPL Electric and LKE)

PPL has several stock-based compensation plans for purposes of granting stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units and performance units to certain employees as well as stock units and restricted stock units to directors. PPL grants most stock-based awards in the first quarter of each year. PPL and its subsidiaries recognize compensation expense for stock-based awards based on the fair value method. Forfeitures of awards are recognized when they occur. See

Note 10

for a discussion of stock-based compensation. All awards are recorded as equity or a liability on the Balance Sheets. Stock-based compensation is primarily included in "Other operation and maintenance" on the Statements of Income. Stock-based compensation expense for PPL Electric and LKE includes an allocation of PPL Services' expense.

Taxes

Income Taxes

(All Registrants)

PPL and its domestic subsidiaries file a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return.

Significant management judgment is required in developing the Registrants' provision for income taxes, primarily due to the uncertainty related to tax positions taken or expected to be taken in tax returns, valuation allowances on deferred tax assets and whether the undistributed earnings of WPD are considered indefinitely reinvested.

The Registrants use a two-step process to evaluate tax positions. The first step requires an entity to determine whether, based on the technical merits supporting a particular tax position, it is more likely than not (greater than a


%

chance) that the tax position will be sustained. This determination assumes that the relevant taxing authority will examine the tax position and is aware of all the relevant facts surrounding the tax position. The second step requires an entity to recognize in the financial statements the benefit of a tax position that meets the more-likely-than-not recognition criterion. The benefit recognized is measured at the largest amount of benefit that has a likelihood of realization, upon settlement, that exceeds


%

. Unrecognized tax benefits are classified as current to the extent management expects to settle an uncertain tax position by payment or receipt of cash within one year of the reporting date. The amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of issues raised by taxing authorities



may differ materially from the amounts accrued and may materially impact the financial statements of the Registrants in future periods. At

December 31, 2019

, no significant changes in unrecognized tax benefits are projected over the next 12 months.

Deferred income taxes reflect the net future tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for accounting purposes and their basis for income tax purposes, as well as the tax effects of net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards.

The Registrants record valuation allowances to reduce deferred income tax assets to the amounts that are more likely than not to be realized. The need for valuation allowances requires significant management judgment. If the Registrants determine that they are able to realize deferred tax assets in the future in excess of recorded net deferred tax assets, adjustments to the valuation allowances increase income by reducing tax expense in the period that such determination is made. Likewise, if the Registrants determine that they are not able to realize all or part of net deferred tax assets in the future, adjustments to the valuation allowances would decrease income by increasing tax expense in the period that such determination is made. The amount of deferred tax assets ultimately realized may differ materially from the estimates utilized in the computation of valuation allowances and may materially impact the financial statements in the future.

The Registrants defer investment tax credits when the credits are generated and amortize the deferred amounts over the average lives of the related assets.

The Registrants recognize tax-related interest and penalties in "Income Taxes" on their Statements of Income.

The Registrants use the portfolio approach method of accounting for deferred taxes related to pre-tax OCI transactions. The portfolio approach involves a strict period-by-period cumulative incremental allocation of income taxes to the change in income and losses reflected in OCI. Under this approach, the net cumulative tax effect is ignored. The net change in unrealized gains and losses recorded in AOCI under this approach would be eliminated only on the date the entire balance is sold or otherwise disposed of.

See

Note 6

for additional discussion regarding income taxes, including the impact of the TCJA and management's conclusion that the undistributed earnings of WPD are considered indefinitely reinvested.

The provision for PPL's, PPL Electric's, LKE's, LG&E's and KU's deferred income taxes for regulatory assets and liabilities is based upon the ratemaking principles reflected in rates established by the regulators. The difference in the provision for deferred income taxes for regulatory assets and liabilities and the amount that otherwise would be recorded under GAAP is deferred and included on the Balance Sheets in noncurrent "Regulatory assets" or "Regulatory liabilities."

(PPL Electric, LKE, LG&E and KU)

The income tax provision for PPL Electric, LG&E and KU is calculated in accordance with an intercompany tax sharing agreement, which provides that taxable income be calculated as if PPL Electric, LG&E, KU and any domestic subsidiaries each filed a separate return. Tax benefits are not shared between companies. The entity that generates a tax benefit is the entity that is entitled to the tax benefit. The effect of PPL filing a consolidated tax return is taken into account in the settlement of current taxes and the recognition of deferred taxes.

At

December 31,

the following intercompany tax receivables (payables) were recorded:

Taxes, Other Than Income

(All Registrants)

The Registrants present sales taxes in "Other current liabilities" and PPL presents value-added taxes in "Taxes" on the Balance Sheets. These taxes are not reflected on the Statements of Income. See

Note 6

for details on taxes included in "Taxes, other than income" on the Statements of Income.



Other

(All Registrants)

Leases

The Registrants evaluate whether arrangements entered into contain leases for accounting purposes. See

Note 9

for additional information.

Fuel, Materials and Supplies

Fuel, natural gas stored underground and materials and supplies are valued using the average cost method. Fuel costs for electricity generation are charged to expense as used. For LG&E, natural gas supply costs are charged to expense as delivered to the distribution system. See

Note 7

for further discussion of the fuel adjustment clauses and gas supply clause.

(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)

"Fuel, materials and supplies" on the Balance Sheets consisted of the following at December 31:

Guarantees

(All Registrants)

Generally, the initial measurement of a guarantee liability is the fair value of the guarantee at its inception. However, there are certain guarantees excluded from the scope of accounting guidance and other guarantees that are not subject to the initial recognition and measurement provisions of accounting guidance that only require disclosure. See

Note 13

for further discussion of recorded and unrecorded guarantees.

Treasury Stock

(PPL)

PPL restores all shares of common stock acquired to authorized but unissued shares of common stock upon acquisition.

Foreign Currency Translation and Transactions

(PPL)

WPD's functional currency is the GBP, which is the local currency in the U.K. As such, assets and liabilities are translated to U.S. dollars at the exchange rates on the date of consolidation and related revenues and expenses are generally translated at average exchange rates prevailing during the period included in PPL's results of operations. Adjustments resulting from foreign currency translation are recorded in AOCI.

Gains or losses relating to foreign currency transactions are recognized in "Other Income (Expense) - net" on the Statements of Income. See

Note 15

for additional information.

New Accounting Guidance Adopted

(

All Registrants

)

Accounting for Leases

Effective January 1, 2019, the Registrants adopted accounting guidance that requires lessees to recognize a right-of-use asset and lease liability for leases, unless determined to meet the definition of a short-term lease. For income statement purposes, the FASB retained a dual model for lessees, requiring leases to be classified as either operating or finance. Operating leases result in straight-line expense recognition. Currently, all Registrant leases are operating leases.

Lessor accounting under the new guidance is similar to the current model, but updated to align with certain changes to the lessee model and current revenue recognition guidance. Lessors classify leases as operating, direct financing, or sales-type.



In adopting this new guidance, the Registrants elected to use the following practical expedients:

•

The Registrants did not re-assess the lease classifications or initial direct costs of existing leases. The Registrants also did not re-assess existing contracts for leases or lease classification.

•

The Registrants did not evaluate land easements that were not previously accounted for as leases under the new guidance. New land easements are evaluated under the new guidance beginning January 1, 2019.

See

Note 9

for the required disclosures resulting from the adoption of the new guidance.

(PPL, LKE, LG&E & KU)

The following table shows the amounts recorded on the Balance Sheets as of January 1, 2019 as a result of the adoption of the new lease guidance using a modified retrospective transition method with transition applied as of the beginning of the period of adoption:

(a)

Right-of-Use Assets are recorded in "Other noncurrent assets" on the Balance Sheets.

(b)

Current lease liabilities are recorded in "Other current liabilities" on the Balance Sheets.

(c)

Noncurrent lease liabilities are recorded in "Other deferred credits and noncurrent liabilities" on the Balance Sheets.

Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities

Effective January 1, 2019, the Registrants adopted accounting guidance, using a modified retrospective approach, which reduces complexity when applying hedge accounting as well as improves the transparency of an entity's risk management activities. This guidance eliminates the separate measurement and reporting of hedge ineffectiveness for cash flow and net investment hedges and provides for the ability to perform subsequent qualitative effectiveness assessments. The guidance also allows entities to apply the short-cut method to partial-term fair value hedges of interest rate risk as well as expands the ability to apply the critical terms match method to cash flow hedges of groups of forecasted transactions.

See

Note 17

for the additional disclosures of the income statement impacts of hedging activities required from the adoption of this guidance. Disclosures related to ineffectiveness are no longer required. Other impacts of adopting this guidance were not material.

2. Segment and Related Information

(PPL)

PPL is organized into

three

segments: U.K. Regulated, Kentucky Regulated and Pennsylvania Regulated. PPL's segments are segmented by geographic location.

The U.K. Regulated segment consists of PPL Global, which primarily includes WPD's regulated electricity distribution operations, the results of hedging the translation of WPD's earnings from GBP into U.S. dollars, and certain costs, such as U.S. income taxes, administrative costs, and certain acquisition-related financing costs.

The Kentucky Regulated segment consists primarily of LKE's regulated electricity generation, transmission and distribution operations of LG&E and KU, as well as LG&E's regulated distribution and sale of natural gas. In addition, certain acquisition-related financing costs are allocated to the Kentucky Regulated segment.

The Pennsylvania Regulated segment includes the regulated electricity transmission and distribution operations of PPL Electric. In addition, certain costs are allocated to the Pennsylvania Regulated segment.

"Corporate and Other" primarily includes financing costs incurred at the corporate level that have not been allocated or assigned to the segments, certain other unallocated costs, as well as the financial results of Safari Energy, which is presented to reconcile segment information to PPL's consolidated results.



Income Statement data for the segments and reconciliation to PPL's consolidated results for the years ended December 31 are as follows:



(a)

See

Note 1

and

Note 3

for additional information on Operating Revenues.

(b)

Represents non-cash expense items that include amortization of operating lease right-of-use assets, regulatory assets, debt discounts and premiums and debt issuance costs.

(c)

Includes unrealized gains and losses from economic activity. See

Note 17

for additional information.

(d)

Represents both current and deferred income taxes, including investment tax credits. See

Note 6

for additional information on the impact of the TCJA in 2018 and 2017.

(e)

Represents a non-cash expense item that is also included in "Income Taxes."

Cash Flow data for the segments and reconciliation to PPL's consolidated results for the years ended December 31 are as follows:

The following provides Balance Sheet data for the segments and reconciliation to PPL's consolidated results as of:

(a)

Includes

$

13.2

billion

and

$

12.4

billion

of net PP&E as of

December 31, 2019

and

December 31, 2018

. WPD is not subject to accounting for the effects of certain types of regulation as prescribed by GAAP.

(b)

Primarily consists of unallocated items, including cash, PP&E, goodwill, the elimination of inter-segment transactions as well as the assets of Safari Energy.

Geographic data for the years ended December 31 are as follows:



(PPL Electric, LKE, LG&E and KU)

PPL Electric has

two

operating segments that are aggregated into a single reportable segment. LKE, LG&E and KU are individually single operating and reportable segments.

3. Revenue from Contracts with Customers

(All Registrants)

The following is a description of the principal activities from which the Registrants and PPL’s segments generate their revenues.

(PPL)

U.K. Regulated Segment Revenue

The U.K. Regulated Segment generates revenues from contracts with customers primarily from WPD’s DUoS operations.

DUoS revenues result from WPD charging licensed third-party energy suppliers for their use of WPD’s distribution systems to deliver energy to their customers. WPD satisfies its performance obligation and DUoS revenue is recognized over-time as electricity is delivered. The amount of revenue recognized is based on actual and forecasted volumes of electricity delivered during the period multiplied by a per-unit energy tariff, plus fixed charges. This method of recognition fairly presents WPD's transfer of electric service to the customer as the calculation is based on volumes, and the tariff rate is set by WPD using a methodology prescribed by Ofgem. Customers are billed monthly and outstanding amounts are typically due within


days of the invoice date.

DUoS customers are “at will” customers of WPD with no term contract and no minimum purchase commitment. Performance obligations are limited to the service requested and received to date. Accordingly, there is no unsatisfied performance obligation associated with WPD’s DUoS contracts.

(PPL and PPL Electric)

Pennsylvania Regulated Segment Revenue

The Pennsylvania Regulated Segment generates substantially all of its revenues from contracts with customers from PPL Electric’s tariff-based distribution and transmission of electricity.

Distribution Revenue

PPL Electric provides distribution services to residential, commercial, industrial, municipal and governmental end users of energy. PPL Electric satisfies its performance obligation to its distribution customers and revenue is recognized over-time as electricity is delivered and simultaneously consumed by the customer. The amount of revenue recognized is the volume of electricity delivered during the period multiplied by a per-unit of energy tariff, plus a monthly fixed charge. This method of recognition fairly presents PPL Electric's transfer of electric service to the customer as the calculation is based on actual volumes, and the per-unit of energy tariff rate and the monthly fixed charge are set by the PUC. Customers are typically billed monthly and outstanding amounts are normally due within


days of the date of the bill.

Distribution customers are "at will" customers of PPL Electric with no term contract and no minimum purchase commitment. Performance obligations are limited to the service requested and received to date. Accordingly, there is no unsatisfied performance obligation associated with PPL Electric’s retail account contracts.

Transmission Revenue

PPL Electric generates transmission revenues from a FERC-approved PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff. An annual revenue requirement for PPL Electric to provide transmission services is calculated using a formula-based rate. This revenue requirement is converted into a daily rate (dollars per day). PPL Electric satisfies its performance obligation to provide transmission services and revenue is recognized over-time as transmission services are provided and consumed. This method of



recognition fairly presents PPL Electric's transfer of transmission services as the daily rate is set by a FERC approved formula-based rate. PJM remits payment on a weekly basis.

PPL Electric's agreement to provide transmission services contains no minimum purchase commitment. The performance obligation is limited to the service requested and received to date. Accordingly, PPL Electric has no unsatisfied performance obligations.

(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)

Kentucky Regulated Segment Revenue

The Kentucky Regulated Segment generates substantially all of its revenues from contracts with customers from LG&E's and KU's regulated tariff-based sales of electricity and LG&E's regulated tariff-based sales of natural gas.

LG&E and KU are engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in Kentucky and, in KU's case, Virginia. LG&E also engages in the distribution and sale of natural gas in Kentucky. Revenue from these activities is generated from tariffs approved by applicable regulatory authorities including the FERC, KPSC and VSCC. LG&E and KU satisfy their performance obligations upon LG&E's and KU's delivery of electricity and LG&E's delivery of natural gas to customers. This revenue is recognized over-time as the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided by LG&E and KU. The amount of revenue recognized is the billed volume of electricity or natural gas delivered multiplied by a tariff rate per-unit of energy, plus any applicable fixed charges or additional regulatory mechanisms. Customers are billed monthly and outstanding amounts are typically due within


days of the date of the bill. Additionally, unbilled revenues are recognized as a result of customers' bills rendered throughout the month, rather than bills being rendered at the end of the month. Unbilled revenues for a month are calculated by multiplying an estimate of unbilled kWh or Mcf delivered but not yet billed by the estimated average cents per kWh or Mcf. Any difference between estimated and actual revenues is adjusted the following month when the previous unbilled estimate is reversed and actual billings occur. This method of recognition fairly presents LG&E's and KU's transfer of electricity and LG&E's transfer of natural gas to the customer as the amount recognized is based on actual and estimated volumes delivered and the tariff rate per-unit of energy and any applicable fixed charges or regulatory mechanisms as set by the respective regulatory body.

LG&E's and KU's customers generally have no minimum purchase commitment. Performance obligations are limited to the service requested and received to date. Accordingly, there is no unsatisfied performance obligation associated with these customers.

(All Registrants)

The following table reconciles "Operating Revenues" included in each Registrant's Statement of Income with revenues generated from contracts with customers for the years ended December

31:



(a)

For the years ended

December 31,


and


, PPL includes

$

2.2

billion

and

$

2.3

billion

of revenues from external customers reported by the U.K. Regulated segment. PPL Electric and LKE represent revenues from external customers reported by the Pennsylvania Regulated and Kentucky Regulated segments. See

Note 2

for additional information.

(b)

Alternative revenue programs include the transmission formula rate for PPL Electric, the ECR and DSM programs for LG&E and KU, the GLT program for LG&E, and the generation formula rate for KU. This line item shows the over/under collection of these rate mechanisms with over-collections of revenue shown as positive amounts in the table above and under-collections shown as negative amounts.

(c)

Represents additional revenues outside the scope of revenues from contracts with customers such as leases and other miscellaneous revenues.

The following table shows revenues from contracts with customers disaggregated by customer class for the years ended December

31:

(a)

Represents customers of WPD.

(b)

Primarily includes revenues from pole attachments, street lighting, other public authorities and other non-core businesses.

(c)

Includes wholesale power and transmission revenues. LG&E and KU amounts include intercompany power sales and transmission revenues, which are eliminated upon consolidation at LKE.

(d)

In 2019, management deemed it appropriate to present the revenue offset associated with network integration transmission service (NITS) as distribution revenue rather than transmission revenue.

As discussed in

Note 2

, PPL's segments are segmented by geographic location. Revenues from external customers for each segment/geographic location are reconciled to revenues from contracts with customers in the table above. For PPL Electric, revenues from contracts with customers are further disaggregated by distribution and transmission, which were

$

1.7

billion

and

$


million

for the year ended

December 31, 2019

and

$

1.9

billion

and

$


million

for the year ended

December 31, 2018

.

Contract receivables from customers are primarily included in "Accounts receivable - Customer" and "Unbilled revenues" on the Balance Sheets. For PPL Electric, the "Accounts receivable - Customer" balance includes purchased receivables from alternative electricity suppliers. See

Note 7

for additional information regarding the purchase of receivables program.



The following table shows the accounts receivable balances from contracts with customers that were impaired for the year ended December

31:

The following table shows the balances and certain activity of contract liabilities resulting from contracts with customers:

Contract liabilities result from recording contractual billings in advance for customer attachments to the Registrants' infrastructure and payments received in excess of revenues earned to date. Advanced billings for customer attachments are recognized as revenue ratably over the billing period. Payments received in excess of revenues earned to date are recognized as revenue as services are delivered in subsequent periods.

At

December 31, 2019

, PPL had

$


million

of performance obligations attributable to Corporate and Other that have not been satisfied. Of this amount, PPL expects to recognize approximately

$


million

within the next


months

.

4. Preferred Securities

(PPL)

PPL is authorized to issue up to


million

shares of preferred stock.

No

PPL preferred stock was issued or outstanding in


,


or


.

(PPL Electric)

PPL Electric is authorized to issue up to

20,629,936

shares of preferred stock.

No

PPL Electric preferred stock was issued or outstanding in


,


or


.

(LG&E)

LG&E is authorized to issue up to

1,720,000

shares of preferred stock at a

$


par value and

6,750,000

shares of preferred stock without par value. LG&E had

no

preferred stock issued or outstanding in


,


or


.

(KU)

KU is authorized to issue up to

5,300,000

shares of preferred stock and

2,000,000

shares of preference stock without par value. KU had

no

preferred or preference stock issued or outstanding in


,


or


.



5. Earnings Per Share

(PPL)

Basic EPS is computed by dividing income available to PPL common shareowners by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the applicable period. Diluted EPS is computed by dividing income available to PPL common shareowners by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding, increased by incremental shares that would be outstanding if potentially dilutive non-participating securities were converted to common shares as calculated using the Treasury Stock Method. Incremental non-participating securities that have a dilutive impact are detailed in the table below. In 2019 and 2018, these securities also included the PPL common stock forward sale agreements. See Note


for additional information on these agreements which were partially settled in 2018 with the remaining shares settled in 2019. The forward sale agreements were dilutive under the Treasury Stock Method to the extent the average stock price of PPL's common shares exceeded the forward sale price prescribed in the agreements.

Reconciliations of the amounts of income and shares of PPL common stock (in thousands) for the periods ended

December 31,

used in the EPS calculation are:

(a)

The Treasury Stock Method was applied to non-participating share-based payment awards.

For the year ended

December 31,

PPL issued common stock related to stock-based compensation plans and DRIP as follows (in thousands):

(a)

Includes stock options exercised, vesting of performance units, vesting of restricted stock and restricted stock units and conversion of stock units granted to directors.

See Note 8 for additional information on common stock issued under ATM Program and settlement of a portion of the PPL common stock forward sales agreements.

For the years ended

December 31,

the following shares (in thousands) were excluded from the computations of diluted EPS because the effect would have been antidilutive:



6. Income and Other Taxes

(PPL)

"Income Before Income Taxes" included the following:

Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for accounting purposes and their basis for income tax purposes and the tax effects of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. The provision for PPL's deferred income taxes for regulated assets and liabilities is based upon the ratemaking principles of the applicable jurisdiction. See Notes


and


for additional information.

Net deferred tax assets have been recognized based on management's estimates of future taxable income for the U.S. and the U.K.

Significant components of PPL's deferred income tax assets and liabilities were as follows:

State deferred taxes are determined by entity and by jurisdiction. As a result,

$


million

and

$


million

of net deferred tax assets are shown as "Other noncurrent assets" on the Balance Sheets for


and


.

At

December 31, 2019

, PPL had the following loss and tax credit carryforwards, related deferred tax assets and valuation allowances recorded against the deferred tax assets:



(a)

The TCJA repealed the corporate alternative minimum tax (AMT) for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017. The existing indefinite carryforward period for AMT credits was retained.

(b)

Includes

$


million

of foreign tax credits carried forward from 2016 and

$


million

of additional foreign tax credits from 2017 related to the taxable deemed dividend associated with the TCJA.

Valuation allowances have been established for the amount that, more likely than not, will not be realized.

The changes in deferred tax valuation allowances were as follows:

(a)

Decrease in the valuation allowance of approximately

$


million

due to the change in the total foreign tax credits available after finalization of the deemed dividend calculation required by the TCJA in 2017. In addition, the deferred tax assets and corresponding valuation allowances were reduced in 2018 by approximately

$


million

due to the effect of foreign currency exchange rates.

(b)

Increase in valuation allowance of approximately

$


million

related to expected future utilization of both 2017 foreign tax credits and pre-2017 foreign tax credits carried forward. For additional information, see the "Reconciliation of Income Tax Expense" and associated notes below.

In addition, the reduction of the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate enacted by the TCJA in 2017 resulted in a

$


million

increase in federal deferred tax assets and a corresponding valuation allowance related to the federal tax benefits of state net operating losses.

PPL Global does not record U.S. income taxes on the unremitted earnings of WPD, as management has determined that such earnings are indefinitely reinvested. Current year distributions from WPD to the U.S. are sourced from a portion of the current year’s earnings of the WPD group. There have been no material changes to the facts underlying PPL’s assertion that historically reinvested earnings of WPD as well as some portion of current year earnings will continue to be indefinitely reinvested. WPD's long-term working capital forecasts and capital expenditure projections for the foreseeable future require reinvestment of WPD's undistributed earnings. Additionally, U.S. long-term working capital forecasts and capital expenditure projections for the foreseeable future do not require or contemplate annual distributions from WPD in excess of some portion of WPD's future annual earnings. The cumulative undistributed earnings are included in "Earnings reinvested" on the Balance Sheets. The amount considered indefinitely reinvested at

December 31, 2019

was

$

7.5

billion

.

The foregoing is not impacted by U.S. tax reform and the associated conversion from a worldwide to a participation exemption system. It is not practicable to estimate the amount of additional taxes that could be payable on these foreign earnings in the event of repatriation to the U.S.

Details of the components of income tax expense, a reconciliation of federal income taxes derived from statutory tax rates applied to "Income Before Income Taxes" to income taxes for reporting purposes, and details of "Taxes, other than income" were as follows:



(a)

Due to the enactment of the TCJA, PPL recorded the following in 2017:

•

$


million

of deferred income tax expense related to the impact of the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate reduction from 35% to 21% on deferred tax assets and liabilities;

•

$


million

of deferred tax expense related to the utilization of current year losses resulting from the taxable deemed dividend; partially offset by,

$


million

of deferred tax benefits related to the

$


million

of 2017 foreign tax credits partially offset by

$


million

of valuation allowances.

In the table above, the following income tax expense (benefit) are excluded from income taxes:

(a)

The U.S. federal corporate tax rate was reduced from 35% to 21%, as enacted by the TCJA, effective January 1, 2018.

(b)

In 2017, PPL recorded an increase in valuation allowances of

$


million

primarily related to foreign tax credits recorded in 2016. The future utilization of these credits is expected to be lower as a result of the TCJA.



In 2019, 2018 and 2017, PPL recorded deferred income tax expense of

$


million

,

$


million

and

$


million

for valuation allowances primarily related to increased Pennsylvania net operating loss carryforwards expected to be unutilized.

(c)

The reduction in the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% significantly reduced the difference between the U.K. and U.S. income tax rates in 2019 and 2018 compared with 2017.

(d)

In 2017, PPL recorded a federal income tax benefit of

$


million

primarily attributable to U.K. pension contributions.

In 2017, PPL recorded deferred income tax expense of

$


million

primarily related to enactment of the TCJA. The enacted tax law included a conversion from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system, effective January 1, 2018. In the transition to the territorial regime, a one-time transition tax was imposed on PPL’s unrepatriated accumulated foreign earnings in 2017. These earnings were treated as a taxable deemed dividend to PPL of approximately

$


million

, including

$


million

of foreign tax credits. As the PPL consolidated U.S. group had a taxable loss for 2017, inclusive of the taxable deemed dividend, these credits were recorded as a deferred tax asset. However, it is expected that under the TCJA, only

$


million

of the

$


million

of foreign tax credits will be realized in the carry forward period. Accordingly, a valuation allowance on the current year foreign tax credits in the amount of

$


million

has been recorded to reflect the reduction in the future utilization of the credits. The foreign tax credits associated with the deemed repatriation result in a gross carryforward and corresponding deferred tax asset of

$


million

offset by a valuation allowance of

$


million

.

(e)

The U.K. Finance Act 2016, enacted in September 2016, reduced the U.K. statutory income tax rate effective April 1, 2020 to 17%. As a result, PPL reduced its net deferred tax liabilities each year as it revalued its balances at the 17% tax rate.

(f)

In 2019 and 2018, PPL recorded lower income tax expense for the amortization of excess deferred income taxes that primarily resulted from the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate reduction from 35% to 21% enacted by the TCJA. This amortization represents each year's refund amount, prior to a tax gross-up, to be paid to customers for previously collected deferred taxes at higher income tax rates.

(g)

In 2017, PPL recorded deferred income tax expense related to the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate reduction from 35% to 21% enacted by the TCJA.

In 2018, PPL recorded deferred income tax expense, primarily associated with LKE’s non-regulated entities, due to the Kentucky corporate income tax rate reduction from 6% to 5%, as enacted by HB 487, effective January 1, 2018.

(h)

In 2019, LKE recorded a deferred income tax benefit associated with two projects placed into service that prepare a generation waste material for reuse and, as a result, qualify for a Kentucky recycling credit. The applicable credit provides tax benefits for a portion of the equipment costs for major recycling projects in Kentucky, with the benefit recognized during the period in which the assets are placed into service.

(i)

In 2018, PPL filed its consolidated federal income tax return, which included updates to the TCJA provisional amounts recorded in 2017. The adjustments to the various provisional amounts that are considered complete as of the filed tax return resulted in an immaterial impact to income tax expense and are discussed in the TCJA section below.

(PPL Electric)

The provision for PPL Electric's deferred income taxes for regulated assets and liabilities is based upon the ratemaking principles reflected in rates established by the PUC and the FERC. The difference in the provision for deferred income taxes for regulated assets and liabilities and the amount that otherwise would be recorded under GAAP is deferred and included in "Regulatory assets" or "Regulatory liabilities" on the Balance Sheets.

Significant components of PPL Electric's deferred income tax assets and liabilities were as follows:



PPL Electric expects to have adequate levels of taxable income to realize its recorded deferred income tax assets.

At

December 31, 2019

, PPL Electric had the following loss carryforwards and related deferred tax assets:

Credit carryforwards were insignificant at

December 31, 2019

.

Details of the components of income tax expense, a reconciliation of federal income taxes derived from statutory tax rates applied to "Income Before Income Taxes" to income taxes for reporting purposes, and details of "Taxes, other than income" were as follows:

(a)

Due to the enactment of the TCJA in 2017, PPL Electric recorded a

$


million

deferred tax benefit related to the impact of the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate reduction from 35% to 21% on deferred tax assets and liabilities.



(a)

The U.S. federal corporate tax rate was reduced from 35% to 21%, as enacted by the TCJA, effective January 1, 2018.

(b)

In 2019 and 2018, PPL Electric recorded lower income tax expense for the amortization of excess deferred taxes that primarily resulted from the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate reduction from 35% to 21% enacted by the TCJA. This amortization represents each year's refund amount, prior to a tax gross-up, to be paid to customers for previously collected deferred taxes at higher income tax rates.

(c)

In 2017, PPL Electric recorded a deferred tax benefit related to the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate reduction from 35% to 21% enacted by the TCJA.

(LKE)

The provision for LKE's deferred income taxes for regulated assets and liabilities is based upon the ratemaking principles reflected in rates established by the KPSC, VSCC and the FERC. The difference in the provision for deferred income taxes for regulated assets and liabilities and the amount that otherwise would be recorded under GAAP is deferred and included in "Regulatory assets" or "Regulatory liabilities" on the Balance Sheets.

Significant components of LKE's deferred income tax assets and liabilities were as follows:

At

December 31, 2019

, LKE had the following loss and tax credit carryforwards, related deferred tax assets, and valuation allowances recorded against the deferred tax assets:



(a)

The TCJA repealed the corporate alternative minimum tax (AMT) for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017. The existing indefinite carryforward period for AMT credits was retained.

Changes in deferred tax valuation allowances were:

(a)

Tax credits expiring.

Details of the components of income tax expense, a reconciliation of federal income taxes derived from statutory tax rates applied to "Income Before Income Taxes" to income taxes for reporting purposes, and details of "Taxes, other than income" were:

(a)

Due to the enactment of the TCJA in 2017, LKE recorded

$


million

of deferred income tax expense, of which

$


million

related to the impact of the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate reduction from 35% to 21% on deferred tax assets and liabilities and

$


million

related to valuation allowances on tax credits expiring in 2021.

(b)

In 2019, LKE recorded a deferred income tax benefit associated with two projects placed into service that prepare a generation waste material for reuse and, as a result, qualify for a Kentucky recycling credit. The applicable credit provides tax benefits for a portion of the equipment costs for major recycling projects in Kentucky

(c)

Excludes deferred federal and state tax expense (benefit) recorded to OCI of

$(


) million

in


,

$


million

in


and

$(


) million

in


.



(a)

The U.S. federal corporate tax rate was reduced from 35% to 21%, as enacted by the TCJA, effective January 1, 2018.

(b)

In 2019 and 2018, LKE recorded lower income tax expense for the amortization of excess deferred income taxes that primarily resulted from the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate reduction from 35% to 21% enacted by the TCJA. This amortization represents each year's refund amount, prior to a tax gross-up, to be paid to customers for previously collected deferred taxes at higher income tax rates.

(c)

In 2017, LKE recorded deferred income tax expense primarily due to the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate reduction from 35% to 21% enacted by the TCJA.

(d)

In 2018, LKE recorded deferred income tax expense, primarily associated with LKE's non-regulated entities, due to the Kentucky corporate income tax rate reduction from 6% to 5%, as enacted by HB 487, effective January 1, 2018.

(e)

In 2019, LKE recorded a deferred income tax benefit associated with two projects placed into service that prepare a generation waste material for reuse and, as a result, qualify for a Kentucky recycling credit. The applicable credit provides tax benefits for a portion of the equipment costs for major recycling projects in Kentucky.

(LG&E)

The provision for LG&E's deferred income taxes for regulated assets and liabilities is based upon the ratemaking principles reflected in rates established by the KPSC and the FERC. The difference in the provision for deferred income taxes for regulated assets and liabilities and the amount that otherwise would be recorded under GAAP is deferred and included in "Regulatory assets" or "Regulatory liabilities" on the Balance Sheets.

Significant components of LG&E's deferred income tax assets and liabilities were as follows:



At December 31, 2019 LG&E had

$


million

of state credit carryforwards that expire in


. In 2019, LG&E recorded a

$


million

valuation allowance related to state credit carryforwards due to insufficient projected Kentucky taxable income.

Details of the components of income tax expense, a reconciliation of federal income taxes derived from statutory tax rates applied to "Income Before Income Taxes" to income taxes for reporting purposes, and details of "Taxes, other than income" were:

(a)

The U.S. federal corporate tax rate was reduced from 35% to 21%, as enacted by the TCJA, effective January 1, 2018.

(b)

In

2019 and 2018, LG&E recorded lower income tax expense for the amortization of excess deferred income taxes that primarily resulted from the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate reduction from 35% to 21% enacted by the TCJA. This amortization represents each year's refund amount, prior to a tax gross-up, to be paid to customers for previously collected deferred taxes at higher income tax rates.

(c)

In 2019, LG&E recorded a deferred income tax benefit associated with two projects placed into service that prepare a generation waste material for reuse and, as a result, qualify for a Kentucky recycling credit. The applicable credit provides tax benefits for a portion of the equipment costs for major recycling projects in Kentucky. This amount has been reserved due to insufficient Kentucky taxable income projected at LG&E.



(KU)

The provision for KU's deferred income taxes for regulated assets and liabilities is based upon the ratemaking principles reflected in rates established by the KPSC, VSCC and the FERC. The difference in the provision for deferred income taxes for regulated assets and liabilities and the amount that otherwise would be recorded under GAAP is deferred and included in "Regulatory assets" or "Regulatory liabilities" on the Balance Sheets.

Significant components of KU's deferred income tax assets and liabilities were as follows:

At December 31, 2019 KU had

$


million

of state credit carryforwards of which

$


million

will expire in


and

$


million

that has an indefinite carryforward period. In 2019, KU recorded a

$


million

valuation allowance related to state credit carryforwards due

to insufficient projected Kentucky taxable income.

Details of the components of income tax expense, a reconciliation of federal income taxes derived from statutory tax rates applied to "Income Before Income Taxes" to income taxes for reporting purposes, and details of "Taxes, other than income" were:



(a)

The U.S. federal corporate tax rate was reduced from 35% to 21%, as enacted by the TCJA, effective January 1, 2018

.

(b)

In 2019 and 2018, KU recorded lower income tax expense for the amortization of excess deferred income taxes that primarily resulted from the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate reduction from 35% to 21% enacted by the TCJA. This amortization represents each year's refund amount, prior to a tax gross-up, to be paid to customers for previously collected deferred taxes at higher income tax rates.

(c)

In 2019, KU recorded a deferred income tax benefit associated with two projects placed into service that prepare a generation waste material for reuse and, as a result, qualify for a Kentucky recycling credit. The applicable credit provides tax benefits for a portion of the equipment costs for major recycling projects in Kentucky. This amount has been reserved due to insufficient Kentucky taxable income projected at KU.

Unrecognized Tax Benefits

(All Registrants)

PPL or its subsidiaries file tax returns in

four

major tax jurisdictions. The income tax provisions for PPL Electric, LG&E and KU are calculated in accordance with an intercompany tax sharing agreement, which provides that taxable income be calculated as if each domestic subsidiary filed a separate consolidated return. PPL Electric or its subsidiaries indirectly or directly file tax returns in

two

major tax jurisdictions, and LKE, LG&E and KU or their subsidiaries indirectly or directly file tax returns in

two

major tax jurisdictions.

With few exceptions, at

December 31, 2019

, these jurisdictions, as well as the tax years that are no longer subject to examination, were as follows.

(a)

Tax year 2013 is still subject to examination.

Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA)

On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law the TCJA. Substantially all of the provisions of the TCJA were effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017. The TCJA included significant changes to the taxation of corporations, including provisions specifically applicable to regulated public utilities. The more significant changes that impact the Registrants were:

•

The reduction in the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from a top marginal rate of 35% to a flat rate of 21%, effective January 1, 2018;

•

The exclusion from U.S. federal taxable income of dividends from foreign subsidiaries and the associated "transition tax;"

•

Limitations on the tax deductibility of interest expense, with an exception to these limitations for regulated public utilities;

•

Full current year expensing of capital expenditures with an exception for regulated public utilities that qualify for the exception to the interest expense limitation; and

•

The continuation of certain rate normalization requirements for accelerated depreciation benefits. For non-regulated businesses, the TCJA generally provides for full expensing of property acquired after September 27, 2017.



Under GAAP, the tax effect of changes in tax laws must be recognized in the period in which the law is enacted, or December 2017 for the TCJA.

The changes enacted by the TCJA were recorded as an adjustment to the Registrants' deferred tax provisions, and were reflected in "Income Taxes" on the Statement of Income for the year ended December 31, 2017 as follows:

The components of these adjustments are discussed below:

Reduction of U.S. Federal Corporate Income Tax Rate

GAAP requires deferred tax assets and liabilities to be measured at the enacted tax rate expected to apply when temporary differences are to be realized or settled. Thus, at the date of enactment, the Registrants' deferred taxes were remeasured based upon the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate of 21%. For PPL’s regulated entities, the changes in deferred taxes were, in large part, recorded as an offset to either a regulatory asset or regulatory liability and will be reflected in future rates charged to customers.

The tax rate reduction impacts on non-regulated deferred tax assets and liabilities were recorded as an adjustment to the Registrants' deferred tax provisions, and were reflected in "Income Taxes" on the Statement of Income for the year ended December 31, 2017 as follows:

As indicated in

Note 1

- "

Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

- Income Taxes", PPL’s U.S. regulated operations' accounting for income taxes are impacted by rate regulation. Therefore, reductions in accumulated deferred income tax balances due to the reduction in the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate to 21% under the provisions of the TCJA resulted in amounts previously collected from utility customers for these deferred taxes to be refundable to such customers over a period of time. The TCJA included provisions that stipulate how these excess deferred taxes are to be passed back to customers for certain accelerated tax depreciation benefits. Refunds of other deferred taxes either have been or will be determined by the Registrants’ regulators.

The Balance Sheets at December 31, 2017 reflected the increase to the Registrants' net regulatory liabilities as a result of the TCJA as follows:

Transition Tax

The TCJA included a conversion from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system, effective January 1, 2018. In the transition to the territorial regime, a one-time transition tax was imposed on PPL’s unrepatriated accumulated foreign earnings in 2017. These earnings were treated as a taxable deemed dividend to PPL of approximately

$


million

for purposes of the 2017 tax provision. As the PPL consolidated U.S. group had a taxable loss for 2017, inclusive of the taxable deemed dividend, the foreign tax credits associated with the deemed dividend were recorded as a deferred tax asset. However, it is expected that under the TCJA, the current and prior year foreign tax credit carryforwards will not be fully realizable.

As a result, the net deferred income tax expense impact of the deemed repatriation was

$


million

and was recorded in "Income Taxes" on the PPL Statement of Income for the year ended December 31, 2017 and "Deferred tax liabilities" on the PPL Balance Sheet at December 31, 2017.

2018 Impacts of TCJA

The Registrants recognized certain provisional amounts relating to the impact of the enactment of the TCJA in their December 31, 2017 financial statements, in accordance with SEC guidance. Included in those provisional amounts were estimates of tax depreciation, deductible executive compensation, accumulated foreign earnings, foreign tax credits, and deemed dividends from foreign subsidiaries, all of which were based on the interpretation and application of various provisions of the TCJA.

In the third quarter of 2018, PPL filed its consolidated federal income tax return, which was prepared using guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury Department and the IRS since the filing of each Registrant's 2017 Form 10-K. Accordingly, the Registrants updated the following provisional amounts and now consider them to be complete: (1) the amount of the deemed dividend and associated foreign tax credits relating to the transition tax imposed on accumulated foreign earnings as of December 31, 2017;



(2) the amount of accelerated 100% "bonus" depreciation PPL was eligible to claim in its 2017 federal income tax return; and (3) the related impacts on PPL's 2017 consolidated federal net operating loss to be carried forward to future periods. In addition, the Registrants recorded the tax impact of the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate reduction from 35% to 21% on the changes to deferred tax assets and liabilities resulting from the completed provisional amounts. The completed provisional amounts related to the tax rate reduction had an insignificant impact on the net regulatory liabilities of PPL's U.S. regulated operations. In the fourth quarter of 2018, PPL completed its analysis of the deductibility of executive compensation awarded as of November 2, 2017 and concluded that no material change to the provisional amounts was required.

The final amounts reported in PPL's 2017 federal income tax return, provisional amounts for the year ended December 31, 2017, the related measurement period adjustments, and the resulting tax impact for the year ended December 31, 2018 were as follows:

(a)

The above table reflects, for each item, the amount subject to change as a result of the TCJA and does not reflect the total amount of each item included in the return and the provision.

(b)

The TCJA increased the bonus depreciation percentage from 50% to 100% for qualified property acquired and placed in service after September 27, 2017 and before January 1, 2018. Increases in tax depreciation reduce the Registrants' taxes payable and increase net deferred tax liabilities with no impact to “Income Taxes” on the Statements of Income.

(c)

An increase in the consolidated federal net operating loss reduces net deferred tax liabilities with the opposite effect if there is a decrease in the consolidated federal net operating loss. These increases or decreases have no impact to “Income Taxes” on the Statements of Income.



The Registrants' accounting related to the effects of the TCJA on financial results for the period ended December 31, 2017 was complete as of December 31, 2018 with respect to all provisional amounts.

2019 TCJA Regulatory Update

The IRS issued proposed regulations for certain provisions of the TCJA in 2018, including interest deductibility and Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (GILTI). In 2019, final and new proposed regulations were issued relating to the GILTI provisions. PPL has determined that neither the final or new proposed regulations materially change PPL's conclusion that currently no incremental tax arises under these rules. Proposed regulations relating to the limitation on the deductibility of interest expense were issued in November 2018 and such regulations provide detailed rules implementing the broader statutory provisions. These proposed regulations should not apply to the Registrants until the year in which the regulations are issued in final form, which is expected to be in 2020. It is uncertain what form the final regulations will take and, therefore, the Registrants cannot predict what impact the final regulations will have on the tax deductibility of interest expense. However, if the proposed regulations were issued as final in their current form, the Registrants could have a limitation on a portion of their interest expense deduction for tax purposes and such limitation could be significant. PPL expressed its views on these proposed regulations in a comment letter addressed to the IRS on February 26, 2019.

Other

Kentucky State Tax Reform

(All Registrants)

HB 487, which became law on April 27, 2018, provides for significant changes to the Kentucky tax code including (1) adopting mandatory combined reporting for corporate members of unitary business groups for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2019 (members of a unitary business group may make an eight-year binding election to file consolidated corporate income tax returns with all members of their federal affiliated group) and (2) a reduction in the Kentucky corporate income tax rate from 6% to 5% for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017. PPL is evaluating the impact, if any, of unitary or elective consolidated income tax reporting on all its Registrants. LKE recognized a deferred tax charge of

$


million

in 2018 primarily associated with the remeasurement of non-regulated accumulated deferred income tax balances.

As indicated in Note 1

,

LG&E's and KU's accounting for income taxes is impacted by rate regulation. Therefore, reductions in regulated accumulated deferred income tax balances due to the reduction in the Kentucky corporate income tax rate to 5% under the provisions of HB 487 will result in amounts previously collected from utility customers for these deferred taxes to be refundable to such customers in future periods. In 2018, LG&E and KU recorded the impact of the reduced tax rate, related to the remeasurement of deferred income taxes, as an increase in regulatory liabilities of

$


million

and

$


million

. In 2019, LG&E and KU began returning state excess deferred income taxes to customers in conjunction with the 2018 Kentucky base rate case. See Note 7

for additional information related to the rate case proceedings.



7. Utility Rate Regulation

Regulatory Assets and Liabilities

(All Registrants)

PPL, PPL Electric, LKE, LG&E and KU reflect the effects of regulatory actions in the financial statements for their cost-based rate-regulated utility operations. Regulatory assets and liabilities are classified as current if, upon initial recognition, the entire amount related to an item will be recovered or refunded within a year of the balance sheet date.

(PPL)

WPD is not subject to accounting for the effects of certain types of regulation as prescribed by GAAP and does not record regulatory assets and liabilities. See

Note 1

for additional information.

(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)

LG&E is subject to the jurisdiction of the KPSC and FERC, and KU is subject to the jurisdiction of the KPSC, FERC and VSCC.

LG&E's and KU's Kentucky base rates are calculated based on a return on capitalization (common equity, long-term debt and short-term debt) including adjustments for certain net investments and costs recovered separately through other means. As such, LG&E and KU generally earn a return on regulatory assets.

(PPL, LKE and KU)

KU's Virginia base rates are calculated based on a return on rate base (net utility plant plus working capital less accumulated deferred income taxes and miscellaneous deductions). As all regulatory assets and liabilities, except for regulatory assets and liabilities related to the levelized fuel factor, pension and postretirement benefits, and AROs related to certain CCR impoundments, are excluded from the return on rate base utilized in the calculation of Virginia base rates, no return is earned on the related assets.

KU's rates to municipal customers for wholesale power requirements are calculated based on annual updates to a formula rate that utilizes a return on rate base (net utility plant plus working capital less accumulated deferred income taxes and miscellaneous deductions). As all regulatory assets and liabilities are excluded from the return on rate base utilized in the development of municipal rates, no return is earned on the related assets.

(PPL and PPL Electric)

PPL Electric's distribution base rates are calculated based on recovery of costs as well as a return on distribution rate base (net utility plant plus a working capital allowance less plant-related deferred taxes and other miscellaneous additions and deductions). PPL Electric's transmission revenues are billed in accordance with a FERC tariff that allows for recovery of transmission costs incurred, a return on transmission-related rate base (net utility plant plus a working capital allowance less plant-related deferred taxes and other miscellaneous additions and deductions) and an automatic annual update. See "Transmission Formula Rate" below for additional information on this tariff. All regulatory assets and liabilities are excluded from distribution and transmission return on investment calculations; therefore, generally no return is earned on PPL Electric's regulatory assets.

(All Registrants)

The following table provides information about the regulatory assets and liabilities of cost-based rate-regulated utility operations at December 31:





(a)

For PPL, these amounts are included in "Other current assets" on the Balance Sheets.

Following is an overview of selected regulatory assets and liabilities detailed in the preceding tables. Specific developments with respect to certain of these regulatory assets and liabilities are discussed in "Regulatory Matters."

Defined Benefit Plans

(All Registrants)

Defined benefit plan regulatory assets and liabilities represent prior service cost and net actuarial gains and losses that will be recovered in defined benefit plans expense through future base rates based upon established regulatory practices and, generally, are amortized over the average remaining service lives of plan participants. These regulatory assets and liabilities are adjusted at least annually or whenever the funded status of defined benefit plans is remeasured.

(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)

As a result of the 2014 Kentucky rate case settlement that became effective July 1, 2015, the difference between pension cost calculated in accordance with LG&E's and KU's pension accounting policy and pension cost calculated using a


-year amortization period for actuarial gains and losses is recorded as a regulatory asset. As of

December 31, 2019

, the balances were

$


million

for PPL and LKE,

$


million

for LG&E and

$


million

for KU. As of

December 31, 2018

, the balances were

$


million

for PPL and LKE,

$


million

for LG&E and

$


million

for KU.



(All Registrants)

Storm Costs

PPL Electric, LG&E and KU have the ability to request from the PUC, KPSC and VSCC, as applicable, the authority to treat expenses related to specific extraordinary storms as a regulatory asset and defer such costs for regulatory accounting and reporting purposes. Once such authority is granted, LG&E and KU can request recovery of those expenses in a base rate case and begin amortizing the costs when recovery starts. PPL Electric can recover qualifying expenses caused by major storm events, as defined in its retail tariff, over

three years

through the Storm Damage Expense Rider commencing in the application year after the storm occurred. PPL Electric's regulatory assets for storm costs are being amortized through various dates ending in 2021. LG&E's and KU's regulatory assets for storm costs are being amortized through various dates ending in 2029.

Unamortized Loss on Debt

Unamortized loss on reacquired debt represents losses on long-term debt reacquired or redeemed that have been deferred and will be amortized and recovered over either the original life of the extinguished debt or the life of the replacement debt (in the case of refinancing). Such costs are being amortized through 2029 for PPL Electric, through 2042 for KU, and through 2044 for LG&E.

Accumulated Cost of Removal of Utility Plant

LG&E and KU charge costs of removal through depreciation expense with an offsetting credit to a regulatory liability. The regulatory liability is relieved as costs are incurred.

PPL Electric does not accrue for costs of removal. When costs of removal are incurred, PPL Electric records the costs as a regulatory asset. Such deferral is included in rates and amortized over the subsequent five-year period.

TCJA Customer Refund

As a result of the reduced U.S. federal corporate income tax rate as enacted by the TCJA, the regulators of PPL Electric, LG&E and KU have ruled that these tax benefits should be refunded to customers. In some instances, timing differences occur between the recognition of these tax benefits and the refund of the benefit to the customers which create a regulatory asset or liability.

LG&E and KU distributed these tax savings for Kentucky customers through the TCJA bill credit prior to incorporating them into base rates effective May 1, 2019. See "Regulatory Matters" for additional information. The remaining liability represents TCJA savings to be distributed to Virginia customers in 2020.

PPL Electric's current liability relates to two time periods. The liability of

$


million

related to the period of July 1, 2018 through December 31, 2019 will be credited back to distribution customers through a negative surcharge. The liability of

$


million

related to the period of January 1, 2018 through June 30, 2018 will be credited back to customers over the period of January 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020 utilizing the same negative surcharge mechanism referred to above, as approved by the PUC in November 2019.

Net Deferred Taxes

Regulatory liabilities associated with net deferred taxes represent the future revenue impact from the adjustment of deferred income taxes required primarily for excess deferred taxes and unamortized investment tax credits, largely a result of the TCJA enacted in 2017. See

Note 6

for additional information on the TCJA.

(PPL and PPL Electric)

Generation Supply Charge (GSC)

The GSC is a cost recovery mechanism that permits PPL Electric to recover costs incurred to provide generation supply to PLR customers who receive basic generation supply service. The recovery includes charges for generation supply, as well as administration of the acquisition process. In addition, the GSC contains a reconciliation mechanism whereby any over- or



under-recovery from prior quarters is refunded to, or recovered from, customers through the adjustment factor determined for the subsequent rate filing period.

Transmission Service Charge (TSC)

PPL Electric is charged by PJM for transmission service-related costs applicable to its PLR customers. PPL Electric passes these costs on to customers, who receive basic generation supply service through the PUC-approved TSC cost recovery mechanism. The TSC contains a reconciliation mechanism whereby any over- or under-recovery from customers is either refunded to, or recovered from, customers through the adjustment factor determined for the subsequent year.

Transmission Formula Rate

PPL Electric's transmission revenues are billed in accordance with a FERC-approved Open Access Transmission Tariff that utilizes a formula-based rate recovery mechanism. Under this formula, rates are put into effect in June of each year based upon prior year actual expenditures and current year forecasted capital additions. Rates are then adjusted the following year to reflect actual annual expenses and capital additions, as reported in PPL Electric's annual FERC Form 1, filed under the FERC's Uniform System of Accounts. Any difference between the revenue requirement in effect for the prior year and actual expenditures incurred for that year is recorded as a regulatory asset or regulatory liability.

Storm Damage Expense Rider (SDER)

The SDER is a reconcilable automatic adjustment clause under which PPL Electric annually will compare actual storm costs to storm costs allowed in base rates and refund or recover any differences from customers. In the 2015 rate case settlement approved by the PUC in November 2015, it was determined that reportable storm damage expenses to be recovered annually through base rates will be set at

$


million

. The SDER will recover from or refund to customers, as appropriate, only applicable expenses from reportable storms that are greater than or less than

$


million

recovered annually through base rates. Storm costs incurred in PPL Electric's territory from a March 2018 storm are being amortized through 2021.

Act 129 Compliance Rider

In compliance with Pennsylvania's Act 129 of 2008 and implementing regulations, PPL Electric is currently in Phase III of the energy efficiency and conservation plan which was approved in June 2016. Phase III allows PPL Electric to recover the maximum

$


million

over the five-year period, June 1, 2016 through May 31, 2021. The plan includes programs intended to reduce electricity consumption. The recoverable costs include direct and indirect charges, including design and development costs, general and administrative costs and applicable state evaluator costs. The rates are applied to customers who receive distribution service through the Act 129 Compliance Rider. The actual Phase III program costs are reconcilable after each 12 month period, and any over- or under-recovery from customers will be refunded or recovered over the next rate filing period.

Smart Meter Rider (SMR)

Act 129 requires each electric distribution company (EDC) with more than 100,000 customers to have a PUC approved Smart Meter Technology Procurement and Installation Plan (SMP). As of December 31, 2019, PPL Electric replaced substantially all of its old meters with meters that meet the Act 129 requirements under its SMP. In accordance with Act 129, EDCs are able to recover the costs and earn a return on capital of providing smart metering technology. PPL Electric uses the SMR to recover the costs to implement its SMP. The SMR is a reconciliation mechanism whereby any over- or under-recovery from prior years is refunded to, or recovered from, customers through the adjustment factor determined for the subsequent quarters.

Universal Service Rider (USR)

The USR provides for recovery of costs associated with universal service programs, OnTrack and Winter Relief Assistance Program (WRAP), provided by PPL Electric to residential customers. OnTrack is a special payment program for low-income households and WRAP provides low-income customers a means to reduce electric bills through energy saving methods. The USR rate is applied to residential customers who receive distribution service. The actual program costs are reconcilable, and any over- or under-recovery from customers will be refunded or recovered annually in the subsequent year.



(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)

Environmental Cost Recovery

Kentucky law permits LG&E and KU to recover the costs, including a return of operating expenses and a return of and on capital invested, of complying with the Clean Air Act and those federal, state or local environmental requirements, which apply to coal combustion wastes and by-products from coal-fired electricity generating facilities. The KPSC requires reviews of the past operations of the environmental surcharge for six-month and two-year billing periods to evaluate the related charges, credits and rates of return, as well as to provide for the roll-in of ECR amounts to base rates each two-year period. The KPSC has authorized a return on equity of

9.725

%

for all existing approved ECR plans and projects. The ECR regulatory asset or liability represents the amount that has been under- or over-recovered due to timing or adjustments to the mechanism and is typically recovered or refunded within


months

.

Fuel Adjustment Clauses

LG&E's and KU's retail electric rates contain a fuel adjustment clause, whereby variances in the cost of fuel to generate electricity, including transportation costs, from the costs embedded in base rates are adjusted in LG&E's and KU's rates. The KPSC requires public hearings at six-month intervals to examine past fuel adjustments and at two-year intervals to review past operations of the fuel adjustment clause and, to the extent appropriate, reestablish the fuel charge included in base rates. The regulatory assets or liabilities represent the amounts that have been under- or over-recovered due to timing or adjustments to the mechanism and are typically recovered within


months

. LG&E's fuel adjustment clause asset is included within other current regulatory assets above.

KU also employs a levelized fuel factor mechanism for Virginia customers using an average fuel cost factor based primarily on projected fuel costs. The Virginia levelized fuel factor allows fuel recovery based on projected fuel costs for the coming year plus an adjustment for any under- or over-recovery of fuel expenses from the prior year. The regulatory assets or liabilities represent the amounts that have been under- or over-recovered due to timing or adjustments to the mechanism and are typically recovered or refunded within


months

.

AROs

As discussed in Note 1, for LKE, LG&E and KU, all ARO accretion and depreciation expenses are reclassified as a regulatory asset. ARO regulatory assets associated with certain CCR projects are amortized to expense in accordance with regulatory approvals. For other AROs, at the time of retirement, the related ARO regulatory asset is offset against the associated cost of removal regulatory liability, PP&E and ARO liability.

Power Purchase Agreement - OVEC

As a result of purchase accounting associated with PPL's acquisition of LKE, the fair values of the OVEC power purchase agreement were recorded on the balance sheets of LKE, LG&E and KU with offsets to regulatory liabilities. The regulatory liabilities are being amortized using the units-of-production method until March 2026, the expiration date of the agreement at the date of the acquisition. LG&E's and KU's customer rates continue to reflect the original contracts. See Notes 13 and 18 for additional discussion of the power purchase agreement.

Interest Rate Swaps

LG&E's unrealized gains and losses are recorded as regulatory assets or regulatory liabilities until they are realized as interest expense. Interest expense from existing swaps is realized and recovered over the terms of the associated debt, which matures through 2033.

Terminated Interest Rate Swaps

Net realized gains and losses on all interest rate swaps are probable of recovery through regulated rates. As such, any gains and losses on these derivatives are included in regulatory assets or liabilities and are primarily recognized in "Interest Expense" on the Statements of Income over the life of the associated debt.



Plant Outage Costs

Since July 1, 2017, plant outage costs in Kentucky have been normalized for ratemaking purposes based on an average level of expenses. Plant outage expenses that are greater or less than the average are collected from or returned to customers, through future base rates. Effective May 1, 2019 plant outage costs are normalized based on a five-year average of historical expenses with over or under recoveries collected or returned over an eight-year period.

(PPL, LKE and LG&E)

Gas Supply Clause

LG&E's natural gas rates contain a gas supply clause, whereby the expected cost of natural gas supply and variances between actual and expected costs from prior periods are adjusted quarterly in LG&E's rates, subject to approval by the KPSC. The gas supply clause also includes a separate natural gas procurement incentive mechanism, which allows LG&E's rates to be adjusted annually to share savings between the actual cost of gas purchases and market indices, with the shareholders and the customers during each performance-based rate year (12 months ending October 31). The regulatory assets or liabilities represent the total amounts that have been under- or over-recovered due to timing or adjustments to the mechanisms and are typically recovered or refunded within


months

.

(PPL, LKE and KU)

Generation Formula Rate

KU provides wholesale requirements service to its municipal customers and bills for this service pursuant to a FERC approved generation formula rate. Under this formula, rates are put into effect each July utilizing a return on rate base calculation and actual expenses from the preceding year. The regulatory asset or liability represents the difference between the revenue requirement in effect for the current year and actual expenditures incurred for the current year.

Regulatory Matters

(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)

Kentucky Activities

Rate Case Proceedings

In September 2018, LG&E and KU filed requests with the KPSC for an increase in annual base electricity rates of approximately

$


million

at KU and increases in annual base electricity and gas rates of approximately

$


million

and

$


million

at LG&E. LG&E's and KU's applications also sought to include changes associated with the TCJA and state tax reform in the calculation of the proposed base rates and to terminate the TCJA bill credit mechanism when new base rates would go into effect. The elimination of the TCJA bill credit mechanism will result in an estimated annual electricity revenue increase of approximately

$


million

at KU and increases in electricity and gas revenues of approximately

$


million

and

$


million

at LG&E. The applications were based on a forecasted test year of May 1, 2019 through April 30, 2020 with a requested return-on-equity of

10.42

%

.

In March 2019, LG&E and KU, along with substantially all intervening parties to the proceeding, filed stipulation and recommendation agreements (stipulations) with the KPSC resolving all material issues with the parties. In addition to terminating the TCJA bill credit mechanism, the proposed stipulations provided for increases in annual revenue requirements associated with base electricity rates of approximately

$


million

at KU and increases in annual base electricity and gas rates of approximately

$


million

and

$


million

at LG&E, based on a

9.725

%

return-on-equity.

On April 30, 2019, the KPSC issued orders ruling on open issues and approving the proposed stipulations filed in March 2019. The orders provide for increases in the revenue requirements associated with base electricity rates of

$


million

at KU and increases associated with base electricity and gas rates of

$


million

and

$


million

at LG&E. With the termination of the TCJA bill credit mechanism, this represents annual revenue increases of

$


million

(

$


million

at KU and

$


million

at LG&E). The new base rates and all elements of the orders became effective on May 1, 2019.



(PPL and PPL Electric)

Pennsylvania Activities

Distribution of TCJA Savings

In November 2019, the PUC approved PPL Electric's October 2019 petition to distribute the

$


million

of TCJA tax savings for the period between January 1, 2018 and June 30, 2018 over the period January 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020.

Federal Matters

FERC Transmission Formula Rate

In April 2019, PPL Electric filed its annual transmission formula rate update with the FERC, reflecting a revised revenue requirement, which includes the impact of the TCJA. The filing established the revenue requirement used to set rates that took effect in June 2019.

(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)

FERC Transmission Rate Filing

In 2018, LG&E and KU applied to the FERC requesting elimination of certain on-going credits to a sub-set of transmission customers relating to the 1998 merger of LG&E's and KU's parent entities and the 2006 withdrawal of LG&E and KU from the Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc. (MISO), a regional transmission operator and energy market. The application seeks termination of LG&E's and KU's commitment to provide certain Kentucky municipalities mitigation for certain horizontal market power concerns arising out of the 1998 LG&E and KU merger and 2006 MISO withdrawal. The amounts at issue are generally waivers or credits granted to a limited number of Kentucky Municipalities for either certain LG&E and KU or MISO transmission charges incurred for transmission service received.

Due to the development of robust, accessible energy markets over time, LG&E and KU believe the mitigation commitments are no longer relevant or appropriate. In March 2019, the FERC granted LG&E's and KU's request to remove the on-going credits, conditioned upon the implementation by LG&E and KU of a transition mechanism for certain existing power supply arrangements, subject to FERC review and approval. In July 2019, LG&E and KU proposed their transition mechanism to the FERC and in September 2019, the FERC rejected the proposed transition mechanism and issued a separate order providing clarifications of certain aspects of the March order. In October 2019, LG&E and KU filed requests for rehearing and clarification on the two September orders. These rehearing requests are currently pending before FERC. Additionally, certain petitions for review of FERC's orders have been filed by multiple parties, including LG&E and KU, at the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals. LG&E and KU cannot predict the outcome of the proceedings. LG&E and KU currently receive recovery of waivers and credits provided through other rate mechanisms.

(All Registrants)

TCJA Impact on FERC Rates

In November 2019, the FERC published Final Rules providing that public utility transmission providers include mechanisms in their formula rates to deduct excess ADIT from, or add deficient ADIT to, rate base and adjust their income tax allowances by amortized excess or deficient ADIT, and to make a related compliance filing.

In February 2019, PPL Electric filed with the FERC proposed revisions to its transmission formula rate template pursuant to Section 205 of the Federal Power Act and Section 35.13 of the FERC Rules and Regulations. Specifically, PPL Electric proposed to modify its formula rate to permit the return or recovery of excess or deficient ADIT resulting from the TCJA and permit PPL Electric to prospectively account for the income tax expense associated with the depreciation of the equity component of the AFUDC. In April 2019, the FERC accepted the proposed revisions to the formula rate template, which were effective June 1, 2019, as well as the proposed adjustments to ADIT, effective January 1, 2018.

In February 2019, in connection with the requirements of the TCJA and Kentucky HB 487, LG&E and KU filed a request with the FERC to amend their transmission formula rates resulting from the laws’ reductions to corporate income tax rates. The FERC approved this request effective June 1, 2019. LG&E and KU are currently reviewing the Final Rule and will submit a compliance filing addressing excess ADIT by June 1, 2020. LG&E and KU do not anticipate the impact of the TCJA and Kentucky HB 487 related to their FERC-jurisdictional rates to be significant.



Other

Purchase of Receivables Program

(PPL and PPL Electric)

In accordance with a PUC-approved purchase of accounts receivable program, PPL Electric purchases certain accounts receivable from alternative electricity suppliers at a discount, which reflects a provision for uncollectible accounts. The alternative electricity suppliers have no continuing involvement or interest in the purchased accounts receivable. Accounts receivable that are acquired are initially recorded at fair value on the date of acquisition. During


,


and


, PPL Electric purchased

$

1.2

billion

,

$

1.3

billion

and

$

1.3

billion

of accounts receivable from alternative suppliers.

8. Financing Activities

Credit Arrangements and Short-term Debt

(All Registrants)

The Registrants maintain credit facilities to enhance liquidity, provide credit support and provide a backstop to commercial paper programs. For reporting purposes, on a consolidated basis, the credit facilities and commercial paper programs of PPL Electric, LKE, LG&E and KU also apply to PPL and the credit facilities and commercial paper programs of LG&E and KU also apply to LKE. The amounts borrowed below are recorded as "Short-term debt" on the Balance Sheets except for borrowings under LG&E's Term Loan Facility which are recorded as "Long-term debt due within one year" on the December 31, 2018 Balance Sheet.

The following credit facilities were in place at:



(a)

The facilities contain financial covenants to maintain an interest coverage ratio of not less than

3.0 times

consolidated earnings before income taxes, depreciation and amortization and total net debt not in excess of


%

of its RAV, calculated in accordance with the credit facility.

(b)

The WPD plc amounts borrowed at

December 31, 2019

and


included USD-denominated borrowings of

$


million

for both periods, which bore interest at

2.52

%

and

3.17

%

. The WPD (South West) amount borrowed at December 31, 2019 was a GBP-denominated borrowing, which equated to

$


million

and bore interest at

1.09

%

. The WPD (East Midlands) amount borrowed at December 31, 2018 was a GBP- denominated borrowing which equated to

$


million

and bore interest at

1.12

%

. The WPD (West Midlands) amount borrowed at December 31, 2019 was a GBP-denominated borrowing, which equated to

$


million

and bore interest at

1.11

%

. At

December 31, 2019

, the unused capacity under the U.K. credit facilities was approximately

$

1.2

billion

.

(c)

Each company pays customary fees under its respective facility and borrowings generally bear interest at LIBOR-based rates plus an applicable margin.

(d)

The facilities contain a financial covenant requiring debt to total capitalization not to exceed


%

for PPL Capital Funding, PPL Electric, LG&E and KU, as calculated in accordance with the facilities and other customary covenants. Additionally, subject to certain conditions, PPL Capital Funding may request that the capacity of its bilateral credit facility expiring in March 2020 be increased by up to

$


million

and PPL Capital Funding, PPL Electric, LG&E and KU may each request up to a

$


million

increase in its syndicated credit facility's capacity.

(e)

LG&E entered into a

$


million

term loan credit agreement in October 2017. All borrowings were repaid and the facility expired in 2019. The outstanding borrowings at December 31, 2018 bore interest at an average rate of

2.97

%

.

(f)

KU's letter of credit facility was terminated in September 2019 in connection with the bond remarketings discussed below.

PPL, PPL Electric, LG&E and KU maintain commercial paper programs to provide an additional financing source to fund short-term liquidity needs. Commercial paper issuances, included in "Short-term debt" on the Balance Sheets, are supported by the respective Registrant's credit facilities.

The following commercial paper programs were in place at:

(PPL Electric, LKE, LG&E and KU)

See

Note 14

for a discussion of intercompany borrowings.



Long-term Debt

(All Registrants)



(a)

Includes PPL Electric's senior secured and first mortgage bonds that are secured by the lien of PPL Electric's 2001 Mortgage Indenture, which covers substantially all of PPL Electric’s tangible distribution properties and certain of its tangible transmission properties located in Pennsylvania, subject to certain exceptions and exclusions. The carrying value of PPL Electric's property, plant and equipment was approximately

$

10.1

billion

and

$

9.4

billion

at

December 31, 2019

and


.

Includes LG&E's first mortgage bonds that are secured by the lien of the LG&E 2010 Mortgage Indenture which creates a lien, subject to certain exceptions and exclusions, on substantially all of LG&E's real and tangible personal property located in Kentucky and used or to be used in connection with the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity and the storage and distribution of natural gas. The aggregate carrying value of the property subject to the lien was

$

5.3

billion

and

$

5.1

billion

at

December 31, 2019

and


.

Includes KU's first mortgage bonds that are secured by the lien of the KU 2010 Mortgage Indenture which creates a lien, subject to certain exceptions and exclusions, on substantially all of KU's real and tangible personal property located in Kentucky and used or to be used in connection with the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity. The aggregate carrying value of the property subject to the lien was

$

6.6

billion

and

$

6.3

billion

at

December 31, 2019

and


.

(b)

Includes PPL Electric's series of senior secured bonds that secure its obligations to make payments with respect to each series of Pollution Control Bonds that were issued by the LCIDA and the PEDFA on behalf of PPL Electric. These senior secured bonds were issued in the same principal amount, contain payment and redemption provisions that correspond to and bear the same interest rate as such Pollution Control Bonds. These senior secured bonds were issued under PPL Electric's 2001 Mortgage Indenture and are secured as noted in (a) above. This amount includes

$


million

of which PPL Electric is allowed to convert the interest rate mode on the bonds from time to time to a commercial paper rate, daily rate, weekly rate, or term rate of at least

one year

and

$


million

that may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at par beginning in October 2020, and are subject to mandatory redemption upon determination that the interest rate on the bonds would be included in the holders' gross income for federal tax purposes.

(c)

Includes LG&E's and KU's series of first mortgage bonds that were issued to the respective trustees of tax-exempt revenue bonds to secure its respective obligations to make payments with respect to each series of bonds. The first mortgage bonds were issued in the same principal amounts, contain payment and redemption provisions that correspond to and bear the same interest rate as such tax-exempt revenue bonds. These first mortgage bonds were issued under the LG&E 2010 Mortgage Indenture and the KU 2010 Mortgage Indenture and are secured as noted in (a) above. The related tax-exempt revenue bonds were issued by various governmental entities, principally counties in Kentucky, on behalf of LG&E and KU. The related revenue bond documents allow LG&E and KU to convert the interest rate mode on the bonds from time to time to a commercial paper rate, daily rate, weekly rate, term rate of at least

one year

or, in some cases, an auction rate or a LIBOR index rate.

At

December 31, 2019

, the aggregate tax-exempt revenue bonds issued on behalf of LG&E and KU that were in a term rate mode totaled

$


million

for LKE, comprised of

$


million

and

$


million

for LG&E and KU respectively. At

December 31, 2019

, the aggregate tax-exempt revenue bonds issued on behalf of LG&E and KU that were in a variable rate mode totaled

$


million

for LKE, comprised of

$


million

and

$


million

for LG&E and KU respectively. These variable rate tax-exempt revenue bonds are subject to tender for purchase by LG&E and KU at the option of the holder and to mandatory tender for purchase by LG&E and KU upon the occurrence of certain events.

(d)

Includes

£


million

(

$


million

at

December 31, 2019

) of notes that may be redeemed, in total but not in part, on

December 21, 2026

, at the greater of the principal value or a value determined by reference to the gross redemption yield on a nominated U.K. Government bond.

(e)

The principal amount of the notes issued by WPD (South West), WPD (East Midlands) and WPD (South Wales) is adjusted based on changes in a specified index, as detailed in the terms of the related indentures. The adjustment to the principal amounts from


to


was an increase of



approximately

£


million

(

$


million

) resulting from inflation. In addition, this amount includes

£


million

(

$


million

at

December 31, 2019

) of notes issued by WPD (South West) that may be redeemed, in total by series, on

December 1, 2026

, at the greater of the adjusted principal value and a make-whole value determined by reference to the gross real yield on a nominated U.K. government bond.

(f)

Includes

£

5.7

billion

(

$

7.4

billion

at

December 31, 2019

) of notes that may be put by the holders to the issuer for redemption if the long-term credit ratings assigned to the notes are withdrawn by any of the rating agencies (Moody's or S&P) or reduced to a non-investment grade rating of Ba1 or BB+ or lower in connection with a restructuring event, which includes the loss of, or a material adverse change to, the distribution licenses under which the issuer operates.

(g)

The table reflects principal maturities only, based on stated maturities or earlier put dates, and the weighted-average rates as of

December 31, 2019

.

None of the outstanding debt securities noted above have sinking fund requirements.

The aggregate maturities of long-term debt, based on stated maturities or earlier put dates, for the periods 2020 through 2024 and thereafter are as follows:

(PPL)

In June 2019, WPD plc executed and drew

£


million

under a 5-year term loan facility due 2024 at a rate of

2.189

%

, to be reset quarterly as detailed in the terms of the facility. The borrowing equated to

$


million

at the time of drawdown, net of fees. The proceeds were used for general corporate purposes.

In September 2019, WPD (East Midlands) issued

£


million

of

1.75

%

Senior Notes due 2031. WPD (East Midlands) received proceeds of

£


million

, which equated to

$


million

at the time of issuance, net of fees and a discount. The proceeds were used to repay short-term debt and for general corporate purposes.

(PPL and PPL Electric)

In September 2019, PPL Electric issued

$


million

of

3.00

%

First Mortgage Bonds due 2049. PPL Electric received proceeds of

$


million

, net of a discount and underwriting fees, which were used to repay short-term debt and for general corporate purposes.

In December 2019, PPL Electric redeemed all of the outstanding

$


million

aggregate principal amount of its Senior Secured Bonds,

5.15

%

Series due 2020.

(PPL, LKE and LG&E)

In April 2019, LG&E issued

$


million

of

4.25

%

First Mortgage Bonds due 2049. LG&E received proceeds of

$


million

, net of discounts and underwriting fees, which were used to repay commercial paper and LG&E's term loan.

In April 2019, the County of Jefferson, Kentucky remarketed

$


million

of Pollution Control Revenue Bonds, 2001 Series A due 2033 previously issued on behalf of LG&E. The bonds were remarketed at a long-term rate and will bear interest at

1.85

%

through their mandatory purchase date of April 1, 2021.

In June 2019, the Louisville/Jefferson County Metro Government of Kentucky remarketed

$


million

of Environmental Facilities Revenue Refunding Bonds, 2007 Series A due 2033 previously issued on behalf of LG&E. The bonds were remarketed at a long-term rate and will bear interest at

1.65

%

through their mandatory purchase date of June 1, 2021.

In June 2019, the Louisville/Jefferson County Metro Government of Kentucky remarketed

$


million

of Environmental Facilities Revenue Refunding Bonds, 2007 Series B due 2033 previously issued on behalf of LG&E. The bonds were remarketed at a long-term rate and will bear interest at

1.65

%

through their mandatory purchase date of June 1, 2021.

In June 2019, LG&E issued a notice to bondholders of its intention to convert the

$


million

Louisville/Jefferson County Metro Government of Kentucky Pollution Control Revenue Bonds, 2005 Series A to a weekly interest rate, as permitted under the loan documents. The conversion was completed on August 1, 2019. In connection with the conversation, LG&E purchased



these bonds from the remarketing agent and held them until September 17, 2019, at which time LG&E remarketed the bonds at a long-term rate that will bear interest at

1.75

%

through their mandatory purchase date of July 1, 2026.

(PPL, LKE and KU)

In April 2019, KU reopened its

4.375

%

First Mortgage Bonds due 2045 and issued an additional

$


million

of this series. KU received proceeds of

$


million

, including premiums and underwriting fees, which were used to repay commercial paper and for other general corporate purposes.

In September 2019, the County of Carroll, Kentucky remarketed

$


million

of Environmental Facilities Revenue Bonds, 2004 Series A due 2034 previously issued on behalf of KU. The bonds were remarketed at a long-term rate and will bear interest at

1.75

%

through their mandatory purchase date of September 1, 2026.

In September 2019, the County of Carroll, Kentucky remarketed

$


million

of Pollution Control Revenue Bonds, 2016 Series A due 2042 previously issued on behalf of KU. The bonds were remarketed at a long-term rate and will bear interest at

1.55

%

through their mandatory purchase date of September 1, 2026.

In September 2019, the County of Carroll, Kentucky remarketed

$


million

of Environmental Facilities Revenue Bonds, 2006 Series B due 2034 previously issued on behalf of KU. The bonds were remarketed at a long-term rate and will bear interest at

1.20

%

through their mandatory purchase date of June 1, 2021.

In September 2019, the County of Carroll, Kentucky remarketed

$


million

of Environmental Facilities Revenue Bonds, 2008 Series A due 2032 previously issued on behalf of KU. The bonds were remarketed at a long-term rate and will bear interest at

1.20

%

through their mandatory purchase date of June 1, 2021.

In September 2019, the County of Mercer, Kentucky remarketed

$


million

of Solid Waste Disposal Facility Revenue Bonds, 2000 Series A due 2023 previously issued on behalf of KU. The bonds were remarketed at a long-term rate and will bear interest at

1.30

%

through their maturity date of May 1, 2023.

See

Note 14

for additional information related to intercompany borrowings.

Legal Separateness

(All Registrants)

The subsidiaries of PPL are separate legal entities. PPL's subsidiaries are not liable for the debts of PPL. Accordingly, creditors of PPL may not satisfy their debts from the assets of PPL's subsidiaries absent a specific contractual undertaking by a subsidiary to pay PPL's creditors or as required by applicable law or regulation. Similarly, PPL is not liable for the debts of its subsidiaries, nor are its subsidiaries liable for the debts of one another. Accordingly, creditors of PPL's subsidiaries may not satisfy their debts from the assets of PPL or its other subsidiaries absent a specific contractual undertaking by PPL or its other subsidiaries to pay the creditors or as required by applicable law or regulation.

Similarly, the subsidiaries of PPL Electric and LKE are each separate legal entities. These subsidiaries are not liable for the debts of PPL Electric and LKE. Accordingly, creditors of PPL Electric and LKE may not satisfy their debts from the assets of their subsidiaries absent a specific contractual undertaking by a subsidiary to pay the creditors or as required by applicable law or regulation. Similarly, PPL Electric and LKE are not liable for the debts of their subsidiaries, nor are their subsidiaries liable for the debts of one another. Accordingly, creditors of these subsidiaries may not satisfy their debts from the assets of PPL Electric and LKE (or their other subsidiaries) absent a specific contractual undertaking by that parent or other subsidiary to pay such creditors or as required by applicable law or regulation.

(PPL)

Equity Securities

Equity Forward Contracts

In May 2018, PPL completed a registered underwritten public offering of


million

shares of its common stock. In conjunction with that offering, the underwriters exercised an option to purchase

8.25

million

additional shares of PPL common stock solely to cover over-allotments.



In connection with the registered public offering, PPL entered into forward sale agreements with

two

counterparties covering the total

63.25

million

shares of PPL common stock. Under the forward sale agreements, PPL was obligated to settle these forward sale agreements no later than November 2019. The forward sale agreements were classified as equity transactions.

In September 2018, PPL settled a portion of the initial forward sale agreements by issuing


million

shares of PPL common stock, resulting in net cash proceeds of

$


million

. In November 2019, PPL settled the remaining

43.25

million

shares of PPL common stock, resulting in net cash proceeds of

$

1.1

billion

. The net proceeds received will be used for general corporate purposes. See

Note 5

for information on the forward sale agreements impact on the calculation of diluted EPS.

ATM Program

In February 2018, PPL entered into an equity distribution agreement, pursuant to which PPL may sell, from time to time, up to an aggregate of

$

1.0

billion

of its common stock through an at-the-market offering program, including a forward sales component. The compensation paid to the selling agents by PPL may be up to


%

of the gross offering proceeds of the shares. There were

no

issuances under the ATM program for the twelve months ended December 31, 2019. PPL issued


million

shares of common stock and received proceeds of

$


million

for the year ended December 31, 2018.

Distributions and Related Restrictions

In

November 2019

, PPL declared its quarterly common stock dividend, payable January 2, 2020, at

41.25

cents

per share (equivalent to

$

1.65

per annum). On

February 14, 2020

, PPL announced an increase of its quarterly common stock dividend to

41.5

cents per share (equivalent to $

1.66

per annum). Future dividends, declared at the discretion of the Board of Directors, will depend upon future earnings, cash flows, financial and legal requirements and other factors.

Neither PPL Capital Funding nor PPL may declare or pay any cash dividend or distribution on its capital stock during any period in which PPL Capital Funding defers interest payments on its 2007 Series A Junior Subordinated Notes due


or 2013 Series B Junior Subordinated Notes due


. At

December 31, 2019

,

no

interest payments were deferred.

WPD subsidiaries have financing arrangements that limit their ability to pay dividends. However, PPL does not, at this time, expect that any of such limitations would significantly impact PPL's ability to meet its cash obligations.

(All Registrants)

PPL relies on dividends or loans from its subsidiaries to fund PPL's dividends to its common shareholders. The net assets of certain PPL subsidiaries are subject to legal restrictions. LKE primarily relies on dividends from its subsidiaries to fund its distributions to PPL. LG&E, KU and PPL Electric are subject to Section 305(a) of the Federal Power Act, which makes it unlawful for a public utility to make or pay a dividend from any funds "properly included in capital account." The meaning of this limitation has never been clarified under the Federal Power Act. LG&E, KU and PPL Electric believe, however, that this statutory restriction, as applied to their circumstances, would not be construed or applied by the FERC to prohibit the payment from retained earnings of dividends that are not excessive and are for lawful and legitimate business purposes. In February 2012, LG&E and KU petitioned the FERC requesting authorization to pay dividends in the future based on retained earnings balances calculated without giving effect to the impact of purchase accounting adjustments for PPL's 2010 acquisition of LKE. In May 2012, the FERC approved the petitions with the further condition that each utility may not pay dividends if such payment would cause its adjusted equity ratio to fall below


%

of total capitalization. Accordingly, at

December 31, 2019

, net assets of

$


billion

(

$

1.3

billion

for LG&E and

$

1.7

billion

for KU) were restricted for purposes of paying dividends to LKE, and net assets of

$

3.3

billion

(

$

1.5

billion

for LG&E and

$

1.8

billion

for KU) were available for payment of dividends to LKE. LG&E and KU believe they will not be required to change their current dividend practices as a result of the foregoing requirement. In addition, under Virginia law, KU is prohibited from making loans to affiliates without the prior approval of the VSCC. There are no comparable statutes under Kentucky law applicable to LG&E and KU, or under Pennsylvania law applicable to PPL Electric. However, orders from the KPSC require LG&E and KU to obtain prior consent or approval before lending amounts to PPL.

9. Leases

(All Registrants)

The Registrants determine whether contractual arrangements contain a lease by evaluating whether those arrangements either implicitly or explicitly identify an asset, whether the Registrants have the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from use of the asset throughout the term of the arrangement, and whether the Registrants have the right to direct the



use of the asset. Renewal options are included in the lease term if it is reasonably certain the Registrants will exercise those options. Periods for which the Registrants are reasonably certain not to exercise termination options are also included in the lease term. The Registrants have certain agreements with lease and non-lease components, such as office space leases, which are generally accounted for separately.

LKE, LG&E and KU have entered into various operating leases primarily for office space, vehicles and railcars. The leases generally have fixed payments with expiration dates ranging from 2020 to 2025, some of which have options to extend the leases from

one year

to

ten years

and some have options to terminate at LKE's, LG&E's and KU's discretion. For leases that existed as of December 31, 2018, payments associated with renewal options are not included in the measurement of the lease liability and right-of-use (ROU) asset.

PPL has also entered into various operating leases primarily for office space, land easements, telecom assets and warehouse space. These leases generally have fixed payments with expiration dates ranging from 2020 through 2029, except for the land agreements which extend through 2116.

PPL Electric also has operating leases which do not have a significant impact to its operations.

Short-term Leases

Short-term leases are leases with a term that is 12 months or less and do not include a purchase option or option to extend the initial term of the lease to greater than 12 months that the Registrants are reasonably certain to exercise. The Registrants have made an accounting policy election to not recognize the ROU asset and the lease liability arising from leases classified as short-term. Expenses related to short-term leases are included in the tables below.

Discount Rate

The discount rate for a lease is the rate implicit in the lease unless that rate cannot be readily determined. In that case, the Registrants are required to use their incremental borrowing rate, which is the rate the Registrants would have to pay to borrow, on a collateralized basis over a similar term, an amount equal to the lease payments in a similar economic environment.

The Registrants receive secured borrowing rates from financial institutions based on their applicable credit profiles. The Registrants use the secured rate which corresponds with the term of the applicable lease.

Practical Expedients

See Note 1 for information on the adoption of the new lease guidance as well as the practical expedients the Registrants have elected as part of the transition.

(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)

Lessee Transactions

The following table provides the components of lease cost for the Registrants' operating leases for the year ended

December 31, 2019

.

The following table provides other key information related to the Registrants' operating leases at

December 31, 2019

.



The following table provides the total future minimum rental payments for operating leases, as well as a reconciliation of these undiscounted cash flows to the lease liabilities recognized on the Balance Sheets as of

December 31, 2019

.

(a)

Current lease liabilities are included in "Other Current Liabilities" on the Balance Sheets. Non-current lease liabilities are included in "Other deferred credits and noncurrent liabilities" on the Balance Sheets. The difference between the total future minimum lease payments and the recorded lease liabilities is due to the impact of discounting.

(b)

Right-of-use assets are included in "Other noncurrent assets" on the Balance Sheets.

At December 31, 2018, the total future minimum rental payments for all operating leases were estimated to be:

Lessor Transactions

Third parties lease land from LKE, LG&E and KU at certain generation plants to produce refined coal used to generate electricity. The leases are operating leases and expire in 2021. Payments are allocated among lease and non-lease components as stated in the agreements. Lease payments are fixed or are determined based on the amount of refined coal used in electricity generation at the facility. Payments received are primarily recorded as a regulatory liability and are amortized in accordance with regulatory approvals.

WPD leases property and telecom assets to third parties, which generally expire through 2029. These leases are operating leases. Generally, lease payments are fixed and include only a lease component.

At

December 31, 2019

, PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU expect to receive the following fixed lease payments over the remaining term of their operating lease agreements:



10. Stock-Based Compensation

(PPL, PPL Electric and LKE)

Under the ICP, SIP and the ICPKE (together, the Plans), restricted shares of PPL common stock, restricted stock units, performance units and stock options may be granted to officers and other key employees of PPL, PPL Electric, LKE and other affiliated companies. Awards under the Plans are made by the Compensation, Governance and Nominating Committee (CGNC) of the PPL Board of Directors, in the case of the ICP and SIP, and by the PPL Corporate Leadership Council (CLC), in the case of the ICPKE.

The following table details the award limits under each of the Plans.

Any portion of these awards that has not been granted may be carried over and used in any subsequent year. If any award lapses, the rights of the participant terminate, or, with respect to certain awards, is forfeited, and the shares of PPL common stock underlying such an award are again available for grant. Shares delivered under the Plans may be in the form of authorized and unissued PPL common stock, common stock held in treasury by PPL or PPL common stock purchased on the open market (including private purchases) in accordance with applicable securities laws.

Restricted Stock Units

Restricted stock units represent the right to receive shares of PPL common stock in the future, generally three years after the date of grant, in an amount based on the fair value of PPL common stock on the date of grant.

Under the SIP, each restricted stock unit entitles the grant recipient to accrue additional restricted stock units equal to the amount of quarterly dividends paid on PPL stock. These additional restricted stock units are deferred and payable in shares of PPL common stock at the end of the restriction period. Dividend equivalents on restricted stock unit awards granted under the ICPKE are currently paid in cash when dividends are declared by PPL.

The fair value of restricted stock units granted is recognized on a straight-line basis over the restriction period or through the date at which the employee reaches retirement eligibility. The fair value of restricted stock units granted to retirement-eligible employees is recognized as compensation expense immediately upon the date of grant. Recipients of restricted stock units granted under the ICPKE may also be granted the right to receive dividend equivalents through the end of the restriction period or until the award is forfeited. Restricted stock units are subject to forfeiture or accelerated payout under the plan provisions for termination, retirement, disability and death of employees. Restrictions lapse on restricted stock units fully, in certain situations, as defined by each of the Plans.

The weighted-average grant date fair value of restricted stock units granted was:



Restricted stock unit activity for


was:

Substantially all restricted stock unit awards are expected to vest.

The total fair value of restricted stock units vesting for the years ended December 31 was:

Performance Units - Total Shareowner Return

Performance units based on relative Total Shareowner Return (TSR) are intended to encourage and reward future corporate performance. Performance units represent a target number of shares (Target Award) of PPL's common stock that the recipient would receive upon PPL's attainment of the applicable performance goal. Performance is determined based on TSR during a three-year performance period. At the end of the period, payout is determined by comparing PPL's performance to the TSR of the companies included in the Philadelphia Stock Exchange Utility Index. Awards are payable on a graduated basis based on thresholds that measure PPL's performance relative to peers that comprise the applicable index on which each year's awards are measured. Awards can be paid up to


%

of the Target Award or forfeited with no payout if performance is below a minimum established performance threshold. Dividends payable during the performance cycle accumulate and are converted into additional performance units and are payable in shares of PPL common stock upon completion of the performance period based on the CGNC's determination of achievement of the performance goals. Under the plan provisions, TSR performance units are subject to forfeiture upon termination of employment other than retirement, one year or more from commencement of the performance period, disability or death of an employee.

The fair value of TSR performance units granted to retirement-eligible employees is recognized as compensation expense on a straight-line basis over a one-year period, the minimum vesting period required for an employee to be entitled to payout of the



awards with no proration. For employees who are not retirement-eligible, compensation expense is recognized over the shorter of the three-year performance period or the period until the employee is retirement-eligible, with a minimum vesting and recognition period of one-year. If an employee retires before the one-year vesting period, the performance units are forfeited. Performance units vest on a pro rata basis, in certain situations, as defined by each of the Plans.

The fair value of each performance unit granted was estimated using a Monte Carlo pricing model that considers stock beta, a risk-free interest rate, expected stock volatility and expected life. The stock beta was calculated comparing the risk of the individual securities to the average risk of the companies in the index group. The risk-free interest rate reflects the yield on a U.S. Treasury bond commensurate with the expected life of the performance unit. Volatility over the expected term of the performance unit is calculated using daily stock price observations for PPL and all companies in the index group and is evaluated with consideration given to prior periods that may need to be excluded based on events not likely to recur that had impacted PPL and the companies in the index group. PPL uses a mix of historic and implied volatility to value awards.

The weighted-average assumptions used in the model were:

The weighted-average grant date fair value of TSR performance units granted was:

TSR performance unit activity for


was:

(a)

Primarily related to the forfeiture of 2016 performance units as performance during the period was below the minimum established performance threshold, which resulted in no payout.

There were

no

TSR performance units vesting for the year ended

December 31, 2019

and the total fair value of TSR performance units vesting for the year ended

December 31,


and


was

$


million

and

$


million

for PPL and insignificant for PPL Electric and LKE.



Performance Units - Return on Equity

Beginning in 2017, PPL changed its executive compensation mix to add performance units based on achievement of a corporate Return on Equity (ROE). ROE performance units are intended to further align compensation with the company’s strategy and reward for future corporate performance.

Payout of these performance units will be based on the calculated average of the annual corporate ROE for each year of the three-year performance period for PPL Corporation. ROE performance units represent a target number of shares (Target Award) of PPL's common stock that the recipient would receive upon PPL's attainment of the applicable ROE performance goal. ROE performance units can be paid up to


%

of the Target Award or forfeited with no payout if performance is below a minimum established performance threshold. Dividends payable during the performance cycle accumulate and are converted into additional performance units and are payable in shares of PPL common stock upon completion of the performance period based on the CGNC's  determination of achievement of the performance goals. Under the plan provisions, these performance units are subject to forfeiture upon termination of employment other than retirement, disability or death of an employee.

The fair value of each ROE performance unit is based on the closing price of PPL Common Stock on the date of grant. The fair value of ROE performance units is recognized on a straight-line basis over the service period or through the date at which the employee reaches retirement eligibility. The fair value awards granted to retirement-eligible employees is recognized as compensation expense immediately upon the date of grant. As these awards are based on performance conditions, the level of attainment is monitored each reporting period and compensation expense is adjusted based on the expected attainment level.

The weighted-average grant date fair value of ROE performance units granted was:

ROE performance unit activity for


was:

Stock Options

PPL's CGNC eliminated the use of stock options due to changes in its long-term incentive mix beginning in January 2014

.

Under the Plans, stock options had been granted with an option exercise price per share not less than the fair value of PPL's common stock on the date of grant. Options outstanding at

December 31, 2019

, are fully vested. All options expire no later than


years

from the grant date. The options become exercisable immediately in certain situations, as defined by each of the Plans.



Stock option activity for


was:

For


,


and


, PPL received

$


million

,

$


million

and

$


million

in cash from stock options exercised. The total intrinsic value of stock options exercised for


was

$


million

,

insignificant

in


and

$


million

for


. The related income tax benefits realized were not significant.

Compensation Expense

Compensation expense for restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance units and stock options accounted for as equity awards, which for PPL Electric and LKE includes an allocation of PPL Services' expense, was:

The income tax benefit related to above compensation expense was as follows:

At

December 31, 2019

, unrecognized compensation expense related to nonvested stock awards was:

11. Retirement and Postemployment Benefits

(All Registrants)

Defined Benefits

Certain employees of PPL's domestic subsidiaries are eligible for pension benefits under non-contributory defined benefit pension plans with benefits based on length of service and final average pay, as defined by the plans. Effective January 1, 2012, PPL's primary defined benefit pension plan was closed to all newly hired salaried employees. Effective July 1, 2014, PPL's primary defined benefit pension plan was closed to all newly hired bargaining unit employees. Newly hired employees are eligible to participate in the PPL Retirement Savings Plan, a 401(k) savings plan with enhanced employer contributions.

The defined benefit pension plans of LKE and its subsidiaries were closed to new salaried and bargaining unit employees hired after December 31, 2005. Employees hired after December 31, 2005 receive additional company contributions above the standard matching contributions to their savings plans. The pension plans sponsored by LKE and LG&E were merged effective January 1, 2020 into the LG&E and KU Pension Plan. The merged plan is sponsored by LKE. LG&E and KU participate in this plan.



Effective April 1, 2010, the principal defined benefit pension plan applicable to WPD (South West) and WPD (South Wales) was closed to most new employees, except for those meeting specific grandfathered participation rights. WPD Midlands' defined benefit plan had been closed to new members, except for those meeting specific grandfathered participation rights, prior to acquisition. New employees not eligible to participate in the plans are offered benefits under a defined contribution plan.

PPL and certain of its subsidiaries also provide supplemental retirement benefits to executives and other key management employees through unfunded nonqualified retirement plans.

Certain employees of PPL's domestic subsidiaries are eligible for certain health care and life insurance benefits upon retirement through contributory plans. Effective January 1, 2014, the PPL Postretirement Medical Plan was closed to all newly hired salaried employees. Effective July 1, 2014, the PPL Postretirement Medical Plan was closed to all newly hired bargaining unit employees. Postretirement health benefits may be paid from 401(h) accounts established as part of the PPL Retirement Plan and the LG&E and KU Pension Plan within the PPL Services Corporation Master Trust, funded VEBA trusts and company funds. WPD does not sponsor any postretirement benefit plans other than pensions.

(PPL)

The following table provides the components of net periodic defined benefit costs (credits) for PPL's domestic (U.S.) and WPD's (U.K.) pension and other postretirement benefit plans for the years ended December 31.

(a)

WPD is not subject to accounting for the effects of certain types of regulation as prescribed by GAAP. As a result, WPD does not record regulatory assets/liabilities.



For PPL's U.S. pension benefits and for other postretirement benefits, the amounts recognized in OCI and regulatory assets/liabilities for the years ended December 31 were as follows:

(LKE)

The following table provides the components of net periodic defined benefit costs for LKE's pension and other postretirement benefit plans for the years ended December 31.

(a)

As a result of the 2014 Kentucky rate case settlement that became effective July 1, 2015, the difference between actuarial (gain)/loss calculated in accordance with LKE's pension accounting policy and actuarial (gain)/loss calculated using a


year amortization period was

$


million

in


and

$


million

in


and


.

(b)

Due to the amount of lump sum payment distributions from the LG&E qualified pension plan, settlement charges of

$


million

in 2019,

$


million

in 2018 and

$


million

in 2017 were incurred. In accordance with existing regulatory accounting treatment, LG&E has maintained the settlement charge in regulatory assets. The amount will be amortized in accordance with existing regulatory practice.

For LKE's pension and other postretirement benefits, the amounts recognized in OCI and regulatory assets/liabilities for the years ended December 31 were as follows:

(LG&E)

The following table provides the components of net periodic defined benefit costs for LG&E's pension benefit plan for the years ended December 31.



(a)

As a result of the 2014 Kentucky rate case settlement that became effective July 1, 2015, the difference between actuarial (gain)/loss calculated in accordance with LG&E's pension accounting policy and actuarial (gain)/loss calculated using a


year amortization period was

$


million

in


,

$


million

in


and

$


million

in


.

(b)

Due to the amount of lump sum payment distributions from the LG&E qualified pension plan, settlement charges of

$


million

in 2019,

$


million

in 2018 and

$


million

in 2017 were incurred. In accordance with existing regulatory accounting treatment, LG&E has maintained the settlement charge in regulatory assets. The amount will be amortized in accordance with existing regulatory practice.

(All Registrants)

The following net periodic defined benefit costs (credits) were charged to expense or regulatory assets, excluding amounts charged to construction and other non-expense accounts. The U.K. pension benefits apply to PPL only.

(a)

PPL Electric and KU do not directly sponsor any defined benefit plans. PPL Electric and KU were allocated these costs of defined benefit plans sponsored by PPL Services (for PPL Electric) and by LKE (for KU), based on their participation in those plans, which management believes are reasonable. KU is also allocated costs of defined benefit plans from LKS for defined benefit plans sponsored by LKE. See

Note 14

for additional information on costs allocated to KU from LKS.

(b)

As a result of the 2014 Kentucky rate case settlement that became effective July 1, 2015, the difference between net periodic defined benefit costs calculated in accordance with LKE's, LG&E's and KU's pension accounting policy and the net periodic defined benefit costs calculated using a


year amortization period for gains and losses is recorded as a regulatory asset. Of the costs charged to Other operation and maintenance, Other Income (Expense) - net or regulatory assets, excluding amounts charged to construction and other non-expense accounts,

$


million

for LG&E and

$


million

for KU were recorded as regulatory assets in


,

$


million

for LG&E and

$


million

for KU were recorded as regulatory assets in


and

$


million

for LG&E and

$


million

for KU were recorded as regulatory assets in


.

In the table above, LG&E amounts include costs for the specific plans it sponsors and the following allocated costs of defined benefit plans sponsored by LKE. LG&E is also allocated costs of defined benefit plans from LKS for defined benefit plans sponsored by LKE. See

Note 14

for additional information on costs allocated to LG&E from LKS. These allocations are based on LG&E's participation in those plans, which management believes are reasonable:



(PPL, LKE and LG&E)

PPL, LKE and LG&E use the base mortality tables issued by the Society of Actuaries in October 2014 (RP-2014 base tables with collar and factor adjustments, where applicable) for all U.S. defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. In 2017, PPL, LKE and LG&E updated to the MP-2017 mortality improvement scale from 2006 on a generational basis and continued to use this improvement scale in


.

The following weighted-average assumptions were used in the valuation of the benefit obligations at December 31. The U.K. pension benefits apply to PPL only.

The following weighted-average assumptions were used to determine the net periodic defined benefit costs for the years ended December 31. The U.K. pension benefits apply to PPL only.

(a)

The expected long-term rates of return for pension and other postretirement benefits are based on management's projections using a best-estimate of expected returns, volatilities and correlations for each asset class. Each plan's specific current and expected asset allocations are also considered in developing a reasonable return assumption.



(PPL and LKE)

The following table provides the assumed health care cost trend rates for the years ended December 31:

(PPL)

The funded status of PPL's plans at December 31 was as follows:



(a)

In May 2018, PPL received a favorable private letter ruling from the IRS permitting a transfer of excess funds from the PPL Bargaining Unit Retiree Health Plan VEBA to a new subaccount within the VEBA to be used to pay medical claims of active bargaining unit employees.

(b)

WPD is not subject to accounting for the effects of certain types of regulation as prescribed by GAAP and as a result, does not record regulatory assets/liabilities.

For PPL's U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans, the amounts recognized in AOCI and regulatory assets/liabilities at December 31 were as follows:

The actuarial (gain) loss for all pension plans in


and


was primarily related to a change in the discount rate used to measure the benefit obligations of those plans.

The following tables provide information on pension plans where the projected benefit obligation (PBO) or accumulated benefit obligation (ABO) exceed the fair value of plan assets:



(LKE)

The funded status of LKE's plans at December 31 was as follows:

(a)

Gross benefits paid by the plans include lump-sum cash payments made to participants during


and


of

$


million

and

$


million

.

(b)

The actuarial (gain) loss for all pension plans in


and


was primarily related to changes in the discount rate used to measure the benefit obligations of those plans.

The amounts recognized in AOCI and regulatory assets/liabilities at December 31 were as follows:



The following tables provide information on pension plans where the projected benefit obligation (PBO) or accumulated benefit obligations (ABO) exceed the fair value of plan assets:

(LG&E)

The funded status of LG&E's plan at December 31, was as follows:

(a)

Gross benefits paid by the plan include lump-sum cash payments made to participants during 2019 and 2018 of

$


million

and

$


million

.

LG&E's pension plan had plan assets in excess of projected and accumulated benefit obligations at

December 31, 2019

. LG&E's pension plan had projected and accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets at

December 31, 2018

.

In addition to the plan it sponsors, LG&E is allocated a portion of the funded status and costs of certain defined benefit plans sponsored by LKE. LG&E is also allocated costs of defined benefit plans from LKS for defined benefit plans sponsored by LKE. See

Note 14

for additional information on costs allocated to LG&E from LKS. These allocations are based on LG&E's participation in those plans, which management believes are reasonable. The actuarially determined obligations of current active employees and retired employees are used as a basis to allocate total plan activity, including active and retiree costs and obligations.

Allocations to LG&E resulted in (assets)/liabilities at December 31 as follows:



(PPL Electric)

Although PPL Electric does not directly sponsor any defined benefit plans, it is allocated a portion of the funded status and costs of plans sponsored by PPL Services based on its participation in those plans, which management believes are reasonable. The actuarially determined obligations of current active employees and retirees are used as a basis to allocate total plan activity, including active and retiree costs and obligations.

Allocations to PPL Electric resulted in liabilities at December 31 as follows:

(KU)

Although KU does not directly sponsor any defined benefit plans, it is allocated a portion of the funded status and costs of plans sponsored by LKE. KU is also allocated costs of defined benefit plans from LKS for defined benefit plans sponsored by LKE. See

Note 14

for additional information on costs allocated to KU from LKS. These allocations are based on KU's participation in those plans, which management believes are reasonable. The actuarially determined obligations of current active employees and retired employees of KU are used as a basis to allocate total plan activity, including active and retiree costs and obligations.

Allocations to KU resulted in (assets)/liabilities at December 31 as follows.

Plan Assets - U.S. Pension Plans

(PPL, LKE and LG&E)

PPL's primary legacy pension plan and the pension plans sponsored by LKE and LG&E are invested in the PPL Services Corporation Master Trust (the Master Trust) that also includes 401(h) accounts that are restricted for certain other postretirement benefit obligations of PPL and LKE. The investment strategy for the Master Trust is to achieve a risk-adjusted return on a mix of assets that, in combination with PPL's funding policy, will ensure that sufficient assets are available to provide long-term growth and liquidity for benefit payments, while also managing the duration of the assets to complement the duration of the liabilities. The Master Trust benefits from a wide diversification of asset types, investment fund strategies and external investment fund managers, and therefore has no significant concentration of risk.

The investment policy of the Master Trust outlines investment objectives and defines the responsibilities of the EBPB, external investment managers, investment advisor and trustee and custodian. The investment policy is reviewed annually by PPL's Board of Directors.

The EBPB created a risk management framework around the trust assets and pension liabilities. This framework considers the trust assets as being composed of three sub-portfolios: growth, immunizing and liquidity portfolios. The growth portfolio is comprised of investments that generate a return at a reasonable risk, including equity securities, certain debt securities and alternative investments. The immunizing portfolio consists of debt securities, generally with long durations, and derivative positions. The immunizing portfolio is designed to offset a portion of the change in the pension liabilities due to changes in interest rates. The liquidity portfolio consists primarily of cash and cash equivalents.

Target allocation ranges have been developed for each portfolio based on input from external consultants with a goal of limiting funded status volatility. The EBPB monitors the investments in each portfolio, and seeks to obtain a target portfolio that emphasizes reduction of risk of loss from market volatility. In pursuing that goal, the EBPB establishes revised guidelines from time to time. EBPB investment guidelines as of the end of


are presented below.



The asset allocation for the trust and the target allocation by portfolio at December 31 are as follows:

(a)

Allocations exclude consideration of a group annuity contract held by the LG&E and KU Retirement Plan.

(b)

Includes commingled debt funds, which PPL treats as debt securities for asset allocation purposes.

(LKE)

LKE has pension plans, including LG&E's plan, whose assets are invested solely in the Master Trust, which is fully disclosed below. The fair value of these plans' assets of

$

1.5

billion

and

$

1.3

billion

at

December 31, 2019

and


represents an interest of approximately


%

and


%

in the Master Trust.

(LG&E)

LG&E has a pension plan whose assets are invested solely in the Master Trust, which is fully disclosed below. The fair value of this plan's assets of

$


million

and

$


million

at

December 31, 2019

and


represents an interest of approximately


%

in the Master Trust.

(PPL, LKE and LG&E)

The fair value of net assets in the Master Trust by asset class and level within the fair value hierarchy was:



(a)

In accordance with accounting guidance certain investments that are measured at fair value using the net asset value per share (NAV), or its equivalent, practical expedient have not been classified in the fair value hierarchy. The fair value amounts presented in the table are intended to permit reconciliation of the fair value hierarchy to the amounts presented in the statement of financial position.

(b)

Receivables and payables, net represents amounts for investments sold/purchased but not yet settled along with interest and dividends earned but not yet received.

A reconciliation of the Master Trust assets classified as Level 3 at

December 31, 2019

is as follows:

A reconciliation of the Master Trust assets classified as Level 3 at

December 31, 2018

is as follows:

The fair value measurements of cash and cash equivalents are based on the amounts on deposit.

The market approach is used to measure fair value of equity securities. The fair value measurements of equity securities (excluding commingled funds), which are generally classified as Level 1, are based on quoted prices in active markets. These securities represent actively and passively managed investments that are managed against various equity indices.

Investments in commingled equity and debt funds are categorized as equity securities. Investments in commingled equity funds include funds that invest in U.S. and international equity securities. Investments in commingled debt funds include funds that invest in a diversified portfolio of emerging market debt obligations, as well as funds that invest in investment grade long-duration fixed-income securities.

The fair value measurements of debt securities are generally based on evaluations that reflect observable market information, such as actual trade information for identical securities or for similar securities, adjusted for observable differences. The fair value of debt securities is generally measured using a market approach, including the use of pricing models, which incorporate observable inputs. Common inputs include benchmark yields, relevant trade data, broker/dealer bid/ask prices, benchmark securities and credit valuation adjustments. When necessary, the fair value of debt securities is measured using the income approach, which incorporates similar observable inputs as well as payment data, future predicted cash flows, collateral performance and new issue data. For the Master Trust, these securities represent investments in securities issued by U.S. Treasury and U.S. government sponsored agencies; investments securitized by residential mortgages, auto loans, credit cards



and other pooled loans; investments in investment grade and non-investment grade bonds issued by U.S. companies across several industries; investments in debt securities issued by foreign governments and corporations.

Investments in real estate represent an investment in a partnership whose purpose is to manage investments in core U.S. real estate properties diversified geographically and across major property types (e.g., office, industrial, retail, etc.). The strategy is focused on properties with high occupancy rates with quality tenants. This results in a focus on high income and stable cash flows with appreciation being a secondary factor. Core real estate generally has a lower degree of leverage when compared with more speculative real estate investing strategies. The partnership has limitations on the amounts that may be redeemed based on available cash to fund redemptions. Additionally, the general partner may decline to accept redemptions when necessary to avoid adverse consequences for the partnership, including legal and tax implications, among others. The fair value of the investment is based upon a partnership unit value.

Investments in private equity represent interests in partnerships in multiple early-stage venture capital funds and private equity fund of funds that use a number of diverse investment strategies. The partnerships have limited lives of at least


years, after which liquidating distributions will be received. Prior to the end of each partnership's life, the investment cannot be redeemed with the partnership; however, the interest may be sold to other parties, subject to the general partner's approval. The Master Trust has unfunded commitments of

$


million

that may be required during the lives of the partnerships. Fair value is based on an ownership interest in partners' capital to which a proportionate share of net assets is attributed.

Investments in hedge funds represent investments in a fund of hedge funds. Hedge funds seek a return utilizing a number of diverse investment strategies. The strategies, when combined aim to reduce volatility and risk while attempting to deliver positive returns under most market conditions. Major investment strategies for the fund of hedge funds include long/short equity, tactical trading, event driven, and relative value. Shares may be redeemed with


days

prior written notice. The fund is subject to short term lockups and other restrictions. The fair value for the fund has been estimated using the net asset value per share.

The fair value measurements of derivative instruments utilize various inputs that include quoted prices for similar contracts or market-corroborated inputs. In certain instances, these instruments may be valued using models, including standard option valuation models and standard industry models. These securities primarily represent investments in treasury futures, total return swaps, interest rate swaps and swaptions (the option to enter into an interest rate swap), which are valued based on quoted prices, changes in the value of the underlying exposure or on the swap details, such as swap curves, notional amount, index and term of index, reset frequency, volatility and payer/receiver credit ratings.

In 2018, insurance contracts, classified as Level 3, represent an investment in an immediate participation guaranteed group annuity contract. The fair value is based on contract value, which represents cost plus interest income less distributions for benefit payments and administrative expenses. In 2019, obligations underlying the guaranteed group annuity contract were assumed by the insurance company, with a residual amount remaining in the general account of the insurer that will be paid into the master trust or distributed to participants.

Plan Assets - U.S. Other Postretirement Benefit Plans

The investment strategy with respect to other postretirement benefit obligations is to fund VEBA trusts and/or 401(h) accounts with voluntary contributions and to invest in a tax efficient manner. Excluding the 401(h) accounts included in the Master Trust, other postretirement benefit plans are invested in a mix of assets for long-term growth with an objective of earning returns that provide liquidity as required for benefit payments. These plans benefit from diversification of asset types, investment fund strategies and investment fund managers and, therefore, have no significant concentration of risk. Equity securities include investments in domestic large-cap commingled funds. Ownership interests in commingled funds that invest entirely in debt securities are classified as equity securities, but treated as debt securities for asset allocation and target allocation purposes. Ownership interests in money market funds are treated as cash and cash equivalents for asset allocation and target allocation purposes.

The asset allocation for the PPL VEBA trusts, excluding LKE, and the target allocation, by asset class, at December 31 are detailed below.



(a)

Includes commingled debt funds and debt securities.

(b)

Includes money market funds.

LKE's other postretirement benefit plan is invested primarily in a 401(h) account, as disclosed in the PPL Services Corporation Master Trust, with insignificant amounts invested in money market funds within VEBA trusts for liquidity.

The fair value of assets in the U.S. other postretirement benefit plans by asset class and level within the fair value hierarchy was:

(a)

In accordance with accounting guidance certain investments that are measured at fair value using the net asset value per share (NAV), or its equivalent, practical expedient have not been classified in the fair value hierarchy. The fair value amounts presented in the table are intended to permit reconciliation of the fair value hierarchy to the amounts presented in the statement of financial position.

(b)

Receivables and payables represent amounts for investments sold/purchased but not yet settled along with interest and dividends earned but not yet received.

Investments in money market funds represent investments in funds that invest primarily in a diversified portfolio of investment grade money market instruments, including, but not limited to, commercial paper, notes, repurchase agreements and other evidences of indebtedness with a maturity not exceeding


months from the date of purchase. The primary objective of the fund is a level of current income consistent with stability of principal and liquidity. Redemptions can be made daily on this fund.

Investments in large-cap equity securities represent investments in a passively managed equity index fund that invests in securities and a combination of other collective funds. Fair value measurements are not obtained from a quoted price in an active market but are based on firm quotes of net asset values per share as provided by the trustee of the fund. Redemptions can be made daily on this fund.

Investments in commingled debt securities represent investments in a fund that invests in a diversified portfolio of investment grade long-duration fixed income securities. Redemptions can be made daily on these funds.

Investments in corporate bonds represent investment in a diversified portfolio of investment grade long-duration fixed income securities. The fair value of debt securities are generally based on evaluations that reflect observable market information, such as actual trade information for identical securities or for similar securities, adjusted for observable differences.

Plan Assets - U.K. Pension Plans

(PPL)

The overall investment strategy of WPD's pension plans is developed by each plan's independent trustees in its Statement of Investment Principles in compliance with the U.K. Pensions Act of 1995 and other U.K. legislation. The trustees' primary focus



is to ensure that assets are sufficient to meet members' benefits as they fall due with a longer term objective to reduce investment risk. The investment strategy is intended to maximize investment returns while not incurring excessive volatility in the funding position. WPD's plans are invested in a wide diversification of asset types, fund strategies and fund managers; and therefore, have no significant concentration of risk. Commingled funds that consist entirely of debt securities are traded as equity units, but treated by WPD as debt securities for asset allocation and target allocation purposes. These include investments in U.K. corporate bonds and U.K. gilts.

The asset allocation and target allocation at December 31 of WPD's pension plans are detailed below.

(a)

Includes commingled debt funds.

The fair value of assets in the U.K. pension plans by asset class and level within the fair value hierarchy was:

(a)

In accordance with accounting guidance certain investments that are measured at fair value using the net asset value per share (NAV), or its equivalent, practical expedient have not been classified in the fair value hierarchy. The fair value amounts presented in the table are intended to permit reconciliation of the fair value hierarchy to the amounts presented in the statement of financial position.

(b)

Receivables and payables, net represents amounts for investments sold/purchased but not yet settled along with interest and dividends earned but not yet received.

Except for investments in real estate, the fair value measurements of WPD's pension plan assets are based on the same inputs and measurement techniques used to measure the U.S. pension plan assets described above.



Investments in equity securities represent actively and passively managed funds that are measured against various equity indices.

Other comprises a range of investment strategies, which invest in a variety of assets including equities, bonds, currencies, real estate and forestry held in unitized funds, which are considered in the Global Tactical Asset Allocation target.

U.K. corporate bonds include investment grade corporate bonds of companies from diversified U.K. industries.

U.K. gilts include gilts, index-linked gilts and swaps intended to track a portion of the plans' liabilities.

Investments in real estate represent holdings in a U.K. unitized fund that owns and manages U.K. industrial and commercial real estate with a strategy of earning current rental income and achieving capital growth. The fair value measurement of the fund is based upon a net asset value per share, which is based on the value of underlying properties that are independently appraised in accordance with Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors valuation standards at least annually with quarterly valuation updates based on recent sales of similar properties, leasing levels, property operations and/or market conditions. The fund may be subject to redemption restrictions in the unlikely event of a large forced sale in order to ensure other unit holders are not disadvantaged.

Expected Cash Flows - U.S. Defined Benefit Plans

(PPL)

While PPL's U.S. defined benefit pension plans have the option to utilize available prior year credit balances to meet current and future contribution requirements, PPL contributed

$


million

to its U.S. pension plans in January


.

No

additional contributions are expected in


.

PPL sponsors various non-qualified supplemental pension plans for which no assets are segregated from corporate assets. PPL expects to make approximately

$


million

of benefit payments under these plans in


.

PPL is not required to make contributions to its other postretirement benefit plans but has historically funded these plans in amounts equal to the postretirement benefit costs recognized. Continuation of this past practice would cause PPL to contribute

$


million

to its other postretirement benefit plans in


.

The following benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid by the plans and the following federal subsidy payments are expected to be received by PPL.

(LKE)

Effective January 1, 2020, the LKE and LG&E defined benefit pension plans were merged into a combined defined benefit pension plan. The following disclosures relate to the new combined LKE plan.

While LKE's defined benefit pension plan has the option to utilize available prior year credit balances to meet current and future contribution requirements, LKE contributed

$


million

to its pension plan in January


.

No

additional contributions are expected in 2020.

LKE sponsors various non-qualified supplemental pension plans for which no assets are segregated from corporate assets. LKE expects to make

$


million

of benefit payments under these plans in


.



LKE is not required to make contributions to its other postretirement benefit plan but has historically funded this plan in amounts equal to the postretirement benefit costs recognized. Continuation of this past practice would cause LKE to contribute a projected

$


million

to its other postretirement benefit plan in


.

The following benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid by the plans and the following federal subsidy payments are expected to be received by LKE.

Expected Cash Flows - U.K. Pension Plans

(PPL)

The pension plans of WPD are subject to formal actuarial valuations every

three years

, which are used to determine funding requirements. Contribution requirements were evaluated in accordance with the valuation performed as of March 31, 2016. WPD expects to make contributions of approximately

$


million

in


. WPD is currently permitted to recover in current revenues approximately


%

of its pension funding requirements for its primary pension plans.

The following benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid by the plans.

Savings Plans

(All Registrants)

Substantially all employees of PPL's subsidiaries are eligible to participate in deferred savings plans (401(k)s). Employer contributions to the plans were:

12. Jointly Owned Facilities

(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)

At

December 31, 2019

and


, the Balance Sheets reflect the owned interests in the generating plants listed below.



Each subsidiary owning these interests provides its own funding for its share of the facility. Each receives a portion of the total output of the generating plants equal to its percentage ownership. The share of fuel and other operating costs associated with the plants is included in the corresponding operating expenses on the Statements of Income.



13. Commitments and Contingencies

Energy Purchase Commitments

(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)

LG&E and KU enter into purchase contracts to supply the coal and natural gas requirements for generation facilities and LG&E's retail natural gas supply operations. These contracts include the following commitments:

LG&E and KU have a power purchase agreement with OVEC expiring in

June 2040

. See footnote (f) to the table in "Guarantees and Other Assurances" below for information on the OVEC power purchase contract, including recent developments in credit or debt conditions relating to OVEC.

Future obligations for power purchases from OVEC are demand payments, comprised of debt-service payments and contractually-required reimbursements of plant operating, maintenance and other expenses, and are projected as follows:

LG&E and KU had total energy purchases under the OVEC power purchase agreement for the years ended

December 31

as follows:

Legal Matters

(All Registrants)

PPL and its subsidiaries are involved in legal proceedings, claims and litigation in the ordinary course of business. PPL and its subsidiaries cannot predict the outcome of such matters, or whether such matters may result in material liabilities, unless otherwise noted.

Talen Litigation

(PPL)

Background

In September 2013, one of PPL's former subsidiaries, PPL Montana entered into an agreement to sell its hydroelectric generating facilities. In June 2014, PPL and PPL Energy Supply, the parent company of PPL Montana, entered into various definitive agreements with affiliates of Riverstone to spin off PPL Energy Supply and ultimately combine it with Riverstone's competitive power generation businesses to form a stand-alone company named Talen Energy. In November 2014, after executing the spinoff agreements but prior to the closing of the spinoff transaction, PPL Montana closed the sale of its hydroelectric generating facilities. Subsequently, on June 1, 2015, the spinoff of PPL Energy Supply was completed. Following the spinoff transaction, PPL had no continuing ownership interest in or control of PPL Energy Supply. In connection with the spinoff transaction, PPL Montana became Talen Montana, LLC (Talen Montana), a subsidiary of Talen Energy. Talen Energy



Marketing also became a subsidiary of Talen Energy as a result of the June 2015 spinoff of PPL Energy Supply. Talen Energy has owned and operated both Talen Montana and Talen Energy Marketing since the spinoff. At the time of the spinoff, affiliates of Riverstone acquired a


%

ownership interest in Talen Energy. Riverstone subsequently acquired the remaining interests in Talen Energy in a take private transaction in December 2016.

Talen Montana, LLC v. PPL Corporation et al.

On October 29, 2018, Talen Montana filed a complaint against PPL and certain of its affiliates and current and former officers and directors in the First Judicial District of the State of Montana, Lewis & Clark County (Talen Direct Action). Talen Montana alleges that in November 2014, PPL and certain officers and directors improperly distributed to PPL's subsidiaries

$


million

of the proceeds from the sale of Talen Montana's (then PPL Montana's) hydroelectric generating facilities, rendering PPL Montana insolvent. The complaint includes claims for, among other things, breach of fiduciary duty; aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty; breach of an LLC agreement; breach of the implied duty of good faith and fair dealing; tortious interference; negligent misrepresentation; and constructive fraud. Talen Montana is seeking unspecified damages, including punitive damages, and other relief. In December 2018, PPL moved to dismiss the Talen Direct Action for lack of jurisdiction and, in the alternative, to dismiss because Delaware is the appropriate forum to decide this case. In January 2019, Talen Montana dismissed without prejudice all current and former PPL Corporation directors from the case. The parties engaged in limited jurisdictional discovery, and the Court heard oral argument regarding the PPL parties' motion to dismiss on August 22, 2019. On December 4, 2019, the Court granted PPL's motion to dismiss and on December 26, 2019, a judgment dismissing all claims against all defendants with prejudice was signed by the Court.

Talen Montana Retirement Plan and Talen Energy Marketing, LLC, Individually and on Behalf of All Others Similarly Situated v. PPL Corporation et al.

Also on October 29, 2018, Talen Montana Retirement Plan and Talen Energy Marketing filed a putative class action complaint on behalf of current and contingent creditors of Talen Montana who allegedly suffered harm or allegedly will suffer reasonably foreseeable harm as a result of the November 2014 distribution. The action was filed in the Sixteenth Judicial District of the State of Montana, Rosebud County, against PPL and certain of its affiliates and current and former officers and directors (Talen Putative Class Action). The plaintiffs assert claims for, among other things, fraudulent transfer, both actual and constructive; recovery against subsequent transferees; civil conspiracy; aiding and abetting tortious conduct; and unjust enrichment.

They are seeking avoidance of the purportedly fraudulent transfer, unspecified damages, including punitive damages, the imposition of a constructive trust, and other relief. In December 2018, PPL removed the Talen Putative Class Action from the Sixteenth Judicial District of the State of Montana to the United States District Court for the District of Montana, Billings Division (MT Federal Court). In January 2019, the plaintiffs moved to remand the Talen Putative Class Action back to state court, and dismissed without prejudice all current and former PPL Corporation directors from the case. In September 2019, the MT Federal Court granted plaintiffs' motion to remand the case back to state court, and the PPL defendants promptly petitioned the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals to grant an appeal of the remand decision. On November 21, 2019, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals denied that request and on December 30, 2019, Talen Montana Retirement Plan filed a Second Amended Complaint in the Sixteenth Judicial District of the State of Montana, Rosebud County, which removed Talen Energy Marketing, LLC as a plaintiff. On January 31, 2020, PPL defendants filed a motion to dismiss the Second Amended Complaint.

PPL Corporation et al. vs. Riverstone Holdings LLC, Talen Energy Corporation et al.

On November 30, 2018, PPL, certain PPL affiliates, and certain current and former officers and directors (PPL plaintiffs) filed a complaint in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware seeking various forms of relief against Riverstone, Talen Energy and certain of their affiliates (Delaware Action). In the complaint, the PPL plaintiffs ask the Delaware Court of Chancery for declaratory and injunctive relief. This includes a declaratory judgment that, under the separation agreement governing the spinoff of PPL Energy Supply, all related claims that arise must be heard in Delaware; that the statute of limitations in Delaware and the spinoff agreement bar these claims at this point; that PPL is not liable for the claims in either the Talen Direct Action or the Talen Putative Class Action as PPL Montana was solvent at all relevant times; and that the separation agreement requires that Talen Energy indemnify PPL for all losses arising from the debts of Talen Montana, among other things. PPL's complaint also seeks damages against Riverstone for interfering with the separation agreement and against Riverstone affiliates for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. The complaint was subsequently amended on January 11, 2019 and March 20, 2019, including to add claims related to indemnification with respect to the Talen Direct Action and the Talen Putative Class Action (together, the Montana Actions), request a declaration that the Montana Actions are time-barred under the spinoff agreements, and allege additional facts to support the tortious interference claim. In April 2019, the defendants filed motions to dismiss the amended complaint. In July 2019, the Court heard oral arguments from the parties regarding the motions to dismiss. On October 23, 2019, the Delaware Court of Chancery returned its opinion on the defendants’ motions to dismiss sustaining all of the PPL plaintiffs' claims except for the claim for breach of implied covenant of good faith



and fair dealing. Discovery is underway, however, on January 30, 2020, the defendants filed new motions to dismiss five of the remaining eight claims in the amended complaint; the PPL plaintiffs are preparing their response. A tentative trial date has been scheduled for June 2021.

With respect to each of the Talen-related matters described above, PPL believes that the 2014 distribution of proceeds was made in compliance with all applicable laws and that PPL Montana was solvent at all relevant times. Additionally, the agreements entered into in connection with the spinoff, which PPL and affiliates of Talen Energy and Riverstone negotiated and executed prior to the 2014 distribution, directly address the treatment of the proceeds from the sale of PPL Montana's hydroelectric generating facilities; in those agreements, Talen Energy and Riverstone definitively agreed that PPL was entitled to retain the proceeds.

PPL believes that it has meritorious defenses to the claims made in the Talen Putative Class Action and intends to continue to vigorously defend against this action. The Talen Putative Class Action and the Delaware Action are both in early stages of litigation; at this time, PPL cannot predict the outcome of these matters or estimate the range of possible losses, if any, that PPL might incur as a result of the claims, although they could be material.

(PPL, LKE and LG&E)

Cane Run Environmental Claims

In December 2013,

six

residents, on behalf of themselves and others similarly situated, filed a class action complaint against LG&E and PPL in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Kentucky (U.S. District Court) alleging violations of the Clean Air Act, RCRA, and common law claims of nuisance, trespass and negligence. In July 2014, the U.S. District Court dismissed the RCRA claims and all but

one

Clean Air Act claim, but declined to dismiss the common law tort claims. In February 2017, the U.S. District Court dismissed PPL as a defendant and dismissed the final federal claim against LG&E, and in April 2017, issued an Order declining to exercise supplemental jurisdiction on the state law claims dismissing the case in its entirety. In June 2017, the plaintiffs filed a class action complaint in Jefferson County, Kentucky Circuit Court, against LG&E alleging state law nuisance, negligence and trespass tort claims. The plaintiffs seek compensatory and punitive damages for alleged property damage due to purported plant emissions on behalf of a class of residents within

one

to

three

miles of the plant. On January 8, 2020, the Jefferson Circuit Court issued an order denying the plaintiffs’ request for class certification. On January 14, 2020, the plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal in the Kentucky Court of Appeals. PPL, LKE and LG&E cannot predict the outcome of this matter and an estimate or range of possible losses cannot be determined.

(PPL, LKE and KU)

E.W. Brown Environmental Claims

In July 2017, the Kentucky Waterways Alliance and the Sierra Club filed a citizen suit complaint against KU in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Kentucky (U.S. District Court) alleging discharges at the E.W. Brown plant in violation of the Clean Water Act and the plant's water discharge permit and alleging contamination that may present an imminent and substantial endangerment in violation of the RCRA. The plaintiffs' suit relates to prior notices of intent to file a citizen suit submitted in October and November 2015 and October 2016. These plaintiffs sought injunctive relief ordering KU to take all actions necessary to comply with the Clean Water Act and RCRA, including ceasing the discharges in question, abating effects associated with prior discharges and eliminating the alleged imminent and substantial endangerment. These plaintiffs also sought assessment of civil penalties and an award of litigation costs and attorney fees. In December 2017, the U.S. District Court issued an Order dismissing the Clean Water Act and RCRA complaints against KU in their entirety. In January 2018, the plaintiffs appealed the dismissal Order to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. In September 2018, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit issued its ruling affirming the lower court's decision to dismiss the Clean Water Act claims but reversing its dismissal of the RCRA claims against KU and remanding the latter to the U.S. District Court. In October 2018, KU filed a petition for rehearing to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit regarding the RCRA claims. In November 2018, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit denied KU's petition for rehearing regarding the RCRA claims. In January 2019, KU filed an answer to plaintiffs’ complaint in the U.S. District Court. A trial has been scheduled to begin on October 5, 2020. PPL, LKE and KU cannot predict the outcome of these matters and an estimate or range of possible losses cannot be determined.

KU is undertaking extensive remedial measures at the E.W. Brown plant including closure of the former ash pond, implementation of a groundwater remedial action plan and performance of a corrective action plan including aquatic study of adjacent surface waters and risk assessment. The aquatic study and risk assessment are being undertaken pursuant to a 2017



agreed Order with the Kentucky Energy and Environment Cabinet (KEEC). KU conducted sampling of Herrington Lake in 2017 and 2018. In June 2019, KU submitted to the KEEC the required aquatic study and risk assessment, conducted by an independent third-party consultant, finding that discharges from the E.W. Brown plant have not had any significant impact on Herrington Lake and that the water in the lake is safe for recreational use and meets safe drinking water standards. However, until the KEEC assesses the study and issues any regulatory determinations, PPL, LKE and KU are unable to determine whether additional remedial measures will be required at the E.W. Brown plant.

Air

Sulfuric Acid Mist Emissions

(PPL, LKE and LG&E)

In June 2016, the EPA issued a notice of violation under the Clean Air Act alleging that LG&E violated applicable rules relating to sulfuric acid mist emissions at its Mill Creek plant. The notice alleges failure to install proper controls, failure to operate the facility consistent with good air pollution control practice, and causing emissions exceeding applicable requirements or constituting a nuisance or endangerment. LG&E believes it has complied with applicable regulations during the relevant time period. Discussions between the EPA and LG&E are ongoing. The parties have entered into a tolling agreement with respect to this matter through July 31, 2020. The parties are conducting initial negotiations regarding potential settlement of the matter. PPL, LKE and LG&E are unable to predict the outcome of this matter or the potential impact on operations of the Mill Creek plant, including increased capital or operating costs, and potential civil penalties or remedial measures, if any.

Water/Waste

(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)

ELGs

In 2015, the EPA finalized ELGs for wastewater discharge permits for new and existing steam electricity generating facilities. These guidelines require deployment of additional control technologies providing physical, chemical and biological treatment and mandate operational changes including "no discharge" requirements for certain wastewaters. The implementation date for individual generating stations was to be determined by the states on a case-by-case basis according to criteria provided by the EPA. Legal challenges to the final rule were consolidated before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. In April 2017, the EPA announced that it would grant petitions for reconsideration of the rule. In September 2017, the EPA issued a proposed rule to postpone the compliance date for certain requirements. The EPA expects to complete its reconsideration of best available technology standards by the fall of 2020. Upon completion of the ongoing regulatory proceedings, the rule will be implemented by the states in the course of their normal permitting activities. LG&E and KU are developing compliance strategies and schedules. PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU are unable to predict the outcome of the EPA's pending reconsideration of the rule or fully estimate compliance costs or timing. Additionally, certain aspects of these compliance plans and estimates relate to developments in state water quality standards, which are separate from the ELG rule or its implementation. Costs to comply with ELGs or other discharge limits are expected to be significant. Certain costs are included in the Registrants' capital plans and are subject to rate recovery.

CCRs

In 2015, the EPA issued a final rule governing management of CCRs which include fly ash, bottom ash and sulfur dioxide scrubber wastes. The CCR Rule imposes extensive new requirements for certain CCR impoundments and landfills, including public notifications, location restrictions, design and operating standards, groundwater monitoring and corrective action requirements, and closure and post-closure care requirements, and specifies restrictions relating to the beneficial use of CCRs. Legal challenges to the final rule are pending before the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals. In July 2018, the EPA issued a final rule extending the deadline for closure of certain impoundments and adopting other substantive changes. In August 2018, the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals vacated and remanded portions of the CCR Rule. In December 2019, the EPA addressed the deficiencies identified by the court and proposed amendments to change the closure deadline to August 31, 2020, but allow certain extensions. EPA has announced that additional amendments to the rule are planned. PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU are unable to predict the outcome of the ongoing litigation and rulemaking or potential impacts on current LG&E and KU compliance plans. The Registrants are currently finalizing closure plans and schedules.

In January 2017, Kentucky issued a new state rule relating to CCR management, effective May 2017, aimed at reflecting the requirements of the federal CCR rule. As a result of a subsequent legal challenge, in January 2018, the Franklin County, Kentucky Circuit Court issued an opinion invalidating certain procedural elements of the rule. LG&E and KU presently operate their facilities under continuing permits authorized under the former program and do not currently anticipate material impacts



as a result of the judicial ruling. The Kentucky Energy and Environmental Cabinet has announced it intends to propose new state rules aimed at addressing procedural deficiencies identified by the court and providing the regulatory framework necessary for operation of the state program in lieu of the federal CCR Rule. Associated costs are expected to be subject to rate recovery.

LG&E and KU received KPSC approval for a compliance plan providing for the closure of impoundments at the Mill Creek, Trimble County, E.W. Brown, and Ghent stations, and construction of process water management facilities at those plants. In addition to the foregoing measures required for compliance with the federal CCR rule, KU also received KPSC approval for its plans to close impoundments at the retired Green River, Pineville and Tyrone plants to comply with applicable state law. Since 2017, LG&E and KU have commenced closure of many of the subject impoundments and have completed closure of some of their smaller impoundments. LG&E and KU expect to commence closure of the remaining impoundments no later than August 2020. LG&E and KU generally expect to complete impoundment closures within five years of commencement, although a longer period may be required to complete closure of some facilities. Associated costs are expected to be subject to rate recovery.

In connection with the final CCR rule, LG&E and KU recorded adjustments to existing AROs beginning in 2015, and continue to record adjustments as required. See Note 19 for additional information. Further changes to AROs, current capital plans or operating costs may be required as estimates are refined based on closure developments, groundwater monitoring results, and regulatory or legal proceedings. Costs relating to this rule are subject to rate recovery.

(All Registrants)

Superfund and Other Remediation

PPL Electric, LG&E and KU are potentially responsible for investigating and remediating contamination under the federal Superfund program and similar state programs. Actions are under way at certain sites including former coal gas manufacturing plants in Pennsylvania and Kentucky previously owned or operated by, or currently owned by predecessors or affiliates of, PPL Electric, LG&E and KU. PPL Electric is potentially responsible for a share of clean-up costs at certain sites including the Columbia Gas Plant site and the Brodhead site. Cleanup actions have been or are being undertaken at all of these sites, the costs of which have not been and are not expected to be significant to PPL Electric.

As of

December 31, 2019

and

December 31, 2018

, PPL Electric had a recorded liability of

$


million

and

$


million

representing its best estimate of the probable loss incurred to remediate the sites identified above. Depending on the outcome of investigations at identified sites where investigations have not begun or been completed, or developments at sites for which information is incomplete, additional costs of remediation could be incurred. PPL Electric, LG&E and KU lack sufficient information about such additional sites to estimate any potential liability or range of reasonably possible losses, if any, related to these sites. Such costs, however, are not expected to be significant.

The EPA is evaluating the risks associated with polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and naphthalene, chemical by-products of coal gas manufacturing. As a result, individual states may establish stricter standards for water quality and soil cleanup, that could require several PPL subsidiaries to take more extensive assessment and remedial actions at former coal gas manufacturing plants. PPL, PPL Electric, LKE, LG&E and KU cannot estimate a range of possible losses, if any, related to these matters.

Regulatory Issues

See

Note 7

for information on regulatory matters related to utility rate regulation.

Electricity - Reliability Standards

The NERC is responsible for establishing and enforcing mandatory reliability standards (Reliability Standards) regarding the bulk electric system in North America. The FERC oversees this process and independently enforces the Reliability Standards.

The Reliability Standards have the force and effect of law and apply to certain users of the bulk electric system, including electric utility companies, generators and marketers. Under the Federal Power Act, the FERC may assess civil penalties for certain violations.

PPL Electric, LG&E and KU monitor their compliance with the Reliability Standards and self-report or self-log potential violations of applicable reliability requirements whenever identified, and submit accompanying mitigation plans, as required.



The resolution of a small number of potential violations is pending. Penalties incurred to date have not been significant. Any Regional Reliability Entity (including RFC or SERC) determination concerning the resolution of violations of the Reliability Standards remains subject to the approval of the NERC and the FERC.

In the course of implementing their programs to ensure compliance with the Reliability Standards by those PPL affiliates subject to the standards, certain other instances of potential non-compliance may be identified from time to time. The Registrants cannot predict the outcome of these matters, and an estimate or range of possible losses cannot be determined.

Other

Guarantees and Other Assurances

(All Registrants)

In the normal course of business, the Registrants enter into agreements that provide financial performance assurance to third parties on behalf of certain subsidiaries. Such agreements include, for example, guarantees, stand-by letters of credit issued by financial institutions and surety bonds issued by insurance companies. These agreements are entered into primarily to support or enhance the creditworthiness attributed to a subsidiary on a stand-alone basis or to facilitate the commercial activities in which these subsidiaries engage.

(PPL)

PPL fully and unconditionally guarantees all of the debt securities of PPL Capital Funding.

(All Registrants)

The table below details guarantees provided as of

December 31, 2019

.

"Exposure" represents the estimated maximum potential amount of future payments that could be required to be made under the guarantee. The probability of expected payment/performance under each of these guarantees is remote except for "WPD guarantee of pension and other obligations of unconsolidated entities," for which PPL has a total recorded liability of

$


million

at

December 31, 2019

and

$


million

at

December 31, 2018

. For reporting purposes, on a consolidated basis, all guarantees of PPL Electric, LKE, LG&E and KU also apply to PPL, and all guarantees of LG&E and KU also apply to LKE.

(a)

Indemnifications related to certain liabilities, including a specific unresolved tax issue and those relating to properties and assets owned by the seller that were transferred to WPD Midlands in connection with the acquisition. A cross indemnity has been received from the seller on the tax issue.

The maximum exposure and expiration of these indemnifications cannot be estimated because the maximum potential liability is not capped and the expiration date is not specified in the transaction documents.

(b)

Indemnification to the liquidators and certain others for existing liabilities or expenses or liabilities arising during the liquidation process. The indemnifications are limited to distributions made from the subsidiary to its parent either prior or subsequent to liquidation or are not explicitly stated in the agreements. The indemnifications generally expire

two

to

seven

years subsequent to the date of dissolution of the entities. The exposure noted only includes those cases where the agreements provide for specific limits.

In connection with their sales of various businesses, WPD and its affiliates have provided the purchasers with indemnifications that are standard for such transactions, including indemnifications for certain pre-existing liabilities and environmental and tax matters or have agreed to continue their obligations under existing third-party guarantees, either for a set period of time following the transactions or upon the condition that the purchasers make reasonable efforts to terminate the guarantees. Additionally, WPD and its affiliates remain secondarily responsible for lease payments under certain leases that they have assigned to third parties.

(c)

Relates to certain obligations of discontinued or modified electric associations that were guaranteed at the time of privatization by the participating members. Costs are allocated to the members and can be reallocated if an existing member becomes insolvent. At

December 31, 2019

, WPD has recorded



an estimated discounted liability for which the expected payment/performance is probable. Neither the expiration date nor the maximum amount of potential payments for certain obligations is explicitly stated in the related agreements, and as a result, the exposure has been estimated.

(d)

A third party logistics firm provides inventory procurement and fulfillment services. The logistics firm currently has title to the inventory, however, upon termination of the contracts, PPL Electric has guaranteed to purchase any remaining inventory that has not been used or sold. In December 2019, PPL Electric declared its intent to terminate the firm’s inventory procurement and fulfillment services effective March 2020. This guarantee has an estimated exposure of $


million

, which PPL Electric will assume subsequent to the termination date. In accordance with the agreement termination terms, PPL Electric has an obligation to purchase any remaining inventory within 90 days from termination date.

(e)

LKE provides certain indemnifications covering the due and punctual payment, performance and discharge by each party of its respective obligations. The most comprehensive of these guarantees is the LKE guarantee covering operational, regulatory and environmental commitments and indemnifications made by WKE under a 2009 Transaction Termination Agreement. This guarantee has a term of


years

ending July 2021, and a maximum exposure of

$


million

, exclusive of certain items such as government fines and penalties that may exceed the maximum.

Additionally, LKE has indemnified various third parties related to historical obligations for other divested subsidiaries and affiliates. The indemnifications vary by entity and the maximum exposures range from being capped at the sale price to no specified maximum. LKE could be required to perform on these indemnifications in the event of covered losses or liabilities being claimed by an indemnified party. LKE cannot predict the ultimate outcomes of the various indemnification scenarios, but does not expect such outcomes to result in significant losses above the amounts recorded.

(f)

Pursuant to the OVEC power purchase contract, LG&E and KU are obligated to pay for their share of OVEC's excess debt service, post-retirement and decommissioning costs, as well as any shortfall from amounts included within a demand charge designed and expected to cover these costs over the term of the contract. LKE's proportionate share of OVEC's outstanding debt was

$


million

at

December 31, 2019

, consisting of LG&E's share of

$


million

and KU's share of

$


million

.

The maximum exposure and the expiration date of these potential obligations are not presently determinable.

See "Energy Purchase Commitments" above for additional information on the OVEC power purchase contract.

In March 2018, a sponsor with a 4.85% pro-rata share of OVEC obligations filed for bankruptcy under Chapter 11 and, in August 2018, received a rejection order for the OVEC power purchase contract in the bankruptcy proceeding. In October 2019, the bankruptcy court issued an order confirming the sponsor's proposed reorganization plan. OVEC and other entities are challenging the contract rejection, the bankruptcy plan confirmation and potential FERC approval of the plan in various forums, and, in December 2019, an appellate court remanded the contract rejection issue for further proceedings. The plan's effective date remains subject to certain conditions precedent, including FERC regulatory approval, and relevant aspects of the contract rejection and the plan subject to on-going appellate, bankruptcy and regulatory proceedings. OVEC and certain of its sponsors, including LG&E and KU, are analyzing certain potential additional credit support actions to preserve OVEC's access to credit markets or mitigate risks or adverse impacts relating thereto, including increased interest costs, establishing or continuing debt reserve accounts or other changes involving OVEC's existing short and long-term debt. The ultimate outcome of these matters, including the sponsor bankruptcy and related appellate or regulatory proceedings, OVEC structural or financial steps relating thereto and any other potential impact on LG&E's and KU's obligations relating to OVEC under the power purchase contract cannot be predicted.

The Registrants provide other miscellaneous guarantees through contracts entered into in the normal course of business. These guarantees are primarily in the form of indemnification or warranties related to services or equipment and vary in duration. The amounts of these guarantees often are not explicitly stated, and the overall maximum amount of the obligation under such guarantees cannot be reasonably estimated. Historically, no significant payments have been made with respect to these types of guarantees and the probability of payment/performance under these guarantees is remote.

PPL, on behalf of itself and certain of its subsidiaries, maintains insurance that covers liability assumed under contract for bodily injury and property damage. The coverage provides maximum aggregate coverage of

$


million

. This insurance may be applicable to obligations under certain of these contractual arrangements.

14. Related Party Transactions

Wholesale Sales and Purchases

(LG&E and KU)

LG&E and KU jointly dispatch their generation units with the lowest cost generation used to serve their retail customers. When LG&E has excess generation capacity after serving its own retail customers and its generation cost is lower than that of KU, KU purchases electricity from LG&E and vice versa. These transactions are reflected in the Statements of Income as "Electric revenue from affiliate" and "Energy purchases from affiliate" and are recorded at a price equal to the seller's fuel cost plus any split savings. Savings realized from such intercompany transactions are shared equally between both companies. The volume of energy each company has to sell to the other is dependent on its retail customers' needs and its available generation.

Support Costs

(PPL Electric, LKE, LG&E and KU)

PPL Services, PPL EU Services and LKS provide PPL, PPL Electric and LKE, their respective subsidiaries, including LG&E and KU, and each other with administrative, management and support services. For all services companies, the costs of directly assignable and attributable services are charged to the respective recipients as direct support costs. General costs that cannot be directly attributed to a specific entity are allocated and charged to the respective recipients as indirect support costs. PPL Services and PPL EU Services use a three-factor methodology that includes the applicable recipients' invested capital, operation and maintenance expenses and number of employees to allocate indirect costs. PPL Services may also use a ratio of overall direct and indirect costs or a weighted average cost ratio. LKS bases its indirect allocations on the subsidiaries' number of employees, total assets, revenues, number of customers and/or other statistical information.

PPL Services, PPL EU Services and LKS charged the following amounts for the years ended December 31, including amounts applied to accounts that are



further distributed between capital and expense on the books of the recipients, based on methods that are believed to be reasonable.

In addition to the charges for services noted above, LKS makes payments on behalf of LG&E and KU for fuel purchases and other costs for products or services provided by third parties. LG&E and KU also provide services to each other and to LKS. Billings between LG&E and KU relate to labor and overheads associated with union and hourly employees performing work for the other company, charges related to jointly-owned generating units and other miscellaneous charges. Tax settlements between LKE and LG&E and KU are reimbursed through LKS.

Intercompany Borrowings

(PPL Electric)

PPL Energy Funding maintains a

$


million

revolving line of credit with a PPL Electric subsidiary.

No

balance was outstanding at

December 31, 2019

and


. The interest rates on borrowings are equal to one-month LIBOR plus a spread. Interest income is reflected in "Interest Income from Affiliate" on the Income Statements.

(LKE)

LKE maintains a

$


million

revolving line of credit with a PPL Energy Funding subsidiary whereby LKE can borrow funds on a short-term basis at market-based rates. The interest rates on borrowings are equal to one-month LIBOR plus a spread. At

December 31, 2019

and


,

$


million

and

$


million

were outstanding and reflected in "Notes payable with affiliates" on the Balance Sheets. The interest rate on the outstanding borrowings at

December 31, 2019

and


were

3.20

%

and

3.85

%

. Interest expense on the revolving line of credit was not significant for


,


or


.

LKE maintains an agreement with a PPL affiliate that has a

$


million

borrowing limit whereby LKE can loan funds on a short-term basis at market-based rates.

No

balance was outstanding at

December 31, 2019

and


. The interest rate on the

loan based on the PPL affiliates credit rating is currently equal to one-month LIBOR plus a spread.

LKE maintains ten-year notes of

$


million

and

$


million

with a PPL affiliate with interest rates of

3.5

%

and


%

. At

December 31, 2019

and


, the notes were reflected in "Long-term debt to affiliate" on the Balance Sheets. Interest expense on the

$


million

note was

$


million

for


,


and


. Interest Expense on the

$


million

note was

$


million

for 2019 and

$


million

for


.

(LG&E)

LG&E participates in an intercompany money pool agreement whereby LKE and/or KU make available to LG&E funds up to

$


million

at an interest rate based on a market index of commercial paper issues.

No

balances were outstanding at

December 31, 2019

and


.

(KU)

KU participates in an intercompany money pool agreement whereby LKE and/or LG&E make available to KU funds up to

$


million

at an interest rate based on a market index of commercial paper issues.

No

balances were outstanding at

December 31, 2019

and


.

VEBA Funds Receivable

(PPL Electric)

In May 2018, PPL received a favorable private letter ruling from the IRS permitting a transfer of excess funds from the PPL Bargaining Unit Retiree Health Plan VEBA to a new subaccount within the VEBA, to be used to pay medical claims of active bargaining unit employees. Based on PPL Electric's participation in PPL’s Other Postretirement Benefit plan, PPL Electric was allocated a portion of the excess funds from PPL Services. These funds have been recorded as an intercompany receivable on



the Balance Sheets. The receivable balance decreases as PPL Electric pays incurred medical claims and is reimbursed by PPL Services. The intercompany receivable balance associated with these funds was

$


million

as of

December 31, 2019

, of which

$


million

was reflected in "Accounts receivable from affiliates" and

$


million

was reflected in "Other noncurrent assets" on the Balance Sheets.

Other

(PPL Electric, LKE, LG&E and KU)

See

Note 1

for discussions regarding the intercompany tax sharing agreement (for PPL Electric, LKE, LG&E and KU) and intercompany allocations of stock-based compensation expense (for PPL Electric and LKE). For PPL Electric, LG&E and KU, see

Note 11

for discussions regarding intercompany allocations associated with defined benefits.

15. Other Income (Expense) - net

(PPL)

The components of "Other Income (Expense) - net" for the years ended

December 31,

were:

(PPL Electric)

The components of "Other Income (Expense) - net" for the years ended

December 31,

were:

16. Fair Value Measurements

(All Registrants)

Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date (an exit price). A market approach (generally, data from market transactions), an income approach (generally, present value techniques and option-pricing models), and/or a cost approach (generally, replacement cost) are used to measure the fair value of an asset or liability, as appropriate. These valuation approaches incorporate inputs such as observable, independent market data and/or unobservable data that management believes are predicated on the assumptions market participants would use to price an asset or liability. These inputs may incorporate, as



applicable, certain risks such as nonperformance risk, which includes credit risk.

The fair value of a group of financial assets and liabilities is measured on a net basis.

See Note


for information on the levels in the fair value hierarchy.

Recurring Fair Value Measurements

The assets and liabilities measured at fair value were:



(a)

Current portion is included in "Other current assets" and long-term portion is included in "Other noncurrent assets" on the Balance Sheets.

(b)

In accordance with accounting guidance, certain investments that are measured at fair value using net asset value per share (NAV), or its equivalent, have not been classified in the fair value hierarchy. The fair value amounts presented in the table are intended to permit reconciliation of the fair value hierarchy to the amounts presented in the statement of financial position.

(c)

Current portion is included in "Price risk management assets" and "Other current liabilities" and noncurrent portion is included in "Price risk management assets" and "Other deferred credits and noncurrent liabilities" on the Balance Sheets.

Special Use Funds

(PPL)

The special use funds are investments restricted for paying active union employee medical costs. In May 2018, PPL received a favorable private letter ruling from the IRS permitting a transfer of excess funds from the PPL Bargaining Unit Retiree Health Plan VEBA to a new subaccount within the VEBA to be used to pay medical claims of active bargaining unit employees. In 2019, the funds are invested primarily in commingled debt and equity funds measured at NAV. The funds are classified as investments in equity securities. Changes in the fair value of the funds are recorded to the Statement of Income. In 2018, the funds were invested in money market funds.

Price Risk Management Assets/Liabilities - Interest Rate Swaps/Foreign Currency Contracts/Cross-Currency Swaps

(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)

To manage interest rate risk, PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU use interest rate contracts such as forward-starting swaps, floating-to-fixed swaps and fixed-to-floating swaps. To manage foreign currency exchange risk, PPL uses foreign currency contracts such as forwards, options, and cross-currency swaps that contain characteristics of both interest rate and foreign currency contracts. An income approach is used to measure the fair value of these contracts, utilizing readily observable inputs, such as forward interest rates (e.g., LIBOR and government security rates) and forward foreign currency exchange rates (e.g., GBP), as well as inputs that may not be observable, such as credit valuation adjustments. In certain cases, market information cannot practicably be obtained to value credit risk and therefore internal models are relied upon. These models use projected probabilities of default and estimated recovery rates based on historical observances. When the credit valuation adjustment is significant to the overall valuation, the contracts are classified as Level 3.

Financial Instruments Not Recorded at Fair Value

(All Registrants)

The carrying amounts of long-term debt on the Balance Sheets and their estimated fair values are set forth below.

Long-term debt is classified as Level 2. The effect of third-party credit enhancements is not included in the fair value measurement.

(a)

Amounts are net of debt issuance costs.

The carrying amounts of other current financial instruments (except for long-term debt due within one year) approximate their fair values because of their short-term nature.



17. Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

Risk Management Objectives

(All Registrants)

PPL has a risk management policy approved by the Board of Directors to manage market risk associated with commodities, interest rates on debt issuances and foreign exchange (including price, liquidity and volumetric risk) and credit risk (including non-performance risk and payment default risk). The Risk Management Committee, comprised of senior management and chaired by the Senior Director-Risk Management, oversees the risk management function. Key risk control activities designed to ensure compliance with the risk policy and detailed programs include, but are not limited to, credit review and approval, validation of transactions, verification of risk and transaction limits, value-at-risk analyses (VaR, a statistical model that attempts to estimate the value of potential loss over a given holding period under normal market conditions at a given confidence level) and the coordination and reporting of the Enterprise Risk Management program.

Market Risk

Market risk includes the potential loss that may be incurred as a result of price changes associated with a particular financial or commodity instrument as well as market liquidity and volumetric risks. Forward contracts, futures contracts, options, swaps and structured transactions are utilized as part of risk management strategies to minimize unanticipated fluctuations in earnings caused by changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. Many of these contracts meet the definition of a derivative. All derivatives are recognized on the Balance Sheets at their fair value, unless NPNS is elected.

The following summarizes the market risks that affect PPL and its subsidiaries.

Interest Rate Risk

•

PPL and its subsidiaries are exposed to interest rate risk associated with forecasted fixed-rate and existing floating-rate debt issuances. PPL and WPD hold over-the-counter cross currency swaps to limit exposure to market fluctuations on interest and principal payments from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. PPL, LKE and LG&E utilize over-the-counter interest rate swaps to limit exposure to market fluctuations on floating-rate debt. PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU utilize forward starting interest rate swaps to hedge changes in benchmark interest rates, when appropriate, in connection with future debt issuances.

•

PPL and its subsidiaries are exposed to interest rate risk associated with debt securities and derivatives held by defined benefit plans. This risk is significantly mitigated to the extent that the plans are sponsored at, or sponsored on behalf of, the regulated domestic utilities and for certain plans at WPD due to the recovery methods in place.

Foreign Currency Risk

(PPL)

•

PPL is exposed to foreign currency exchange risk primarily associated with its investments in and earnings of U.K. affiliates.

(All Registrants)

Commodity Price Risk

PPL is exposed to commodity price risk through its domestic subsidiaries as described below.

•

PPL Electric is required to purchase electricity to fulfill its obligation as a PLR. Potential commodity price risk is insignificant and mitigated through its PUC-approved cost recovery mechanism and full-requirement supply agreements to serve its PLR customers which transfer the risk to energy suppliers.

•

LG&E's and KU's rates include certain mechanisms for fuel, fuel-related expenses and energy purchases. In addition, LG&E's rates include a mechanism for natural gas supply expenses. These mechanisms generally provide for timely recovery of market price fluctuations associated with these expenses.

Volumetric Risk

Volumetric risk is the risk related to the changes in volume of retail sales due to weather, economic conditions or other factors.

PPL is exposed to volumetric risk through its subsidiaries as described below.



•

WPD is exposed to volumetric risk which is significantly mitigated as a result of the method of regulation in the U.K. Under the RIIO-ED1 price control regulations, recovery of such exposure occurs on a two year lag. See Note 1 for additional information on revenue recognition under RIIO-ED1.

•

PPL Electric, LG&E and KU are exposed to volumetric risk on retail sales, mainly due to weather and other economic conditions for which there is limited mitigation between rate cases.

Equity Securities Price Risk

•

PPL and its subsidiaries are exposed to equity securities price risk associated with the fair value of the defined benefit plans' assets. This risk is significantly mitigated at the regulated domestic utilities and for certain plans at WPD due to the recovery methods in place.

•

PPL is exposed to equity securities price risk from future stock sales and/or purchases.

Credit Risk

Credit risk is the potential loss that may be incurred due to a counterparty's non-performance.

PPL is exposed to credit risk from "in-the-money" transactions with counterparties, as well as additional credit risk through certain of its subsidiaries, as discussed below.

In the event a supplier of PPL Electric, LG&E or KU defaults on its obligation, those Registrants would be required to seek replacement power or replacement fuel in the market. In general, subject to regulatory review or other processes, appropriate incremental costs incurred by these entities would be recoverable from customers through applicable rate mechanisms, thereby mitigating the financial risk for these entities.

PPL and its subsidiaries have credit policies in place to manage credit risk, including the use of an established credit approval process, daily monitoring of counterparty positions and the use of master netting agreements or provisions. These agreements generally include credit mitigation provisions, such as margin, prepayment or collateral requirements. PPL and its subsidiaries may request additional credit assurance, in certain circumstances, in the event that the counterparties' credit ratings fall below investment grade, their tangible net worth falls below specified percentages or their exposures exceed an established credit limit.

Master Netting Arrangements

(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)

Net derivative positions on the balance sheets are not offset against the right to reclaim cash collateral (a receivable) or the obligation to return cash collateral (a payable) under master netting arrangements.

PPL had a

$


million

and

$


million

obligation to return cash collateral under master netting arrangements at

December 31, 2019

and


.

PPL had

no

obligation to post cash collateral under master netting arrangements at

December 31, 2019

and


.

LKE, LG&E and KU had

no

obligation to return cash collateral under master netting arrangements at

December 31, 2019

and


.

LKE, LG&E and KU had

no

cash collateral posted under master netting arrangements at

December 31, 2019

and


.

See "Offsetting Derivative Instruments" below for a summary of derivative positions presented in the balance sheets where a right of setoff exists under these arrangements.

Interest Rate Risk

(All Registrants)

PPL and its subsidiaries issue debt to finance their operations, which exposes them to interest rate risk. A variety of financial derivative instruments are utilized to adjust the mix of fixed and floating interest rates in their debt portfolios, adjust the duration of the debt portfolios and lock in benchmark interest rates in anticipation of future financing, when appropriate. Risk limits under PPL's risk management program are designed to balance risk exposure to volatility in interest expense and changes



in the fair value of the debt portfolio due to changes in benchmark interest rates. In addition, the interest rate risk of certain subsidiaries is potentially mitigated as a result of the existing regulatory framework or the timing of rate cases.

Cash Flow Hedges

(PPL)

Interest rate risks include exposure to adverse interest rate movements for outstanding variable rate debt and for future anticipated financings. Financial interest rate swap contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges may be entered into to hedge floating interest rate risk associated with both existing and anticipated debt issuances. PPL had no such contracts at

December 31, 2019

.

At

December 31, 2019

, PPL held an aggregate notional value in cross-currency interest rate swap contracts of

$


million

that range in maturity from 2021 through 2028 to hedge the interest payments and principal of WPD's U.S. dollar-denominated senior notes.

Cash flow hedges are discontinued if it is no longer probable that the original forecasted transaction will occur by the end of the originally specified time period and any amounts previously recorded in AOCI are reclassified into earnings once it is determined that the hedged transaction is not probable of occurring.

For 2019 and 2018, PPL had

no

cash flow hedges reclassified into earnings associated with discontinued cash flow hedges and had an insignificant amount of cash flow hedges reclassified into earnings associated with discontinued cash flow hedges in 2017.

At

December 31, 2019

, the amount of accumulated net unrecognized after-tax gains (losses) on qualifying derivatives expected to be reclassified into earnings during the next 12 months is insignificant. Amounts are reclassified as the hedged interest expense is recorded.

Economic Activity

(PPL, LKE and LG&E)

LG&E enters into interest rate swap contracts that economically hedge interest payments on variable rate debt. Because realized gains and losses from the swaps, including terminated swap contracts, are recoverable through regulated rates, any subsequent changes in fair value of these derivatives are included in regulatory assets or liabilities until they are realized as interest expense. Realized gains and losses are recognized in "Interest Expense" on the Statements of Income at the time the underlying hedged interest expense is recorded. At

December 31, 2019

, LG&E held contracts with a notional amount of

$


million

that range in maturity through 2033.

Foreign Currency Risk

(PPL)

PPL is exposed to foreign currency risk, primarily through investments in and earnings of U.K. affiliates. PPL has adopted a foreign currency risk management program designed to hedge certain foreign currency exposures, including firm commitments, recognized assets or liabilities, anticipated transactions and net investments. In addition, PPL enters into financial instruments to protect against foreign currency translation risk of expected GBP earnings.

Net Investment Hedges

PPL enters into foreign currency contracts on behalf of a subsidiary to protect the value of a portion of its net investment in WPD. There were no contracts outstanding at

December 31, 2019

.

At

December 31, 2019

and


, PPL had

$


million

and

$


million

of accumulated net investment hedge after tax gains (losses) that were included in the foreign currency translation adjustment component of AOCI.

Economic Activity

PPL enters into foreign currency contracts on behalf of a subsidiary to economically hedge GBP-denominated anticipated earnings. At

December 31, 2019

, the total exposure hedged by PPL was approximately

£


million

(approximately

$

1.3

billion

based on contracted rates). These contracts have termination dates ranging from January 2020 through December 2020.



Accounting and Reporting

(All Registrants)

All derivative instruments are recorded at fair value on the Balance Sheet as an asset or liability unless NPNS is elected. NPNS contracts for PPL and PPL Electric include certain full-requirement purchase contracts and other physical purchase contracts. Changes in the fair value of derivatives not designated as NPNS are recognized in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met and designated as such, except for the changes in fair values of LG&E's interest rate swaps that are recognized as regulatory assets or regulatory liabilities.

See

Note 7

for amounts recorded in regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities at

December 31, 2019

and


.

See

Note 1

for additional information on accounting policies related to derivative instruments.

(PPL)

The following table presents the fair value and location of derivative instruments recorded on the Balance Sheets:

(a)

Current portion is included in "Price risk management assets" and "Other current liabilities" and noncurrent portion is included in "Price risk management assets" and "Other deferred credits and noncurrent liabilities" on the Balance Sheets.

(b)

Excludes accrued interest, if applicable.

The following tables present the pre-tax effect of derivative instruments recognized in income, OCI or regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities:



The following table presents the effect of cash flow hedge activity on the Statement of Income for the year ended December 31, 2019:



(LKE and LG&E)

The following table presents the fair value and the location on the Balance Sheets of derivatives not designated as hedging instruments:

The following tables present the pre-tax effect of derivatives not designated as cash flow hedges that are recognized in income or regulatory assets:

(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)

Offsetting Derivative Instruments

PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU or certain of their subsidiaries have master netting arrangements in place and also enter into agreements pursuant to which they purchase or sell certain energy and other products. Under the agreements, upon termination of the agreement as a result of a default or other termination event, the non-defaulting party typically would have a right to set off amounts owed under the agreement against any other obligations arising between the two parties (whether under the agreement or not), whether matured or contingent and irrespective of the currency, place of payment or place of booking of the obligation.

PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU have elected not to offset derivative assets and liabilities and not to offset net derivative positions against the right to reclaim cash collateral pledged (an asset) or the obligation to return cash collateral received (a liability) under derivatives agreements.

The table below summarizes the derivative positions presented in the balance sheets where a right of setoff exists under these arrangements and related cash collateral received or pledged.



Credit Risk-Related Contingent Features

Certain derivative contracts contain credit risk-related contingent features which, when in a net liability position, would permit the counterparties to require the transfer of additional collateral upon a decrease in the credit ratings of PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU or certain of their subsidiaries. Most of these features would require the transfer of additional collateral or permit the counterparty to terminate the contract if the applicable credit rating were to fall below investment grade. Some of these features also would allow the counterparty to require additional collateral upon each downgrade in credit rating at levels that remain above investment grade. In either case, if the applicable credit rating were to fall below investment grade, and assuming no assignment to an investment grade affiliate were allowed, most of these credit contingent features require either immediate payment of the net liability as a termination payment or immediate and ongoing full collateralization on derivative instruments in net liability positions.

Additionally, certain derivative contracts contain credit risk-related contingent features that require adequate assurance of performance be provided if the other party has reasonable concerns regarding the performance of PPL's, LKE's, LG&E's and KU's obligations under the contracts. A counterparty demanding adequate assurance could require a transfer of additional collateral or other security, including letters of credit, cash and guarantees from a creditworthy entity. This would typically involve negotiations among the parties. However, amounts disclosed below represent assumed immediate payment or immediate and ongoing full collateralization for derivative instruments in net liability positions with "adequate assurance" features.

(PPL, LKE and LG&E)

At

December 31, 2019

, derivative contracts in a net liability position that contain credit risk-related contingent features, collateral posted on those positions and the related effect of a decrease in credit ratings below investment grade are summarized as follows:

(a)

Includes the effect of net receivables and payables already recorded on the Balance Sheet.

18. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

Goodwill

(PPL)

The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by segment were:



(a)

There were no accumulated impairment losses related to goodwill.

(b)

Recognized as a result of the acquisition of Safari Energy.

Other Intangible Assets

(PPL)

The gross carrying amount and the accumulated amortization of other intangible assets were:

(a)

Gross carrying amount in 2019 and 2018 includes the fair value at the acquisition date of the OVEC power purchase contract with terms favorable to market recognized as a result of the 2010 acquisition of LKE by PPL.

Current intangible assets are included in "Other current assets" and long-term intangible assets are included in "Other intangibles" on the Balance Sheets.

Amortization expense for each of the next five years is estimated to be:



(PPL Electric)

The gross carrying amount and the accumulated amortization of other intangible assets were:

Intangible assets are shown as "Intangibles" on the Balance Sheets.

Amortization expense was insignificant in


,


and


and is expected to be insignificant in future years.

(LKE)

The gross carrying amount and the accumulated amortization of other intangible assets were:

(a)

Gross carrying amount represents the fair value at the acquisition date of the OVEC power purchase contract recognized as a result of the 2010 acquisition by PPL. An offsetting regulatory liability was recorded related to this contract, which is being amortized over the same period as the intangible asset, eliminating any income statement impact. See

Note 7

for additional information.

Long-term intangible assets are presented as "Other intangibles" on the Balance Sheets.

Amortization expense was as follows:

Amortization expense for each of the next five years is estimated to be:



(LG&E)

The gross carrying amount and the accumulated amortization of other intangible assets were:

(a)

Gross carrying amount represents the fair value at the acquisition date of the OVEC power purchase contract recognized as a result of the 2010 acquisition by PPL. An offsetting regulatory liability was recorded related to this contract, which is being amortized over the same period as the intangible asset, eliminating any income statement impact. See

Note 7

for additional information.

Long-term intangible assets are presented as "Other intangibles" on the Balance Sheets.

Amortization expense was as follows:

Amortization expense for each of the next five years is estimated to be:

(KU)

The gross carrying amount and the accumulated amortization of other intangible assets were:

(a)

Gross carrying amount represents the fair value at the acquisition date of the OVEC power purchase contract recognized as a result of the 2010 acquisition by PPL. An offsetting regulatory liability was recorded related to this contract, which is being amortized over the same period as the intangible asset, eliminating any income statement impact. See

Note 7

for additional information.

Long-term intangible assets are presented as "Other intangibles" on the Balance Sheets.

Amortization expense was as follows:

Amortization expense for each of the next five years is estimated to be:



19. Asset Retirement Obligations

(PPL)

WPD has recorded conditional AROs required by U.K. law related to treated wood poles, gas-filled switchgear and fluid-filled cables.

(PPL and PPL Electric)

PPL Electric has identified legal retirement obligations for the retirement of certain transmission assets that could not be reasonably estimated due to indeterminable settlement dates. These assets are located on rights-of-way that allow the grantor to require PPL Electric to relocate or remove the assets. Since this option is at the discretion of the grantor of the right-of-way, PPL Electric is unable to determine when these events may occur.

(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)

PPL's LKE's, LG&E's and KU's ARO liabilities are primarily related to CCR closure costs. See

Note 13

for information on the CCR rule. LG&E also has AROs related to natural gas mains and wells. LG&E's and KU's transmission and distribution lines largely operate under perpetual property easement agreements, which do not generally require restoration upon removal of the property. Therefore, no material AROs are recorded for transmission and distribution assets. For LKE, LG&E and KU, all ARO accretion and depreciation expenses are reclassified as a regulatory asset. For other AROs, at the time of retirement, the related ARO regulatory asset is offset against the associated cost of removal regulatory liability, PP&E and ARO liability.

The changes in the carrying amounts of AROs were as follows:

20. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)

(PPL and LKE)

The after-tax changes in AOCI by component for the years ended December 31 were as follows:





The following table presents PPL's gains (losses) and related income taxes for reclassifications from AOCI for the years ended

December 31, 2019

,


and


.

LKE amounts are insignificant for the years ended

December 31, 2019

,


and


. The defined benefit plan components of AOCI are not reflected in their entirety in the statement of income; rather, they are included in the computation of net periodic defined benefit costs (credits) and subject to capitalization. See

Note 11

for additional information.

21. New Accounting Guidance Pending Adoption

(All Registrants)

Accounting for Financial Instrument Credit Losses

In June 2016, the FASB issued accounting guidance that requires the use of a current expected credit loss (CECL) model for the measurement of credit losses on financial instruments within the scope of this guidance, which includes accounts receivable. The CECL model requires an entity to measure credit losses using historical information, current information and reasonable and supportable forecasts of future events, rather than the incurred loss impairment model required under current GAAP.

The Registrants adopted the guidance using a modified retrospective through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings on January 1, 2020. The adoption of this guidance did not have a significant impact on the Registrants.

Accounting for Implementation Costs in a Cloud Computing Service Arrangement

In August 2018, the FASB issued accounting guidance that requires a customer in a cloud computing hosting arrangement that is a service contract to capitalize implementation costs consistent with internal-use software guidance for non-service arrangements. Prior guidance had not addressed these implementation costs. The guidance requires these capitalized implementation costs to be amortized over the term of the hosting arrangement to the statement of income line item where the service arrangement costs are recorded. The guidance also prescribes the financial statement classification of the capitalized implementation costs and cash flows associated with the arrangement. Additional quantitative and qualitative disclosures are also required.

The Registrants adopted this guidance prospectively effective January 1, 2020. The adoption of this guidance did not have a significant impact on the Registrants.



Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment

(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)

In January 2017, the FASB issued accounting guidance that simplifies the test for goodwill impairment by eliminating the second step of the quantitative test. The second step of the quantitative test requires a calculation of the implied fair value of goodwill, which is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill in a business combination. Under this new guidance, an entity will now compare the estimated fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying value and recognize an impairment charge for the amount the carrying amount exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit.

The Registrants adopted this guidance on January 1, 2020. The adoption of this guidance did not have a significant impact on the Registrants.



SCHEDULE I - LG&E and KU Energy LLC

CONDENSED UNCONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,

(Millions of Dollars)

The accompanying Notes to Condensed Unconsolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of the financial statements.



SCHEDULE I - LG&E and KU Energy LLC

CONDENSED UNCONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,

(Millions of Dollars)

The accompanying Notes to Condensed Unconsolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of the financial statements.



SCHEDULE I - LG&E and KU Energy LLC

CONDENSED UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS AT DECEMBER 31,

(Millions of Dollars)

The accompanying Notes to Condensed Unconsolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of the financial statements.



Schedule I - LG&E and KU Energy LLC

Notes to Condensed Unconsolidated Financial Statements

1. Basis of Presentation

LG&E and KU Energy LLC (LKE) is a holding company and conducts substantially all of its business operations through its subsidiaries. Substantially all of its consolidated assets are held by such subsidiaries. LKE uses the equity method to account for its investments in entities in which it has a controlling financial interest. LKE's cash flow and its ability to meet its obligations are largely dependent upon the earnings of these subsidiaries and the distribution or other payment of such earnings to it in the form of dividends or repayment of loans and advances from the subsidiaries. These condensed financial statements and related footnotes have been prepared in accordance with Reg. §210.12-04 of Regulation S-X. These statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto of LKE.

LKE indirectly or directly owns all of the ownership interests of its significant subsidiaries. LKE relies primarily on dividends from its subsidiaries to fund LKE's distributions to its member and to meet its other cash requirements. See

Note 8

to LKE's consolidated financial statements for discussions related to restricted net assets of its subsidiaries for the purposes of transferring funds to LKE in the form of distributions, loans or advances.

2. Commitments and Contingencies

See

Note 13

to LKE's consolidated financial statements for commitments and contingencies of its subsidiaries.

Guarantees

LKE provides certain indemnifications covering the due and punctual payment, performance and discharge by each party of its respective obligations. The most comprehensive of these guarantees is the LKE guarantee covering operational, regulatory and environmental commitments and indemnifications made by WKE under a 2009 Transaction Termination Agreement. This guarantee has a term of


years

ending July 2021, and a maximum exposure of

$


million

, exclusive of certain items such as government fines and penalties that may exceed the maximum.

Additionally, LKE has indemnified various third parties related to historical obligations for other divested subsidiaries and affiliates. The indemnifications vary by entity and the maximum exposures range from being capped at the sale price to no specified maximum. LKE could be required to perform on these indemnifications in the event of covered losses or liabilities being claimed by an indemnified party. LKE cannot predict the ultimate outcomes of the various indemnification scenarios, but does not expect such outcomes to result in significant losses above the amounts recorded.

3. Long-Term Debt

See

Note 8

to LKE's consolidated financial statements for the terms of LKE's outstanding senior unsecured notes outstanding. Of the total outstanding,

$


million

matures in 2020 and

$


million

matures in 2021. These maturities are based on stated maturities. Also see

Note 8

to LKE's consolidated financial statements for the terms of LKE's

$


million

in notes payable to a PPL affiliate. These notes range in maturity through 2028.



QUARTERLY FINANCIAL AND DIVIDEND DATA (Unaudited)

PPL Corporation and Subsidiaries

(Millions of Dollars, except per share data)

(a)

Quarterly results can vary depending on, among other things, weather. Accordingly, comparisons among quarters of a year may not be indicative of overall trends and changes in operations.

(b)

The sum of the quarterly amounts may not equal annual earnings per share due to changes in the number of common shares outstanding during the year or rounding.



QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (Unaudited)

PPL Electric Utilities Corporation and Subsidiaries

(Millions of Dollars)

(a)

PPL Electric's business is seasonal in nature, with peak sales periods generally occurring in the winter and summer months. Accordingly, comparisons among quarters of a year may not be indicative of overall trends and changes in operations.



ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS

ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

PPL Corporation, PPL Electric Utilities Corporation, LG&E and KU Energy LLC, Louisville Gas and Electric Company and Kentucky Utilities Company

None.

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

(a)

Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures.

PPL Corporation, PPL Electric Utilities Corporation, LG&E and KU Energy LLC, Louisville Gas and Electric Company and Kentucky Utilities Company

The Registrants' principal executive officers and principal financial officers, based on their evaluation of the Registrants' disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) have concluded that, as of

December 31, 2019

, the Registrants' disclosure controls and procedures are effective to ensure that material information relating to the Registrants and their consolidated subsidiaries is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified by the SEC's rules and forms, particularly during the period for which this annual report has been prepared. The aforementioned principal officers have concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures are also effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports filed under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, including the principal executive officers and principal financial officers, to allow for timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

(b)

Changes in internal control over financial reporting.

PPL Corporation, PPL Electric Utilities Corporation, LG&E and KU Energy LLC, Louisville Gas and Electric Company, and Kentucky Utilities Company

The Registrants' principal executive officers and principal financial officers have concluded that there were no changes in the Registrants' internal control over financial reporting during the Registrants' fourth fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Registrants' internal control over financial reporting.

Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

PPL Corporation

PPL's management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f). PPL's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance to PPL's management and Board of Directors regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.

Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in "Internal Control - Integrated Framework" (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on our evaluation under the framework in "Internal Control - Integrated Framework" (2013), our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective

December 31, 2019

. The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting has been audited by Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report contained on page 81.

PPL Electric Utilities Corporation, LG&E and KU Energy LLC, Louisville Gas and Electric Company and Kentucky Utilities Company

Management of PPL's non-accelerated filer companies, PPL Electric, LKE, LG&E and KU, are responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f). Each of the aforementioned companies' internal control over financial reporting is a process



designed to provide reasonable assurance to management and Board of Directors of these companies regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.

Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including the principal executive officers and principal financial officers of the companies listed above, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in "Internal Control - Integrated Framework" (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on our evaluation under the framework in "Internal Control - Integrated Framework" (2013), management of these companies concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of

December 31, 2019

. This annual report does not include an attestation report of Deloitte & Touche LLP, the companies' independent registered public accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting for these non-accelerated filer companies. The effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting for the aforementioned companies was not subject to attestation by the companies' registered public accounting firm pursuant to rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission that permit these companies to provide only management's report in this annual report.

ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION

PPL Corporation, PPL Electric Utilities Corporation, LG&E and KU Energy LLC, Louisville Gas and Electric Company and Kentucky Utilities Company

None.

PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

PPL Corporation

Additional information for this item will be set forth in the sections entitled "Nominees for Directors" and "Board Committees - Board Committee Membership" in PPL's


Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement, which will be filed with the SEC not later than 120 days after

December 31, 2019

, and which information is incorporated herein by reference. There have been no changes to the procedures by which shareowners may recommend nominees to PPL's board of directors since the filing with the SEC of PPL's


Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement.

PPL has adopted a code of ethics entitled "Standards of Integrity" that applies to all directors, managers, trustees, officers (including the principal executive officers, principal financial officers and principal accounting officers (each, a "principal officer")), employees and agents of PPL and PPL's subsidiaries for which it has operating control (PPL Electric, LKE, LG&E and KU). The "Standards of Integrity" are posted on PPL's Internet website:

www.pplweb.com/Standards-of-Integrity

. A description of any amendment to the "Standards of Integrity" (other than a technical, administrative or other non-substantive amendment) will be posted on PPL's Internet website within four business days following the date of the amendment. In addition, if a waiver constituting a material departure from a provision of the "Standards of Integrity" is granted to one of the principal officers, a description of the nature of the waiver, the name of the person to whom the waiver was granted and the date of the waiver will be posted on PPL's Internet website within four business days following the date of the waiver.

PPL also has adopted its "Guidelines for Corporate Governance," which address, among other things, director qualification standards and director and board committee responsibilities. These guidelines, and the charters of each of the committees of PPL's board of directors, are posted on PPL's Internet website:

www.pplweb.com/Guidelines

and

www.pplweb.com/board-committees

.

PPL Electric Utilities Corporation, LG&E and KU Energy LLC, Louisville Gas and Electric Company and Kentucky Utilities Company

Item 10 is omitted as PPL Electric, LKE, LG&E and KU meet the conditions set forth in General Instruction (I)(1)(a) and (b) of Form 10-K.



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANTS

Officers of the Registrants are elected annually by their Boards of Directors to serve at the pleasure of the respective Boards. There are no family relationships among any of the executive officers, nor is there any arrangement or understanding between any executive officer and any other person pursuant to which the officer was selected.

There have been no events under any bankruptcy act, no criminal proceedings and no judgments or injunctions material to the evaluation of the ability and integrity of any executive officer during the past five years.

Listed below are the executive officers at

December 31, 2019

.

PPL Corporation

(a)

Designated an executive officer of PPL by virtue of their respective positions at a PPL subsidiary.



ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

PPL Corporation

Information for this item will be set forth in the sections entitled "Compensation of Directors," "The Board's Role in Risk Oversight" and "Executive Compensation" in PPL's


Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement, which will be filed with the SEC not later than 120 days after

December 31, 2019

, and which information is incorporated herein by reference.

PPL Electric Utilities Corporation, LG&E and KU Energy LLC, Louisville Gas and Electric Company and Kentucky Utilities Company

Item 11 is omitted as PPL Electric, LKE, LG&E and KU meet the conditions set forth in General Instructions (I)(1)(a) and (b) of Form 10-K.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

PPL Corporation

Information for this item will be set forth in the section entitled "Stock Ownership" in PPL's


Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement, which will be filed with the SEC not later than 120 days after

December 31, 2019

, and which information is incorporated herein by reference. In addition, provided below in tabular format is information as of

December 31, 2019

, with respect to compensation plans (including individual compensation arrangements) under which equity securities of PPL are authorized for issuance.

Equity Compensation Plan Information

(1)

Includes (a) the ICP, under which stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance units, dividend equivalents and other stock-based awards were awarded to executive officers of PPL and no awards remain for issuance under this plan; (b) the ICPKE, under which stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance units, dividend equivalents and other stock-based awards may be awarded to non-executive key employees of PPL and its subsidiaries; (c) the PPL 2012 SIP approved by shareowners in 2012 under which stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance units, dividend equivalents and other stock-based awards may be awarded to executive officers of PPL and its subsidiaries; and (d) the DDCP, under which stock units may be awarded to directors of PPL. See

Note 10

to the Financial Statements for additional information.

(2)

All of PPL's current compensation plans under which equity securities of PPL are authorized for issuance have been approved by PPL's shareowners.

(3)

Relates to common stock issuable upon the exercise of stock options awarded under the ICP, SIP and ICPKE as of

December 31, 2019

. In addition, as of

December 31, 2019

, the following other securities had been awarded and are outstanding under the ICP, SIP, ICPKE and DDCP:

369,827

restricted stock units,

524,632

TSR performance awards and

392,509

ROE performance awards under the SIP;

767,858

restricted stock units

214,759

TSR performance awards and

178,257

ROE performance awards under the ICPKE; and

563,356

stock units under the DDCP.



(4)

Based upon the following aggregate award limitations under the ICP, SIP, ICPKE and DDCP: (a) under the ICP, 15,769,431 awards (i.e., 5% of the total PPL common stock outstanding as of April 23, 1999) granted after April 23, 1999; (b) under the SIP, 15,000,000 awards; (c) under the ICPKE, 16,573,608 awards (i.e., 5% of the total PPL common stock outstanding as of January 1, 2003) granted after April 25, 2003, reduced by outstanding awards for which common stock was not yet issued as of such date of 2,373,812 resulting in a limit of 14,199,796; and (d) under the DDCP, the number of stock units available for issuance was reduced to 2,000,000 stock units in March 2012. In addition, each of the ICP and ICPKE includes an annual award limitation of 2% of total PPL common stock outstanding as of January 1 of each year.

PPL Electric Utilities Corporation, LG&E and KU Energy LLC, Louisville Gas and Electric Company and Kentucky Utilities Company

Item 12 is omitted as PPL Electric, LKE, LG&E and KU meet the conditions set forth in General Instructions (I)(1)(a) and (b) of Form 10-K.



ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE

PPL Corporation

Information for this item will be set forth in the sections entitled "Transactions with Related Persons" and "Independence of Directors" in PPL's


Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement, which will be filed with the SEC not later than 120 days after

December 31, 2019

, and is incorporated herein by reference.

PPL Electric Utilities Corporation, LG&E and KU Energy LLC, Louisville Gas and Electric Company and Kentucky Utilities Company

Item 13 is omitted as PPL Electric, LKE, LG&E and KU meet the conditions set forth in General Instructions (I)(1)(a) and (b) of Form 10-K.

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES

PPL Corporation

Information for this item will be set forth in the section entitled "Fees to Independent Auditor for


and


" in PPL's


Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement, which will be filed with the SEC not later than 120 days after

December 31, 2019

, and which information is incorporated herein by reference.

PPL Electric Utilities Corporation

For the fiscal years ended


and


, Deloitte & Touche LLP (Deloitte) served as PPL Electric's independent auditor. The following table presents an allocation of fees billed, including expenses, by the independent auditor to PPL Electric, for professional services rendered for the audits of PPL Electric's annual financial statements and for fees billed for other services rendered by Deloitte.

(a)

Includes estimated fees for audit of annual financial statements and review of financial statements included in PPL Electric's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and for services in connection with statutory and regulatory filings or engagements, including comfort letters and consents for financings and filings made with the SEC.

(b)

Fees for agreed-upon procedures related to annual EPA filings.

(c)

Fees for services related to Puerto Rico hurricane recovery efforts.

LG&E and KU Energy LLC

For the fiscal years ended


and


, Deloitte served as LKE's independent auditor. The following table presents an allocation of fees billed, including expenses, by the independent auditor to LKE, for professional services rendered for the audits of LKE's annual financial statements and for fees billed for other services rendered by Deloitte.

(a)

Includes estimated fees for audit of annual financial statements and review of financial statements included in LKE's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and for services in connection with statutory and regulatory filings or engagements, including comfort letters and consents for financings and filings made with the SEC.

(b)

Includes fees for agreed-upon procedures related to Kentucky Energy and Environment Cabinet forms.



Louisville Gas and Electric Company

For the fiscal years ended


and


, Deloitte served as LG&E's independent auditor. The following table presents an allocation of fees billed, including expenses, by the independent auditor to LG&E, for professional services rendered for the audits of LG&E's annual financial statements and for fees billed for other services rendered by Deloitte.

(a)

Includes estimated fees for audit of annual financial statements and review of financial statements included in LG&E's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and for services in connection with statutory and regulatory filings or engagements, including comfort letters and consents for financings and filings made with the SEC.

(b)

Includes fees for agreed-upon procedures related to Kentucky Energy and Environment Cabinet forms.

Kentucky Utilities Company

For the fiscal years ended


and


, Deloitte served as KU's independent auditor. The following table presents an allocation of fees billed, including expenses, by the independent auditor to KU, for professional services rendered for the audits of KU's annual financial statements and for fees billed for other services rendered by Deloitte.

(a)

Includes estimated fees for audit of annual financial statements and review of financial statements included in KU's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and for services in connection with statutory and regulatory filings or engagements, including comfort letters and consents for financings and filings made with the SEC.

(b)

Includes fees for agreed-upon procedures related to Kentucky Energy and Environment Cabinet forms.

PPL Corporation, PPL Electric Utilities Corporation, LG&E and KU Energy LLC, Louisville Gas and Electric Company and Kentucky Utilities Company

Approval of Fees.

The Audit Committee of PPL has procedures for pre-approving audit and non-audit services to be provided by the independent auditor. These procedures are designed to ensure the continued independence of the independent auditor. More specifically, the use of the independent auditor to perform either audit or non-audit services is prohibited unless specifically approved in advance by the Audit Committee of PPL. As a result of this approval process, the Audit Committee of PPL has pre-approved specific categories of services and authorization levels. All services outside of the specified categories and all amounts exceeding the authorization levels are approved by the Chair of the Audit Committee of PPL, who serves as the Committee designee to review and approve audit and non-audit related services during the year. A listing of the approved audit and non-audit services is reviewed with the full Audit Committee of PPL no later than its next meeting.

The Audit Committee of PPL approved 100% of the


and


services provided by Deloitte.



PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

PPL Corporation, PPL Electric Utilities Corporation, LG&E and KU Energy LLC, Louisville Gas and Electric Company and Kentucky Utilities Company

(a)  The following documents are filed as part of this report:

1.

Financial Statements - Refer to the "Table of Contents" for an index of the financial statements included in this report.

2.

Supplementary Data and Supplemental Financial Statement Schedule - included in response to Item 8.

Schedule I - LG&E and KU Energy LLC Condensed Unconsolidated Financial Statements.

All other schedules are omitted because of the absence of the conditions under which they are required or because the required information is included in the financial statements or notes thereto.

3.

Exhibits

See Exhibit Index immediately following the signature pages.



SHAREOWNER AND INVESTOR INFORMATION

Annual Meeting

:

The 2020 annual meeting of shareowners of PPL will be held on Wednesday, May 13, 2020, at the PPL Center, 701 Hamilton St., Allentown, PA 18101.

Proxy Statement Material

:

A proxy statement and notice of PPL's annual meeting will be provided to all shareowners who are holders of record as of February 28, 2020. The latest proxy statement can be accessed at www.pplweb.com/PPLCorpProxy.

PPL Annual Report

:

The report will be published in the beginning of April and will be provided to all shareowners who are holders of record as of February 28, 2020. The latest annual report can be accessed at www.pplweb.com/PPLCorpProxy.

Dividends

:

Subject to the declaration of dividends on PPL common stock by the PPL Board of Directors or its Executive Committee, dividends are paid on the first business day of April, July, October and January. The 2020 record dates for dividends are expected to be March 10, June 10, September 10 and December 10.

PPL's Website

(www.pplweb.com):

Shareowners can access PPL publications such as annual and quarterly reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC Forms 10-K and 10-Q), other PPL filings, corporate governance materials, news releases, stock quotes and historical performance. Visitors to our website can subscribe to receive automated email alerts for SEC filings, earnings releases, daily stock prices or other financial news.

Financial reports which are available at

www.pplweb.com

will be mailed without charge upon request.

By mail:

PPL Treasury Dept.

Two North Ninth Street

Allentown, PA 18101

By email: invserv@pplweb.com

By telephone:

610-774-5151 or Toll-free at 1-800-345-3085

Online Account Access

:

Registered shareowners can activate their account for online access by visiting shareowneronline.com.

Direct Stock Purchase and Dividend Reinvestment Plans (Plan):

PPL offers investors the opportunity to acquire shares of PPL common stock through its Plan. Through the Plan, participants are eligible to invest up to $25,000 per calendar month in PPL common stock. Shareowners may choose to have dividends on their PPL common stock fully or partially reinvested in PPL common stock or can receive full payment of cash dividends by check or electronic funds transfer. Participants in the Plan may choose to have their common stock certificates deposited into their Plan account.

Direct Registration System:

PPL participates in the Direct Registration System (DRS). Shareowners may choose to have their common stock certificates converted to book entry form within the DRS by submitting their certificates to PPL's transfer agent.

Listed Securities:

New York Stock Exchange

PPL Corporation:

Common Stock (Code: PPL)

PPL Capital Funding, Inc.:

2007 Series A Junior Subordinated Notes due 2067 (Code: PPL/67)

2013 Series B Junior Subordinated Notes due 2073 (Code: PPX)



Fiscal Agents:

Transfer Agent and Registrar; Dividend Disbursing Agent; Plan Administrator

Equiniti Trust Company

Shareowner Services

1110 Centre Pointe Curve, Suite 101

Mendota Heights, MN 55120

Toll Free: 1-800-345-3085

Outside U.S.: 651-450-4064

Website: shareowneronline.com

Indenture Trustee

The Bank of New York Mellon

Corporate Trust Administration

500 Ross Street

Pittsburgh, PA 15262



EXHIBIT INDEX

The following Exhibits indicated by an asterisk preceding the Exhibit number are filed herewith. The balance of the Exhibits has heretofore been filed with the Commission and pursuant to Rule 12(b)-32 are incorporated herein by reference. Exhibits indicated by a [_] are filed or listed pursuant to Item 601(b)(10)(iii) of Regulation S-K.







































SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

PPL Corporation

(Registrant)



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

PPL Electric Utilities Corporation

(Registrant)



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

LG&E and KU Energy LLC

(Registrant)



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Louisville Gas and Electric Company

(Registrant)



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Kentucky Utilities Company

(Registrant)

253