
10-K


                                  FORM  10-K

                                 UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549

(Mark  One)

[X]           ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

FOR  THE  FISCAL  YEAR  ENDED  DECEMBER  31,  1999
                                      OR

[    ]                TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

FOR  THE  TRANSITION  PERIOD  FROM  _______________  TO  _______________

Commission  file  number  1-225

                          KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)


           DELAWARE                                    39-0394230
         (State or other jurisdiction of            (I.R.S. Employer
        incorporation or organization)              Identification No.)

      P. O. BOX 619100, DALLAS, TEXAS                  75261-9100
    (Address of principal executive offices)           (ZIP CODE)



      Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (972) 281-1200

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

    Title of each class              Name of each exchange on which registered
- -------------------------------      -----------------------------------------
Common Stock - $1.25 Par Value       New York Stock Exchange
Preferred Stock Purchase Rights      Chicago Stock Exchange
                                     Pacific Exchange



       Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate  by  check  mark  whether  the  registrant  (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securit-ies Exchange Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12  months  (or for such shorter period that the
registrant  was  required  to  file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such  filing  requirements  for  the  past  90  days. Yes   X.   No.
                                                          ----      -----

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of  Regulation  S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best  of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated  by  reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this  Form  10-K.  [X]

As of March  17, 2000, 546,361,849 shares of common stock were outstanding, and
the  aggregate  market  value  of  the  registrant's  common  stock  held  by
non-affiliates  on such date (based on the closing stock price on the New York
Stock  Exchange)  was  approximately  $29.5 billion.

                                  (Continued)


FACING  SHEET
(CONTINUED)


DOCUMENTS  INCORPORATED  BY  REFERENCE

Kimberly-Clark Corporation's 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders and 2000 Proxy
Statement  contain  much  of  the  information required in this Form 10-K, and
portions  of  those  documents  are  incorporated by reference herein from the
applicable  sections  thereof.  The following table identifies the sections of
this  Form  10-K  which incorporate by reference portions of the Corporation's
1999  Annual  Report  to  Stockholders and 2000 Proxy Statement.  The Items of
this Form 10-K, where applicable, specify which portions of such documents are
incorporated  by  reference.    The  portions  of  such  documents  that  are
not  incorporated  by  reference  shall  not  be  deemed  to be filed with the
Commission  as  part  of  this Form  10-K.



DOCUMENT OF WHICH PORTIONS                ITEMS OF THIS FORM 10-K
ARE INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE              IN WHICH INCORPORATED
- ----------------------------------------  -----------------------

1999 Annual Report to Stockholders        PART I
(Year ended December 31, 1999)             ITEM 1.  Business

                                          PART II
                                           ITEM 5.  Market for the Registrant's
                                              Common Stock and Related
                                              Stockholder Matters

                                           ITEM 7.  Management's Discussion and
                                              Analysis of Financial Condition
                                              and Results of Operations

                                           ITEM 7A. Quantitative and
                                              Qualitative Disclosures About
                                              Market Risk

                                           ITEM 8.  Financial Statements and
                                              Supplementary Data

                                          PART IV
                                           ITEM 14.  Exhibits, Financial
                                              Statement Schedules and Reports
                                              on Form 8-K


2000 Proxy Statement                      PART III
                                           ITEM 10.  Directors and Executive
                                              Officers of the Registrant

                                           ITEM 11.  Executive Compensation

                                           ITEM 12.  Security Ownership of
                                              Certain Beneficial Owners and
                                              Management

                                           ITEM 13.  Certain Relationships and
                                              Related Transactions



PART  I

ITEM  1.  BUSINESS

Kimberly-Clark  Corporation  was incorporated in Delaware in 1928.  As used in
Items  1,  2  and  7  of  this  Form  10-K,  the  term "Corporation" refers to
Kimberly-Clark  Corporation  and  its  consolidated  subsidiaries.    In  the
remainder of this Form 10-K, the terms "Kimberly-Clark" or "Corporation" refer
only to Kimberly-Clark Corporation.  Financial information by business segment
and  geographic  area, and information about principal products and markets of
the  Corporation,  contained  under  the  caption "Management's Discussion and
Analysis" and in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in
the  1999  Annual  Report  to Stockholders, are incorporated in this Item 1 by
reference.

RECENT DEVELOPMENTS.  Historically, the Corporation has been engaged in a wide
variety  of  diversified  businesses,  including  the  manufacture and sale of
consumer  products,  paper  and  forest products, airline services and various
other  businesses.    In  recent  years, the Corporation has been undergoing a
transition  to  a  global  consumer  products company based on the strategy of
building  its  tissue,  personal  care and health care businesses.  Businesses
that  did  not,  or  could  not,  build  on  the  Corporation's strengths were
candidates  for  divestiture.    Businesses  that  fit  into the Corporation's
strategy  were  candidates  for  further  investment  and  support.  Outside
businesses  that  were perceived as opportunities consistent with the strategy
were candidates for acquisition.  As a result, since 1992, the Corporation has
completed  over  30  strategic  acquisitions  and  approximately  20 strategic
divestitures,  including  the  following  transactions:

- -  On  December  12,  1995,  Scott  Paper  Company  ("Scott") became a
   wholly-owned  subsidiary  of  Kimberly-Clark  upon  completion of  a  merger
   transaction  in  which the outstanding Scott common shares were converted
   into shares  of  Kimberly-Clark  common  stock. The  transaction  was valued
   at approximately  $9.4  billion and accounted for as a pooling of interests.
   On February  14,  1996,  Scott  changed its name to Kimberly-Clark Tissue
   Company ("KCTC").

- -  On  June  28,  1996,  the  Corporation sold the baby and child wipe
   businesses  previously  conducted by Scott, consisting of the Baby Fresh,
   Wash a-Bye  Baby  and Kid Fresh brands and the Dover, Delaware production
   facility, to  The  Procter  & Gamble Company.  This divestiture was required
   by the U.S. Department  of  Justice  as  part  of  the  Scott  merger.

- -  On September 16, 1996, the Corporation sold its tissue mill in Prudhoe,
   England  and  certain  consumer  tissue  businesses  in the United Kingdom
   and Ireland  to  Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget (SCA) of Sweden.  This
   divestiture was  required  by  the  European  Commission  as  part  of  the
   Scott merger.

- -  On March 27, 1997, the Corporation sold its Coosa Pines, Alabama pulp
   and  newsprint operations, and related woodlands ("Coosa"), to Alliance
   Forest Products  Inc.,  a  publicly-held Canadian corporation, for
   approximately $600 million  in  cash.

- -  On June 6, 1997, the Corporation sold its 50.1 percent interest in Scott
   Paper  Limited  ("SPL"), a publicly-traded Canadian company to Kruger, Inc.,
   a Canadian  paper  and  forest products company, for approximately $127
   million.



PART  I
(Continued)

ITEM  1.    BUSINESS  (Continued)

- -  On December 18, 1997, the Corporation acquired Tecnol Medical Products,
   Inc.  ("Tecnol"),  a  leading  maker of disposable face masks and patient
   care products,  in  a  merger  transaction  which  involved  the  conversion
   of all outstanding shares of Tecnol common stock into shares of
   Kimberly-Clark common stock. The  transaction  was  valued  at approximately
   $428 million and was accounted  for  as  a  purchase.

- -  On May 28, 1998, the Corporation purchased a 50 percent equity interest in
   Klabin Tissue S.A. (now known as Klabin Kimberly S.A.), the leading tissue
   manufacturer  in  Brazil.

- -  On July 21, 1998, the Corporation purchased an additional 10 percent
   ownership  interest  in  its  Korean  affiliate,  YuHan-Kimberly,  Limited,
   increasing  its  ownership  interest  to  70  percent.

- -  On  July 29, 1998, the Corporation purchased a 51 percent ownership interest
   in  Kimberly  Bolivia, S.A., a new joint venture company in Bolivia.

- -  On August 19, 1998, the Corporation sold the outstanding shares of K-C
   Aviation  Inc.  ("KCA"),  a leading provider of business aviation services,
   to Gulfstream  Aerospace  Corporation  for  $250  million  in  cash.

- -  On June 10, 1999, the Corporation purchased the European consumer and
   away-from-home tissue businesses  of  Attisholz Holding AG for approximately
   $365 million.  The acquired businesses are located in Germany, Switzerland
   and Austria.

- -  On  September  23,  1999, the Corporation acquired Ballard Medical Products,
   a leading maker of disposable medical devices for respiratory care,
   gastroenterology  and  cardiology, at a  cost of approximately $788 million,
   including  the  value  of  common  stock  exchanged  and  other  costs  of
   the transaction. This  acquisition has been accounted for as a purchase.

- -  On  September  30,  1999,  the  Corporation  completed  the sale of
   approximately  460,000  acres of timberland in Alabama,  Mississippi  and
   Tennessee to Joshua Timberlands, LLC for notes receivable with a fair value
   of approximately $383 million.  Also, as  part of its previously announced
   intention to exit the entire integrated pulp operation in Mobile, Alabama,
   the Corporation  shut  down  the  pulp  mill  facility  in  August  1999.

- -  On  February 8, 2000, the Corporation acquired Safeskin Corporation
   ("Safeskin"),  a  leading  maker  of  disposable  gloves  for  health  care,
   high-technology and scientific industries, in a merger transaction pursuant
   to which Safeskin shareholders received .1956 of a share of the
   Corporation's common  stock for each share Safeskin common stock.  The
   transaction is valued at  approximately  $800  million  and  will  be
   accounted  for as a purchase.





PART  I
(Continued)

ITEM  1.    BUSINESS  (Continued)

In  the  fourth  quarter  of  1995,  in  connection with the Scott merger, the
Corporation  announced  a  plan  to restructure the combined operations and to
accomplish  other  business  improvement  objectives  (the  "1995 Plan").  The
original  estimated pretax cost of the 1995 Plan was $1,440 million.  The plan
was  completed  in 1998 at a pretax cost of $1,305 million.  Costs of the 1995
Plan  were  charged  to  earnings  as follows:  $814.3 million in 1995, $429.9
million  in  1996  and  $64.1  million  in 1997.  A credit of $3.3 million was
recorded  in  1998.

On  November  21,  1997,  the  Corporation announced a restructuring plan (the
"1997  Plan").    The  plan included  the  sale,  closure  or  downsizing  of
17 manufacturing facilities worldwide  and  a workforce reduction of
approximately 4,800 employees.  Costs for  the  1997 Plan of $250.8 million and
$414.2 million were recorded in 1998 and  1997,  respectively, at the time
costs became accruable under appropriate accounting  principles. Included in
such costs was accelerated depreciation charged to cost of products sold
related to assets that were to be disposed of but  which  continued  to  be
operated  during  1997  and 1998.  In 1999, the Corporation  recorded  a  net
credit of $16.7 million, which was comprised of accelerated depreciation
expense of $23.7 million, reductions in accrued costs of $31.9 million and
lower asset write-offs and higher sales proceeds totaling $8.5  million,  due
to  changes  in  estimates.

In  the  fourth  quarter  of  1998,  the  Corporation  announced  a facilities
consolidation  plan  (the  "1998  Plan") to, among other things, further align
tissue  manufacturing  capacity  with  demand  in  Europe,  close  a  diaper
manufacturing facility in Canada, shut down and dispose of a tissue machine in
Thailand,  write  down  certain  excess  feminine care production equipment in
North  America  and  reduce  the  Corporation's workforce by approximately 830
employees.    Costs  for the 1998 Plan of $42.6 million and $49.1 million were
recorded in 1999 and 1998, respectively, and charged to cost of products sold.
Costs of approximately $20 million will be charged to cost of products sold in
2000.    These  costs  are  comprised primarily of certain severance costs and
charges  for  accelerated  depreciation  for the Corporation's Larkfield, U.K.
tissue  manufacturing  facility  that  will  remain  in use until its expected
shutdown  in  October  2000.

Pursuant  to the 1998 Plan, through December 31, 1999, 800 employees have been
notified  of  the  Corporation's  plans to terminate their employment, and the
costs  of  this  workforce reduction were charged to earnings in the period in
which  such  employee  severance benefits were appropriately communicated.  Of
the  employees that have been notified, 530 employees have been terminated and
270  additional  employees  will  be  terminated  in  2000.   Approximately 50
additional  employees  will  be notified in 2000 of the Corporation's plans to
terminate  their employment.  Their severance costs, which are included in the
$20  million  discussed above, will be accrued and charged to cost of products
sold  at  that  time.

DESCRIPTION OF THE CORPORATION.  The Corporation is principally engaged in the
manufacturing  and  marketing throughout the world of a wide range of products
for  personal,  business and industrial uses.  Most of these products are made
from  natural  and  synthetic  fibers  using  advanced technologies in fibers,
nonwovens  and  absorbency.

The  Corporation  is  organized  into  three global business segments: Tissue;
Personal  Care;  and  Health  Care  and  Other.




PART  I
(Continued)

ITEM  1.    BUSINESS  (Continued)

The  Tissue  segment  includes  facial  and  bathroom tissue, paper towels and
wipers  and napkins for household and away-from-home use; wet wipes; printing,
premium  business and correspondence papers; and related products. Products in
this  business  segment  are  sold  under  the Kleenex, Scott, Kimberly-Clark,
Kleenex Cottonelle, Kleenex Viva, Huggies, Kimwipes, Wypall, Surpass and other
brand  names.

The  Personal  Care  segment  includes  disposable diapers, training and youth
pants  and  swimpants;  feminine  and  incontinence care products; and related
products.    Products in this business segment are primarily for household use
and  are  sold  under  a variety of well-known brand names, including Huggies,
Pull-Ups,  Little  Swimmers,  GoodNites,  Kotex,  Lightdays, Depend, Poise and
other  brand  names.

The Health Care and Other segment includes health care products, consisting of
surgical  gowns,  drapes,  infection  control  products,  sterilization wraps,
disposable  face  masks,  respiratory  products  and  other disposable medical
products;  specialty  and  technical  papers; and other products.  Products in
this  segment  are  sold  under  the Kimberly-Clark, Tecnol, Ballard and other
brand  names.

Products  for  household  use  are  sold directly, and through wholesalers, to
supermarkets,  mass  merchandisers,  drugstores,  warehouse clubs, home health
care,  variety  and  department stores and other retail outlets.  Products for
away-from-home  use  are  sold  through  distributors  and  directly  to
manufacturing,  lodging,  office  building,  food  service  and  health  care
establishments  and  other  high volume public facilities.  Paper products are
sold  directly  to  users, converters, manufacturers, publishers and printers,
and  through paper merchants, brokers, sales agents and other resale agencies.
Health  care  products  are  sold  to  distributors, converters and end-users.

PATENTS  AND  TRADEMARKS.  The Corporation owns various patents and trademarks
registered  domestically  and  in  many  foreign  countries.   The Corporation
considers  the  patents  and trademarks which it owns and the trademarks under
which  it  sells  certain  of  its  products  to  be material to its business.
Consequently,  the  Corporation  seeks  patent and trademark protection by all
available  means, including registration.  A partial list of the Corporation's
trademarks  is  included  under the caption "Trademarks" contained in the 1999
Annual  Report  to  Stockholders  and  is  incorporated  herein  by reference.

RAW  MATERIALS.    Superabsorbent  materials  are  important  components  in
disposable  diapers,  training and youth pants and incontinence care products.
Polypropylene and other synthetics and chemicals are primary raw materials for
manufacturing  nonwoven fabrics which are used in disposable diapers, training
and  youth  pants,  wet  wipes,  feminine  pads,  incontinence and health care
products,  and  away-from-home  wipers.

Cellulose  fiber,  in the form of kraft pulp or recycled fiber, is the primary
raw  material  for  the  Corporation's  tissue  and  paper  products and is an
important  component  in disposable diapers, training pants, feminine pads and
incontinence  care  products.

Most  recovered  paper  and  all  synthetics are purchased from third parties.
Pulp  and  recycled  fiber  are produced by the Corporation and purchased from
others.    The  Corporation  considers  the supply of such raw materials to be
adequate  to  meet  the needs of its businesses.  See "Factors That May Affect
Future  Results  -  Raw  Materials."

PART  I
(Continued)

ITEM  1.    BUSINESS  (Continued)

The Corporation owns or controls approximately 5.7 million acres of forestland
in Canada, principally as a fiber source for pulp production which is consumed
internally within the tissue business.  Approximately 1.0 million acres in the
province  of  Nova  Scotia are owned by the Corporation, and approximately 4.7
million  acres,  principally  in  the  province  of  Ontario,  are  held under
long-term  Crown rights or leases.  The Corporation closed its Mobile, Alabama
pulp  mill  in August of 1999 and during 1999 sold approximately 530,000 acres
of  timberlands  it  owned  or  held  under long term leases in North America.

COMPETITION.    For  a  discussion of the competitive environment in which the
Corporation conducts its business, see "Factors That May Affect Future Results
- -  Competitive  Environment."

RESEARCH  AND  DEVELOPMENT.  A major portion of total research and development
expenditures is directed toward new or improved personal care, health care and
tissue products, and nonwoven materials. Consolidated research and development
expense  was $249.8 million in 1999, $224.8 million in 1998 and $211.8 million
in  1997.

ENVIRONMENTAL  MATTERS. Total worldwide capital expenditures for environmental
controls to meet legal requirements or otherwise relating to the protection of
the  environment  at  the  Corporation's  facilities  are  expected  to  be
approximately  $72  million  in 2000 and $44 million in 2001.  Of this amount,
approximately  $27 million in 2000, and $18 million in 2001 are expected to be
spent  at  facilities in the United States.  Approximately $15 million of U.S.
expenditures  in  2000  relate to compliance with the  U.  S.  Environmental
Protection  Agency's  ("EPA")  Cluster Rule for sulfite pulping  operations at
the Corporation's Everett, Washington pulp mill. The remainder of the expected
expenditures in the U. S., approximately $12 million in  2000, will be applied
at  various  other  production facilities of the Corporation  for  other
environmental  control  system  improvements.  For facilities  outside  of the
U.  S.,  capital  expenditures for environmental controls  are  expected to  e
$45  million in 2000 and $26 million in 2001.

Total  worldwide  operating expenses for environmental compliance are expected
to be $167 million in 2000 and $172 million in 2001.  U. S. operating expenses
are  expected  to  be  $89 million in 2000 and $89 million in 2001.  Operating
expenses  for  facilities  outside the U. S. are expected to be $78 million in
2000  and  $83  million in 2001.  Operating expenses include pollution control
equipment operation and maintenance costs, governmental payments, and research
and  engineering  costs.

Total  environmental  capital  expenditures  and  operating  expenses  are not
expected  to  have  a  material  effect on the Corporation's total capital and
operating  expenditures,  consolidated  earnings  or  competitive  position.
However,  current  environmental  spending  estimates  could  be modified as a
result of changes in the Corporation's plans, changes in legal requirements or
other  factors.

In  connection with certain divestitures, including those described in "Recent
Developments,"  the  Corporation  has  agreed  to  indemnify the purchasers of
certain  divested  businesses  against  certain  contingent  environmental
liabilities.    Generally,  these  indemnification  obligations  apply only to
environmental  liabilities which are actually incurred by the purchaser within
a  specified  time  period after closing and are limited to a specified dollar
amount of coverage.  The Corporation does not consider these obligations to be
material  and  has  established  appropriate  accrued liabilities with respect
thereto.


PART  I
(Continued)

ITEM  1.    BUSINESS  (Continued)

EMPLOYEES.    In  its  worldwide  consolidated operations, the Corporation had
54,800  employees  as  of December  31,  1999.

Approximately  22  percent  of  the  Corporation's United States workforce and
approximately  34 percent of the Corporation's non-United States workforce are
represented  by  unions.    In the United States, the largest concentration of
union  membership  is  with  the  Paper,  Allied-Industrial, Chemical & Energy
Workers  International  Union  (PACE).  Other employees are represented by the
International  Brotherhood  of  Electrical  Workers  (IBEW), the International
Association  of  Machinists  and  Aerospace  Workers (IAM), the Association of
Western  Pulp  and  Paper  Workers  (AWPPW),  and  various independent unions.

Throughout the Corporation, management seeks to establish and maintain an open
and  respectful  relationship  with  its  employees.  Management believes that
communications should flow freely in the organization to provide all employees
the  opportunity to maximize the use of their talents in the attainment of the
Corporation's  business  objectives.

INSURANCE.    The  Corporation  maintains  coverage  consistent  with industry
practice  for  most  risks  that  are  incident  to  its  operations.


FACTORS  THAT  MAY  AFFECT  FUTURE  RESULTS

Certain  matters  discussed in this Form 10-K, or documents a portion of which
are  incorporated  herein  by  reference,  concerning, among other things, the
business  outlook,  anticipated  financial  and operating results, strategies,
contingencies and contemplated transactions of the Corporation, including, but
not  limited  to,  the  adequacy of the 1997 Plan and the 1998 Plan constitute
forward-looking  statements  and  are based upon management's expectations and
beliefs  concerning  future events impacting the Corporation.  There can be no
assurance  that these events will occur or that the Corporation's results will
be  as  estimated.

The  following  factors,  as  well as factors described elsewhere in this Form
10-K,  or  in  other  SEC filings, among others, could cause the Corporation's
future  results  to  differ  materially  from  those  expressed  in  any
forward-looking  statements  made  by,  or  on  behalf  of,  the  Corporation.

Such  factors  are  described in accordance with the provisions of the Private
Securities  Litigation  Reform  Act  of  1995,  which  encourages companies to
disclose  such  factors.

COMPETITIVE  ENVIRONMENT.  The Corporation experiences intense competition for
sales  of  its  principal products in its major markets, both domestically and
internationally.    The Corporation's products compete with widely advertised,
well-known,  branded  products,  as  well  as private label products which are
typically sold at lower prices.  The Corporation has several major competitors
in most of its markets, some of which are larger and more diversified than the
Corporation.   The principal methods and elements of competition include brand
recognition and loyalty, product quality and performance, price, marketing and
distribution  capabilities.    Inherent risks in the Corporation's competitive
strategy  include  uncertainties concerning trade and consumer acceptance, the
effects  of  recent  consolidations  of retailers  and  distribution  channels,


PART  I
(Continued)

ITEM  1.    BUSINESS  (Continued)


and competitive reaction.  Aggressive competitive  reaction  may  lead  to
increased  advertising  and  promotional spending  by  the  Corporation  in
order  to maintain market share. Increased competition  with  respect  to
pricing would reduce revenue and could have an adverse  impact  on  the
Corporation's  financial  results.  In addition, the Corporation  relies  on
the  development and introduction of new products and line  extensions  as  a
means  of  achieving  and/or  maintaining  category leadership. In  order to
maintain its competitive position, the Corporation must develop technological
innovation  with  respect  to  its  products.

COST  SAVING STRATEGY.  A significant portion of the Corporation's anticipated
cost savings are expected to result from operating efficiencies, the 1997 Plan
and  the  1998  Plan.    However,  such  savings  will  require  the continued
consolidation  and  integration  of  facilities,  functions,  systems  and
procedures, all of which present significant management challenges.  There can
be no assurance that such actions will be successfully accomplished as rapidly
as  expected or of the extent to which such cost savings and efficiencies will
be  achieved.

RAW  MATERIALS.  Cellulose fiber, in the form of kraft pulp or recycled fiber,
is  used  extensively  in  the  Corporation's tissue and paper products and is
subject  to  significant  price fluctuations due to the cyclical nature of the
pulp  markets.    Recycled  fiber accounts for approximately 20 percent of the
Corporation's  overall  fiber  requirements.    On  a  worldwide  basis,  the
Corporation  has  reduced  its  internal  supply  of  pulp to approximately 40
percent  of  its  virgin  fiber  requirements.

The  Corporation  has  announced  its  intention  to  reduce its level of pulp
integration  to  approximately  20 percent.  However, such a reduction in pulp
integration  could  increase  the  Corporation's  commodity  price  risk.
Specifically,  increases  in  pulp  prices  could  adversely  affect  the
Corporation's  earnings  if  selling  prices for its finished products are not
adjusted  or  if  such  adjustments  significantly trail the increases in pulp
prices.  The Corporation has not used derivative instruments in the management
of  these  risks.

ACQUISITION AND DIVESTITURE STRATEGY.  The Corporation's anticipated financial
results  and business outlook are dependent in part upon the consummation of a
proposed  divestiture  on  terms  advantageous  to  the  Corporation  and  the
availability  of  suitable  acquisition candidates.  There can be no assurance
that  such divestiture will be consummated, or, if consummated, that the terms
of such divestiture will be advantageous to the Corporation.  In addition, the
Corporation  could  encounter  significant  challenges  in  locating  suitable
acquisition  candidates  that are consistent with its strategic objectives and
will  contribute  to  its  long-term  success.    Furthermore, there can be no
assurance  that  any  such  acquired  business  can  or  will  be successfully
integrated  with  the Corporation's businesses in order to provide anticipated
synergies  and  earnings  growth.

VOLUME  FORECASTING.   The Corporation's anticipated financial results reflect
forecasts of future volume increases in the sales of its products.  Challenges
in  such  forecasting  include  anticipating  consumer preferences, estimating
sales  of new products, estimating changes in population characteristics (such
as  birth  rates  and  changes  in per capita income), anticipating changes in
technology  and estimating the acceptance of the Corporation's products in new
markets.  As a result, there can be no assurance that the Corporation's volume
increases  will  occur  as  estimated.



PART  I
(Continued)

ITEM  1.    BUSINESS  (Continued)


FOREIGN  MARKET  RISKS.  Because the Corporation and its equity companies have
manufacturing  facilities  in  40  countries and its products are sold in more
than 150 countries, the Corporation's results may be substantially affected by
foreign  market  risks.   The Corporation is subject to the impact of economic
and  political instability in developing countries.  The extremely competitive
situation  in  European  personal care and tissue markets, and the challenging
economic environments in Mexico and developing countries in eastern Europe and
Latin America, may slow the Corporation's sales growth and earnings potential.
In  addition,  the Corporation is subject to the strengthening or weakening of
various  currencies  against  each  other and local currencies versus the U.S.
dollar,  and  foreign  currency risk arising from transactions and commitments
denominated  in  non-local  currencies.    See  "Management's  Discussion  and
Analysis - Market Risk Sensitivity and Inflation Risks", contained in the 1999
Annual  Report  to  Stockholders,  which  is incorporated herein by reference.
Translation  exposure  for  the  Corporation's  balance  sheet with respect to
foreign  operations  is not hedged.  Although the Corporation uses instruments
to  hedge  its  foreign currency risks (through foreign currency forward, swap
and  option  contracts), these instruments are used selectively to manage risk
and  there  can  be  no assurance that the Corporation will be fully protected
against  substantial  foreign  currency  fluctuations.

CONTINGENCIES.    The  costs  and  other  effects  of  pending  litigation and
administrative  actions  against  the  Corporation  cannot  be determined with
certainty.   Although management believes that no such proceedings will have a
material adverse effect on the Corporation, there can be no assurance that the
outcome  of  such  proceedings  will  be  as  expected.    See  "Item 3. Legal
Proceedings."

"YEAR  2000".    For a discussion regarding "Year 2000" compliance in terms of
its  computer  systems, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis - 'Year 2000
Readiness'  contained  in  the  1999  Annual  Report to Stockholders, which is
incorporated  herein  by  reference.

PART  I
(Continued)

ITEM  2.    PROPERTIES

Management  believes that the Corporation's production facilities are suitable
for  their  purpose  and  adequate  to support its busi-nesses.  The extent of
utilization  of  individual  facilities  varies,  but  they operate at or near
capacity,  except in certain instances such as when new products or technology
are being introduced or when mills are being shut down.  Certain facilities of
the  Corporation  are  being  expanded.   Various facilities contain pollution
control,  solid  waste  disposal  and other equipment which have been financed
through  the  issuance  of industrial revenue or similar bonds and are held by
the  Corporation  under  lease  or  installment  purchase  agreements.

The  principal  facilities  of  the  Corporation  (including the Corporation's
equity  companies)  and  the  products  or  groups  of  products  made at such
facilities  are  as  follows:

HEADQUARTERS  LOCATIONS
  Dallas,  Texas
  Roswell,  Georgia
  Neenah,  Wisconsin
  Reigate,  United  Kingdom
  Bangkok,  Thailand

ADMINISTRATIVE  CENTER
  Knoxville,  Tennessee

WORLDWIDE  PRODUCTION  AND  SERVICE  FACILITIES

UNITED  STATES

ALABAMA
  Mobile  -  tissue  products
ARIZONA
  Tucson  -  health  care  products
ARKANSAS
  Conway  -  feminine  care,  incontinence  care  and  nonwovens
  Maumelle  -  wet  wipes  and  nonwovens
CALIFORNIA
  Escondido  -  printing  inks
  Fullerton  -  tissue  products
CONNECTICUT
  New  Milford  -  diapers  and  tissue  products
GEORGIA
  LaGrange  -  nonwovens
IDAHO
  Pocatello  -  respiratory  care  and  gastroenterology  products
KENTUCKY
  Owensboro  -  tissue  products
MICHIGAN
  Munising  -  technical  papers

PART  I
(Continued)

ITEM  2.    PROPERTIES  (Continued)

MISSISSIPPI
  Corinth  -  nonwovens,  wipers  and  towels
  Hattiesburg  -  tissue  products
NORTH  CAROLINA
  Hendersonville  -  nonwovens
  Lexington  -  nonwovens
OHIO
  Piqua  -  printing  inks
OKLAHOMA
  Jenks  -  tissue  products
PENNSYLVANIA
  Chester  -  tissue  products
SOUTH  CAROLINA
  Beech  Island  -  diapers  and  tissue  products
TENNESSEE
  Loudon  -  tissue  products
TEXAS
  Cleburne  -  apparel  products  (1)
  Del  Rio  -  health  care  products
  Fort  Worth  -  health  care  products
  Paris  -  diapers,  training  and  youth  pants
  San  Antonio  -  personal  cleansing  products  and  systems
UTAH
  Draper  -  respiratory  care  and  gastroenterology  products
  Ogden  -  diapers
VERMONT
  East  Ryegate  -  technical  papers
WASHINGTON
  Everett  -  tissue  products  and  pulp
WISCONSIN
  Marinette  -  tissue  products
  Neenah  - diapers, training and youth pants, feminine care, incontinence care,
     business  and  correspondence  papers  and  nonwovens
  Whiting  -  business  and  correspondence  papers

OUTSIDE  THE  UNITED  STATES

ARGENTINA
 *Bernal  -  tissue  products
  Pilar  -  feminine  care  and  incontinence  care
  San  Luis  -  diapers




*  Equity  company  production  facility

PART  I
(Continued)

ITEM  2.    PROPERTIES  (Continued)

AUSTRALIA
 *Albury  -  nonwovens
 *Ingleburn  -  diapers
 *Lonsdale  -  diapers,  incontinence  care  and  feminine  care
 *Millicent  -  pulp  and  tissue  products
 *Tantanoola  -  pulp
 *Warwick  Farm  -  tissue  products
BAHRAIN
 *East  Riffa  -  tissue  products
BELGIUM
  Duffel  -  tissue  products
BOLIVIA
  La  Paz  -  tissue  products
  Santa  Cruz  -  diapers,  feminine  care  and  tissue  products
BRAZIL
 *Bahia  -  tissue  products
  Barueri  -  wet  wipes
 *Correia  Pinto  -  tissue  products
 *Cruzeiro  -  tissue  products
 *Mendes  -  tissue  products
 *Mogi  das  Cruzes  -  tissue  products
  Porto  Alegre  -  feminine  care
 *Recife  -  tissue  products
  Rio  de  Janeiro  -  diapers,  feminine  care  and  incontinence  care
 *Sao  Paulo  -  tissue  products
  Suzano  -  diapers
CANADA
  Huntsville,  Ontario  -  tissue  products  and  wipers
  New  Glasgow,  Nova  Scotia  -  pulp
  St.  Hyacinthe,  Quebec  -  feminine  care
  Terrace  Bay,  Ontario  -  pulp  (2)
CHINA  (3)
  Beijing  -  feminine  care  and  diapers
  Chengdu  -  feminine  care
  Guangzhou  -  tissue  products
  Handan  -  feminine  care
  Nanjing  -  feminine  care
  Shanghai  -  tissue  products
  Shenyang  -  feminine  care
  Wuhan  -  feminine  care





*  Equity  company  production  facility

PART  I
(Continued)

ITEM  2.    PROPERTIES  (Continued)

COLOMBIA
  Barbosa  -  business,  notebooks  and  correspondence  papers
  Guarne  -  tissue  products
  Pereira  -  tissue products, feminine care, incontinence care and diapers
  Tocancipa  -  diapers
 *Villa  Rica  -  diapers  and  incontinence  care
COSTA  RICA
  Belen  -  tissue  products
  Cartago  -  diapers  and  feminine  care
CZECH  REPUBLIC
  Jaromer  -  diapers  and  incontinence  care
  Litovel  -  feminine  care
DOMINICAN  REPUBLIC
  Santo  Domingo  -  tissue  products
ECUADOR
  Babahoyo  -  tissue  products
  Duran  -  diapers  and  feminine  care
  Mapasingue  -  tissue  products  and  notebooks
EL  SALVADOR
  San  Salvador  -  tissue  products
  Sitio  del  Nino  -  tissue  products  and  feminine  care
FRANCE
  Rouen  -  tissue  products
  Villey-Saint-Etienne  -  tissue  products
GERMANY
  Forchheim  -  feminine  care  and  incontinence  care
  Koblenz  -  tissue  products
  Mainz  -  tissue  products
  Reisholz  -  tissue  products
GUATEMALA
  Poza  Verde  -  tissue  products,  feminine  care  and  notebooks
HONDURAS
  San  Pedro  Sula  -  tissue  products
  Villanueva  -  health  care  products
INDIA
 *Pune  -  feminine  care  and  diapers
INDONESIA
  Jakarta  -  tissue  products
 *Medan  -  specialty  papers
ISRAEL
 *Afula  -  diapers,  feminine  care  and  incontinence  care
 *Hadera  -  tissue  products



*  Equity  company  production  facility

PART  I
(Continued)

ITEM  2.    PROPERTIES  (Continued)

ITALY
  Alanno  -  tissue  products
  Romagnano  -  tissue  products
  Villanovetta  -  tissue  products
JAPAN
  Shinga  -  soap
KOREA
  Anyang  -  feminine  care,  diapers  and  tissue  products
  Kimcheon  -  tissue  products  and  nonwovens
  Taejon  -  feminine  care  and  diapers
MALAYSIA
  Kluang  -  tissue  products,  feminine  care  and  diapers
MEXICO
  Acuna  -  health  care  products
 *Bajio  -  tissue  products,  fine  papers  and  notebooks
 *Cuautitlan  -  feminine  care,  diapers  and  nonwovens
 *Ecatepec  -  tissue  products
  Empalme  -  health  care  products
  Magdalena  -  health  care  products
 *Morelia  -  tissue  products,  pulp  and  fine  papers
 *Naucalpan  -  tissue  products,  diapers  and  feminine  care
  Nogales  -  health  care  products
 *Orizaba  -  tissue  products,  fine  papers  and  pulp
 *Ramos  Arizpe  -  tissue  products  and  diapers
 *San  Rafael  -  tissue  products  and  fine  papers
  Texmelucan  -  tissue  products
  Tijuana  -  printing  inks
 *Tlaxcala  -  diapers
PERU
  Ate  -  tissue  products
  Santa  Clara  -  tissue  products
  Villa  Corrillos  -  diapers,  feminine  care  and  incontinence  care
PHILIPPINES
  San Pedro, Laguna - feminine care, diapers, tissue products and specialty
     papers
SAUDI  ARABIA
   *Al-Khobar  -  diapers,  feminine  care  and  tissue  products
SLOVAK  REPUBLIC
    Piestany  -  health  care  products
SOUTH  AFRICA
    Cape  Town  -  tissue  products,  feminine  care  and  incontinence  care
    Springs  -  tissue  products  and  diapers




*  Equity  company  production  facility

PART  I
(Continued)

ITEM  2.    PROPERTIES  (Continued)

SPAIN
    Aranguren  -  tissue  products
    Arceniega  -  tissue  products,  personal  cleansing products and systems
    Calatayud  -  diapers
    Canary  Islands  -  tissue  products
    Salamanca  -  tissue  products
SWITZERLAND
    Balsthal  -  tissue  products  and  specialty  papers
    Niederbipp  -  tissue  products
    Reichenburg  -  tissue  products
TAIWAN
    Hsin-Ying  -  tissue  products  (4)
    Ta-Yuan  -  tissue  products
THAILAND
    Pathumthani  -  feminine  care,  diapers  and  tissue  products
    Samut  Prakarn  -  tissue  products
TURKEY
   *Istanbul  -  diapers
UNITED  KINGDOM
    Barrow  -  tissue  products
    Barton-upon-Humber  -  diapers
    Flint  -  tissue  products  and  nonwovens
    Larkfield  -  tissue  products  (1)
    Northfleet  -  tissue  products
VENEZUELA
    Guacara  -  diapers  and  feminine  care
    Maracay  -  tissue  products
VIETNAM
    Binh  Duong  -  feminine  care
    Hanoi  -  feminine  care

*  Equity  company  production  facility
_________________________________


(1)   The Corporation has announced its intention to close this facility.

(2)   The Corporation has announced its intention to sell this facility.

(3)   The land on which these facilities are located is held under long-term
      leases.

(4)   The land and a portion of this facility are subject to a mortgage.


PART  I
(Continued)

ITEM  3.    LEGAL  PROCEEDINGS

The  following  is  a  brief  description  of certain legal and administrative
proceedings  to  which  the  Corporation  or its subsidiaries is a party or to
which  the  Corporation's  or  its  subsidiaries'  properties  is  subject:

Litigation
- ----------

A.  On  May  13,  1997,  the State of Florida, acting through its attorney
    general,  filed  a  complaint in the Gainesville Division of the United
    States District  Court  for  the  Northern District of Florida (the
    "Florida District Court") alleging that manufacturers of tissue products
    for away-from-home use, including  the  Corporation  and  Scott,  agreed to
    fix prices by coordinating price  increases for such products.  Following
    Florida's complaint, actions by the  States  of Maryland, New York and West
    Virginia, as well as approximately 45  class  action  complaints, have been
    filed in various federal and state courts around the United States.  These
    actions contain allegations similar to those  made  by the State of Florida
    in its complaint.  The actions in federal courts have been consolidated for
    pretrial proceedings in the Florida District Court.    Class  certification
    was granted in the federal proceedings in July 1998  and will be contested
    in the state cases.  The foregoing actions seek an unspecified  amount  of
    actual  and  treble  damages.

    In  February  2000,  the State of Florida agreed to dismiss its complaint
    with prejudice  pursuant  to  a  settlement  with  defendants. With respect
    to the remaining  actions, the Corporation has answered  the  complaints in
    these actions  and  has  denied  the  allegations  contained  therein as
    well as any liability.  Discovery is proceeding.  The Corporation intends
    to contest these claims  vigorously. These actions are not expected to have
    a material adverse effect  on  the  Corporation's  business,  financial
    condition  or results of operations.

B.  On January 14, 1999, Mobile Energy Services Company, L.L.C. ("MESC") and
    Mobile  Energy  Services  Holdings, Inc. filed an adversary proceeding
    against Kimberly-Clark Tissue Company in the United States Bankruptcy Court
    in Mobile, Alabama.  Plaintiffs, as debtors-in-possession, own a
    cogeneration complex that  provides  energy  services  to  KCTC's  Mobile
    facility.  The complaint alleges  that:  (i)  the sale  of the cogeneration
    complex by KCTC to MESC in December  1994  was a fraudulent transfer;
    (ii) KCTC cannot effect a pulp mill closure while it continues to operate
    the wastewater treatment facility and "produce pulp" at the Mobile facility;
    (iii) Kimberly-Clark's announced pulp mill  closure  was  a  repudiation of
    the site operating agreements; (iv) KCTC breached  the  master  operating
    agreement by failing to give MESC reasonable assistance  in  developing new
    business opportunities for the energy complex after  Kimberly-Clark
    announced the pulp mill closure; and (v) KCTC failed to allow  the  sale
    of the Mobile pulp mill.  The complaint does not specify the amount  of
    damages  demanded.

    On  December 31, 1999, a joint motion of the debtors and the MESC
    bondholders' steering  committee  (the  "Motion")  was filed with the U.S.
    Bankruptcy Court seeking approval of a settlement and compromise of claims
    against KCTC arising from  the  closure  of the Mobile pulp mill and
    termination of the pulp mill's energy  services  agreement.    The  Motion,
    which was granted  by the U.S. Bankruptcy Court by order dated January  24,
    2000, outlines the terms of settlement  for  various  litigation matters
    between KCTC and MESC.  Under the proposed  settlement,  KCTC  agreed  to
    pay MESC at closing approximately $30 million,  in  addition  to  amounts
    previously  paid  pursuant to contractual obligations, subject to certain
    adjustments.  Closing of the settlement is subject to, among other
PART  I
(Continued)

ITEM  3.    LEGAL  PROCEEDINGS  (CONTINUED)

   conditions, MESC filing a plan of reorganization from bankruptcy  and  the
   ultimate  approval  of  that plan by the U.S. Bankruptcy Court. In addition,
   the proposed settlement provides MESC with an option to purchase the Mobile
   pulp mill at a nominal price; a settlement of all pending litigation and
   arbitration between the KCTC and MESC; mutual releases by KCTC, MESC  and
   its  affiliate  (the  Southern  Company  and  affiliates),  and the
   representatives of the MESC bondholders; and an agreement by MESC to
   terminate the  existing  tissue mill energy services agreement and to
   provide the Mobile tissue  mill  energy  at  market  rates. This action is
   not expected to have a material  adverse effect on the Corporation's
   business, financial condition or results  of  operations.

C. The Corporation is subject to routine litigation from time to time, which,
   individually or in the aggregate, is not expected to have a material adverse
   effect on the Corporation's business, financial  condition  or results of
   operations.

Environmental  Matters
- ----------------------

The  Corporation  is  subject  to  federal,  state  and  local  environmental
protection laws and regulations with respect to its business operations and is
operating  in  compliance  with, or taking action aimed at ensuring compliance
with,  such  laws and regulations.  Compliance with these laws and regulations
is  not  expected  to  have  a  material  adverse  effect on the Corporation's
business,  financial  condition  or  results  of  operations.

The  Corporation  has  been  named  a  potentially responsible party under the
provisions  of  the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation
and  Liability Act, or analogous state statute, at a number of  waste disposal
sites,  none  of  which,  individually  or  in  the aggregate, in management's
opinion,  is  likely  to  have  a material adverse effect on the Corporation's
business,  financial  condition  or  results  of  operations.

Notwithstanding its opinion, management believes it appropriate to discuss the
following  matters  concerning  three  of  these sites where the Corporation's
estimated share of total site remediation costs, if any, cannot be established
on  the  basis  of  currently  available  information:

A. In  1994,  Scott  received  a  notice  of  responsibility from the
   Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection  regarding  the South
   Hadley  Site  in South Hadley, Massachusetts. The notice implicated Scott
   Graphics,  Inc., a former Scott subsidiary, as having disposed of hazardous
   waste at the site. There have been no significant developments since the
   date the  Corporation  received  the  notice.

B. In  January  1998,  the  Corporation was notified by the Tennessee
   Department of Environment and Conservation  of its status as a potentially
   liable party at the Bellevue Avenue Landfill in Shelby County, Tennessee.
   The Corporation currently lacks adequate information to make a determination
   as to the  extent  of  its  liability  at  the  site.



PART  I
(Continued)


C. In June 1999, the Corporation was notified that S.D. Warren, a former
   division  of  Scott,  had been named as a potentially responsible party at
   the Sunrise  Landfill  in  Wayland,  Allegan County, Michigan.  Scott agreed
   to be responsible  for  S.D.  Warren's  liability  at  the  site  pursuant
   to  an indemnification  agreement  between  Scott  and  S.D.  Warren. The
   Corporation currently  lacks adequate information to make a determination as
   to the extent of  its  liability  at  the  site.




PART  I
(Continued)

ITEM  4.    SUBMISSION  OF  MATTERS  TO  A  VOTE  OF  SECURITY  HOLDERS

Not  applicable.


EXECUTIVE  OFFICERS  OF  THE  REGISTRANT

The names and ages of the executive officers of the Corporation as of March 1,
2000,  together  with  certain  biographical  information,  are  as  follows:

ROBERT  E.  ABERNATHY,  45,  was  elected Group President effective January 1,
1997.    He  is  responsible  for  the  global health care business, nonwovens
manufacturing  and  research,  the  technical  paper  business  and  corporate
research  and development.  Mr. Abernathy joined the Corporation in 1982.  His
past  responsibilities  in  the Corporation have included operations and major
project  management  in  North America.  He was appointed Vice President-North
American  Diaper  Operations  in  1992 and Managing Director of Kimberly-Clark
Australia  Pty.  Limited  in  1994.

JOHN  W.  DONEHOWER, 53, was elected Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer  in  1993.    Mr.  Donehower  joined  the Corporation in 1974.  He was
appointed  Director of Finance - Europe in 1978, Vice President, Marketing and
Sales  - Nonwovens in 1981, Vice President, Specialty Papers in 1982, Managing
Director,  Kimberly-Clark  Australia Pty. Limited in 1982, and Vice President,
Professional  Health  Care,  Medical  and  Nonwoven  Fabrics  in 1985.  He was
appointed  President, Specialty Products - U.S. in 1987, and President - World
Support  Group  in  1990.  Mr. Donehower is a director of Eastman Chemical Co.
and  Factory  Mutual  Insurance  Company.

O. GEORGE EVERBACH, 61, was elected Senior Vice President - Law and Government
Affairs  in  1988.    Mr.  Everbach  joined  the  Corporation  in  1984.   His
responsibilities  have  included  direction  of  legal,  human  resources  and
administrative  functions.   He was elected Vice President and General Counsel
in  1984;  Vice  President,  Secretary and General Counsel in 1985; and Senior
Vice  President  and  General  Counsel  in  1986.

THOMAS J. FALK, 41, has served as President and Chief Operating Officer of the
Corporation  since  his election on November 16, 1999.  He previously had been
elected  Group  President  -  Tissue,  Pulp  and  Paper  in  1998 where he was
responsible  for  the  Corporation's  global  tissue  businesses.  He also was
responsible  for  the  Wet Wipes and Neenah Paper sectors, Pulp Operations and
Consumer  Business  Services,  Environment  and  Energy  and  Human  Resources
organizations.    Mr.  Falk  joined  the  Corporation  in  1983.    His  prior
responsibilities have included internal audit, finance and strategic analysis,
and  operations  management.  In 1993, he was elected Group President - Infant
and  Child  Care  and  has  held  various  senior  management positions in the
Corporation's  Consumer  and  Away  From  Home businesses in North America and
Europe since that time.  Mr. Falk is a member of the University of Wisconsin -
Madison  School  of  Business Dean's Advisory Board and serves on the Board of
Directors of Newell Rubbermaid Inc.  He has been a director of the Corporation
since  November  1999.


PART  I
(Continued)

EXECUTIVE  OFFICERS  OF  THE  REGISTRANT  (Continued)

WAYNE R. SANDERS, 52, has served as Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation
since  1991  and  Chairman  of  the  Board  of the Corporation since 1992.  He
previously  had  been  elected  President and Chief Operating Officer in 1990.
Employed  by the Corporation in 1975, Mr. Sanders was appointed Vice President
of  Kimberly-Clark  Canada Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Corporation,
in  1981  and  was  appointed Director and President in 1984.  Mr. Sanders was
elected  Senior  Vice  President of Kimberly-Clark Corporation in 1985 and was
appointed  President  -  Infant Care Sector in 1987, President - Personal Care
Sector  in  1988  and  President  -  World Consumer, Nonwovens and Service and
Industrial  Operations  in  1990.  Mr.  Sanders  is a director of Adolph Coors
Company,  Coors Brewing Company, Texas Instruments Incorporated and Chase Bank
of  Texas,  National  Association.    He  also  is  a  member of the Marquette
University  Board  of Trustees and is a national trustee of the Boys and Girls
Clubs  of  America.    He  has  been a director of the Corporation since 1989.

KATHI  P.  SEIFERT, 50, was elected Executive Vice President in November 1999.
She  is  responsible for the Infant Care, Child Care, Feminine Care, and Adult
Care  business sectors, the Safety and Quality Assurance team and the U.S. and
Canadian  Sales  organizations,  and  leads  a  team  responsible  for  the
Corporation's  global  personal  care  businesses.    Ms.  Seifert  joined
Kimberly-Clark in 1978.  Her responsibilities in the Corporation have included
various  marketing  positions  within  the Away From Home, Consumer Tissue and
Feminine  Care  business sectors.  She was appointed President - Feminine Care
Sector in 1991, was elected Group President - Feminine and Adult Care in 1994,
elected  Group  President  - North American Consumer Products in January 1995,
elected  Group  President - North American Personal Care Products in July 1995
and  elected  Group  President  - Global Personal Care Products in April 1998.
Ms. Seifert is a member of the Board of Directors of Eli Lilly and Company and
Aid  Association  for  Lutherans.






PART  II

ITEM  5.    MARKET  FOR  THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS

The  dividend  and  market  price data included in Note 14 to the Consolidated
Financial  Statements,  and  the  information  set  forth  under  the captions
"Dividends and Dividend Reinvestment Plan" and "Stock Exchanges" contained in
the  1999  Annual  Report  to Stockholders are incorporated in this Item 5 by
reference.

As  of  March  17,  2000,  the Corporation had 52,331 holders of record of its
common  stock.




PART  II

ITEM  6.    SELECTED  FINANCIAL  DATA




                       NOTES TO SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA






PART  II
ITEM  6.    SELECTED  FINANCIAL  DATA  (Continued)

NOTES  TO  SELECTED  FINANCIAL  DATA

(2) Included in the selected financial data for 1996 are the following items:



(3) Included in the selected financial data for 1997 are the following items:



(4) Included in the selected financial data for 1998 are the following
items:






PART  II
ITEM  6.    SELECTED  FINANCIAL  DATA  (Continued)

NOTES  TO  SELECTED  FINANCIAL  DATA

(5)  Included in the selected financial data for 1999 are the following items:




ITEM  7.   MANAGEMENT'S  DISCUSSION  AND  ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS  OF  OPERATIONS

The  information  set  forth  under  the  caption "Management's Discussion and
Analysis"  contained in the 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders is incorporated
in  this  Item  7  by  reference.


ITEM  7A.  QUANTITATIVE  AND  QUALITATIVE  DISCLOSURES  ABOUT  MARKET  RISK

The  information  set  forth  under  the  caption "Management's Discussion and
Analysis  - Market Risk Sensitivity and Inflation Risks" contained in the 1999
Annual  Report  to  Stockholders is incorporated in this Item 7A by reference.


ITEM  8.   FINANCIAL  STATEMENTS  AND  SUPPLEMENTARY  DATA

The  consolidated financial statements of the Corporation and its consolidated
subsidiaries  and  the  independent auditors' report thereon contained in the
1999  Annual  Report  to  Stockholders  are  incorporated  in  this  Item 8 by
reference.


ITEM  9.   CHANGES  IN  AND  DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL  DISCLOSURE

None.



PART  III

ITEM  10.  DIRECTORS  AND  EXECUTIVE  OFFICERS  OF  THE  REGISTRANT

The  section  of  the  2000  Proxy  Statement  captioned  "Certain Information
Regarding  Directors  and  Nominees" under "Proposal 1. Election of Directors"
identifies  members of the board of directors of the Corporation and nominees,
and  is  incorpor-ated  in  this  Item  10  by  reference.

See  also  "EXECUTIVE  OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT" appearing in Part I hereof.


ITEM  11.  EXECUTIVE  COMPENSATION

The  information  in  the  section  of  the  2000  Proxy  Statement  captioned
"Executive  Compensation"  under  "Proposal  1.  Election  of  Directors"  is
incorporated  in  this  Item  11  by  reference.


ITEM  12.  SECURITY  OWNERSHIP  OF  CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information in the section of the 2000 Proxy Statement captioned "Security
Ownership  of  Management"  under  "Proposal  1.  Election  of  Directors"  is
incorporated  in  this  Item  12  by  reference.


ITEM  13.  CERTAIN  RELATIONSHIPS  AND  RELATED  TRANSACTIONS

The  information in the section of the 2000 Proxy Statement captioned "Certain
Transactions  and  Business  Relationships"  under  "Proposal  1.  Election of
Directors"  is  incorporated  in  this  Item  13  by  reference.



PART  IV

ITEM  14.  EXHIBITS,  FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(A)  DOCUMENTS  FILED  AS  PART  OF  THIS  REPORT.

1.   Financial  statements:

The  Consolidated  Balance  Sheet  as  of  December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the
related  Consolidated Statements of Income, Stockholders' Equity and Cash Flow
for  the  years  ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, and the related Notes
thereto,  and  the  Indepen-dent  Auditors'  Report  of  Deloitte & Touche LLP
thereon are incorporated in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K by reference to
the  financial statements contained in the 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders.
In  addition,  related  reports  of Deloitte & Touche LLP are included herein.

2.   Financial  statement  schedule:

The  following  information  is  filed as part of this Form 10-K and should be
read in conjunction with the financial statements contained in the 1999 Annual
Report  to  Stockholders.

Independent  Auditors'  Report

Schedule  for  Kimberly-Clark  Corporation  and  Subsidiaries:
     Schedule II  Valuation  and  Qualifying  Accounts

All  other  schedules  have  been  omitted because they were not applicable or
because the required information has been included in the financial statements
or  notes  thereto.

3.   Exhibits:

Exhibit  No. (3)a. Restated Certificate of Incorporation, dated June 12, 1997.

Exhibit  No.  (3)b.  By-Laws,  as  amended  November 22, 1996, incorporated by
reference  to  Exhibit  No. 4.2 of the Corporation's Registration Statement on
Form S-8 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 6, 1996
(File  No.  333-17367).

Exhibit  No.  (4).  Copies  of  instruments  defining the rights of holders of
long-term  debt will be furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission on
request.

Exhibit  No.  (10)a.  Management  Achievement  Award  Program,  as amended and
restated as of January 1, 1998, incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. (10)a
of  the  Corporation's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
31,  1997.

Exhibit  No.  (10)b.  Executive  Severance Plan, as amended and restated as of
December  10,  1998,  incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit No. (10)b to the
Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998.

Exhibit  No. (10)c. Fourth Amended and Restated Deferred Compensation Plan for
Directors, incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. (10)c of the Corporation's
Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K  for  the  year  ended  December  31,  1996.


PART  IV
(Continued)

ITEM  14.    EXHIBITS,  FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
(Continued)

Exhibit  No.  (10)d.  1986  Equity  Participation  Plan,  as amended effective
November  20,  1997,  incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit No. (10)d of the
Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997.

Exhibit  No.  (10)e.  1992  Equity  Participation  Plan,  as amended effective
November  15,  1999.

Exhibit  No.  (10)f.  Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended effective June 9,
1999.

Exhibit No. (10)g. Outside Directors' Stock Compensation Plan, incorporated by
reference  to  Exhibit  No. 4.5 to the Corporation's Registration Statement on
Form  S-8  filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 18, 1996
(File  No.  33-02607).

Exhibit No. (10)h. Supplemental Benefit Plan to Salaried Employees' Retirement
Plan,  amended and restated as of November 17, 1994, incorporated by reference
to  Exhibit  No. (10)i of the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year  ended  December  31,  1996.

Exhibit  No.  (10)i.  Second  Supplemental Benefit Plan to Salaried Employees'
Retirement Plan, amended and restated as of November 17, 1994, incorporated by
reference to Exhibit No. (10)j of the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K
for  the  year  ended  December  31,  1996.

Exhibit  No. (10)j. Retirement Contribution Excess Benefit Program, as amended
and restated as of August 19, 1998, incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)k
of  the  Corporation's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
31,  1998.

Exhibit  No.  (10)k.  1999  Restricted  Stock Plan, effective as of January 1,
1999,  incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  No.  4.5 to the Corporation's
Registration  Statement  on  Form  S-8  filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission  on  February  3,  1999  (File  No.  333-71661).

Exhibit  No.  (12).  Computation of ratio of earnings to fixed charges for the
five  years  ended  December  31,  1999.

Exhibit  No.  (13).  Portions  of  the  Corporation's  1999  Annual  Report to
Stockholders  incorporated  by  reference  in  this  Form  10-K.

Exhibit  No.  (21).  Subsidiaries  of  the  Corporation.

Exhibit  No.  (23).  Independent  Auditors'  Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP.




PART  IV
(Continued)

ITEM  14.    EXHIBITS,  FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
(Continued)

Exhibit  No.  (24).  Powers  of  Attorney.

Exhibit  No.  (27). The Financial Data Schedule required by Item 601(b)(27) of
Regulation S-K has been included with the electronic filing of this Form 10-K.

(B)    REPORTS  ON  FORM  8-K

The  Corporation filed on December 3, 1999 a Current Report on Form 8-K, dated
November  30,  1999, in connection with an improved product, the Corporation's
outlook  and  other  matters.



SIGNATURES


Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act  of  1934,  the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf  by  the  undersigned,  thereunto  duly  authorized.


                                         KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION

March  24, 2000

                                         By: /s/ John W. Donehower
                                             -----------------------------
                                             John  W.  Donehower
                                             Senior  Vice  President  and
                                             Chief  Financial  Officer


Pursuant  to  the  requirements  of  the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed  below  by  the  following  persons on behalf of the
registrant  and  in  the  capacities  and  on  the  dates  indicated.



 /s/ Wayne R. Sanders
- ---------------------------------     Chairman of the Board      March 24, 2000
       Wayne R. Sanders               and Chief Executive Officer
                                      and Director
                                      (principal executive officer)

/s/ John W. Donehower
- ---------------------------------     Senior Vice President and  March 24, 2000
       John W. Donehower              Chief Financial Officer
                                      (principal financial officer)

/s/ Randy J. Vest
- ---------------------------------     Vice President and         March 24, 2000
        Randy J. Vest                 Controller
                                      (principal accounting officer)




                                     Directors

             John F. Bergstrom                    Claudio X. Gonzalez
             Pastora San Juan Cafferty            Louis E. Levy
             Paul J. Collins                      Frank A. McPherson
             Robert W. Decherd                    Linda Johnson Rice
             Thomas J. Falk                       Wolfgang R. Schmitt
             William O. Fifield                   Randall L. Tobias


                  By: /s/ O. George Everbach
                      ---------------------------------------    March 24, 2000
                      O.  George  Everbach,  Attorney-in-Fact

INDEPENDENT  AUDITORS'  REPORT


KIMBERLY-CLARK  CORPORATION:

We  have  audited  the  consolidated  financial  statements  of Kimberly-Clark
Corporation  as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and for each of the three years
in  the  period  ended  December  31, 1999, and have issued our report thereon
dated  January 24, 2000; such consolidated financial statements and report are
included  in your Annual Report and are incorporated herein by reference.  Our
audits  also  included  the  consolidated  financial  statement  schedule  of
Kimberly-Clark  Corporation,  listed  in Item 14.  This consolidated financial
statement schedule is the responsibility of the Corporation's management.  Our
responsibility  is  to  express an opinion on the financial statement schedule
based  on  our  audits.   In our opinion, the consolidated financial statement
schedule  listed  in  Item  14,  when  considered  in  relation  to  the basic
consolidated  financial  statements  taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all
material  respects,  the  information  set  forth  therein.


/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE  LLP
- ---------------------------

DELOITTE  &  TOUCHE  LLP

Dallas, Texas
January 24, 2000





(a)  Includes bad debt recoveries and the effects of changes in foreign
     currency exchange rates. 1997 includes the  balances of Tecnol
     Medical Products, Inc. acquired in December 1997.

(b)  Primarily uncollectible receivables written off.

(c)  Sales discounts allowed.























(a) Includes the net currency effects of translating valuation allowances
    at current rates under SFAS No. 52 of $(39.4) million in 1999, $15.6
    million in 1998 and $(26.0) million in 1997. Included in this column
    are also expired income  tax  loss  carryforwards of $15.8 million in
    1998 and $16.9 million in 1997. These items offset deferred tax assets
    resulting in no effect on the consolidated balance sheet.



INDEX  TO  DOCUMENTS  FILED  AS  PART  OF  THIS  REPORT.
________________________________________________________________

                    DESCRIPTION
                    -----------

Consolidated  financial  statements,  incorporated  by  reference

Independent  Auditors'  Reports,  incorporated  by  reference

Independent  Auditors'  Reports

Schedule  for  Kimberly-Clark  Corporation  and  Subsidiaries:
     Schedule    II    Valuation  and  Qualifying  Accounts

Exhibit  No. (3)a. Restated Certificate of Incorporation, dated June 12, 1997.

Exhibit  No.  (3)b.  By-Laws,  as  amended  November 22, 1996, incorporated by
reference  to  Exhibit  No. 4.2 of the Corporation's Registration Statement on
Form S-8 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 6, 1996
(File  No.  333-17367).

Exhibit  No.  (4).  Copies  of  instruments  defining the rights of holders of
long-term  debt will be furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission on
request.

Exhibit  No.  (10)a.  Management  Achievement  Award  Program,  as amended and
restated as of January 1, 1998, incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. (10)a
of  the  Corporation's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
31,  1997.

Exhibit  No.  (10)b.  Executive  Severance Plan, as amended and restated as of
December  10,  1998,  incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit No. (10)b to the
Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998.

Exhibit  No. (10)c. Fourth Amended and Restated Deferred Compensation Plan for
Directors, incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. (10)c of the Corporation's
Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K  for  the  year  ended  December  31,  1996.

Exhibit  No.  (10)d.  1986  Equity  Participation  Plan,  as amended effective
November  20,  1997,  incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit No. (10)d of the
Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997.

Exhibit  No.  (10)e.  1992  Equity  Participation  Plan,  as amended effective
November  15,  1999.

Exhibit  No.  (10)f.  Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended effective June 9,
1999.

Exhibit No. (10)g. Outside Directors' Stock Compensation Plan, incorporated by
reference  to  Exhibit  No. 4.5 to the Corporation's Registration Statement on
Form  S-8  filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 18, 1996
(File  No.  33-02607).


INDEX  TO  DOCUMENTS  FILED  AS  PART  OF  THIS  REPORT.
(continued)
_________________________________________________________________

                    DESCRIPTION
                    -----------

Exhibit No. (10)h. Supplemental Benefit Plan to Salaried Employees' Retirement
Plan,  amended and restated as of November 17, 1994, incorporated by reference
to  Exhibit  No. (10)i of the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year  ended  December  31,  1996.

Exhibit  No.  (10)i.  Second  Supplemental Benefit Plan to Salaried Employees'
Retirement Plan, amended and restated as of November 17, 1994, incorporated by
reference to Exhibit No. (10)j of the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K
for  the  year  ended  December  31,  1996.

Exhibit  No. (10)j. Retirement Contribution Excess Benefit Program, as amended
and restated as of August 19, 1998, incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)k
of  the  Corporation's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
31,  1998.

Exhibit  No.  (10)k.  1999  Restricted  Stock Plan, effective as of January 1,
1999,  incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  No.  4.5 to the Corporation's
Registration  Statement  on  Form  S-8  filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission  on  February  3,  1999  (File  No.  333-71661).

Exhibit  No.  (12).  Computation of ratio of earnings to fixed charges for the
five  years  ended  December  31,  1999.

Exhibit  No.  (13).  Portions  of  the  Corporation's  1999  Annual  Report to
Stockholders  incorporated  by  reference  in  this  Form  10-K.

Exhibit  No.  (21).  Subsidiaries  of  the  Corporation.

Exhibit  No.  (23).  Independent  Auditors'  Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP.

Exhibit  No.  (24).  Powers  of  Attorney.

Exhibit  No.  (27). The Financial Data Schedule required by Item 601(b)(27) of
Regulation S-K has been included with the electronic filing of this Form 10-K.



