
10-K
0001.txt



                                  FORM  10-K

                                 UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549

(Mark One)

[X]           ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

FOR  THE  FISCAL  YEAR  ENDED  DECEMBER  31,  2000
                                      OR

[    ]                TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

FOR  THE  TRANSITION  PERIOD  FROM  _______________  TO  _______________

Commission  file  number  1-225

                          KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                       DELAWARE                         39-0394230
             (State or other jurisdiction of        (I.R.S. Employer
            incorporation or organization)         Identification No.)

                P. O. BOX 619100, DALLAS, TEXAS        75261-9100
            (Address of principal executive offices)   (ZIP CODE)

      Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (972) 281-1200

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

    Title of each class               Name of each exchange on which registered
- ---------------------------------     -----------------------------------------
Common Stock  - $1.25 Par Value       New York Stock Exchange
Preferred Stock Purchase Rights       Chicago  Stock  Exchange
                                      Pacific  Exchange

       Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate  by  check  mark  whether  the  registrant  (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12  months  (or for such shorter period that the
registrant  was  required  to  file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such  filing  requirements  for  the  past  90  days. Yes  X.   No     .
                                                         -----    -----

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of  Regulation  S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best  of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated  by  reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this  Form  10-K. [X]

As of March  16, 2001, 533,036,154 shares of common stock were outstanding, and
the  aggregate  market  value  of  the  registrant's  common  stock  held  by
non-affiliates  on such date (based on the closing stock price on the New York
Stock  Exchange)  was  approximately  $36 billion.

                                  (Continued)


FACING  SHEET
(CONTINUED)


DOCUMENTS  INCORPORATED  BY  REFERENCE

Kimberly-Clark Corporation's 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders and 2001 Proxy
Statement  contain  much  of  the  information required in this Form 10-K, and
portions  of  those  documents  are  incorporated by reference herein from the
applicable  sections  thereof.  The following table identifies the sections of
this  Form  10-K  which incorporate by reference portions of the Corporation's
2000  Annual  Report  to  Stockholders and 2001 Proxy Statement.  The Items of
this Form 10-K, where applicable, specify which portions of such documents are
incorporated  by  reference.    The  portions  of  such  documents  that  are
not  incorporated  by  reference  shall  not  be  deemed  to be filed with the
Commission  as  part  of  this Form  10-K.


   DOCUMENT  OF  WHICH  PORTIONS                       ITEMS OF THIS FORM 10-K
  ARE  INCORPORATED  BY  REFERENCE                     IN WHICH INCORPORATED
- ----------------------------------          ----------------------------------

2000  Annual  Report  to  Stockholders      PART  I
   (Year  ended  December  31,  2000)         ITEM  1.  Business

                                            PART  II
                                              ITEM  5.  Market for the
                                                Registrant's Common Stock and
                                                Related Stockholder Matters

                                              ITEM  7.  Management's Discussion
                                                and Analysis of Financial
                                                Condition and Results of
                                                Operations

                                              ITEM  7A. Quantitative and
                                                Qualitative Disclosures About
                                                Market Risk

                                              ITEM  8.  Financial Statements and
                                                Supplementary  Data

                                            PART  IV
                                              ITEM  14. Exhibits, Financial
                                                Statement Schedules and Reports
                                                on Form 8-K


2001  Proxy  Statement                      PART  III
                                              ITEM  10. Directors and Executive
                                                Officers of the Registrant

                                              ITEM  11. Executive Compensation

                                              ITEM  12. Security Ownership of
                                                Certain Beneficial Owners and
                                                Management

                                              ITEM  13. Certain Relationships
                                                and Related Transactions




PART  I

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ITEM  1.  BUSINESS

Kimberly-Clark  Corporation  was incorporated in Delaware in 1928.  As used in
Items  1,  2  and  7  of  this  Form  10-K,  the  term "Corporation" refers to
Kimberly-Clark  Corporation  and  its  consolidated  subsidiaries.    In  the
remainder of this Form 10-K, the terms "Kimberly-Clark" or "Corporation" refer
only to Kimberly-Clark Corporation.  Financial information by business segment
and  geographic  area, and information about principal products and markets of
the  Corporation,  contained  under  the  caption "Management's Discussion and
Analysis" and in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in
the  2000  Annual  Report  to Stockholders, are incorporated in this Item 1 by
reference.

RECENT DEVELOPMENTS.  Historically, the Corporation has been engaged in a wide
variety  of  diversified  businesses,  including  the  manufacture and sale of
consumer  products,  paper  and  forest products, airline services and various
other businesses.  In recent years, the Corporation has made the transition to
a  global  consumer  products  company  based  on the strategy of building its
tissue, personal care and health care businesses.  Since 1992, the Corporation
has  completed  about 35 acquisitions in its core businesses and approximately
20  strategic  divestitures,  including  the  following  transactions:

- -  On  December  12,  1995,  Scott  Paper  Company  ("Scott") became a
   wholly-owned  subsidiary  of  Kimberly-Clark  upon  completion  of  a  merger
   transaction in which the outstanding Scott common shares were converted into
   shares  of  Kimberly-Clark  common  stock.  The  transaction  was  valued at
   approximately  $9.4  billion  and accounted for as a pooling of interests. On
   February  14,  1996,  Scott changed its name to Kimberly-Clark Tissue Company
   ("KCTC").

- -  On  June  28,  1996,  the  Corporation sold the baby and child wipe
   businesses previously  conducted by Scott, consisting of the Baby Fresh, Wash
   a-Bye Baby and Kid Fresh brands and the Dover, Delaware production facility,
   to The Procter  & Gamble Company.  This divestiture was required by the U.S.
   Department of  Justice  as  part  of  the  Scott  merger.

- -  On  July  1, 1996, the Corporation purchased a 51 percent ownership
   interest in  a  personal  care  products  joint  venture,  Kenko  de  Brasil.

- -  On September 16, 1996, the Corporation sold its tissue mill in Prudhoe,
   England  and  certain  consumer tissue  businesses in the United Kingdom and
   Ireland to Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget (SCA) of Sweden.  This divestiture
   was required  by  the  European  Commission  as  part  of  the  Scott merger.

- -  On March 27, 1997, the Corporation sold its Coosa Pines, Alabama pulp
   and newsprint operations, and related woodlands ("Coosa"), to Alliance Forest
   Products  Inc., a  publicly-held Canadian corporation, for approximately $600
   million  in  cash.

- -  On June 6, 1997, the Corporation sold its 50.1 percent interest in Scott
   Paper Limited, a publicly-traded Canadian company to Kruger, Inc., a Canadian
   paper  and  forest  products  company,  for  approximately  $127  million.

- -  On December 18, 1997, the Corporation acquired Tecnol Medical Products,
   Inc.  ("Tecnol"),  a leading maker of disposable face masks and patient care
   products,  in a merger transaction  which  involved  the  conversion of all
   outstanding shares of Tecnol common stock into shares of Kimberly-Clark
   common stock.  The  transaction  was  valued  at approximately $428 million
   and was accounted  for  as  a  purchase.



PART  I
(Continued)

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ITEM  1.  BUSINESS  (Continued)

- -  On May 28, 1998, the Corporation purchased a 50 percent equity interest
   in Klabin Tissue S.A. (now known as Klabin Kimberly S.A.), the leading
   tissue manufacturer  in  Brazil.

- -  On July 21, 1998, the Corporation purchased an additional 10 percent
   ownership  interest  in  its  Korean  affiliate,  YuHan-Kimberly, Limited,
   increasing  its  ownership  interest  to  70  percent.

- -  On August 19, 1998, the Corporation sold the outstanding shares of K-C
   Aviation Inc., a leading provider of business aviation services, to
   Gulfstream Aerospace  Corporation  for  $250  million  in  cash.

- -  On June 10, 1999, the Corporation purchased the European consumer and
   away-from-home tissue businesses of Attisholz Holding AG for approximately
   $365 million.  The acquired businesses are located in Germany, Switzerland
   and Austria.

- -  On  September  23,  1999,  the Corporation acquired Ballard Medical
   Products, a leading maker of disposable medical devices for respiratory care,
   gastroenterology  and  cardiology, at a cost of approximately $788 million,
   including the  value of  common  stock exchanged  and  other  costs  of the
   transaction.  This  acquisition  was  accounted  for  as  a  purchase.

- -  On  September  30,  1999,  the  Corporation  completed  the sale of
   approximately  460,000  acres  of  timberland  in  Alabama,  Mississippi
   and Tennessee.

- -  On  February 8, 2000, the Corporation acquired Safeskin Corporation
   ("Safeskin"),  a  leading  maker  of  disposable  gloves  for  health  care,
   high-technology and scientific industries, in a merger transaction pursuant
   to which  Safeskin  shareholders  received  .1956 of a share of the
   Corporation's common  stock  for  each  share of Safeskin common stock.
   The transaction was valued at approximately $750 million and was accounted
   for as a purchase.

- -  On July 5, 2000, the Corporation acquired majority shares of privately
   held  S-K Corporation of Taiwan, which holds trademark and distribution
   rights in  Taiwan  for the Corporation's global brands including Kleenex,
   Huggies and Kotex.  Prior  to  the  acquisition,  the  Corporation owned
   approximately 3 percent  of  S-K  Corporation.

- -  On  December 20, 2000, the Corporation purchased an additional 33.3
   percent ownership interest  in  its  Taiwanese affiliate, Taiwan Scott Paper
   Corporation, increasing  its  ownership  interest  to  100  percent.

- -  On January 31, 2001, the Corporation acquired Linostar S.p.A., a leading
   Italian-based diaper manufacturer that produces and markets Lines, Italy's
   second  largest  diaper  brand.

In  the  fourth  quarter  of  1995,  in  connection with the Scott merger, the
Corporation  announced  a  plan  to restructure the combined operations and to
accomplish  other  business  improvement  objectives  (the  "1995 Plan").  The
original  estimated pretax cost of the 1995 Plan was $1,440 million and it was
completed  in  1998  at  a  pretax  cost  of  $1,305  million.

On  November  21,  1997,  the  Corporation announced a restructuring plan (the
"1997  Plan").  The plan, among other things, resulted in the sale, closure or
downsizing of 16 manufacturing facilities worldwide  and a workforce reduction
of  approximately  3,740 employees.  Costs for the 1997 Plan of $250.8 million
and  $414.2  million were recorded in 1998 and 1997, respectively, at the time
costs  became  accruable



PART  I
(Continued)

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ITEM  1.  BUSINESS  (Continued)


under  appropriate  accounting  principles.  Included in such costs was
accelerated depreciation charged to cost of products sold related to assets that
were to be disposed of but which continued to be operated during 1997 and 1998.
In 1999, the Corporation recorded a net credit of $16.7 million,  which  was
composed  of  accelerated  depreciation expense of $23.7 million,  reductions
in accrued costs of $31.9 million and lower asset write-offs  and higher sales
proceeds totaling $8.5 million, due to changes in estimates.

In  the  fourth  quarter  of  1998,  the  Corporation  announced  a facilities
consolidation  plan  (the  "1998  Plan") to, among other things, further align
tissue  manufacturing  capacity  with  demand  in  Europe,  close  a  diaper
manufacturing facility in Canada, shut down and dispose of a tissue machine in
Thailand,  write  down  certain  excess  feminine care production equipment in
North  America  and  reduce  the  Corporation's workforce by approximately 830
employees.   Costs for the 1998 Plan of $18.2 million, $42.6 million and $49.1
million  were  recorded  in  2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively, and charged to
cost  of  products sold. The year 2000 costs are composed primarily of certain
severance costs and charges for accelerated depreciation for the Corporation's
Larkfield,  U.K.  tissue  manufacturing facility that remained in use until it
was  shutdown  in  October  2000.

Pursuant  to  the  1998  Plan,  through  December 31, 2000, 814 employees were
notified  of  the  Corporation's  plans to terminate their employment, and the
costs  of  this  workforce reduction were charged to earnings in the period in
which  such  employee  severance  benefits  were  appropriately  communicated.

The  1997  Plan  and  the  1998  Plan  were completed as of December 31, 2000.

DESCRIPTION OF THE CORPORATION.  The Corporation is principally engaged in the
manufacturing  and  marketing throughout the world of a wide range of consumer
products.    The Corporation also produces premium business correspondence and
technical  papers.  Most of these products are made from natural and synthetic
fibers  using  advanced  technologies  in  fibers,  nonwovens  and absorbency.

The  Corporation  is  organized  into three global business segments:  Tissue;
Personal  Care;  and  Health  Care  and  Other.

The  Tissue  segment includes facial and bathroom tissue, paper towels, wipers
and napkins for household and away-from-home use; wet wipes; printing, premium
business  and  correspondence  papers; and related products.  Products in this
business  segment  are  sold under the Kleenex, Scott, Kimberly-Clark, Kleenex
Cottonelle,  Kleenex  Viva, Huggies, Kimwipes, WypAll, Surpass and other brand
names.    In  January 2001, the Corporation announced the launch of Cottonelle
Fresh rollwipes, a  dispersible  pre-moistened  wipe  on a roll, which will be
available Summer 2001.

The  Personal  Care  segment  includes  disposable diapers, training and youth
pants  and  swimpants;  feminine  and  incontinence care products; and related
products.    Products in this business segment are primarily for household use
and  are  sold  under  a variety of well-known brand names, including Huggies,
Pull-Ups,  Little  Swimmers,  GoodNites,  Kotex,  Lightdays, Depend, Poise and
other  brand  names.

The Health Care and Other segment includes health care products, consisting of
surgical gowns, drapes, exam gloves, infection control products, sterilization
wraps,  disposable  face  masks,  respiratory  products  and  other disposable
medical  products;  specialty  and  technical  papers;  and  other  products.
Products  in this segment are sold under the Kimberly-Clark, Safeskin, Tecnol,
Ballard,  and  other  brand  names.



PART  I
(Continued)

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ITEM  1.  BUSINESS  (Continued)

Products  for  household  use  are  sold directly, and through wholesalers, to
supermarkets,  mass  merchandisers,  drugstores,  warehouse clubs, home health
care,  variety  and  department stores and other retail outlets.  Products for
away-from-home  use  are  sold  through  distributors  and  directly  to
manufacturing,  lodging,  office  building,  food  service  and  health  care
establishments  and  other  high volume  public  facilities.   Paper  products
are  sold  directly  to users, converters,  manufacturers,  publishers  and
printers,  and  through  paper merchants,  brokers,  sales  agents  and  other
resale agencies.  Health care products are sold  to  distributors,  converters
and  end-users.

PATENTS  AND  TRADEMARKS.  The Corporation owns various patents and trademarks
registered  domestically  and  in  many  foreign  countries.   The Corporation
considers  the  patents  and trademarks which it owns and the trademarks under
which  it  sells  certain  of  its  products  to  be material to its business.
Consequently,  the  Corporation  seeks  patent and trademark protection by all
available  means, including registration.  A partial list of the Corporation's
trademarks  is  included  under the caption "Trademarks" contained in the 2000
Annual  Report  to  Stockholders  and  is  incorporated  herein  by reference.

RAW  MATERIALS.    Superabsorbent  materials  are  important  components  in
disposable  diapers,  training and youth pants and incontinence care products.
Polypropylene and other synthetics and chemicals are the primary raw materials
for  manufacturing  nonwoven  fabrics,  which  are used in disposable diapers,
training  and  youth  pants, wet wipes, feminine pads, incontinence and health
care  products,  and  away-from-home  wipers.

Cellulose  fiber,  in the form of kraft pulp or recycled fiber, is the primary
raw  material  for  the  Corporation's  tissue  and  paper  products and is an
important  component  in disposable diapers, training pants, feminine pads and
incontinence  care  products.

Most  recovered  paper  and  all  synthetics are purchased from third parties.
Pulp  and  recycled  fiber  are produced by the Corporation and purchased from
others.    The  Corporation  considers  the supply of such raw materials to be
adequate  to  meet  the needs of its businesses.  See "Factors That May Affect
Future  Results  -  Raw  Materials."

The Corporation owns or controls approximately 5.7 million acres of forestland
in  Canada,  principally  as  a  fiber  source  for  pulp production, which is
consumed  internally  within  the  tissue business.  Approximately 1.0 million
acres  in  the  province  of  Nova  Scotia  are  owned by the Corporation, and
approximately  4.7  million acres, principally in the province of Ontario, are
held  under  long-term  Crown  rights  or  leases.

COMPETITION.    For  a  discussion of the competitive environment in which the
Corporation conducts its business, see "Factors That May Affect Future Results
- -  Competitive  Environment."

RESEARCH  AND  DEVELOPMENT.  A major portion of total research and development
expenditures is directed toward new or improved personal care, health care and
tissue  products,  and  nonwoven  materials.    Consolidated  research  and
development  expense  was  $277.4 million in 2000, $249.8 million in 1999, and
$224.8  million  in  1998.

ENVIRONMENTAL  MATTERS.    Total  worldwide capital expenditures for voluntary
environmental  controls  or    controls  necessary  to  comply  with  legal
requirements  relating  to  the  protection  of  the  environment  at  the
Corporation's  facilities are expected to be approximately $78 million in 2001
and  $35  million  in  2002.  Of



PART  I
(Continued)

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ITEM  1.  BUSINESS  (Continued)

these  amounts,  approximately $18 million in 2001, and $9 million in 2002 are
expected to be spent at facilities in the U.S. Approximately $.4 million of such
expenditures  in  2001  relate to compliance with the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency's ("EPA") Cluster Rule for sulfite pulping operations at the
Corporation's Everett, Washington  pulp mill. The remainder of the expected
expenditures  in  the  U.S. will  be  applied  at various  other  production
facilities  of  the  Corporation  for other environmental control system
improvements.  For facilities outside of the U.S., capital expenditures for
environmental  controls are expected to be $60 million in 2001 and $26 million
in  2002.

Total  worldwide  operating expenses for environmental compliance are expected
to  be  approximately  $184  million  in  2001 and $189 million in 2002.  U.S.
operating  expenses  are  expected to be approximately $98 million in 2001 and
$100  million in 2002.  Operating expenses for facilities outside the U.S. are
expected  to  be  approximately  $86  million in 2001 and $89 million in 2002.
Operating  expenses  include  pollution  control  equipment  operation  and
maintenance  costs, governmental payments, and research and engineering costs.

Total  environmental  capital  expenditures  and  operating  expenses  are not
expected  to  have  a  material  effect on the Corporation's total capital and
operating  expenditures,  consolidated  earnings  or  competitive  position.
However,  current  environmental  spending  estimates  could  be modified as a
result of changes in the Corporation's plans, changes in legal requirements or
other  factors.

In  connection with certain divestitures, including those described in "Recent
Developments,"  the  Corporation  has  agreed  to  indemnify the purchasers of
certain  divested  businesses  against  certain  environmental  liabilities.
Generally,  these  indemnification  obligations  apply  only  to environmental
liabilities  which  are  actually incurred by the purchaser within a specified
time  period  after  closing  and  are limited to a specified dollar amount of
coverage.    The  Corporation  has established appropriate accrued liabilities
with  respect thereto, and does not otherwise consider these obligations to be
material.

EMPLOYEES.    In  its  worldwide  consolidated operations, the Corporation had
66,300  employees  as  of  December  31,  2000.

Approximately  22  percent  of  the  Corporation's United States workforce and
approximately  25 percent of the Corporation's non-United States workforce are
represented  by  unions.    In  the  U.S.,  the largest concentration of union
membership  is  with  the  Paper, Allied-Industrial, Chemical & Energy Workers
International  Union  (PACE).    Other  employees  are  represented  by  the
International  Brotherhood  of  Electrical  Workers  (IBEW), the International
Association  of  Machinists  and  Aerospace  Workers (IAM), the Association of
Western  Pulp  and Paper Workers (AWPPW), and various independent unions.  The
Corporation's collective bargaining agreements typically have a term of 5 to 6
years  and provide for wage and fringe benefit increases during the term.  The
agreements  have  staggered  termination  dates.

Throughout the Corporation, management seeks to establish and maintain an open
and  respectful  relationship  with  its  employees.  Management believes that
communications should flow freely in the organization to provide all employees
the  opportunity to maximize the use of their talents in the attainment of the
Corporation's  business  objectives.

INSURANCE.    The  Corporation  maintains  coverage  consistent  with industry
practice  for  most  risks  that  are  incident  to  its  operations.





PART  I
(Continued)

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ITEM  1.  BUSINESS  (Continued)

FACTORS  THAT  MAY  AFFECT  FUTURE  RESULTS

Certain  matters  discussed in this Form 10-K, or documents a portion of which
are  incorporated  herein  by  reference,  concerning, among other things, the
business  outlook,  anticipated  financial  and operating results, strategies,
contingencies  and  contemplated  transactions  of  the Corporation constitute
forward-
looking  statements  and  are based upon management's expectations and beliefs
concerning future events impacting the Corporation.  There can be no assurance
that  these  events  will  occur  or that the Corporation's results will be as
estimated.

The  following  factors,  as  well as factors described elsewhere in this Form
10-K,  or  in  other  SEC filings, among others, could cause the Corporation's
future  results  to  differ  materially  from  those  expressed  in  any
forward-looking  statements  made  by,  or  on  behalf  of,  the  Corporation.

Such  factors  are  described in accordance with the provisions of the Private
Securities  Litigation  Reform  Act  of  1995,  which  encourages companies to
disclose  such  factors.

COMPETITIVE  ENVIRONMENT.  The Corporation experiences intense competition for
sales  of  its  principal products in its major markets, both domestically and
internationally.    The Corporation's products compete with widely advertised,
well-known,  branded  products,  as  well as private label products, which are
typically sold at lower prices.  The Corporation has several major competitors
in most of its markets, some of which are larger and more diversified than the
Corporation.   The principal methods and elements of competition include brand
recognition and loyalty, product quality and performance, price, marketing and
distribution  capabilities.    Inherent risks in the Corporation's competitive
strategy  include  uncertainties concerning trade and consumer acceptance, the
effects  of  recent consolidations of retailers and distribution channels, and
competitive  reaction.   Aggressive competitive reaction may lead to increased
advertising  and  promotional spending by the Corporation in order to maintain
market  share.  Increased  competition  with  respect  to pricing would reduce
revenue  and  could  have  an  adverse  impact  on the Corporation's financial
results.    In  addition,  the  Corporation  relies  on  the  development  and
introduction  of  new  or  improved  products  as  a means of achieving and/or
maintaining  category  leadership.    In  order  to  maintain  its competitive
position,  the  Corporation  must  develop technology to support its products.

COST  SAVING STRATEGY.  A significant portion of the Corporation's anticipated
cost savings are expected to result from operating efficiencies.  There can be
no  assurance  that  such  cost  savings  and  efficiencies  will be achieved.

RAW  MATERIALS.  Cellulose fiber, in the form of kraft pulp or recycled fiber,
is  used  extensively  in  the  Corporation's tissue and paper products and is
subject  to  significant  price fluctuations due to the cyclical nature of the
pulp  markets.    Recycled  fiber accounts for approximately 25 percent of the
Corporation's  overall  fiber  requirements.    On  a  worldwide  basis,  the
Corporation  has  reduced  its  internal  supply  of  pulp to approximately 40
percent  of  its  virgin  fiber  requirements.

The  Corporation  still  intends to reduce its level of pulp integration, when
market conditions permit, to approximately 25 percent, and such a reduction in
pulp  integration, if accomplished, could increase the Corporation's commodity
price risk.  Specifically, increases in pulp prices could adversely affect the
Corporation's  earnings  if  selling  prices for its finished products are not
adjusted  or  if  such  adjustments  significantly trail the increases in pulp
prices.    Derivative  instruments  have  not been used to manage these risks.




PART  I
(Continued)

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ITEM  1.  BUSINESS  (Continued)

ENERGY COSTS.  The Corporation's manufacturing operations utilize electricity,
natural  gas  and  petroleum-based fuels.  To insure that it uses all forms of
energy  cost-effectively,  the Corporation maintains ongoing energy efficiency
improvement  programs  at  all  of  its  manufacturing sites and also provides
expert  staff  assistance  to operating units in negotiating favorable utility
and  other  energy supply agreements.  The Corporation's contracts with energy
suppliers  vary  as  to  price,  payment  terms, quantities  and  duration.
Kimberly-Clark's energy costs are also affected by various  market  factors
including  the  availability of supplies of particular forms of energy, energy
prices and local and national regulatory decisions.  There can be no assurance
that  the  Corporation  will be fully protected against substantial changes in
the  price  or  availability  of energy sources, especially in light of recent
instability  in  energy  markets.    See  also  Item  3. Legal Proceedings for
discussion  of  Mobile  Energy  Services  Company,  LLC.

ACQUISITION  STRATEGY.    The  Corporation's anticipated financial results and
business  outlook  are  dependent  in  part  upon the availability of suitable
acquisition  candidates.    The  Corporation  could  encounter  significant
challenges  in  locating  suitable  acquisition candidates that are consistent
with  its  strategic  objectives and will contribute to its long-term success.
Furthermore,  there can be no assurance that any such acquired business can or
will  be successfully integrated with the Corporation's businesses in order to
provide  anticipated  synergies  and  earnings  growth.

VOLUME  FORECASTING.   The Corporation's anticipated financial results reflect
forecasts of future volume increases in the sales of its products.  Challenges
in  such  forecasting  include  anticipating  consumer preferences, estimating
sales  of new products, estimating changes in population characteristics (such
as  birth  rates  and  changes  in per capita income), anticipating changes in
technology  and estimating the acceptance of the Corporation's products in new
markets.  As a result, there can be no assurance that the Corporation's volume
increases  will  occur  as  estimated.

FOREIGN  MARKET  RISKS.  Because the Corporation and its equity companies have
manufacturing  facilities  in 41 countries and their products are sold in more
than 150 countries, the Corporation's results may be substantially affected by
foreign  market  risks.   The Corporation is subject to the impact of economic
and  political instability in developing countries.  The extremely competitive
situation  in  European  personal care and tissue markets, and the challenging
economic  environments  in  Mexico and developing countries in eastern Europe,
Asia  and  Latin America, may slow the Corporation's sales growth and earnings
potential.    In addition, the Corporation is subject to the strengthening and
weakening of various currencies against each other and local currencies versus
the  U.S.  dollar.    Transaction  exposure,  arising  from  transactions  and
commitments  denominated in non-local currency, is selectively hedged (through
foreign  currency  forward,  swap  and  option  contracts).  See "Management's
Discussion  and  Analysis  -  Market  Risk  Sensitivity  and Inflation Risks",
contained  in  the  2000  Annual Report to Stockholders, which is incorporated
herein by reference.  Translation exposure for the Corporation with respect to
foreign  operations  is  generally not hedged.  There can be no assurance that
the  Corporation  will be fully protected against substantial foreign currency
fluctuations.

CONTINGENCIES.    The  costs  and  other  effects  of  pending  litigation and
administrative  actions  against  the  Corporation  cannot  be determined with
certainty.   Although management believes that no such proceedings will have a
material adverse effect on the Corporation, there can be no assurance that the
outcome  of  such  proceedings  will  be  as  expected.    See  "Item 3. Legal
Proceedings."



PART  I
(Continued)

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ITEM  2.    PROPERTIES

Management  believes that the Corporation's production facilities are suitable
for  their  purpose  and  adequate  to support its businesses.  The extent of
utilization  of individual facilities varies, but they generally operate at or
near  capacity,  except  in  certain  instances  such  as when new products or
technology  are  being  introduced or when mills are being shut down.  Certain
facilities  of the Corporation are being expanded.  Various facilities contain
pollution  control,  solid  waste disposal and other equipment which have been
financed  through  the issuance of industrial revenue or similar bonds and are
held  by  the  Corporation  under  lease  or  installment purchase agreements.

The  principal  facilities  of  the  Corporation  (including the Corporation's
equity  companies)  and  the  products  or  groups  of  products  made at such
facilities  are  as  follows:

HEADQUARTERS  LOCATIONS
Dallas,  Texas
Roswell,  Georgia
Neenah,  Wisconsin
Reigate,  United  Kingdom
Bangkok,  Thailand

ADMINISTRATIVE  CENTER
Knoxville,  Tennessee

WORLDWIDE  PRODUCTION  AND  SERVICE  FACILITIES

UNITED  STATES

ALABAMA
     Mobile  -  tissue  products
ARIZONA
     Tucson  -  health  care  products
ARKANSAS
     Conway  -  feminine  care,  incontinence  care  and  nonwovens
     Maumelle  -  wet  wipes  and  nonwovens
CALIFORNIA
     Escondido  -  printing  inks
     Fullerton  -  tissue  products
     San  Diego  -  health  care  products
CONNECTICUT
     New  Milford  -  diapers  and  tissue  products
GEORGIA
     LaGrange  -  nonwovens
IDAHO
      Pocatello  -  respiratory  care  and  gastroenterology  products
KENTUCKY
     Owensboro  -  tissue  products
MICHIGAN
     Munising  -  technical  papers
MISSISSIPPI
     Corinth  -  nonwovens,  wipers  and  towels
     Hattiesburg  -  tissue  products



PART  I
(Continued)

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ITEM  2.    PROPERTIES  (Continued)

NORTH  CAROLINA
     Hendersonville  -  nonwovens
     Lexington  -  nonwovens
OHIO
     Piqua  -  printing  inks
OKLAHOMA
     Jenks  -  tissue  products
PENNSYLVANIA
     Chester  -  tissue  products
SOUTH  CAROLINA
     Beech  Island  -  diapers  and  tissue  products
TENNESSEE
     Loudon  -  tissue  products
TEXAS
     Del  Rio  -  health  care  products
     Fort  Worth  -  health  care  products
     Paris  -  diapers,  training  and  youth  pants
     San  Antonio  -  personal  cleansing  products  and  systems
UTAH
     Draper  -  respiratory  care  and  gastroenterology  products
     Ogden  -  diapers
VERMONT
     East  Ryegate  -  technical  papers
WASHINGTON
     Everett  -  tissue  products  and  pulp
WISCONSIN
     Marinette  -  tissue  products
     Neenah  - diapers, training and youth pants, feminine care, incontinence
        care, business  and  correspondence  papers  and  nonwovens
     Whiting  -  business  and  correspondence  papers

OUTSIDE  THE  UNITED  STATES

ARGENTINA
    *Bernal  -  tissue  products
     Pilar  -  feminine  care  and  incontinence  care
     San  Luis  -  diapers
AUSTRALIA
    *Albury  -  nonwovens
    *Ingleburn  -  diapers
    *Lonsdale  -  diapers,  incontinence  care  and  feminine  care
    *Millicent  -  pulp  and  tissue  products
    *Tantanoola  -  pulp
    *Warwick  Farm  -  tissue  products
BAHRAIN
    *East  Riffa  -  tissue  products


    *  Equity  company  production  facility



PART  I
(Continued)

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ITEM  2.    PROPERTIES  (Continued)

BELGIUM
     Duffel  -  tissue  products
BOLIVIA
     La  Paz  -  tissue  products
     Santa  Cruz  -  diapers,  feminine  care  and  tissue  products
BRAZIL
    *Bahia  -  tissue  products
     Barueri  -  wet  wipes
    *Correia  Pinto  -  tissue  products
    *Cruzeiro  -  tissue  products
    *Mogi  das  Cruzes  -  tissue  products
     Porto  Alegre  -  feminine  care
    *Sao  Paulo  -  tissue  products
     Suzano  -  diapers,  incontinence  care
CANADA
     Huntsville,  Ontario  -  tissue  products  and  wipers
     New  Glasgow,  Nova  Scotia  -  pulp
     St.  Hyacinthe,  Quebec  -  feminine  care
     Terrace  Bay,  Ontario  -  pulp
CHILE
     Colina  -  tissue  products
     Santiago  -  diapers,  feminine  care
CHINA
     Beijing  -  feminine  care  and  diapers
     Chengdu  -  feminine  care
     Guangzhou  -  tissue  products
     Handan  -  feminine  care
     Nanjing  -  feminine  care
     Shanghai  -  tissue  products
     Shenyang  -  feminine  care
     Wuhan  -  feminine  care
COLOMBIA
     Barbosa  - tissue products, business, notebooks and correspondence papers
     Guarne  -  tissue  products
     Pereira  -  tissue products, feminine care, incontinence care and diapers
     Tocancipa  -  diapers
    *Villa  Rica  -  diapers  and  incontinence  care
COSTA  RICA
     Belen  -  tissue  products
     Cartago  -  diapers  and  feminine  care
CZECH  REPUBLIC
     Jaromer  -  diapers  and  incontinence  care
     Litovel  -  feminine  care
DOMINICAN  REPUBLIC
     Santo  Domingo  -  tissue  products



    *  Equity  company  production  facility



PART  I
(Continued)

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ITEM  2.    PROPERTIES  (Continued)

ECUADOR
     Babahoyo  -  tissue  products
     Mapasingue  -  tissue  products,  diapers  and  feminine  care
EL  SALVADOR
     Sitio del Nino  -  tissue  products
FRANCE
     Rouen  -  tissue  products
     Villey-Saint-Etienne  -  tissue  products
GERMANY
     Forchheim  -  feminine  care  and  incontinence  care
     Koblenz  -  tissue  products
     Mainz  -  tissue  products
     Reisholz  -  tissue  products
GUATEMALA
     Poza Verde  -  tissue  products
HONDURAS
     Villanueva  -  health  care  products
INDIA
    *Pune  -  feminine  care  and  diapers
INDONESIA
     Jakarta  -  tissue  products
    *Medan  -  specialty  papers
ISRAEL
     Afula  -  diapers,  feminine  care  and  incontinence  care
     Hadera  -  tissue  products
ITALY
     Alanno  -  tissue  products
     Romagnano  -  tissue  products
     Villanovetta  -  tissue  products
JAPAN
     Shinga  -  soap
KOREA
     Anyang  -  feminine  care,  diapers  and  tissue  products
     Kimcheon  -  tissue  products  and  nonwovens
     Taejon  -  feminine  care  and  diapers
MALAYSIA
     Kluang  -  tissue  products,  feminine  care  and  diapers











    *  Equity  company  production  facility



PART  I
(Continued)

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ITEM  2.    PROPERTIES  (Continued)

MEXICO
     Acuna  -  health  care  products
    *Bajio  -  tissue  products,  fine  papers  and  notebooks
    *Cuautitlan  -  feminine  care,  diapers  and  nonwovens
    *Ecatepec  -  tissue  products
     Empalme  -  health  care  products
     Magdalena  -  health  care  products
    *Morelia  -  tissue  products,  pulp  and  fine  papers
    *Naucalpan  -  tissue  products,  diapers  and  feminine  care
     Nogales  -  health  care  products
    *Orizaba  -  tissue  products,  fine  papers  and  pulp
    *Ramos  Arizpe  -  tissue  products  and  diapers
    *San  Rafael  -  tissue  products  and  fine  papers
    *Texmelucan  -  tissue  products
     Tijuana  -  printing  inks
    *Tlaxcala  -  diapers
PERU
     Puente  Piedra  -  tissue  products
     Santa  Clara  -  tissue  products
     Villa  Chorrillos  -  diapers,  feminine  care  and  incontinence  care
PHILIPPINES
     San Pedro, Laguna - feminine care, diapers, tissue products and specialty
        papers
SAUDI  ARABIA
    *Al-Khobar  -  diapers,  feminine  care  and  tissue  products
SLOVAK  REPUBLIC
     Piestany  -  health  care  products
SOUTH  AFRICA
     Cape Town  -  tissue  products,  feminine  care  and  incontinence  care
     Springs  -  tissue  products  and  diapers
SPAIN
     Aranguren  -  tissue  products
     Arceniega  -  tissue  products,  personal  cleansing products and systems
     Calatayud  -  diapers
     Telde, Canary  Islands  -  tissue  products
     Salamanca  -  tissue  products
SWITZERLAND
     Balsthal  -  tissue  products  and  specialty  papers
     Niederbipp  -  tissue  products
     Reichenburg  -  tissue  products
TAIWAN
     Chung  Li  -  tissue  products,  feminine  care  and  diapers
     Hsin-Ying  -  tissue  products
     Neihu  -  feminine  care,  diapers
     Ta-Yuan  -  tissue  products




    *  Equity  company  production  facility



PART  I
(Continued)

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ITEM  2.    PROPERTIES  (Continued)

THAILAND
     Hat  Yai  -  disposable  gloves
     Pathumthani  -  feminine  care,  diapers  and  tissue  products
     Samut Prakarn  -  tissue  products
TURKEY
     Istanbul  -  diapers
UNITED  KINGDOM
     Barrow  -  tissue  products
     Barton-upon-Humber  -  diapers
     Flint  -  tissue  products  and  nonwovens
     Northfleet  -  tissue  products
VENEZUELA
     Maracay  -  tissue  products  and  diapers
VIETNAM
     Binh Duong  -  feminine  care
     Hanoi  -  feminine  care




PART  I
(Continued)

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ITEM  3.  LEGAL  PROCEEDINGS

The  following  is  a  brief  description  of certain legal and administrative
proceedings  to  which  the  Corporation  or its subsidiaries is a party or to
which  the  Corporation's  or  its  subsidiaries'  properties  are  subject:

On  May  13,  1997, the State of Florida, acting through its attorney general,
filed  a  complaint  in the Gainesville Division of the United States District
Court  for  the  Northern  District  of Florida alleging that manufacturers of
tissue  products  for away-from-home use, including the Corporation and Scott,
agreed  to  fix  prices  by  coordinating  price  increases for such products.
Following  Florida's complaint, similar actions by the States of Maryland, New
York  and  West Virginia, as well as approximately 45 class action complaints,
were  filed  in  various  federal  and  state courts around the United States.

The  actions  by  the States of Florida, Maryland, New York and West Virginia,
the  private  plaintiffs  in  Minnesota  and  the federal private class action
plaintiffs  were  dismissed  with  prejudice  pursuant  to  settlements  with
defendants.    A  settlement  was  reached  in  the  California  class  action
litigation and was preliminarily approved by the judge in December 2000.  With
respect  to  the  only remaining litigation, filed in Tennessee on behalf of a
purported class of indirect purchasers of commercial products, the Corporation
has answered the complaint and has denied the allegations contained therein as
well  as  any  liability.

On  February  8,  2000, the Corporation completed the acquisition of Safeskin.
Approximately 300 product liability lawsuits seeking monetary damages, in most
cases  of  an  unspecified  amount,  were  pending in federal and state courts
against  Safeskin.    Safeskin  is  typically  one  of  several defendants who
manufacture  or  sell  natural  rubber  latex  gloves.   These lawsuits allege
injuries  ranging  from  dermatitis to severe allergic reactions caused by the
residual chemicals or latex proteins in gloves worn by health care workers and
other  individuals  while  performing their duties.  Safeskin has referred the
defense  of  these  lawsuits  to  its  insurance  carriers.

Since  March  11,  1999,  numerous  lawsuits  (collectively  the  "Securities
Actions") have been filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District
of  California  against  Safeskin  and  certain  of its officers and directors
alleging violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities and Exchange
Act  of  1934,  and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder.  The Securities Actions
were  brought  by plaintiffs in their individual capacities and on behalf of a
purported  class  of  persons  who  purchased  or  otherwise acquired Safeskin
publicly  traded  securities  during  various  periods  occurring prior to the
Corporation's  acquisition  of  Safeskin.    The  suits allege that plaintiffs
purchased  Safeskin  securities at prices artificially inflated by defendants'
misrepresentations and omissions concerning Safeskin's financial condition and
prospects  and  seek  an unspecified amount of damages.  Defendants' motion to
dismiss  was  denied  and  discovery  is  proceeding.

In addition, a shareholder derivative action has been filed against certain of
Safeskin's  directors,  and  Safeskin  as  a nominal defendant, in the Supreme
Court  of the State of California, San Diego County (the "Derivative Action").
The  Derivative  Action  alleges  breach of fiduciary duty, waste of corporate
assets  and  gross  negligence  in connection with Safeskin's stock repurchase
program  and  seeks  an  unspecified  amount of damages.  The court has stayed
discovery  in  the  Derivative  Action  so  that  it  can  be coordinated with
discovery in the Securities Actions.  Safeskin has referred the defense of the
Derivative  Action  and  the  Securities  Actions  to  its insurance carriers.



PART  I
(Continued)

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ITEM  3.  LEGAL  PROCEEDINGS  (Continued)

On  April  14,  2000,  a complaint was filed by Anne Meader and others against
KCTC  and  others  in  the State of Maine Superior Court.  Nineteen plaintiffs
seek  compensation  for  injuries  allegedly  caused by exposure to substances
emitted  by  the  defendants' mills, including two former KCTC mills, and from
the  Central  Maine  Disposal  Landfill  in  Fairfield,  Maine.

The  Corporation  intends  to  contest the foregoing claims vigorously and, in
management's opinion, they are not, individually or in the aggregate, expected
to  have  a  material  adverse effect on the Corporation's business, financial
condition  or  results  of  operations.

In  connection  with  the  Mobile  pulp  mill  closure,  on  May  5, 1998, the
Corporation  gave notice to Mobile Energy Services Company, L.L.C. ("MESC") of
its  intent to terminate a long-term energy services contract.  On January 14,
1999, MESC and related parties (the "Debtors") filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy
protection  and  instituted an action in the United States Bankruptcy Court in
Mobile,  Alabama  against KCTC claiming unspecified damages in connection with
the  pulp  mill  closure.    The  Debtors,  as  debtors-in-possession,  own  a
cogeneration  complex that provides energy services to KCTC's Mobile facility.
The  complaint  alleges that: (i) the sale of the cogeneration complex by KCTC
to  MESC in December 1994 was a fraudulent transfer; (ii) KCTC cannot effect a
pulp  mill  closure  while  it  continues  to operate the wastewater treatment
facility  and  "produce  pulp"  at the Mobile facility; (iii) Kimberly-Clark's
announced  pulp  mill  closure  was  a  repudiation  of  the  site  operating
agreements;  (iv)  KCTC  breached the master operating agreement by failing to
give  MESC  reasonable assistance in developing new business opportunities for
the  energy  complex after Kimberly-Clark announced the pulp mill closure; (v)
KCTC  failed  to  allow  the  sale  of  the  Mobile pulp mill; and (vii) K-C's
announcement  of  the pulp mill closure in May 1998 was a fraudulent transfer.
The  complaint  does  not  specify  the  amount  of  damages  demanded.

On  December  31,  1999, a joint motion ("the Motion") was filed with the U.S.
Bankruptcy  Court ("the Court") seeking approval of a settlement agreement
and  compromise of claims and pending litigation against KCTC arising from the
closure  of  the  pulp  mill  and termination of the energy services contract.
Under  the  proposed  settlement agreement, KCTC agreed to pay MESC at closing
approximately  $30 million, subject to certain adjustments.  The Court granted
the  Motion  on January 24, 2000.   Closing of the settlement would be subject
to,  among  other conditions, the Debtors filing a plan of reorganization from
bankruptcy  and  the  ultimate  approval  of  that  plan  by  the  Court.  The
approximate $30 million payment, which will be accrued when the conditions for
settlement  are met, is in addition to $24.3 million previously accrued by the
Corporation.    In  addition,  the  proposed  settlement provides, among other
things,  an  agreement  by  MESC to provide energy to the Corporation's Mobile
tissue  mill  at  market  rates.

In August 2000, the Debtors filed a plan of reorganization with the Court that
would  implement the settlement agreement.  During the fourth quarter of 2000,
several  crucial  elements of the Debtors' plan became no longer viable.  As a
result,  the  Debtors  have  sought  and  received  from  the  Court  and  the
Corporation  several  extensions  of  deadlines  contained  in  the settlement
agreement.

Because  of  uncertainty  involving  the  Debtors'  business  prospects,  the
Corporation  has developed contingency plans seeking to minimize disruption to
its  Mobile operations in the event that MESC is unable or unwilling to supply
energy to the Mobile tissue mill.  In the absence of the settlement agreement,
the litigation and arbitration proceedings between the Corporation and Debtors
could resume.  The outcome of the MESC litigation, arbitration and settlement
is not expected  to  have  a  material  adverse effect on the Corporation's
business, financial  condition  or  results  of  operations.



PART  I
(Continued)

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ITEM  3.  LEGAL  PROCEEDINGS  (Continued)

The  Corporation  is  subject  to routine litigation from time to time, which,
individually  or  in the aggregate, is not expected to have a material adverse
effect  on  the  Corporation's  business,  financial  condition  or results of
operations.

Environmental  Matters
- ----------------------

The  Corporation  is  subject  to  federal,  state  and  local  environmental
protection laws and regulations with respect to its business operations and is
operating  in  compliance  with, or taking action aimed at ensuring compliance
with,  such  laws and regulations.  Compliance with these laws and regulations
is  not  expected  to  have  a  material  adverse  effect on the Corporation's
business,  financial  condition  or  results  of  operations.

The  Corporation  has  been  named  a  potentially responsible party under the
provisions  of  the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation
and  Liability  Act, or analogous state statute, at a number of waste disposal
sites,  none  of  which,  individually  or  in  the aggregate, in management's
opinion,  is  likely  to  have  a material adverse effect on the Corporation's
business,  financial  condition  or  results  of  operations.

Notwithstanding its opinion, management believes it appropriate to discuss the
following  matters  concerning  two  of  these  sites  where the Corporation's
estimated share of total site remediation costs, if any, cannot be established
on  the  basis  of  currently  available  information:

    A. In  1994,  Scott  received  a  notice  of  responsibility from the
       Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection regarding the South
       Hadley Site in South Hadley, Massachusetts.  The notice implicated Scott
       Graphics,  Inc.,  a  former  Scott subsidiary, as having disposed of
       hazardous waste at the site.  There have been no significant developments
       since the date the  Corporation  received  the  notice.

    B. In  January  1998,  the  Corporation was notified by the Tennessee
       Department  of  Environment  and  Conservation  of its status as a
       potentially liable  party  at  the  Bellevue  Avenue Landfill in Shelby
       County, Tennessee.



PART  I
(Continued)

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ITEM  4.    SUBMISSION  OF  MATTERS  TO  A  VOTE  OF  SECURITY  HOLDERS

Not  applicable.


EXECUTIVE  OFFICERS  OF  THE  REGISTRANT

The names and ages of the executive officers of the Corporation as of March 1,
2001,  together  with  certain  biographical  information,  are  as  follows:

ROBERT  E.  ABERNATHY,  46,  was  elected Group President effective January 1,
1997.    He  is  responsible  for  the  global health care business, nonwovens
manufacturing  and  research,  the  technical  paper  business  and  corporate
research  and development.  Mr. Abernathy joined the Corporation in 1982.  His
past  responsibilities  in  the Corporation have included operations and major
project  management  in  North America.  He was appointed Vice President-North
American  Diaper  Operations  in  1992 and Managing Director of Kimberly-Clark
Australia  Pty.  Limited  in  1994.

JOHN  W.  DONEHOWER, 54, was elected Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer  in  1993.    Mr.  Donehower  joined  the Corporation in 1974.  He was
appointed  Director of Finance - Europe in 1978, Vice President, Marketing and
Sales  - Nonwovens in 1981, Vice President, Specialty Papers in 1982, Managing
Director,  Kimberly-Clark  Australia Pty. Limited in 1982, and Vice President,
Professional  Health  Care,  Medical  and  Nonwoven  Fabrics  in 1985.  He was
appointed  President, Specialty Products - U.S. in 1987, and President - World
Support  Group  in  1990.  Mr. Donehower is a director of Eastman Chemical Co.
and  Factory  Mutual  Insurance  Company.

O. GEORGE EVERBACH, 62, was elected Senior Vice President - Law and Government
Affairs  in  1988.    Mr.  Everbach  joined  the  Corporation  in  1984.   His
responsibilities  have  included  direction  of  legal,  human  resources  and
administrative  functions.   He was elected Vice President and General Counsel
in  1984;  Vice  President,  Secretary and General Counsel in 1985; and Senior
Vice  President  and  General  Counsel  in  1986.

THOMAS J. FALK, 42, has served as President and Chief Operating Officer of the
Corporation  since  his election on November 16, 1999.  He previously had been
elected  Group President - Global Tissue, Pulp and Paper in 1998, where he was
responsible  for  the  Corporation's  global  tissue  businesses.  He also was
responsible  for  the  Wet Wipes and Neenah Paper sectors, Pulp Operations and
Consumer  Business  Services,  Environment  and  Energy  and  Human  Resources
organizations.    Mr.  Falk  joined the Corporation in 1983 and has held other
senior  management  positions in the Corporation.  Mr. Falk is a member of the
University  of  Wisconsin  - Madison School of Business Dean's Advisory Board.
He  has  been  a  director  of  the  Corporation  since  1999.

WAYNE R. SANDERS, 53, has served as Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation
since  1991  and  Chairman  of  the  Board  of the Corporation since 1992.  He
previously  had  been  elected  President and Chief Operating Officer in 1990.
Employed  by  the  Corporation  since  1975, Mr. Sanders also has held various
other  senior  management  positions  in  the  Corporation.   Mr. Sanders is a
director  of Adolph Coors Company, Coors Brewing Company and Texas Instruments
Incorporated.    He  also  is  a  member  of the Marquette University Board of
Trustees and is Chairman of the Southwest Region, and a member of the Board of
Governors,  of the Boys and Girls Clubs of America.  He has been a director of
the  Corporation  since  1989.



PART  I
(Continued)

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
EXECUTIVE  OFFICERS  OF  THE  REGISTRANT  (Continued)

KATHI  P.  SEIFERT, 51, was elected Executive Vice President in November 1999.
She  is  responsible for the Infant Care, Child Care, Feminine Care, and Adult
Care  business sectors, the Safety and Quality Assurance team and the U.S. and
Canadian  Sales  organizations,  and  leads  a  team  responsible  for  the
Corporation's  global  personal  care  businesses.    Ms.  Seifert  joined
Kimberly-Clark in 1978.  Her responsibilities in the Corporation have included
various  marketing  positions  within  the Away From Home, Consumer Tissue and
Feminine  Care  business sectors.  She was appointed President - Feminine Care
Sector in 1991, was elected Group President - Feminine and Adult Care in 1994,
elected  Group  President  - North American Consumer Products in January 1995,
elected  Group  President - North American Personal Care Products in July 1995
and  elected  Group  President  - Global Personal Care Products in April 1998.
Ms.  Seifert  is  a member of the Board of Directors of Eli Lilly and Company,
Aid  Association  for  Lutherans  and  Fox  Cities  Performing  Arts  Center.


PART  II

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ITEM  5.    MARKET  FOR  THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS

The  dividend  and  market  price data included in Note 13 to the Consolidated
Financial  Statements,  and  the  information  set  forth  under  the captions
"Dividends and Dividend Reinvestment Plan" and "Stock Exchanges" contained in
the  2000  Annual  Report  to Stockholders are incorporated in this Item 5 by
reference.

As of March 16, 2001, the Corporation had 48,090 holders of record of its common
stock.




PART  II
(Continued)

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ITEM  6.    SELECTED  FINANCIAL  DATA



                       NOTES TO SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

(1)  Included in the selected financial data for 1996 are the following items:







PART  II
ITEM  6.    SELECTED  FINANCIAL  DATA  (Continued)

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NOTES  TO  SELECTED  FINANCIAL  DATA

(2)  Included in the selected financial data for 1997 are the following items:






(3)  Included in the selected financial data for 1998 are the following items:






(4)  Included in the selected financial data for 1999 are the following items:







PART  II
ITEM  6.    SELECTED  FINANCIAL  DATA  (Continued)

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NOTES  TO  SELECTED  FINANCIAL  DATA

(5)  Included in the selected financial data for 2000 are the following items:






ITEM  7.   MANAGEMENT'S  DISCUSSION  AND  ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS  OF  OPERATIONS

The  information  set  forth  under  the  caption "Management's Discussion and
Analysis"  contained in the 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders is incorporated
in  this  Item  7  by  reference.


ITEM  7A.  QUANTITATIVE  AND  QUALITATIVE  DISCLOSURES  ABOUT  MARKET  RISK

The  information  set  forth  under  the  caption "Management's Discussion and
Analysis  - Market Risk Sensitivity and Inflation Risks" contained in the 2000
Annual  Report  to  Stockholders is incorporated in this Item 7A by reference.


ITEM  8.   FINANCIAL  STATEMENTS  AND  SUPPLEMENTARY  DATA

The  consolidated financial statements of the Corporation and its consolidated
subsidiaries  and  the  independent auditors' report thereon contained in the
2000  Annual  Report  to  Stockholders  are  incorporated  in  this  Item 8 by
reference.


ITEM  9.   CHANGES  IN  AND  DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL  DISCLOSURE

None.



PART  III

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ITEM  10.  DIRECTORS  AND  EXECUTIVE  OFFICERS  OF  THE  REGISTRANT

The  section  of  the  2001  Proxy  Statement  captioned  "Certain Information
Regarding  Directors  and  Nominees" under "Proposal 1. Election of Directors"
identifies  members of the board of directors of the Corporation and nominees,
and  is  incorporated  in  this  Item  10  by  reference.

See  also  "EXECUTIVE  OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT" appearing in Part I hereof.


ITEM  11.  EXECUTIVE  COMPENSATION

The  information  in  the  section  of  the  2001  Proxy  Statement  captioned
"Executive  Compensation"  under  "Proposal  1.  Election  of  Directors"  is
incorporated  in  this  Item  11  by  reference.


ITEM  12.  SECURITY  OWNERSHIP  OF  CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information in the section of the 2001 Proxy Statement captioned "Security
Ownership  of  Management"  under  "Proposal  1.  Election  of  Directors"  is
incorporated  in  this  Item  12  by  reference.


ITEM  13.  CERTAIN  RELATIONSHIPS  AND  RELATED  TRANSACTIONS

The  information in the section of the 2001 Proxy Statement captioned "Certain
Transactions  and  Business  Relationships"  under  "Proposal  1.  Election of
Directors"  is  incorporated  in  this  Item  13  by  reference.



PART  IV

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ITEM  14.  EXHIBITS,  FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)  DOCUMENTS  FILED  AS  PART  OF  THIS  REPORT.

1.   Financial  statements:

The  Consolidated  Balance  Sheet  as  of  December 31, 2000 and 1999, and the
related  Consolidated Statements of Income, Stockholders' Equity and Cash Flow
for  the  years  ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, and the related Notes
thereto,  and  the  Independent  Auditors'  Report  of  Deloitte & Touche LLP
thereon are incorporated in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K by reference to
the  financial statements contained in the 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders.
In  addition,  a  related  report of Deloitte & Touche LLP is included herein.

2.   Financial  statement  schedule:

The  following  information  is  filed as part of this Form 10-K and should be
read in conjunction with the financial statements contained in the 2000 Annual
Report  to  Stockholders.

Independent  Auditors'  Report

Schedule  for  Kimberly-Clark  Corporation  and  Subsidiaries:
     Schedule  II  Valuation  and  Qualifying  Accounts

All  other  schedules  have  been  omitted because they were not applicable or
because the required information has been included in the financial statements
or  notes  thereto.

3.   Exhibits:

Exhibit  No. (3)a. Restated Certificate of Incorporation, dated June 12, 1997,
incorporated by reference to Exhibit (3)(a) of the Corporation's Annual Report
on  Form  10-K  for  the  year  ended  December  31,  1999.

Exhibit  No.  (3)b.  By-Laws,  as  amended  November 22, 1996, incorporated by
reference  to  Exhibit  No. 4.2 of the Corporation's Registration Statement on
Form S-8 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 6, 1996
(File  No.  333-17367).

Exhibit  No.  (4).  Copies  of  instruments  defining the rights of holders of
long-term  debt will be furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission on
request.

Exhibit  No.  (10)a.  Management  Achievement  Award  Program,  as amended and
restated as of January 1, 1998, incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. (10)a
of  the  Corporation's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
31,  1997.

Exhibit  No.  (10)b.  Executive  Severance Plan, as amended and restated as of
June  8,  2000.

Exhibit  No. (10)c. Fourth Amended and Restated Deferred Compensation Plan for
Directors, incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. (10)c of the Corporation's
Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K  for  the  year  ended  December  31,  1996.






PART  IV
(Continued)

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ITEM  14.  EXHIBITS,  FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
(Continued)

Exhibit  No.  (10)d.  1986  Equity  Participation  Plan,  as amended effective
November  20,  1997,  incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit No. (10)d of the
Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997.

Exhibit  No.  (10)e.  1992  Equity  Participation  Plan,  as amended effective
November  14,  2000.

Exhibit  No.  (10)f. Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended effective November
14,  2000.

Exhibit No. (10)g. Outside Directors' Stock Compensation Plan, incorporated by
reference  to  Exhibit  No. 4.5 to the Corporation's Registration Statement on
Form  S-8  filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 18, 1996
(File  No.  33-02607).

Exhibit No. (10)h. Supplemental Benefit Plan to Salaried Employees' Retirement
Plan,  amended and restated as of November 17, 1994, incorporated by reference
to  Exhibit  No. (10)i of the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year  ended  December  31,  1996.

Exhibit  No.  (10)i.  Second  Supplemental Benefit Plan to Salaried Employees'
Retirement Plan, amended and restated as of November 17, 1994, incorporated by
reference to Exhibit No. (10)j of the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K
for  the  year  ended  December  31,  1996.

Exhibit  No. (10)j. Retirement Contribution Excess Benefit Program, as amended
and  restated  as  of  June  29,  2000.

Exhibit  No.  (10)k. 1999 Restricted Stock Plan, as amended effective November
14,  2000.

Exhibit  No. (10)l. Outside Directors' Stock Option Plan, effective January 1,
2001.

Exhibit  No.  (12).  Computation of ratio of earnings to fixed charges for the
five  years  ended  December  31,  2000.

Exhibit  No.  (13).  Portions  of  the  Corporation's  2000  Annual  Report to
Stockholders  incorporated  by  reference  in  this  Form  10-K.

Exhibit  No.  (21).  Subsidiaries  of  the  Corporation.

Exhibit  No.  (23).  Independent  Auditors'  Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP.

Exhibit  No.  (24).  Powers  of  Attorney.






PART  IV
(Continued)

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ITEM  14.  EXHIBITS,  FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
(Continued)

(b)    REPORTS  ON  FORM  8-K

The  Corporation  filed a Current Report on Form 8-K, dated November 14, 2000,
to  report  that  the  Board  of  Directors  of the Corporation authorized the
repurchase  of  an  additional  25  million shares of the Corporation's Common
Stock.




SIGNATURES


Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act  of  1934,  the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf  by  the  undersigned,  thereunto  duly  authorized.


                                               KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION

March  23,  2001

                                               By:  /s/  John W. Donehower
                                                    ------------------------
                                                    John W. Donehower
                                                    Senior Vice President and
                                                    Chief Financial Officer


Pursuant  to  the  requirements  of  the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed  below  by  the  following  persons on behalf of the
registrant  and  in  the  capacities  and  on  the  dates  indicated.


/s/  Wayne R. Sanders        Chairman of the Board               March 23, 2001
- -----------------------      and Chief Executive Officer
     Wayne R. Sanders        and Director
                             (principal executive officer)


/s/  John W. Donehower       Senior Vice President and           March 23, 2001
- ------------------------     Chief Financial Officer
     John W. Donehower       (principal financial officer)



/s/  Randy J. Vest           Vice President and                  March 23, 2001
- --------------------         Controller
     Randy J. Vest           (principal accounting officer)



                                         Directors

                  John  F.  Bergstrom                  Claudio  X.  Gonzalez
                  Pastora  San  Juan  Cafferty         Frank  A.  McPherson
                  Paul  J.  Collins                    Linda  Johnson  Rice
                  Robert  W.  Decherd                  Wolfgang  R.  Schmitt
                  Thomas  J.  Falk                     Marc  J.  Shapiro
                  William  O.  Fifield                 Randall  L.  Tobias



               By:  /s/  O. George Everbach                    March  23,  2001
                    -----------------------------------------
                         O. George Everbach, Attorney-in-Fact



INDEPENDENT  AUDITORS'  REPORT

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
KIMBERLY-CLARK  CORPORATION:

We  have  audited  the  consolidated  financial  statements  of Kimberly-Clark
Corporation  as of December 31, 2000 and 1999, and for each of the three years
in  the  period  ended  December  31, 2000, and have issued our report thereon
dated  January 23, 2001; such consolidated financial statements and report are
included  in your Annual Report and are incorporated herein by reference.  Our
audits  also  included  the  consolidated  financial  statement  schedule  of
Kimberly-Clark  Corporation,  listed  in Item 14.  This consolidated financial
statement schedule is the responsibility of the Corporation's management.  Our
responsibility  is  to  express an opinion on the financial statement schedule
based  on  our  audits.   In our opinion, the consolidated financial statement
schedule  listed  in  Item  14,  when  considered  in  relation  to  the basic
consolidated  financial  statements  taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all
material  respects,  the  information  set  forth  therein.



/S/  DELOITTE & TOUCHE  LLP
- ---------------------------

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Dallas, Texas
January 23, 2001



SCHEDULE  II                        Kimberly-Clark Corporation and Subsidiaries
VALUATION  AND  QUALIFYING  ACCOUNTS
FOR  THE  YEARS  ENDED  DECEMBER  31,  2000,  1999  AND  1998
(Millions  of  dollars)




(a)  Includes bad debt recoveries and the effects of changes in foreign
     currency  exchange rates. Also includes the beginning balances resulting
     from acquisitions made during the year and from the consolidation of
     Hogla-Kimberly Limited, the Corporation's Israeli affiliate, and
     Colombiana Kimberly Colpapel S.A., its Colombian affiliate, in 2000
     and 1999, respectively.

(b)  Primarily uncollectible receivables written off.

(c)  Sales discounts allowed.



SCHEDULE  II                        Kimberly-Clark Corporation and Subsidiaries
VALUATION  AND  QUALIFYING  ACCOUNTS
FOR  THE  YEARS  ENDED  DECEMBER  31,  1999  AND  1998
(Millions  of  dollars)










SCHEDULE  II                        Kimberly-Clark Corporation and Subsidiaries
VALUATION  AND  QUALIFYING  ACCOUNTS
FOR  THE  YEAR  ENDED  DECEMBER  31,  1998
(Millions  of  dollars)








SCHEDULE  II                        Kimberly-Clark Corporation and Subsidiaries
VALUATION  AND  QUALIFYING  ACCOUNTS
FOR  THE  YEARS  ENDED  DECEMBER  31,  2000,  1999  AND  1998
(Millions  of  dollars)






(a)  Includes the net currency effects of translating valuation allowances
     at current rates under SFAS No. 52 of $(17.8) million in 2000, $(39.4)
     million in 1999 and $15.6 million in 1998.  Included in this column are
     expired income tax  loss carryforwards of $15.8 million in 1998. These
     items offset deferred tax assets resulting in no effect on the
     consolidated balance sheet.



INDEX  TO  DOCUMENTS  FILED  AS  PART  OF  THIS  REPORT.
________________________________________________________________

                    DESCRIPTION
                    -----------

Consolidated  financial  statements,  incorporated  by  reference

Independent  Auditors'  Report,  incorporated  by  reference

Independent  Auditors'  Report

Schedule  for  Kimberly-Clark  Corporation  and  Subsidiaries:
     Schedule    II    Valuation  and  Qualifying  Accounts

Exhibit  No. (3)a. Restated Certificate of Incorporation, dated June 12, 1997,
incorporated by reference to Exhibit (3)(a) of the Corporation's Annual Report
on  Form  10-K  for  the  year  ended  December  31,  1999.

Exhibit  No.  (3)b.  By-Laws,  as  amended  November 22, 1996, incorporated by
reference  to  Exhibit  No. 4.2 of the Corporation's Registration Statement on
Form S-8 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 6, 1996
(File  No.  333-17367).

Exhibit  No.  (4).  Copies  of  instruments  defining the rights of holders of
long-term  debt will be furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission on
request.

Exhibit  No.  (10)a.  Management  Achievement  Award  Program,  as amended and
restated as of January 1, 1998, incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. (10)a
of  the  Corporation's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
31,  1997.

Exhibit  No.  (10)b.  Executive  Severance Plan, as amended and restated as of
June  8,  2000.

Exhibit  No. (10)c. Fourth Amended and Restated Deferred Compensation Plan for
Directors, incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. (10)c of the Corporation's
Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K  for  the  year  ended  December  31,  1996.

Exhibit  No.  (10)d.  1986  Equity  Participation  Plan,  as amended effective
November  20,  1997,  incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit No. (10)d of the
Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997.

Exhibit  No.  (10)e.  1992  Equity  Participation  Plan,  as amended effective
November  14,  2000.

Exhibit  No.  (10)f. Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended effective November
14,  2000.

Exhibit No. (10)g. Outside Directors' Stock Compensation Plan, incorporated by
reference  to  Exhibit  No. 4.5 to the Corporation's Registration Statement on
Form  S-8  filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 18, 1996
(File  No.  33-02607).

Exhibit No. (10)h. Supplemental Benefit Plan to Salaried Employees' Retirement
Plan,  amended and restated as of November 17, 1994, incorporated by reference
to  Exhibit  No. (10)i of the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year  ended  December  31,  1996.

Exhibit  No.  (10)i.  Second  Supplemental Benefit Plan to Salaried Employees'
Retirement Plan, amended and restated as of November 17, 1994, incorporated by
reference to Exhibit No. (10)j of the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K
for  the  year  ended  December  31,  1996.

Exhibit  No. (10)j. Retirement Contribution Excess Benefit Program, as amended
and  restated  as  of  June  29,  2000.

Exhibit  No.  (10)k. 1999 Restricted Stock Plan, as amended effective November
14,  2000.

Exhibit  No. (10)l. Outside Directors' Stock Option Plan, effective January 1,
2001.

Exhibit  No.  (12).  Computation of ratio of earnings to fixed charges for the
five  years  ended  December  31,  2000.

Exhibit  No.  (13).  Portions  of  the  Corporation's  2000  Annual  Report to
Stockholders  incorporated  by  reference  in  this  Form  10-K.

Exhibit  No.  (21).  Subsidiaries  of  the  Corporation.

Exhibit  No.  (23).  Independent  Auditors'  Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP.

Exhibit  No.  (24).  Powers  of  Attorney.




