
10-K
10K TEXT


                                         FORM 10-K

                            SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                                  WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549

(Mark One)

[X]                ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                              SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993
                                            OR
[ ]              TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                              SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from _______________ to _______________

Commission file number 1-225

                                KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION
                  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

          Delaware                                        39-0394230  
(State or other jurisdiction of                        (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                        Identification No.)

P. O. Box 619100, Dallas, Texas                          75261-9100
(Address of principal executive offices)                 (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (214) 830-1200

                Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                      Name of each exchange 
                Title of each class                    on which registered  
- ------------------------------------------------    ------------------------
Common Stock - $1.25 Par Value; Preferred Share      New York Stock Exchange
  Purchase Rights                                    Chicago Stock Exchange 
                                                     Pacific Stock Exchange 


      Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months
(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to
file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes     X    .  No          .

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incor-
porated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]

As of March 18, 1994, 161,014,091 shares of common stock were
outstanding, and the aggregate market value of the common stock
on such date (based on the closing price of these shares on the
New York Stock Exchange) of Kimberly-Clark Corporation held by
nonaffiliates was approximately $9,138 million.

                           (Continued)

FACING SHEET
(Continued)


                                                                
Documents Incorporated By Reference

Kimberly-Clark Corporation's 1993 Annual Report to Stockholders
and 1994 Proxy Statement contain much of the information
required in this Form 10-K, and portions of those documents are
incorporated by reference from the applicable sections of those
reports.  The following chart identifies the sections of the
Corporation's 1993 Annual Report on Form 10-K which incorporate
by reference portions of the Corporation's 1993 Annual Report
to Stockholders or portions of the 1994 Proxy Statement.  The
Items of this Form 10-K, where applicable, specify which
portions of such documents are incorporated by reference.  The
portions of such documents that are not incorporated by
reference herein shall not be deemed to be filed with the
Commission as part of this Form 10-K.



PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

Kimberly-Clark Corporation was incorporated in Delaware in
1928.  As used in Items 1, 2 and 7 of this Form 10-K Annual
Report, the term "Corporation" refers to Kimberly-Clark
Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.  In the
remainder of this Form 10-K Annual Report, the terms "Kimberly-
Clark" or "Corporation" refer to Kimberly-Clark Corporation.

Financial information about product classes and results, and
foreign and domestic operations, and information about
principal products and markets of the Corporation, contained
under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis" and in
Note 12 to the Financial Statements contained in the 1993
Annual Report to Stockholders, are incorporated in this Item 1
by reference.

Description of the Corporation.  Kimberly-Clark is principally
engaged in the manufacturing and marketing throughout the world
of a wide range of products for personal, business and
industrial uses.  Most of these products are made from natural
and synthetic fibers using advanced technologies in absorbency,
fibers and nonwovens.

The Corporation's products and services are segmented into
three classes.

Class I includes tissue products for household, commercial,
institutional and industrial uses; infant, child, feminine and
incontinence care products; industrial and commercial wipers;
health care products; and related products. Class I products
are sold under a variety of well-known brand names, including
Kleenex, Huggies, Pull-Ups, Kotex, New Freedom, Lightdays,
Depend, Poise, Hi-Dri, Delsey, Spenco, Kimguard and Kimwipes.

Products for home use are sold through supermarkets, mass
merchandisers, drugstores, warehouse clubs, home health care
stores, variety stores, department stores and other retail
outlets, as well as to wholesalers.  Other products in this
class are sold to distributors, converters and end-users.

Pulp produced by the Corporation, including amounts sold to
other companies, is included in Class I, except for pulp
manufactured for newsprint and certain specialty papers which
is included in Class II.

Class II includes newsprint, printing papers, premium business
and correspondence papers, tobacco industry papers and
products, technical papers, and related products.  

Newsprint and groundwood printing papers are sold directly to
newspaper publishers and commercial printers.  Other papers and
specialty products in this class are sold directly to users, 
converters, manufacturers, publishers and printers, and through 
paper merchants, brokers, sales agents and other resale agencies.
                            

PART I
(Continued)


                                                                
ITEM 1.  BUSINESS (Continued)

Class III includes aircraft services, commercial air
transportation and other products and services.

The Corporation owns various patents and trademarks registered
domestically and in certain foreign countries.  The Corporation
considers the patents and trademarks which it owns and the
trademarks under which it sells certain of its products, in
each instance in the aggregate, to be material to its business. 
Consequently, the Corporation seeks patent and trademark
protection by all available means, including registration.  A
partial list of the Corporation's trademarks is included under
the caption "Trademarks" contained in the 1993 Annual Report to
Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference.

EMPLOYEES.  In its worldwide consolidated operations, the
Corporation had 42,131 employees as of December 31, 1993.

RAW MATERIALS.  Cellulose fibers in the form of wood pulp are
the primary raw material for the Corporation's paper and tissue
products and are important components in disposable diapers,
training pants, feminine pads and incontinence care products. 
Certain specialty papers are manufactured with other cellulose
fibers such as flax straw and cotton.  Large amounts of
secondary and recycled fibers are also consumed, primarily in
tissue products.  Superabsorbent materials are important
components in disposable diapers, training pants and
incontinence care products.  Polypropylene and other synthetics
are primary raw materials for manufacturing nonwoven fabrics
which are used in disposable diapers, training pants, feminine
pads, incontinence and health care products and industrial
wipers.  Most secondary fibers and all synthetics are
purchased.  Wood pulp and nonwood cellulose fibers are produced
by the Corporation and purchased from others.  The Corporation
considers the supply of such raw materials to be adequate to
meet the needs of its businesses.

For its worldwide consolidated operations, the Corporation's
pulp mills at Coosa Pines, Alabama, and Terrace Bay, Ontario,
had the capacity to supply about two-thirds of the 1993 wood
pulp requirements for products other than newsprint.  The
Corporation's newsprint mill at Coosa Pines produces
substantially all of its own pulp requirements.

The Corporation owns or controls 5.1 million acres of
forestland in North America, primarily as a source of fiber for
pulp production.  Approximately .4 million acres are owned and 
4.7 million acres, principally in Canada, are held under long-term 
Crown rights or leases.

Certain states have adopted laws and entered into agreements
with publishers requiring newspapers sold in such states to
contain specified amounts of recycled paper.  The Corporation
provides certain newspaper publishers with newsprint containing
specified amounts of recycled paper.

COMPETITION.  The Corporation competes in numerous domestic and
foreign markets.  The number of competitors and the Corpora-
tion's competitive positions in those markets vary.  In
general, in the sale of its principal products, the Corporation
faces strong competition from other manufacturers, some of
which are larger and more diversified than the Corporation. 
The Corporation has one major competitor, and several regional
competitors, in its disposable diaper business and several
major competitors in its household and other tissue-based
products, and feminine and incontinence care products
businesses.



During 1993, in the U.S., private label and economy branded
competitors continued to expand distribution of their
disposable training pants nationally in competition with the
Corporation's training pants business, and, in the fourth
quarter, a major competitor initiated regional introductions of
a branded training pant.  In foreign markets, the Corporation
has encountered increased competition and expects to encounter
significant competition in connection with its introduction of
training pants and diapers in Europe.  Depending on the
characteristics of the market involved, the Corporation com-
petes on the basis of product quality and performance, price,
service, packaging, distribution, advertising and promotion.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.  At year-end 1993, approximately
1,200 of the Corporation's employees were engaged in research
and development activities and were located in Neenah,
Wisconsin; Roswell, Georgia; Coosa Pines, Alabama; Troy, Ohio;
Munising, Michigan; Waco, Texas; the United Kingdom; and
France.  A major portion of total research and development
expenditures is directed toward new or improved personal care,
health care, household products, and nonwoven materials. 
Consolidated research and development expenditures were $158.5
million in 1993, $156.1 million in 1992 and $148.8 million in
1991.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS.  Capital expenditures for environmental
controls to meet legal requirements and otherwise relating to
the protection of the environment at the Corporation's
facilities in the United States are estimated to be $54 million
in 1994 and $15 million in 1995.  Such expenditures are not
expected to have a material effect on the Corporation's total
capital expenditures, consolidated earnings or competitive
position; however, these estimates could be modified as a
result of changes in the Corporation's plans, changes in legal
requirements or other factors.  

RISKS FOR FOREIGN OPERATIONS.  The products of the Corporation
and its equity companies are made in 21 countries outside the
U.S.  Consumer products made abroad or in the U.S. are marketed
in approximately 150 countries.  Because these countries are so
numerous, it is not feasible to generally characterize the
risks involved.  Such risks vary from country to country and
include such factors as tariffs, trade restrictions, changes in
currency value, economic conditions and international
relations.

INSURANCE.  The Corporation maintains coverage consistent with
industry practice for most risks that are incident to its
operations.  

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

Management believes that the Corporation's production
facilities are suitable for their purpose and adequate to
support its businesses.  The extent of utilization of
individual facilities varies, but generally they operate at or
near capacity.  New facilities of the Corporation are under
construction and others are being expanded.  Principal
facilities and products or groups of products made at these
facilities are listed on the following pages.  In addition, the
principal facilities of the Corporation's equity companies and
the products or groups of products made at such facilities are
included on the following pages.  Products described as
consumer, service and/or nonwoven products include tissue
products for household, commercial, institutional and
industrial uses; infant, child, feminine and incontinence care
products; industrial and commercial wipers; health care
products; and related products.


PART I
(Continued)


                                                                
ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES (Continued)

Headquarters Locations
   Dallas, Texas
   Roswell, Georgia
   Neenah, Wisconsin

Administrative Center
   Knoxville, Tennessee

Production and Service Facilities

United States

Alabama
   Ashville - Wood chips
   Coosa Pines - Newsprint, groundwood printing papers, pulp,
      seedling nursery
   Goodwater - Lumber
   Nixburg - Wood chips
   Roanoke - Wood chips
   Westover - Lumber
Arizona
   Tucson - Nonwoven products
Arkansas
   Conway - Consumer products
   Maumelle - Consumer products
California
   Fullerton - Consumer products
Connecticut
   New Milford - Consumer products
Georgia
   LaGrange - Nonwoven materials and products
Massachusetts
   Lee - Tobacco industry papers, thin papers, service products
   Westfield - Aviation services
Michigan 
   Munising - Printing and base papers
Mississippi
   Corinth - Nonwoven materials, service products
New Jersey
   Montvale - Aviation services
   Spotswood - Tobacco industry papers and products
New York
   Ancram - Tobacco industry papers and products
North Carolina
   Hendersonville - Nonwoven materials and products
   Lexington - Nonwoven materials and products
Ohio
   Troy - Adhesive-coated products
Oklahoma
   Jenks - Consumer products
South Carolina
   Beech Island - Consumer and service products



Tennessee
   Loudon - Service products
   Memphis - Consumer and service products
Texas
   Dallas - Aviation services
   Paris - Consumer products
   Waco - Consumer and service products
Utah
   Ogden - Consumer products
Wisconsin
   Appleton - Aviation services
   Milwaukee - Commercial airline service
   Neenah - Consumer and service products, nonwoven materials,
      business and correspondence papers
   Whiting - Business and correspondence papers

             
Outside the United States

Australia
  *Albury - Nonwoven materials and products
  *Ingleburn (near Sydney) - Consumer products
  *Lonsdale (near Adelaide) - Consumer products
  *Millicent - Consumer and service products
  *Seven Hills (near Sydney) - Consumer and service products
  *Tantanoola - Pulp
  *Warwick Farm (near Sydney) - Consumer and service products
Brazil
   Mogi das Cruzes (near Sao Paulo) - Consumer and service
      products
Canada
   Huntsville, Ontario - Consumer and service products
   Rexdale, Ontario (near Toronto) - Consumer and service
      products
   St. Catharines, Ontario - Consumer and service products,
      base papers
   St. Hyacinthe, Quebec - Consumer products
   Terrace Bay, Ontario - Pulp
   Winkler, Manitoba (mobile operations) - Flax tow
Colombia
  *Barbosa (near Medellin) - Tobacco industry papers, service
      products
  *Guarne (near Medellin) - Consumer and service products
  *Pereira - Consumer and service products, nonwoven materials
Costa Rica
   Cartago - Consumer products
El Salvador
   Sitio del Nino (near San Salvador) - Consumer and service
      products
France
   Le Mans - Tobacco industry products
   Malaucene - Tobacco industry papers
   Quimperle - Tobacco industry papers
   Rouen - Consumer products
   Villey-Saint-Etienne - Consumer products
Germany
   Koblenz - Consumer and service products

*Equity company production facility          



PART I
(Continued)        


                                                                
ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES (Continued)


Honduras
   Cortes - Nonwoven products
Indonesia
  *Medan - Tobacco industry papers
Korea
   Anyang (near Seoul) - Consumer and service products
   Kimcheon (near Taegu) - Consumer and service products
   Taejon - Consumer products
Malaysia
  *Petaling Jaya (near Kuala Lumpur) - Consumer and service
      products
Mexico
  *Bajio (near San Juan del Rio) - Consumer and service
      products; business, printing and school papers
  *Cuautitlan (near Mexico City) - Consumer and service
      products
   Empalme - Nonwoven products
   Hermosillo - Nonwoven products
   Magdalena - Nonwoven products
  *Naucalpan (near Mexico City) - Consumer and service
      products; business, printing and school papers; tobacco
      industry papers; pulp
   Nogales - Nonwoven products
  *Orizaba - Consumer and service products; business, printing
      and school papers; pulp
  *Ramos Arizpe - Consumer products
   Santa Ana - Nonwoven products
Netherlands
   Veenendaal - Consumer and service products
Panama
   Panama City - Consumer and service products
Philippines
   San Pedro, Laguna (near Manila) - Consumer and service
      products, tobacco industry papers
Saudi Arabia
  *Al-Khobar - Consumer and service products
Singapore
   Singapore - Consumer and service products
South Africa
 **Cape Town - Consumer and service products
 **Germiston (near Johannesburg) - Consumer and service
      products 
 **Springs (near Johannesburg) - Consumer and service products
Thailand
   Patumthanee (near Bangkok) - Consumer and service products
United Kingdom
   Barton-upon-Humber - Consumer products
   Flint - Nonwoven materials, service products
   Larkfield (near Maidstone) - Consumer and service products
   Prudhoe (near Newcastle-upon-Tyne) - Consumer and service
      products, recycled fiber
   Sealand (near Chester) - Consumer products
Venezuela
   Guacara - Consumer products

 * Equity company production facility
** Other companies


ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The following is a brief description of material pending legal
proceedings to which the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries
is a party or of which any of their properties is subject:

A.   On March 11, 1993, a class action lawsuit was filed against
     the Corporation in the United States District Court, Middle
     District of Tennessee (the "Tennessee District Court"), on
     behalf of certain retirees who were formerly represented by
     the United Paperworkers International Union ("UPIU").  The
     Corporation's Motion to Transfer this action to the Eastern
     District of Wisconsin was granted.

     A similar action was filed in the United States District
     Court, Central District of California, on behalf of retirees
     who were formerly represented by the Association of Western
     Pulp and Paper Workers ("AWPPW") at the Corporation's
     Fullerton, California facility.  This second action was
     voluntarily dismissed and refiled in the Tennessee District
     Court on March 25, 1993.  The Corporation's Motion to
     Transfer this action to the Central District of California
     was granted.

     The parties to both actions have executed settlement agreements, 
     dated March 15, 1994, providing for the voluntary dismissal of 
     such actions, without prejudice, for a period of one year from 
     the date that such agreements are approved by the respective 
     courts, subject to certain conditions and circumstances 
     allowing for the earlier refiling of such actions.  On March 23, 1994,
     the court for the Eastern District of Wisconsin entered an order
     approving the settlement agreement with respect to the UPIU
     action.  The settlement agreement with respect to the AWPPW
     action has been submitted to the court for the Central
     District of California for its consideration.

     The actions relate to certain changes made by the
     Corporation to its retiree medical plans effective January
     1, 1993.  The allegations in each action are that the
     Corporation's retiree medical benefits were vested and could
     not be unilaterally amended by the Corporation, and that,
     therefore, the retirees are entitled to an unalterable level
     of medical benefits.  In the event that the AWPPW settlement 
     agreement is not approved by the court, or the 
     actions are refiled pursuant to the terms of the settlement
     agreements, management has determined that under Financial
     Accounting Standard No. 106, and based on prevailing market
     interest rates, the estimated cost to the Corporation of not
     being able to make any amendments to its retiree medical
     plans with respect to the two putative classes of retirees
     would result in a maximum pretax charge of approximately
     $5.7 million per year.

B.   Since September 28, 1990, about 60 employees of contractors
     who allegedly worked at the Corporation's mill in Coosa
     Pines, Alabama at some point in their careers filed separate
     actions in the United States District Court for the Northern
     District of Texas against the Corporation and approximately
     36 other companies.  Most of these cases were transferred to
     the Federal District Court, Northern District of Alabama and
     subsequently have been consolidated in the Federal District
     Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania where all asbestos
     cases pending at such time in United States Federal District
     Courts were consolidated.  Approximately 4,713 individuals
     refiled three of such cases in the District Court of Orange
     County, Texas.  The actions allege, with respect to the
     Corporation, that the ownership of facilities containing
     asbestos caused the plaintiffs to suffer physical injury. 
     The actions seek unspecified damages.  The Corporation has
     denied the allegations and has asserted, among other things,
     that the claims fail to state a claim upon which relief can
     be granted and that such actions are barred by applicable
     statutes of limitation.  These actions presently are in the
     discovery phase.


PART I
(Continued)

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS (Continued)

C.   On September 28, 1992, the Corporation filed an action
     against Drypers Corporation, Pope & Talbot, Inc. and Pope &
     Talbot, Wis., Inc. in the United States District Court,
     Western District of Washington, alleging patent infringement
     with respect to the defendants' use of containment flaps in
     disposable diapers.  In June 1993, each of the defendants
     filed counterclaims against the Corporation alleging that
     the Corporation misused its patent in violation of the
     federal antitrust laws.  The defendants are seeking
     invalidation of the patent, treble damages based on the
     defendants' attorneys fees for defending the patent suit,
     and the defendants' attorney fees for prosecuting the
     antitrust counterclaim.  The case is currently in discovery. 
     A trial date has been set for June 7, 1994.

The Corporation also is subject to routine litigation from time
to time which individually or in the aggregate is not expected
to have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business
or results of operations.

Environmental Matters
- ---------------------
(See the Corporation's 1993 Annual Report to Stockholders under
the "Environmental Matters" section of "Management's Discussion
and Analysis.")

The Corporation has been named a potentially responsible party
("PRP") under the provisions of the federal Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act
("CERCLA"), or analogous state statute, at 21 waste disposal
sites, none of which, in management's opinion, could have a
material adverse impact on the Corporation's business or
results of operations.  Notwithstanding its opinion, management
believes it appropriate to disclose the following recent
developments concerning three of these sites where the extent
of the Corporation's liability cannot yet be established:

A.   The South 8th Street Landfill Site, located across the
     Mississippi River from Memphis, Tennessee, in Crittenden
     County, Arkansas, is a 30-acre site that received municipal
     and industrial waste from the 1950's to the early 1980's. 
     The site is divided into three separate landfill disposal
     areas and an oily sludge pit area.  A refining company (the
     "Refiner") apparently used the pit area for the disposal of
     waste sludge from its oil re-refining process through
     November 1969.

     On September 9, 1992, the Environmental Protection Agency
     (the "EPA") identified Kimberly-Clark's Memphis mill as a
     PRP at the site.  The  mill was linked to the site by an
     affidavit of an employee of the Refiner which alleged that
     the Refiner picked up waste oil at the mill for re-refining. 
     While Kimberly-Clark did not send hazardous wastes to the
     site, it did send used oil to the Refiner for reclamation.  

     The EPA recently conducted a Remedial Investigation and
     Feasibility Study with respect to the site.  Based on such
     study, the EPA's preferred remedial alternative for the
     landfill area is organic treatment, stabilization and
     disposal in a licensed, nonhazardous landfill at a cost of
     $14.8 million to $18.1 million.  The EPA's preferred
     remedial alternative for the oily sludge pit is natural soil
     cover at a cost of $2.3 million.  There are approximately
     103 members, including Kimberly-Clark, of the PRP group with
     respect to the site.  The Corporation's estimated share of
     total site remediation cost, if any, cannot yet be
     established.


B.   In August 1992, Kimberly-Clark's Spotswood, New Jersey mill
     received an information request from the New Jersey
     Department of Environmental Protection and Energy ("NJDEPE")
     with respect to the Jones Industrial Service Landfill. 
     Kimberly-Clark currently has no information about the site
     or the status of the NJDEPE's actions to date.  Kimberly-
     Clark does not have records indicating that the mill used
     the site.  However, the Spotswood mill has used an
     industrial company for nonhazardous waste disposal services
     and has received routing sheets from such company which
     indicate that the company may have sent three loads of
     Spotswood mill waste to the site in September 1980.  Until
     Kimberly-Clark receives the site information requested from
     the State of New Jersey, no determination regarding the
     extent of Kimberly-Clark's liability, if any, can be made.

C.   On February 6, 1991, the NJDEPE identified the Corporation
     as a PRP under the provisions of the New Jersey Spill
     Compensation and Control Act for remediation of the Global
     Sanitary Landfill waste disposal site located in Old Bridge
     Township, New Jersey based on the Corporation's disposal of
     waste at such site.  The EPA has designated the disposal
     site as a state-led site under CERCLA with the NJDEPE acting
     as lead agency.  In May 1991, the Corporation signed a PRP
     agreement and paid an administrative assessment.  In August
     1993, a consent decree was executed by the State of New
     Jersey and the PRPs, pursuant to which the Corporation
     agreed to pay $575,000 for its share of Phase I cleanup
     costs.  The Corporation's share of Phase II cleanup costs,
     if any, cannot yet be established.


PART I
(Continued)

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during
the fourth quarter of 1993.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The names and ages of the executive officers of the Corporation
as of March 1, 1994, together with certain biographical
information are as follows:

JAMES D. BERND, 60, was elected Executive Vice President
effective December 1, 1990.  Mr. Bernd joined Kimberly-Clark in
1959 as a trainee at the Niagara Falls, New York, mills.  He
was appointed Marketing Manager for KLEENEX(R) facial tissue in
1973 and Business Manager for Household Products in 1975.  Mr.
Bernd was appointed Division Vice President in 1976, President
of the Household Products Sector in 1985 and assumed his
present position in 1990.  He is responsible for the Household
Products and Service and Industrial Sectors, U.S. Consumer
Sales, Consumer Business Services and Safety and Quality
Assurance.  Mr. Bernd is a member of the University of
Wisconsin School of Business Board of Visitors, the Riverside
Medical Center - Waupaca Board of Trustees, and the Associated
Bank, National Association Board of Directors.  He has been a
director of the Corporation since 1990.

JOHN W. DONEHOWER, 47, was elected Senior Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer in 1993.  Mr. Donehower joined
Kimberly-Clark in 1974.  He was appointed Director of Finance -
Europe in 1978, Vice President, Marketing and Sales - Nonwovens
in 1981, Vice President, Specialty Papers in 1982, Managing
Director, Kimberly-Clark Australia Pty. Limited in 1982, and
Vice President, Professional Health Care, Medical and Nonwoven
Fabrics in 1985.  He was appointed President, Specialty
Products - U.S. in 1987, and President - World Support Group in
1990.

O. GEORGE EVERBACH, 55, was appointed Senior Vice President -
Law and Government Affairs in 1988.  Mr. Everbach joined Kimberly-Clark 
in 1984.  His responsibilities within the Corporation have included 
direction of legal, human resources and administrative functions.  He 
was elected Vice President and General Counsel in 1984, Vice President, 
Secretary and General Counsel in 1985, and Senior Vice President and 
General Counsel in 1986.  

THOMAS J. FALK, 35, was elected Group President - Infant and
Child Care in 1993.  Mr. Falk joined Kimberly-Clark in 1983. 
His responsibilities within the Corporation have included
internal audit, financial and strategic analysis and operations
management.  He was appointed Vice President - Operations
Analysis and Control in 1990 and Senior Vice President -
Analysis and Administration in 1992.

JAMES G. GROSKLAUS, 58, was elected Executive Vice President
effective December 1, 1990.  He is responsible for the Pulp and
Newsprint, Paper and Specialty Products Sectors, and also is
responsible for various staff functions.  Employed by the
Corporation since 1957, Mr. Grosklaus was appointed Vice
President in 1972 and Divisional Vice President in 1975, and
was elected Senior Vice President effective January 1, 1979. 
He was appointed President, K-C Health Care, Nonwoven and
Industrial Group in 1981, Senior Staff Vice President in 1982,
Senior Vice President in 1983 and President, Technical Paper
and Specialty Products in 1985, and elected Executive Vice
President in January 1986.  In 1988, he was appointed President
- - North American Pulp and Paper Sector.  He is a member of the
Emory University Board of Visitors and the Woodruff Arts Center
Board of Trustees.  He has been a director of the Corporation
since 1987.


EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT (Continued)


TIMOTHY E. HOEKSEMA, 47, was appointed President -
Transportation Sector in 1988.  Mr. Hoeksema joined Kimberly-
Clark in 1969.  Prior to 1977, Mr. Hoeksema served as Chief
Pilot of Kimberly-Clark.  He was elected President of K-C
Aviation Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Kimberly-Clark, in
1977, and President of Midwest Express Airlines, Inc., a wholly
owned subsidiary of K-C Aviation Inc., in 1983.

JAMES T. MCCAULEY, 55, was elected Executive Vice President in
1990.  Mr. McCauley joined Kimberly-Clark in 1969.  He was
elected Treasurer in 1980, Vice President and Treasurer in
1980, appointed Vice President - Nonwoven Operations in 1984,
Senior Vice President, Kimberly-Clark Newsprint & Pulp and
Forest Products in 1984, President, North American Pulp and
Newsprint Sector in 1985, President, Health Care and Nonwovens
Sector in 1987, and President - Nonwovens and Technical
Products Sector in 1988.  Mr. McCauley was appointed President -
Nonwovens, Medical and Technical Products Sector in 1988 and
was appointed President - Nonwovens and Professional Health
Care Sector, Far East Operations and World Support Group in
1990. 

WAYNE R. SANDERS, 46, was elected Chief Executive Officer of
the Corporation effective December 19, 1991, and Chairman of
the Board effective March 31, 1992.  He previously had been
elected President and Chief Operating Officer in December 1990. 
Employed by the Corporation in 1975, Mr. Sanders was appointed
Vice President of Kimberly-Clark Canada Inc., a wholly owned
subsidiary of the Corporation, in 1981.  He held various
positions in that company, and was appointed Director and
President in 1984.  Mr. Sanders was elected Senior Vice
President of Kimberly-Clark Corporation in 1985 and was
appointed President - Infant Care Sector in 1987, President -
Personal Care Sector in 1988 and President - World Consumer,
Nonwovens and Service and Industrial Operations in 1990.  He is
a member of the Lawrence University Board of Trustees and the
Marquette University Board of Trustees.  He has been a director
of the Corporation since 1989.

KATHI P. SEIFERT, 44, was elected Group President - Feminine
and Adult Care effective January 7, 1994.  Ms. Seifert joined
Kimberly-Clark in 1978.  Her responsibilities in the
Corporation have included various marketing positions within
the Service and Industrial, Consumer Tissue and Feminine
Products business sectors.  She was appointed President -
Feminine Care Sector, in 1991.

JOHN A. VAN STEENBERG, 46, was elected President - European
Consumer and Service & Industrial Operations effective January
1, 1994.  Mr. Van Steenberg joined Kimberly-Clark in 1978.  His
previous responsibilities have included operations and major
project management.  He was appointed Managing Director of
Kimberly-Clark Australia Pty. Limited in 1990.



PART II


ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED
STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The dividend and market price data included in Note 11 to the
Financial Statements, and the information covered by the
captions "Dividends and Dividend Reinvestment Plan" and "Stock
Exchanges" contained in the 1993 Annual Report to Stockholders
are incorporated in this Item 5 by reference.

As of March 18, 1994, the Corporation had 25,121 stockholders
of record.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA



PART II
(Continued)

                
ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION

The information under the caption "Management's Discussion and
Analysis" contained in the 1993 Annual Report to Stockholders
is incorporated in this Item 7 by reference.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The financial statements of the Corporation and its
subsidiaries and independent auditors' report contained in the
1993 Annual Report to Stockholders are incorporated in this
Item 8 by reference.

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.



PART III
            

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The section of the 1994 Proxy Statement captioned "Certain
Information Regarding Directors and Nominees" under "Proposal
1. Election of Directors" identifies members of the board of
directors of the Corporation and nominees, and is incorporated
in this Item 10 by reference.

See also "EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT" appearing in
Part I hereof.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information in the section of the 1994 Proxy Statement
captioned "Executive Compensation" under "Proposal 1. Election
of Directors" is incorporated in this Item 11 by reference.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
MANAGEMENT

The information in the sections of the 1994 Proxy Statement
captioned "Security Ownership of Management" and "Other
Principal Holder of Voting Securities" under "Proposal 1.
Election of Directors" is incorporated in this Item 12 by
reference.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The information in the sections captioned "Certain Transactions
and Business Relationships" and "Executive Compensation --
Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation"
under "Proposal 1. Election of Directors" of the 1994 Proxy
Statement is incorporated in this Item 13 by reference.



PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS
ON FORM 8-K

(a) DOCUMENTS FILED AS PART OF THIS REPORT.

1.   Financial statements:

The Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 1993 and
1992, and the related Consolidated Income Statement and
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the years ended December
31, 1993, 1992 and 1991, and the related Notes thereto, and the
Independent Auditors' Report are incorporated in Part II, Item
8 of this Form 10-K by reference to the Financial Statements 
contained in the 1993 Annual Report to Stockholders.
                                             
2.   Financial statement schedules:

The following information is filed as part of this Form 10-K
and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated
financial statements in the 1993 Annual Report to Stockholders.

Independent Auditors' Report

Schedules for Kimberly-Clark Corporation and Subsidiaries:

   V  Property, Plant and Equipment                

  VI  Accumulated Depreciation of Property, Plant and Equipment

VIII  Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

  IX  Short-Term Borrowings

All other schedules have been omitted because they were not
applicable or because the required information has been
included in the financial statements or notes thereto.

3.   Exhibits:

Exhibit No.(3)a. Restated Certificate of Incorporation of
Kimberly-Clark Corporation, dated April 16, 1987, incorporated
by reference to Exhibit No. 4e. of the Kimberly-Clark Corporation 
Form S-8 filed on February 16, 1993 (File No. 33-58402).

Exhibit No.(3)b. By-Laws of Kimberly-Clark Corporation, as
amended April 22, 1993, incorporated by reference to Exhibit No.(3) of
the Kimberly-Clark Corporation Form 10-Q for the quarterly
period ended June 30, 1993.

Exhibit No.(4). Copies of instruments defining the rights of
holders of long-term debt will be furnished to the Securities
and Exchange Commission on request.



PART IV
(Continued)


ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS
ON FORM 8-K
(Continued)

Exhibit No.(10)a. Kimberly-Clark Corporation 1976 Equity
Participation Plan, as amended effective May 1, 1987,
incorporated by reference from the Kimberly-Clark Corporation
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992.

Exhibit No.(10)b. Kimberly-Clark Corporation Management
Achievement Award Program, incorporated by reference to Exhibit
No. (10)b of the Kimberly-Clark Corporation Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 1990.

Exhibit No.(10)c. Kimberly-Clark Corporation Executive
Severance Plan, incorporated by reference from the Kimberly-
Clark Corporation Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
1992.  

Exhibit No.(10)d. Second Amended and Restated Deferred
Compensation Plan for Directors of Kimberly-Clark Corporation,
incorporated by reference from the Kimberly-Clark Corporation
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992.

Exhibit No.(10)e. Kimberly-Clark Corporation 1986 Equity
Participation Plan, as amended effective May 1, 1987,
incorporated by reference from the Kimberly-Clark Corporation
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992.

Exhibit No. (10)f. Kimberly-Clark Corporation 1992 Equity
Participation Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit No.
4A. of the Kimberly-Clark Corporation Form S-8 filed on June
26, 1992 (File No. 33-49050).

Exhibit No.(11). The net income per share of common stock
computations for each of the periods included in Part II, Item
6. Selected Financial Data, of this Form 10-K are based on
average common shares outstanding during each of the respective
periods.  The only "common stock equivalents" or other poten-
tially dilutive securities or agreements (as defined in
Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 15) in Kimberly-Clark 
Corporation's capital structure during the periods presented were 
options outstanding under the Corporation's Equity Participation Plans.

Computations of "primary" and "fully diluted" net income per
share assume the exercise of outstanding stock options under
the "treasury stock method."  The table below presents the
amounts by which the earnings per share amounts presented in
Item 6 would be reduced if the "treasury stock method" had been
used.
 
                                Primary          Fully Diluted
                                -------          -------------
            1993                 $.01                $.01
            1992                    -                   -             
            1991                  .02                 .02
            1990                  .01                 .01
            1989                  .01                 .02

Exhibit No.(12). Computation of ratio of earnings to fixed
charges for the five years ended December 31, 1993.



ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS
ON FORM 8-K
(Continued)

Exhibit No.(13). Portions of the Kimberly-Clark Corporation
1993 Annual Report to Stockholders incorporated by reference in
this Form 10-K.

Exhibit No.(21). Consolidated Subsidiaries and Equity Companies
of Kimberly-Clark Corporation are identified in the 1993 Annual
Report to Stockholders, and such information is incorporated in
this Form 10-K by reference.

Exhibit No.(23). Independent Auditors' Consent

Exhibit No.(24). Powers of Attorney

(b) Reports on Form 8-K

(i)   The Corporation filed a Current Report on Form 8-K dated
      February 17, 1994, which reported the Corporation's 1993
      audited financial statements and management's discussion
      and analysis.

(ii)  The Corporation filed a Current Report on Form 8-K dated
      February 18, 1994 which reported the offering of
      $100 million principal of debt securities by the
      Corporation.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.


                   Kimberly-Clark Corporation

March 24, 1994

                                  By:            /s/ John W. Donehower       
                                     -----------------------------------------
                                                     John W. Donehower
                                                     Senior Vice President and
                                                     Chief Financial Officer


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this report has been signed below by the following
persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and
on the dates indicated.


/s/ Wayne R. Sanders            Chairman of the Board          March 24, 1994
- ----------------------------
    Wayne R. Sanders            and Chief Executive Officer
                                and Director


/s/ John W. Donehower           Senior Vice President and      March 24, 1994
- ----------------------------
    John W. Donehower           Chief Financial Officer



/s/ Randy J. Vest               Vice President -               March 24, 1994
- ----------------------------
    Randy J. Vest               Controller (principal
                                accounting officer)


                                Directors
    John F. Bergstrom                            Phala A. Helm, M.D.
    James D. Bernd                               William E. LaMothe
    Pastora San Juan Cafferty                    Louis E. Levy
    Paul J. Collins                              Frank A. McPherson 
    Claudio X. Gonzalez                          H. Blair White
    James G. Grosklaus                                           


By:       /s/ O. George Everbach        
          ------------------------------------
          O. George Everbach, Attorney-in-Fact                 March 24, 1994   





                                                                
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

Kimberly-Clark Corporation:



We have audited the consolidated financial statements of
Kimberly-Clark Corporation as of December 31, 1993 and 1992,
and for each of the three years in the period ended December
31, 1993, and have issued our report thereon dated January 28,
1994, which report includes an explanatory paragraph concerning
the Corporation's changes in its methods of accounting for
income taxes and postretirement benefits other than pensions to
conform with Statements of Financial Accounting Standards No.
109 and No. 106, respectively; such consolidated financial
statements and report are included in your 1993 Annual Report
and are incorporated herein by reference.  Our audits also
included the consolidated financial statement schedules of
Kimberly-Clark Corporation, listed in Item 14.  These
consolidated financial statement schedules are the
responsibility of the Corporation's management.  Our
responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. 
In our opinion, such consolidated financial statement
schedules, when considered in relation to the basic
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, present
fairly in all material respects the information set forth
therein.


/s/ Deloitte & Touche
- ---------------------

DELOITTE & TOUCHE

Dallas, Texas
January 28, 1994



SCHEDULE V                       Kimberly-Clark Corporation and Subsidiaries
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993 AND 1992
(Millions of dollars)




SCHEDULE V                       Kimberly-Clark Corporation and Subsidiaries
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1991
(Millions of dollars)




SCHEDULE VI                       Kimberly-Clark Corporation and Subsidiaries
ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992 AND 1991
(Millions of dollars)




SCHEDULE VIII                     Kimberly-Clark Corporation and Subsidiaries
VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992 AND 1991
(Millions of dollars)





SCHEDULE IX                       Kimberly-Clark Corporation and Subsidiaries
SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS
FOR THE YEARS ENDED
DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992 AND 1991
(Millions of dollars)




INDEX TO DOCUMENTS FILED AS A PART OF THIS REPORT



                                        Description
                                        -----------

Consolidated financial statements, incorporated by reference 

Independent Auditors' Report, incorporated by reference
        
Independent Auditors' Report

Schedules for Kimberly-Clark Corporation and Subsidiaries:
   V  Property, Plant and Equipment

  VI  Accumulated Depreciation of Property, Plant and Equipment

VIII  Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

  IX  Short-Term Borrowings

Exhibit No.(3)a. Restated Certificate of Incorporation of
Kimberly-Clark Corporation, dated April 16, 1987, incorporated
by reference to Exhibit No. 4e. of the Kimberly-Clark
Corporation Form S-8 filed on February 16, 1993 
(File No. 33-58402)

Exhibit No.(3)b. By-Laws of Kimberly-Clark Corporation, as
amended April 22, 1993, incorporated by reference to Exhibit
No.(3) of the Kimberly-Clark Corporation Form 10-Q for the
quarterly period ended June 30, 1993

Exhibit No.(4). Copies of instruments defining the rights of
holders of long-term debt will be furnished to the Securities
and Exchange Commission on request

Exhibit No.(10)a. Kimberly-Clark Corporation 1976 Equity
Participation Plan, as amended effective May 1, 1987,
incorporated by reference from the Kimberly-Clark Corporation
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992

Exhibit No.(10)b. Kimberly-Clark Corporation Management
Achievement Award Program, incorporated by reference to Exhibit
No.(10)b. of Kimberly-Clark Corporation Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 1990

Exhibit No.(10)c. Kimberly-Clark Corporation Executive
Severance Plan, incorporated by reference from the Kimberly-
Clark Corporation Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,


Index to Documents Filed as a Part of This Report
(Continued)


                                                                

                                        Description
                                        -----------


Exhibit No.(10)d. Second Amended and Restated Deferred
Compensation Plan for Directors of Kimberly-Clark Corporation,
incorporated by reference from the Kimberly-Clark Corporation
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992

Exhibit No.(10)e. Kimberly-Clark Corporation 1986 Equity
Participation Plan, as amended effective May 1, 1987,
incorporated by reference from the Kimberly-Clark Corporation
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992

Exhibit No. (10)f. Kimberly-Clark Corporation 1992 Equity
Participation Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit
No. 4A. of the Kimberly-Clark Corporation Form S-8 filed on
June 26, 1992 (File No. 33-49050)

Exhibit No.(11). Statement re: computation of earnings per
share 

Exhibit No.(12). Computation of ratio of earnings to
fixed charges 

Exhibit No.(13). Portions of the Kimberly-Clark Corporation
1993 Annual Report to Stockholders incorporated by reference in
this Form 10-K

Exhibit No.(21). Consolidated Subsidiaries and Equity Companies
of Kimberly-Clark Corporation are identified in the 1993 Annual
Report to Stockholders, and such information is incorporated in
this Form 10-K by reference

Exhibit No.(23). Independent Auditors' Consent 

Exhibit No.(24). Powers of Attorney 



