ITEM 1:BUSINESS



eBay Inc. was formed as a sole proprietorship in September 1995 and was incorporated in California in May 1996. In April 1998, we reincorporated in Delaware, and in September 1998, we completed the initial public offering of our common stock. Our principal executive offices are located at 2145 Hamilton Avenue, San Jose, California 95125, and our telephone number is (408) 376-7400. When we refer to “we,” “our,” “us” or “eBay” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we mean the current Delaware corporation (eBay Inc.) and its California predecessor, as well as all of its consolidated subsidiaries. When we refer to “eBay.com,” we mean the online marketplace located at www.ebay.com and its localized counterparts. When we refer to “PayPal,” we mean the online payments platform located at www.paypal.com and its localized counterparts. When we refer to “GSI,” we mean the ecommerce and interactive marketing services provided by GSI Commerce, which we purchased in June 2011.



We are a global technology company that enables commerce through three reportable segments:  Marketplaces, Payments, and GSI.  By providing online platforms, tools and services to help individuals and small, medium and large merchants around the globe engage in online and mobile commerce and payments, we can facilitate transactions.  Driven by the ubiquity of the Internet and the proliferation of mobile devices, we believe that the way consumers engage with brands and services is fundamentally changing.  They are shopping virtually anytime, anywhere.  We believe that this shift in behavior is blurring the lines between offline retail and online ecommerce, effectively becoming one market for commerce.



Whether online, through the mobile channel or offline, our monetization strategy remains the same.  We are primarily a transaction-based business model that generates revenue through our commerce and payments platforms.  We also generate revenue through marketing services, classifieds and advertising.  We have also created an open source platform that provides software developers and merchants access to our applications programming interfaces, or APIs, to develop software and solutions for commerce.  Our developer community includes more than 800,000 members.  As of December 31, 2012, our Marketplaces segment had more than 112 million active users and more than 350 million listings globally, while our Payments segment had more than 122 million active registered accounts.   See the definitions of "active user" and “active registered accounts” in our Marketplaces and Payments discussions, respectively, below.



For financial information about our reportable segments as well as the geographic areas where we conduct business, please see "Note 5 - Segments" to the consolidated financial statements included in this report.  Additionally, please see the information in "Item 1A:  Risk Factors" under the caption "There are many risks associated with our international operations," which describes risks associated with the foreign operations of our reportable segments.



Marketplaces



Our Marketplaces segment includes our core ecommerce platform eBay.com, our vertical shopping experiences such as StubHub, Fashion, Motors and Half.com, our classifieds websites such as Marktplaats.nl and mobile.de, and advertising services. Additionally, Marketplaces has acquired certain technologies to help further enable new commerce opportunities, including RedLaser to facilitate mobile commerce, Milo to enable search for goods at local retailers, WHI to offer a more robust ecatalog of motor parts and accessories and Hunch to improve search and merchandising based on customers' needs and










tastes.  These and other acquisitions are intended to enhance existing services and deliver new services to merchants and consumers by using innovative technology and improved experiences across multiple channels of commerce.



Our Marketplaces platforms bring consumers and merchants together through online websites and mobile applications that are generally available throughout the world at any time, including through localized eBay.com sites in many countries. We had more than 112 million active users at the end of 2012, compared to more than 100 million at the end of 2011.  The term active user means, as of any date, any user who bid on, bought or listed an item on any of our Marketplaces trading platforms, excluding users of Half.com, StubHub, and our Korean subsidiary, during the preceding 12-month period.  A user may have more than one account on our Marketplaces trading platforms and therefore may be counted more than once when we calculate the number of active users.



Our Marketplaces platforms offer the following features:



We provide a variety of access points for consumers to shop virtually anytime, anywhere.



Our Marketplaces platforms are accessible through a traditional online experience and from mobile devices.  We offer downloadable, easy-to-use mobile applications for the iPhone, the iPad, Android and Windows mobile devices for eBay.com and some of our other websites and vertical shopping experiences, including StubHub, Fashion, Motors and Half.com. We also maintain a mobile version of our eBay.com website for use on mobile devices and continue to develop our mobile applications on an ongoing basis.   In 2012, nearly $13 billion in mobile commerce volume was transacted across our platforms, more than doubling our prior year's mobile commerce volume.



We offer a number of buying and selling formats, including fixed price and auction.



Merchants and individuals can choose to list their products and services through fixed price listings and an auction-style format on eBay.com, our core Marketplaces platform.  Our fixed price format on eBay.com allows buyers and sellers to close transactions at a pre-determined price set by the seller, but also allows sellers to signal that they would be willing to close the transaction at a lower price through the Best Offer feature. Our auction-style format allows a seller to select a minimum price for opening bids.  Additional options and features applicable to auction listings include the ability to set a Reserve Price and the Buy It Now feature.  The duration of auctions typically ranges from one to ten days.  In 2012, our fixed price listing format continued to increase in popularity on eBay.com, accounting for approximately 66% of our gross merchandise volume, or GMV, with our auction-style format accounting for the remaining approximately 34% of GMV.  We define GMV as the total value of all closed items between users on our eBay Marketplaces trading platforms (excluding eBay's classifieds websites, brands4friends and Shopping.com) during the applicable period, regardless of whether the buyer and seller actually consummated the transaction.  Merchants and individuals can also list their products and services on our classifieds websites or our other specialized vertical websites, as discussed below.



In addition, our eBay Stores format enables merchants to exhibit all of their listings in a single place on one of our Marketplaces platforms and to describe their respective businesses through customized pages.  eBay Stores also provides merchants with tools to build, manage, promote and track their businesses.



Our classifieds websites have listings in over 1,000 cities around the world and are primarily designed to help people list their products and services primarily for free and then trade at a local level. Our classifieds websites include alaMaula, BilBasen, dba.dk, eBay Classifieds (eBay Classifieds, eBay Kleinanzeigen and eBay Annunci), Gumtree, Kijiji, LoQUo, Marktplaats.nl, and mobile.de. In addition, we have a non-controlling equity investment in craigslist, Inc., which operates the craigslist classifieds websites.



We offer a variety of specialized vertical formats.



We continue to customize our buying and selling experiences to make it easier for users to list, find and buy items by offering formats dedicated to specific products or categories.  On our core eBay.com websites, we have built specialized experiences for certain vertical formats, such as Daily Deals, Fashion, Motors (vehicles, parts and accessories), and Electronics.  Our Daily Deals vertical offers a variety of products in multiple categories at discounted prices with free shipping.  In our Fashion vertical we offer our Fashion Vault, Fashion Outlet and an application for mobile devices enabled with social media and email sharing functions.  In our Motors vertical we offer users shopping tailored to their vehicles specifications, including the Tire Center and Wheel Center, among others.  In our Electronics vertical, we offer user reviews, similar item listings, and instant sale feature to help users list and find items more easily.












StubHub is a leading marketplace for event tickets, enabling fans to buy and sell tickets to a large selection of sports, concert, theater and other live entertainment events. StubHub's online marketplace, dedicated solely to tickets, provides fans the ability to buy and sell their tickets in a safe, convenient and reliable environment. As of December 31, 2012, StubHub's partners included more than 70 professional and collegiate sports teams, organizations and venues from the NBA, NHL, MLB and NCAA. In December 2011, StubHub launched its first international website in the United Kingdom.



We are building services to help sellers offer goods, through both a traditional online experience and a mobile device, providing them with multiple channels for product distribution.



With the acquisitions of RedLaser and Milo, we are helping merchants offer their local inventory online and through mobile devices and helping consumers find what they are looking for at local stores. RedLaser allows consumers to scan the barcode on an item using their mobile device to find merchants offering that item for sale both online and offline in local stores, while Milo enables local inventory to be viewed online or on a mobile device. We plan to expand the functionality and use of these technologies and services to more merchants in 2013. In August 2012, we began testing eBay Now, a same-day delivery service for purchases from participating local stores in San Francisco.  The eBay Now service is currently available to consumers in San Francisco and parts of New York City.



Our individual and merchant listings offers variety and choice.



With more than350 million listings on all of our eBay.com platforms as of December 31, 2012, we offer consumers a broad range of listings across a wide number of categories.  Our listings include new, refurbished and used products, common and rare items, and branded and unbranded products.  As of December 31, 2012, there were approximately 110 branded Fashion Outlet stores on our eBay.com platform in the U.S., the U.K. Germany and Australia offering consumers new items at great prices.



We maintain high standards for trust, safety and customer service.



We have developed a number of features on our platforms in the areas of trust and safety (including our Feedback Forum, SafeHarbor Program, Verified Rights Owner Program, eBay Top Rated Seller (eTRS) and eBay Buyer Protection), customer support and value-added tools and services, as well as loyalty programs (for both buyers and sellers). These features are designed to make users more comfortable trading with unknown partners and completing transactions online or through mobile devices, as well as rewarding our top buyers and sellers for their loyalty.



Our eTRS program rewards qualifying sellers with fee discounts and improved search standing for qualifying listings. eTRS is currently available in the U.S., the U.K., Germany and Australia. Our eTRS sellers are given the opportunity to earn discounted fees and preferential search placements for their listings if they are able to maintain excellent customer service ratings with a minimum number of successful transactions over the last 12 months.  U.S. sellers are required to offer one-day handling and 14-day or longer returns with a money-back option benefit to be eligible for fee discounts. We believe sellers who fulfill these selling standards will help promote our goal of maintaining an online marketplace that is safe and hassle-free.



eBay Buyer Protection covers items purchased on our sites in the U.S., the U.K. and Germany through a qualifying payment method and protects most buyers with respect to items that are not received or are received but not as described in the listing. Some purchases, including most vehicles, are not covered. eBay Buyer Protection provides coverage for the purchase price of the item, plus original shipping costs, for a limited period of time from the original date of transaction, and includes a new, streamlined interface to help buyers and sellers navigate the process.



Payments



Our Payments segment has three primary payments brands:  PayPal, which enables individuals and businesses to securely, easily and quickly send and receive payments online and through a broad range of mobile devices in approximately 190 markets worldwide; Bill Me Later, which enables U.S. merchants to offer, and U.S. consumers to obtain, credit at the point of sale for ecommerce and mobile transactions through Bill Me Later's relationship with a chartered financial institution; and Zong, acquired in August 2011, which enables users with a mobile phone to purchase digital goods and have the transactions charged to their phone bill. In 2011, we also acquired BillSAFE, a provider of payment services for online merchants in Germany that offer consumers the ability to pay for purchases upon receipt of an invoice after the item is received.



Our Payments solutions provide efficient payment and settlement capabilities for consumers and merchants on eBay websites, on other merchant websites and increasingly at offline retail locations.  Our payment networks are designed to be simple, safe and secure and are built upon the existing global financial infrastructure to create global, real-time payment










solutions.  PayPal connects with more than 15,000 financial institutions around the world, and consumers can typically use their payment method of choice, no matter where the seller is located. Users of our PayPal payments solutions can engage in cross-border shopping, which can help merchants to increase sales volume by allowing them to sell to a global base of consumers.



We hadmore than 122 million and 106 million active registered accounts as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.The term active registered accounts means, as of a given date, all registered accounts that successfully sent or received at least one payment or payment reversal through the PayPal system within the prior 12 months or Bill Me Later accounts that are able to transact at that date and that have received a statement within the prior 12 months. Users may have more than one account with PayPal or Bill Me Later and therefore the number of active registered accounts may be greater than the number of underlying users.



Our PayPal payment processing solution is available both online and on mobile devices.



PayPal started as a payment solution for online transactions between consumers and merchants through a traditional online experience. With the growth of Internet-enabled mobile devices, PayPal is becoming a popular form of payment  for mobile commerce.  In 2012, PayPal's net total payment volume, or net TPV, for transactions using mobile devices reached nearly $14 billion, up from approximately $4 billion in 2011. PayPal's mobile products are designed todeliver an end-to-end mobile shopping experience in a safe and secure environment. PayPal's mobile checkout solutions offer a convenient and easy way for merchants to accept payments from mobile devices, and for consumers to pay, through a mobile-optimized user experience.  Consumers with a PayPal account have the flexibility to pay without entering a credit card number or a billing and shipping address online or through their mobile devices.  We define net TPV as total dollar volume of payments, net of payment reversals, successfully completed through our Payments networks, Bill Me Later and Zong during the applicable period, excluding PayPal's payment gateway business.



Our PayPal payment solution offers merchants an all-in-one payment processing solution.



An online merchant can typically open a standard PayPal account and begin accepting payments through PayPal within a few minutes.  Most online or mobile merchants are approved instantly.  Processing with PayPal does not require new specialized hardware.  It can also reduce the need for merchants to receive and store sensitive customer financial information.  PayPal does not charge merchants any setup fees and offers a standard service with no recurring monthly fees.



We offer consumers choice by providing a variety of funding mechanisms.



Consumers can fund their PayPal accounts and payments using PayPal in a variety of ways, including by credit card, debit card, electronic funds transfers from their bank account and through a PayPal balance if the buyer has previously received payments through PayPal or chosen to pre-fund a balance. We also provide a credit offering through our Bill Me Later service, which allows qualifying U.S. consumers to obtain a revolving line of creditat the point of sale from WebBank, a third-party chartered financial institution. Bill Me Later is not a chartered financial institution nor is it licensed to make loans in any state.  Accordingly, Bill Me Later must rely on a bank or licensed lender to issue the Bill Me Later credit products and extend credit to customers.  U.S. consumers may also be offered an opportunity to defer payments for purchases made using Bill Me Later. Under some promotional arrangements offered on select merchant sites, interest on such purchases can be deferred for as long as 18 months.



When a consumer makes a purchase using a Bill Me Later credit product issued by a chartered financial institution, the chartered financial institution extends credit to the consumer, funds the extension of credit at the point of sale and remits funds to the merchant. We subsequently purchase the receivables related to the consumer loans made by the chartered financial institution and, as a result of that purchase, bear the risk of loss in the event of loan defaults. Although the chartered financial institution continues to own each customer account, we own the related receivable and are responsible for all servicing functions related to the account.  For information regarding risks related to our Bill Me Later business, see the information in “Item 1A:  Risk Factors” under the captions "Bill Me Later's operations depend on lending services provided by an unaffiliated lender" and "Bill Me Later's operations expose us to additional risks."












We have embarked on plans to enable merchants to offer PayPal at offline retail locations.



In 2011, we began work on a PayPal point of sale payments solution for the U.S. and select European markets.  In the U.S., this solution is intended to allow PayPal users who sign up for the service to use their PayPal accounts to make purchases at offline retail locations.  We expect that users will be able to access their PayPal accounts through a PayPal Access Card, their mobile phone number and personal identification number (PIN), or a Near Field Communication-enabled device depending on what the retailer offers. This initiative is an important part of PayPal's strategy to provide a comprehensive payment solution for retailers both online and offline.  We implemented the point of sale payments solution on a limited basis for select retailers in 2012, and expect to continue to roll out this product to additional retailers.



Our payments solutions offer leading fraud prevention and protection.



PayPal enables consumers to pay merchants quickly and easily without sharing sensitive financial information, such as credit card or debit card numbers.  To make payments using PayPal, consumers need to disclose only their email addresses to merchants.  The account-based nature of PayPal's network helps us to better detect and prevent fraud when funds enter, flow through and exit the PayPal network.



Bill Me Later accounts are most commonly opened on a U.S. merchant websites, including eBay.com, offering Bill Me Later as a payment method but can also be opened by U.S. consumers through a qualified PayPal account or at the Bill Me Later website.



When using Bill Me Later, qualified consumers need to provide only their name, address, birth date and the last four digits of their social security number.  When using Zong, buyers need to input only their mobile phone number and respond to a text or email requiring them to approve the transaction.



PayPal has developed a number of trust and safety programs, including PayPal's Seller Protection and Purchase Protection Programs. These programs provide additional protection to certain account holders who pay or receive payment for their transactions through PayPal on or off eBay.com in certain key geographies. PayPal's Seller Protection Program covers sellers in certain key geographies who follow specific shipping and handling practices against claims that a transaction was not authorized by the buyer or that the item was not received. PayPal's Purchase Protection Program reimburses the buyer, subject to specified limitations, for qualified purchases using PayPal on or off eBay.com in certain key geographies if the buyer does not receive the item or, in limited markets, if the item is significantly not as described. In some non-U.S. markets, protection for buyers is limited to a maximum amount per transaction.



GSI



Acquired by eBay in June 2011, GSI is a leading provider of ecommerce and interactive marketing services to enterprise clients that include some of the world's leading brands and retailers. GSI offers a broad suite of solutions designed to power merchants' online businesses and effectively integrate with their other sales channels. GSI's advanced technology, fulfillment, customer care and interactive marketing services are designed to enable its clients to elevate the consumer experience and cost-effectively sustain it over time.



GSI operates two business units: Global eCommerce Services, or GeC, and Global Marketing Services, or GMS.  Each business unit offers products and services that complement the other, which allows for cross-selling opportunities.  While GSI operates on a global basis, nearly all of its net revenues in 2012 were derived from its North American operations.



GSI enables companies to operate ecommerce businesses and to integrate their ecommerce businesses with other multi-channel retail offerings.



GSI sells its products and services on an individual basis and as bundled solutions. The GeC business unitserves enterprise clients that operate in general merchandise categories, including apparel, sporting goods, toys & baby, health & beauty and home. We refer to GSI clients as enterprise clients because GSI generally serves large, nationally recognized brand name companies. The GeC ecommerce suite is comprised of three principal services: Technology & Payments, Fulfillment & Freight and Customer Care.



GSI Technology & Payments services provide retailers with ecommerce platforms, products and services.



GSI Technology & Payments uses shared sales, service, operations and administration teams for its three areas of focus: webstore & mobile, commerce exchange & multi-channel and payments.`


























Webstore & mobile provides secure shopping cart and checkout offerings, analytical tools, site management tools, including catalog, content and promotions management and guided product discovery.



Commerce exchange & multi-channel offerings provide transactional capabilities, including order management, inventory management and fulfillment integration.  GSI's multi-channel offering is a suite of software products that enables in-store pickup, ship-from-store, ship-to-store and drop ship capabilities.



The payments offering provides a robust online payment processing engine with capabilities including price, tax and shipping calculations, address verification, order review and fraud prevention, credit card authorization and settlement and alternative payment processing, including PayPal as well as private label credit cards, gift cards and online gift certificates.



GSI Fulfillment & Freight services help retailers manage logistics complexities.



GSI operates five ecommerce fulfillment centers in the U.S., one in Canada and one in the U.K., together encompassing over 3.4 million square feet.  Within these facilities, GSI utilizes warehouse management systems and infrastructure to provide customized direct-to-consumer fulfillment solutions, including order management, real-time order status updates and reverse logistics services. Through scale and partnerships with leading freight providers, GSI offers clients favorable shipping rates and innovative freight programs, including its ShipQuik shipping program. Under this program, packages are presorted by customer zip code, which helps to shorten the time packages are in transit.



GSI Customer Care services provide retailers with integrated customer support for their online web stores.



Through three call centers in the U.S. and a network of customer support agents, plus one call center in the U.K., GSI provides customer care services for ecommerce via telephone, live chat and email. GSI combines proprietary and third-party technologies, including automatic call distribution, computer telephony integration, interactive voice response, email, workforce management, voice recording/monitoring and customer relationship management systems in the customer care platform. The U.K. call center offers customer care in multiple languages.



GMS provides retailers with extensive online marketing services



The GMS business unit is focused on providing comprehensive, industry-leading solutions designed to help clients acquire new customers, convert more website visitors into buyers, build customer loyalty and drive revenue across various channels. GMS offers a full-service digital agency, a brand-centric boutique agency, enterprise email marketing, database management, mobile advertising, affiliate marketing, online advertising display retargeting, and in-depth analytics capabilities.



Competition



We encounter vigorous competition in our businesses from numerous sources. For our Marketplaces segment, our users can find, buy, sell and pay for similar items through a variety of competing online, mobile and offline channels. These include, but are not limited to, retailers, distributors, liquidators, import and export companies, auctioneers, catalog and mail-order companies, classifieds, directories, search engines, commerce participants (consumer-to-consumer, business-to-consumer and business-to-business), shopping channels and networks. As our product offerings continue to broaden into new categories of items and new commerce formats, we expect to face additional competition from other online, mobile and offline channels for those new offerings. We compete on the basis of price, product selection and services.



For our Payments segment, our users may choose to pay through a variety of alternative means, including credit and debit cards, automated clearing house and bank wires, other online payment services, offline payment methods such as cash, check or money order and using mobile phones.  Likewise, our users may elect to finance their purchases through a broad range of other sources of financing, including credit cards, lines of credit provided by financial institutions and store credit or layaway plans provided by merchants.



Our GSI segment faces different competitors for each of its two business units. GSI seeks to compete on the basis of offering premium capabilities at attractive prices.  Each of GSI's business units competes on a stand-alone basis with in-house solutions promoted and supported by internal departments, as well as technology and service providers that supply ecommerce solutions or components of ecommerce solutions (e.g., website and mobile platforms, customer care/call center services and fulfillment and logistics) and interactive marketing services, as the case may be. GSI also seeks to differentiate itself by cross-selling and bundling services to offer more attractive pricing and integrated implementations.












For more information regarding these risks, see the information in “Item 1A:  Risk Factors” under the captions “Our industries are intensely competitive” and “We are subject to regulatory activity and antitrust litigation under competition laws.”



To compete effectively, we may need to expend significant resources in technology and marketing. These efforts may be expensive and could reduce our margins and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, operating results and cash flows and reduce the market price of our common stock. Despite our efforts to preserve and expand the size, diversity and transaction activity of our users and customers and to enhance the user experience, we may not be able to continue to manage our operating expenses or increase or maintain our revenue to avoid or reduce a decline in our consolidated net income or avoid a net loss.



Seasonality



We expect transaction activity patterns on our websites to mirror general consumer buying patterns.  Our GSI segment is highly seasonal.  The fourth calendar quarter typically accounts for a disproportionate amount of GSI's total annual revenue because consumers increase their purchases and businesses increase their advertising to consumers during the fourth quarter holiday season.Please see the additional information in “Item 7:  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the caption “Seasonality.”



Technology



Our Marketplaces, Payments and GSI platforms utilize a combination of proprietary technologies and services as well as technologies and services provided by others. We have developed intuitive user interfaces, customer tools and transaction processing, database and network applications that help enable our users to reliably and securely complete transactions on our sites and help GSI's clients to utilize its suite of services.  Our technology infrastructure simplifies the storage and processing of large amounts of data, eases the deployment and operation of large-scale global products and services and automates much of the administration of large-scale clusters of computers. Our infrastructure has been designed around industry-standard architectures to reduce downtime in the event of outages or catastrophic occurrences. We strive to continually improve our technology to enhance the customer experience and to increase efficiency, scalability and security. For information regarding technology-related risks, see the information in “Item 1A:  Risk Factors” under the captions “System failures and resulting interruptions in the availability of our websites and services could harm our business” and “Our failure to cost-effectively manage certain aspects of our business could harm us.”



Intellectual Property



We regard the protection of our intellectual property, including our trademarks (particularly those covering the eBay and PayPal names), patents, copyrights, domain names, trade dress and trade secrets as critical to our success. We aggressively protect our intellectual property rights by relying on federal, state and common law rights in the U.S. and internationally, as well as a variety of administrative procedures. We also rely on contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights in products and services. We have entered into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors and nondisclosure agreements with parties with whom we conduct business to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information.



We pursue the registration of our domain names, trademarks, and service marks in the U.S. and internationally. Additionally, we have filed U.S. and international patent applications covering certain aspects of our proprietary technology.  Effective trademark, copyright, patent, domain name, trade dress and trade secret protection is very expensive to maintain and may require litigation. We must protect our intellectual property rights and other proprietary rights in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and time consuming and may not be successful.



We have registered our core brands as trademarks and domain names in the U.S. and a large number of other jurisdictions and have in place an active program to continue to secure trademarks and domain names that correspond to our brands in markets of interest. If we are unable to protect our trademarks or domain names, we could be adversely affected in any jurisdiction in which our trademarks or domain names are not registered or protected.  We have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to others.



Third parties have from time to time claimed, and others will likely claim in the future, that we have infringed their intellectual property rights. We are typically involved in a number of such legal proceedings at any time. Please see the information in “Item 3:  Legal Proceedings” and in “Item 1A:  Risk Factors” under the captions "The listing or sale by our users of pirated or counterfeit items may harm our business," "We are subject to patent litigation" and "We may be unable to protect or enforce our own intellectual property rights adequately.”












Employees



As of December 31, 2012, we employed approximately 31,500 people globally including approximately 1,500 temporary employees. Approximately 20,500 of our employees were located in the U.S.



Available Information



Our Internet address is www.ebay.com. Our investor relations website is located at http://investor.ebayinc.com. We make available free of charge on our investor relations website under the heading “SEC Filings” our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with (or furnished to) the SEC. Information contained on our websites is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.




















