ITEM 1:BUSINESS



eBay Inc. was formed as a sole proprietorship in September 1995 and was incorporated in California in May 1996. In April 1998, we reincorporated in Delaware, and in September 1998, we completed the initial public offering of our common stock. Our principal executive offices are located at 2065 Hamilton Avenue, San Jose, California 95125, and our telephone number is (408) 376-7400. Unless otherwise expressly stated or the context otherwise requires, when we refer to “we,” “our,” “us” or “eBay” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we mean the current Delaware corporation (eBay Inc.) and its California predecessor, as well as all of its consolidated subsidiaries. When we refer to “eBay.com,” we mean the online marketplace located atwww.ebay.comand its localized counterparts. When we refer to “PayPal,” we mean the online payments platform located atwww.paypal.comand its localized counterparts. When we refer to “Enterprise,” we mean the ecommerce and marketing solutions provided by eBay Enterprise, formerly GSI Commerce, which we acquired in June 2011. On January 21, 2015, we announced that we will be exploring strategic options for eBay Enterprise, including a possible sale or IPO.





Our primary focus is on our customers. Our company is only successful when the users and merchants we enable are successful. Whether online, through the mobile channel or in the physical world, we are primarily a transaction-based business that generates revenue from the transactions and payments that we successfully enable. We also generate revenue through marketing services, classifieds and advertising. In addition, we have created an open source platform that provides software developers and merchants access to our applications programming interfaces, or APIs, to develop software and solutions for commerce. As ofDecember 31, 2014, our Marketplaces segment had more than 155 million active buyers and more than 800 million listings globally, while our Payments segment had 162 million active registered accounts. See the definitions of "active buyer" and “active registered accounts” in our Marketplaces and Payments discussions, respectively, below.



For additional financial information about our reportable segments as well as the geographic areas where we conduct business, please see "Note 5 - Segments" to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additionally, please see the information in "Item 1A:  Risk Factors" under the caption "Our international operations are subject










to increased risks, which may harm our business, operating results, and financial condition," which describes risks associated with the foreign operations of our reportable segments.



Proposed Separation of PayPal from eBay



On September 30, 2014, we announced that our Board of Directors, following a strategic review of our growth strategies and structure, has approved a plan to separate PayPal (consisting of our Payments segment) into an independent publicly traded company. We expect to complete the transaction as a tax-free spin-off in the second half of 2015, subject to market, regulatory, and certain other conditions. We also announced that Dan Schulman has been appointed as President of PayPal and CEO-designee of the standalone PayPal company following separation, and that Devin Wenig, currently President of eBay Marketplaces, will become CEO of eBay following separation.  Please see the information in "Item 1A:  Risk Factors" under the heading "Risk Factors Related to the Planned Separation," which describes some of the risks and uncertainties associated with the proposed separation.



Marketplaces



Our Marketplaces segment includes our core global ecommerce platform, ebay.com; other localized sites around the world such as eBay.de and eBay.co.uk; related commerce platforms, including our vertical shopping websites, such as StubHub, and our classifieds websites, such as Marktplaats.nl and mobile.de; and our advertising services business. We have made investments and acquisitions to help enable commerce on our platforms for consumers and merchants online, on mobile devices and in the physical world. Our objective is to bring the world’s inventory to the world’s buyers.



We had more than 155 million active buyers as ofDecember 31, 2014. The term “active buyer” means, as of any date, all buyers (including buyers of Half.com, StubHub, GittiGidiyor and our Korean subsidiary) who successfully closed a transaction on our Marketplaces platforms within the previous 12-month period. Buyers may register more than once, and as a result, may have more than one account.



Our Marketplaces platforms offer the following features:



We are a leading commerce platform for users and merchants.



Our business model and pricing is designed so that our Marketplaces business is successful when our merchants are successful. The majority of our Marketplaces revenue comes from a take rate on the Gross Merchandise Volume, or GMV, of transactions closed on our Marketplaces trading platforms. In2014, we generated$82.95 billionin GMV. We define GMV as the total value of all successfullyclosed transactions between users on Marketplaces platforms (excluding eBay's classifieds websites, brands4friends and Shopping.com) during the applicable period, regardless of whether the buyer and seller actually consummated the transaction; excludes vehicles and real estate gross merchandise volume.



Our eBay Top Rated Seller program, or eTRS, rewards qualifying sellers with fee discounts and improved search standing for qualifying listings if they are able to maintain excellent customer service ratings and meet specified criteria for shipping and returns. We believe that sellers who fulfill these standards help promote our goal of maintaining an online marketplace that is safe and hassle-free. eTRS is currently available in the U.S., the U.K., Germany and Australia.



eBay Money Back Guarantee covers items purchased on our websites in the U.S., the U.K., Germany, Australia and Canada through a qualifying payment method and protects most buyers with respect to items that are not received or are received but not as described in the listing. Some purchases, including most vehicles, are not covered. eBay Money Back Guarantee provides coverage for the purchase price of the item, plus original shipping costs, for a limited period of time from the original date of transaction, and includes a streamlined interface to help buyers and sellers navigate the process.



The size and scale of our Marketplaces platforms are designed to enable our users and merchants to leverage our economies of scale and capital investment, for example in sales and marketing, mobile, customer acquisition and customer service.



We provide a variety of access points for consumers to shop virtually anytime, anywhere.



Our Marketplaces platforms are accessible through a traditional online experience (e.g., an Internet-connected computer), from mobile devices (e.g., smartphones and tablets), and to a limited extent, via screens in the physical world (e.g., dedicated terminals located within retail stores). We offer downloadable, easy-to-use mobile applications for the iPhone, the iPad, Android and Windows mobile devices that allow access to eBay.com and some of our other websites and vertical










shopping experiences, including StubHub, Fashion, Motors and Half.com. In 2014, over $27 billion in mobile commerce volume was transacted across our platforms, representing an increase of more than 40% compared to 2013.



We provide a large selection of inventory globally.



We had over 800 million items listed for sale as ofDecember 31, 2014, which we believe makes us one of the world’s largest online marketplaces. For 2014, approximately 61% of our GMV was international (i.e., outside the U.S.).



We strive to provide value to consumers.



We believe that we have some of the lowest prices available for a number of consumer products. In the U.S., the U.K. and Germany over 56% of successfully closed transactions included free shipping during 2014. We have developed a number of features on our Marketplaces platforms in the areas of trust and safety (including our Feedback Forum, SafeHarbor Program, Verified Rights Owner Program, eTRS and eBay Money Back Guarantee), customer support and value-added tools and services, as well as loyalty programs (for both buyers and sellers). These features are designed to make users more comfortable trading with unknown partners and completing transactions online or through mobile devices, as well as rewarding our top buyers and sellers for their loyalty.



We offer consumers choice.



We offer choice to consumers across a number of dimensions:



•By listing format: Merchants and individuals can choose to list their products and services through fixed price listings or an auction-style format on our core Marketplaces platform.

◦Our fixed price format on eBay.com allows buyers and sellers to close transactions at a pre-determined price set by the seller. Sellers are also able to signal that they would be willing to close the transaction at a lower price through the Best Offer feature.

◦Our auction-style format allows a seller to select a minimum price for opening bids.

◦Our classifieds websites have listings in over 1,500 cities around the world and are designed to help people list their products and services generally for free and then trade at a local level. Our classifieds websites include alaMaula, BilBasen, dba.dk, eBay Classifieds (eBay Classifieds, eBay Kleinanzeigen and eBay Annunci), Gumtree, Kijiji, iBazar, 2dehands.be, 2ememain.be, LoQUo, Marktplaats.nl and mobile.de.



•By item condition: Merchants and sellers can list, and consumers can search for and buy, items that are new, refurbished and used, common and rare items and branded and unbranded products on our core Marketplaces platform.



•By delivery format: Consumers can have items shipped to them through shipping options offered by the seller and selected by the buyer on our core Marketplaces platform. For certain items purchased from certain retailers, consumers can pick up items they purchased online or through mobile devices in one of the retailer’s physical stores (which we refer to as in store pickup). This brings more choice for buyers and sellers around delivery cost and convenience.



We offer a variety of specialized vertical experiences.



We continue to focus on customizing our buying and selling experiences to make it easier for users to list, find and buy items by offering formats dedicated to specific products or categories. On our core eBay.com websites, we have built specialized experiences for certain vertical formats, such as Daily Deals, Fashion, Motors (vehicles; parts and accessories) and Electronics. Our Daily Deals vertical offers a variety of products in multiple categories at discounted prices with free shipping.  StubHub is a leading marketplace for event tickets, enabling fans to buy and sell tickets to a large selection of sports, concert, theater and other live entertainment events.



Payments



Our Payments segment includes our core payments brand PayPal, which enables individuals and businesses to securely, easily and quickly send and receive payments online and through a broad range of mobile devices in approximately 203 markets worldwide and in 26 currencies as ofDecember 31, 2014. The majority of our Payments revenue comes from a take rate on the Net TPV that we enable. In2014, we generated$227.9 billionin Net TPV. In 2014, we generated $59.6 billion in On










eBay Net TPV attributable to transactions on eBay Marketplaces, which represented 26% of our Net TPV. We define Net TPV as the total dollar volume of payments, net of payment reversals, successfully completed through our payments networks, including PayPal Credit, Venmo and payments processed through Braintree’s full stack payments platform during the period; it excludes payments sent or received through PayPal’s and Braintree's payment gateway businesses. We define On eBay Net TPV as the total dollar volume of payments, net of payment reversals, successfully completed through our payments networks, including PayPal Credit, during the period for transactions on our Marketplaces platforms. We define Merchant Services Net TPV as the total dollar volume of payments, net of payment reversals, successfully completed through our payments networks, including PayPal Credit, Venmo and payments processed through Braintree’s full stack payments platform during the period; it excludes PayPal’s and Braintree's payment gateway businesses and payments for transactions on our Marketplaces platforms.



Our objective for the Payments segment is to enable consumers and merchants to pay and get paid virtually anywhere, anytime and on any Internet connected device, whether they are online or in the physical world. We believe that simplifying and integrating payments can provide value to consumers and drive incremental sales for our merchant partners. The PayPal digital wallet gives people a fast, safe and convenient way to receive, send or spend their money. Our payment networks are designed to be simple, safe and secure and are built upon the existing global financial infrastructure to create global, real-time payment solutions. PayPal connects with financial institutions around the world, and allows consumers to make purchases using a broad range of payment methods, regardless of where a seller is located.Users of our PayPal payments solutions can engage in cross-border shopping, which can help merchants to increase sales volume by allowing them to sell to a global base of consumers, who can make payments in a wide range of currencies.



We had 162 million active registered accounts as ofDecember 31, 2014.The term “active registered accounts” means, as of a given date, all registered accounts that successfully sent or received at least one payment or payment reversal through our PayPal payments networks, including PayPal Credit, within the last 12 months and which are currently able to transact. Users may have more than one account with PayPal or PayPal Credit and therefore the number of active registered accounts may be greater than the number of underlying users.



Our Payments platforms offer the following features:



We enable payments in the online and physical worlds.



PayPal started as a payment solution for online transactions between consumers and merchants through a traditional online experience (i.e., an Internet-connected computer). As a result of being simple and secure for consumers, we believe that PayPal can help merchants to increase conversion of online traffic to sales. An online merchant can typically open a standard PayPal account and begin accepting payments through PayPal within a few minutes. Most online or mobile merchants are approved instantly. Processing online with PayPal does not require a merchant to invest in new or specialized hardware. PayPal's technology platform supports growth with a variety of value-added services. This is designed to help businesses of all sizes manage their cash flow, invoice clients and pay bills, and to reduce the need for merchants to receive and store sensitive customer financial information, enabling Payment Card Industry, or PCI, compliant transactions. PayPal does not charge merchants any setup fees and offers a standard service with no recurring monthly fees.



With the growth of Internet-enabled mobile devices, PayPal is a popular form of payment for mobile commerce. In December 2013, we completed our acquisition of Braintree to help strengthen our position in mobile payments and extend our coverage to a new class of retailers who offer their services primarily through mobile apps. As part of that acquisition, we also acquired Venmo, which offers an application to move money between friends and family using their mobile device. In 2014, PayPal's Net TPV for transactions using mobile devices exceeded $45 billion, of which approximately 44% was from eBay Marketplaces. PayPal also offers PayPal Here, a mobile payment processing solution for small businesses in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Australia, Hong Kong and Japan.



Our global reach and scale provides value for consumers and merchants.



With 162 million active registered accounts as ofDecember 31, 2014, PayPal provides merchants with a large base of potential customers. As a result of being available in approximately 203 markets and in 26 currencies as ofDecember 31, 2014, PayPal also provides merchants with global reach and reduces some of the complexity and friction involved in overseas and cross-border trade. For the year endedDecember 31, 2014, approximately 49% of PayPal’s Net TPV was international. Our U.S. merchants are also able to offer consumer credit to U.S. consumers at the point of sale through our PayPal Credit service.












We offer consumers choice by providing a variety of funding mechanisms.



Consumers can typically fund their PayPal accounts in a variety of ways, including by credit card, debit card, electronic funds transfers from their bank account and through a PayPal account balance if the consumer has previously received payments through PayPal or chosen to pre-fund their PayPal account. We refer to the allocation of funding sources used by PayPal consumers as our “funding mix.”



We also provide credit products through our PayPal Credit service. Currently, when a consumer funds a purchase using PayPal Credit, a chartered financial institution extends credit to the consumer, funds the extension of credit at the point of sale and advances funds to the merchant. PayPal Credit is neither a chartered financial institution nor is it licensed to make loans in any state. Accordingly, PayPal Credit must rely on a bank or other licensed lender to issue credit products and extend credit to customers. Although the chartered financial institution continues to own each of the customer accounts, we subsequently purchase and retain most of the consumer receivables related to the consumer loans made by the chartered financial institution and are also responsible for servicing functions related to the customer account.



PayPal Credit accounts are most commonly opened on U.S. merchant websites, including ebay.com, offering PayPal Credit as a payment method, but can also be opened by U.S. consumers through a qualified PayPal account or at the PayPal Credit website. U.S. consumers may be offered an opportunity to defer payments under some promotional arrangements offered on select merchant sites. Interest on such purchases can be deferred for up to 18 months.



For information regarding risks related to PayPal Credit, see the information in “Item 1A:  Risk Factors” under the captions "Our credit products and services expose us to additional risks" and "PayPal is not a bank or licensed lender and relies upon third parties to make the loans and provide the other services critical to its business."



We are focused on making our solutions simple for customers and developers.



Our Payments business seeks to put the customer first. We are focused on creating easy to use products that leverage our technological leadership and we are using a true “mobile first” approach to make payments simple and intuitive. Our PayPal platform and open APIs are designed to allow developers to innovate with ease and to offer cutting edge applications to a large ecosystem of merchants and consumers, while at the same time maintaining the safety of our users’ financial information. PayPal provides developers with intuitive, flexible and powerful tools that are designed to leverage PayPal’s global reach and payment capabilities. Some of our software developer kits, or SDKs, are specifically focused on the mobile app market and are designed to remove friction by not requiring a redirect to PayPal.com or an additional login.



Our payments solutions offer leading fraud prevention and protection.



PayPal enables consumers to make payments quickly and easily without sharing sensitive financial information, such as credit card or debit card numbers, with merchants or other consumers. To make payments using PayPal, consumers need to disclose only their email address or mobile phone number to merchants. The account-based nature of PayPal's platform helps us to better detect and prevent fraud when funds enter, flow through and exit the PayPal network. PayPal also utilizes eBay Marketplaces global transaction data to help manage risk. As a result of the systems and processes that we have built over many years, we believe that PayPal is one of the world’s most trusted payments brands.



PayPal has developed a number of trust and safety programs, including PayPal's Seller Protection and Purchase Protection Programs. These programs provide additional protection to certain account holders who pay or receive payment for their transactions through PayPal on or off ebay.com in certain key geographies. PayPal's Seller Protection Program covers sellers in certain key geographies who follow specific shipping and handling practices against claims that a transaction was not authorized by the buyer or that the item was not received. PayPal's Purchase Protection Program reimburses the buyer, subject to specified limitations, for qualified purchases using PayPal on or off ebay.com in certain key geographies if the buyer does not receive the item or, in limited markets, if the item is significantly not as described. In some non-U.S. markets, protection for buyers is limited to a maximum amount per transaction.



Enterprise



In June 2011, eBay acquired GSI Commerce, Inc., or GSI, which provides commerce technologies, omnichannel operations and marketing solutions for large, nationally recognized retailers and brands that operate in general merchandise categories, including apparel, sporting goods, toys & baby, health & beauty and home. In June 2013, eBay renamed the GSI segment as Enterprise. Today, Enterprise empowers retailers and brands to engage and sell more to today’s hyper-connected










consumer with a modular, integrated portfolio of commerce solutions and services spanning the entire customer experience journey.



Enterprise operates three primary lines of business: Commerce Technologies, Omnichannel Operations Solutions and Commerce Marketing Solutions. Enterprise provides its products and services on an individual basis and as bundled solutions. Each of these three primary lines of business complements the other, which allows for cross-selling opportunities.



Commerce Technologies.Magento Enterprise Edition is our licensed open core platform, offering an enterprise-class native feature set and unparalleled flexibility through direct source code access and APIs. Magento Enterprise Edition supports on-premise, hosted managed (via partners) and on-demand (cloud deployment via partners) deployments. As a licensed-deployed solution, merchants have full control of their deployment model and data.



•eBay Enterprise Retail Order Management solution provides clients with a reliable and scalable Platform-as-a-Service model to manage orders received from multiple brands, sites and customer touch points. It optimizes order distribution, determines the most efficient source for order fulfillment and includes an extensive set of reporting/ business intelligence capabilities. The solution provides tight orchestration across the entire technology value chain, spanning several key areas: distributed order management, omnichannel inventory management, and reporting. Whether delivered as part of a fully integrated eBay Enterprise commerce solution, or as a standalone integrated to third party storefronts, eBay Enterprise Retail Order Management provides a powerful foundation for omnichannel success. Optional modules include store fulfillment and payments. It is flexible to use other third-party webstores and is pre-integrated for easy combination with Magento Enterprise Edition.



•eBay Enterprise Payment and Protection module is an optional, end-to-end payment solution that can be seamlessly integrated with eBay Enterprise Retail Order Management solution. The eBay Enterprise payments infrastructure provides a robust online payment processing engine with capabilities including price, tax and shipping calculations, address verification, order review, fraud prevention, credit card authorization, settlement and alternative payment processing, and permits payment using PayPal as well as private label credit cards, gift cards and online gift certificates.



•eBay Enterprise Store Fulfillment solutions provide modular, cloud-based Software-as-a-Service Ship-from Store, In-Store Pickup and Ship-to Store capabilities that gives provides retailers full visibility into inventory across stores, distribution centers, and even suppliers so they can deliver goods at the best possible speed and cost while preserving the best possible margin. This solution has been shown to increase sales, enhance the consumer experience and improve customer retention rates.



•eBay Enterprise Retail Associate Platform is a modular mobile-based platform that brings data and commerce together into a powerful toolset. Designed to increase in-store sales through better consumer engagement, the Retail Associate Platform offers a variety of different modules - commerce, customer, product, and omnichannel fulfillment - which retailers can choose from to both increase top line revenue and decrease bottom line costs.  The platform is completely open and can connect to existing retail system implementations. This flexible architecture, combined with a mobile interface developed by some of the industry’s leading mobile developers, allows retailers to create a world class in-store engagement capability at a fraction of the cost and time it takes to deploy other solutions or to build themselves.



eBay Enterprise Omnichannel Operations.  eBay Enterprise Omnichannel Operations support fulfillment, freight and customer service functions for its clients.



•eBay Enterprise Fulfillment and Freight solutions provide retailers and brands with scalable, market leading direct to consumer fulfillment with seven campuses across U.S., Canada and Europe with more than 6.5 million effective square footage of fulfillment space and an additional five fulfillment campuses with more than 2.1 million effective square footage of fulfillment space in Europe and China through its partnerships with FEIGE and FireSwirl. eBay Enterprise Fulfillment and Freight solutions provide scalability, operational efficiency and cost efficiencies that retailers can’t achieve on their own. The solution includes regional or central distribution models, warehouse management systems, inbound and outbound logistics, returns processing, value added services like custom packaging, personalization, gifting and assembly, as well as food grade and continuity fulfillment. eBay Enterprise can ship to 60+ countries and also provides freight solutions to ensure faster delivery at a lower cost. A proprietary freight solution - ShipQuik - gets orders to consumers faster by reducing time in transit from the fulfillment center to the consumer.












•eBay Enterprise Customer Service: eBay Enterprise provides branded customer care services for commerce via telephone, IVR, live chat, email, and social support through three call centers and a network of customer support agents in the U.S., plus an additional call center in the U.K. The eBay Enterprise customer care platform combines proprietary and third-party technologies, including automatic call distribution, computer telephony integration, interactive voice response, email, workforce management, voice recording/monitoring, and customer relationship management systems. The U.K. call center offers customer care in nine languages. In addition, eBay Enterprise has a call center in China through its Fireswirl partnership. eBay Enterprise call center operations utilize business intelligence to optimize service, sales, agent and cost efficiencies as well as revenue enhancing services to help drive retail revenue through customer service interactions.



eBay Enterprise Marketing Solutions.eBay Enterprise Marketing Solutions is focused on providing comprehensive, industry-leading marketing technology solutions as well as digital agency services.



•eBay Enterprise Marketing Solutions includes a suite of demand generation capabilities including: affiliate marketing; attribution; database and CRM; email & mobile marketing; online advertising display targeting. In 2015, eBay Enterprise will launch its Commerce Marketing Platform, a suite of cloud-based marketing solutions that enables marketers to plan and execute a consumer's entire journey while determining the most relevant offers and channel selections. Designed and built from the ground up in partnership with FICO, a leading predictive analytics and decision management software company, the platform combines commerce insights powered by data and best-in-class demand generation technologies of eBay Enterprise in combination with FICO’s powerful analytics applications to optimize the relevance and value of each individual customer’s purchasing journey.



•eBay Enterprise Agency Services offers full-service digital marketing specializing in analytics and optimization; creative services; studio services; media services; search engine marketing; user experience design and usability research. The agency operates three state-of-the-art testing facilities-in New York City, Philadelphia and Silicon Valley-each equipped with tablet/mobile device testing capabilities and eye tracking technology. The agency also operates three in-house studios in New York City, Pennsylvania and its Kentucky fulfillment center. Enterprise’s flexible model can also implement and staff a pop-up studio at a client location or third-party fulfillment center.



While eBay Enterprise operates on a global basis, nearly all of its net revenues in 2014 were derived from its North American operations. Similar to our Marketplaces and Payments segments, the majority of our eBay Enterprise revenue comes from a take rate on the Gross Merchandise Sales that we enable through our Commerce Technologies and Omnichannel Operations suite of services, with the remaining revenue coming from Marketing Solutions. We define Gross Merchandise Sales as the retail value of all sales transactions, inclusive of freight charges and net of allowance for returns and discounts, which flow through our Enterprise Commerce Technologies whether we record the full amount of such transaction as a product sale or a percentage of such transaction as a service fee.



Competition



We encounter vigorous competition in our businesses from numerous sources. For our Marketplaces segment, our users can find, buy, sell and pay for similar items through a variety of competing online, mobile and offline channels. These include, but are not limited to, retailers, distributors, liquidators, import and export companies, auctioneers, catalog and mail-order companies, classifieds, directories, search engines, commerce participants (consumer-to-consumer, business-to-consumer and business-to-business), shopping channels and networks. As our product offerings continue to broaden into new categories of items and new commerce formats, we expect to face additional competition from other online, mobile and offline channels for those new offerings. We compete on the basis of price, product selection and services.



For our Payments segment, our users may choose to pay through a variety of alternative means, including credit and debit cards, automated clearing house and bank wires, other online payment services, offline payment methods such as cash, check or money order and using mobile phones. Likewise, our users may elect to finance their purchases through a broad range of other sources of financing, including credit cards, lines of credit provided by financial institutions and store credit or layaway plans provided by merchants.



Our Enterprise segment faces different competitors in each of its primary lines of business. Enterprise seeks to compete on the basis of offering premium capabilities at attractive prices. Each of Enterprise's business units competes on a stand-alone basis with in-house solutions promoted and supported by internal departments of retailers and other sellers, as well as










technology and service providers that supply ecommerce solutions or components of ecommerce solutions (e.g., website and mobile platforms, customer care/call center services and fulfillment and logistics) and interactive marketing services, as the case may be. Enterprise also seeks to differentiate itself by cross-selling and bundling services to offer more attractive pricing and integrated implementations.



For more information regarding these risks, see the information in “Item 1A:  Risk Factors” under the captions “Substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the ecommerce industry may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations” and “We are subject to regulatory activity and antitrust litigation under competition laws.”



To compete effectively, we will need to continue to expend significant resources in technology and marketing. These efforts require substantial expenditures, which could reduce our margins and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, operating results and cash flows and reduce the market price of our common stock. Despite our efforts to preserve and expand the size, diversity and transaction activity of our users and customers and to enhance the user experience, we may not be able to effectively manage our operating expenses, to increase or maintain our revenue, or to avoid a decline in our consolidated net income or a net loss.



Government Regulation



Government regulation impacts key aspects of our business.  In particular, we are subject to laws and regulations that affect the ecommerce and payments industries in many countries where we operate.  For more information regarding these risks, see the information in “Item 1A:  Risk Factors” under the captions "Our business is subject to extensive government regulation and oversight" and "PayPal is subject to additional government regulation and supervision relating to the provision of financial services."



Seasonality



We expect transaction activity patterns on our websites to mirror general consumer buying patterns. Our Enterprise segment is highly seasonal. The fourth calendar quarter typically accounts for a disproportionate amount of Enterprise's total annual revenue because consumers increase their purchases and businesses increase their advertising to consumers during the fourth quarter holiday season.Please see the additional information in “Item 7:  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the caption “Seasonality.”



Technology



Our Marketplaces, Payments and Enterprise platforms utilize a combination of proprietary technologies and services as well as technologies and services provided by others. We have developed intuitive user interfaces, customer tools and transaction processing, database and network applications that help enable our users to reliably and securely complete transactions on our sites and help eBay Enterprise's clients to utilize its suite of services. Our technology infrastructure simplifies the storage and processing of large amounts of data, eases the deployment and operation of large-scale global products and services and automates much of the administration of large-scale clusters of computers. Our infrastructure has been designed around industry-standard architectures to reduce downtime in the event of outages or catastrophic occurrences. We strive to continually improve our technology to enhance the customer experience and to increase efficiency, scalability and security. For information regarding technology-related risks, see the information in “Item 1A:  Risk Factors” under the caption “Systems failures and resulting interruptions in the availability of our websites, applications, products or services could harm our business."



Intellectual Property



We regard the protection of our intellectual property, including our trademarks (particularly those covering the eBay and PayPal names), patents, copyrights, domain names, trade dress and trade secrets as critical to our success. We aggressively protect our intellectual property rights by relying on federal, state and common law rights in the U.S. and internationally, as well as a variety of administrative procedures. We also rely on contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights in products and services. We routinely enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors and nondisclosure agreements with parties with whom we conduct business to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information.



We pursue the registration of our domain names, trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and internationally. Additionally, we have filed U.S. and international patent applications covering certain aspects of our proprietary technology.










Effective trademark, copyright, patent, domain name, trade dress and trade secret protection is typically expensive to maintain and may require litigation. We must protect our intellectual property rights and other proprietary rights in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and time consuming and may not be successful.



We have registered our core brands as trademarks and domain names in the U.S. and a large number of other jurisdictions and have in place an active program to continue to secure trademarks and domain names that correspond to our brands in markets of interest. If we are unable to register or protect our trademarks or domain names, we could be adversely affected in any jurisdiction in which our trademarks or domain names are not registered or protected. We have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to others.



Third parties have from time to time claimed, and others will likely claim in the future, that we have infringed their intellectual property rights. We are typically involved in a number of such legal proceedings at any time. Please see the information in “Item 3: Legal Proceedings” and in “Item 1A:  Risk Factors” under the captions "We are subject to patent litigation," "The listing or sale by our users of items that allegedly infringe the intellectual property rights of rights owners, including pirated or counterfeit items, may harm its business," and "We may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, or third parties may allege that we are infringing their intellectual property rights.”



Employees



As ofDecember 31, 2014, we employed approximately34,600people globally and approximately1,900temporary employees. Approximately22,300of our employees were located in the U.S.



Available Information



Our Internet address iswww.ebay.com. Our investor relations website is located athttp://investor.ebayinc.com. We make available free of charge on our investor relations website under the heading “SEC Filings” our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with (or furnished to) the SEC.

We webcast our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community on our investor relations website. Additionally, we provide notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, and blogs on our investor relations website. Further corporate governance information, including our governance guidelines for our board of directors, board committee charters, and code of conduct, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading “Corporate Governance.”

The contents of our websites and webcasts are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with (or furnish to) the SEC, and any references to our websites and webcasts are intended to be inactive textual references only.












