ITEM 1:BUSINESS



Overview



eBay Inc. was formed as a sole proprietorship in September 1995 and was incorporated in California in May 1996. In April 1998, we reincorporated in Delaware, and in September 1998, we completed the initial public offering of our common stock. Our principal executive offices are located at 2025 Hamilton Avenue, San Jose, California 95125, and our telephone number is (408) 376-7400. Unless otherwise expressly stated or the context otherwise requires, when we refer to “we,” “our,” “us” or “eBay” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we mean the current Delaware corporation (eBay Inc.) and its California predecessor, as well as all of its consolidated subsidiaries. When we refer to “eBay Inc.” we mean our Marketplace, StubHub and Classifieds platforms.



eBay Inc. is a global commerce leader, which includes our Marketplace, StubHub and Classifieds platforms. Collectively, we connect millions of buyers and sellers around the world. The technologies and services that power our platforms are designed to enable sellers worldwide to organize and offer their inventory for sale, and buyers to find and purchase it, virtually anytime and anywhere. Our Marketplace platforms include our online marketplace located at www.ebay.com, its localized counterparts and the eBay mobile apps. We believe that these are among the world’s largest and most vibrant marketplaces for discovering great value and unique selection. Our StubHub platforms include our online ticket platform located at www.stubhub.com, its localized counterparts and the StubHub mobile apps. These platforms connect fans with their favorite sporting events, shows and artists and enable them to buy and sell millions of tickets whenever and wherever they want. Our Classifieds platforms include a collection of brands such as mobile.de, Kijiji, Gumtree, Marktplaats, eBay Kleinanzeigen and others. Offering online classifieds around the world, these platforms help people find whatever they are looking for in their local communities.



Our platforms are accessible through a traditional online experience (e.g., desktop and laptop computers), from mobile devices (e.g., smartphones and tablets) and via our application programming interfaces or APIs (platform access for third party software developers). Our multi-screen approach offers downloadable, easy-to-use applications for iOS and Android mobile devices that allow access to ebay.com and some of our other websites and vertical shopping experiences. In addition, our platform is increasingly based on open source technologies that provide industry-standard ways for software developers and merchants to access our APIs, to develop software and solutions for commerce.












Our Strategy



Delivering the best choice, the most relevance and the most powerful selling platform



Our strategy is to drive the best choice, the most relevance and the most powerful selling platform for our buyers and sellers. We focus on connecting buyers and sellers through simplified experiences to make it easier for users to list, find and buy items.



On our Marketplace platform, our strategy is to drive the best choice by attracting and retaining sellers and brands that bring differentiated inventory to eBay and provide our consumers with great selection and value. This includes new, everyday items as well as rare and unique goods, with a majority of items available with free shipping and delivery in three business days or less. To help deliver the most relevance, we are innovating new shopping experiences tailored to each user’s interests, passions and shopping history. Leveraging the foundation of structured data - our initiative to better understand, organize and leverage inventory on eBay - we are delivering more personalized, discovery-based user experiences and making it easier for customers to find inventory both on and off eBay. We focus on offering the most powerful selling platform for our business and consumer sellers by continuing to expand adoption of our Seller Hub product, while adding new capabilities to enable sellers to build their businesses and drive profitable sales on eBay.



The eBay brand is one of our most important strategic assets.  In 2017, we activated a new, global brand platform – Fill Your Cart With Color – intended to facilitate increased consideration of eBay to drive more traffic and new buyers to our platforms.  As part of this effort, we rolled out local campaigns in North America, Europe and Australia using multiple channels, including television, digital and social.  This is the first time the company has adopted a truly global brand approach, and we view this as a long-term initiative that will require on-going investment as the brand evolves.

As one of the world’s largest ticket marketplaces, StubHub connects people through inspiring live experiences. Event-goers can find more than 10 million live sports, music, theater and other events in more than 40 countries on our StubHub platforms, and can browse, buy and sell anytime, anywhere through desktop and mobile devices. We continue to extend StubHub’s reach by focusing on supply expansion, which includes increasing consumer selling on our site, and broadening StubHub’s international footprint to provide consumers a global major events catalog.



A world leader in online classifieds, eBay Classifieds is designed to help people list their products and services, generally for free, find whatever they are looking for in their local communities and trade at a local level. eBay Classifieds Group’s brands offer both horizontal and vertical experiences, such as motors, real estate and jobs. We offer a personalized classifieds experience and focus on expanding our value proposition by leveraging data and analytics to improve customer relevance and growing the classifieds opportunity on mobile.



Business model and pricing



On our eBay and StubHub platforms, our business model and pricing are designed so that our business is successful primarily when our sellers are successful. We make money primarily through fees collected on successfully closed sales. On our Classifieds platform, we monetize our business primarily through advertising.



The size and scale of our platforms are designed to enable our buyers and sellers to leverage our economies of scale and capital investment, for example in sales and marketing, mobile, customer acquisition and customer service.



Our offerings for buyers and sellers



We provide a number of features for our buyers and sellers that are designed to build trust, make users more comfortable buying and selling on our platforms and reward our top sellers for their loyalty.



For our buyers, we believe that eBay sellers offer some of the best value and deals available for a number of consumer products. This year we introduced Price Match Guarantee, which allows buyers to feel comfortable knowing that they are getting the best price on the more than 80,000 items where we match the prices of our competitors in key regions worldwide. We also unveiled eBay Authenticate, in which sellers can have their luxury items, such as high-end handbags, authenticated by eBay, enabling customers to shop for exclusive goods with confidence. Additionally, the majority of our transactions in the U.S., the U.K. and Germany continue to include free shipping.












eBay Money Back Guarantee covers most items purchased on the eBay platform in a number of countries, including the U.S., the U.K., Germany and Australia, through a qualifying payment method and protects most buyers with respect to items that are not received or are received but not as described in the listing. Some purchases, including some vehicles, are not covered. eBay Money Back Guarantee provides coverage for the purchase price of the item, plus original shipping costs, for a limited period of time from the date of delivery and includes a streamlined interface to help buyers and sellers navigate the process.



For our sellers, eBay’s Top Rated Seller program rewards qualifying sellers with fee discounts and improved search standing for qualifying listings if they are able to maintain excellent customer service ratings and meet specified criteria for shipping and returns. We believe that sellers who fulfill these standards help promote our goal of maintaining an online marketplace that is safe and hassle-free.



We also help our sellers gain added visibility and velocity for their inventory. This year, we began to scale the eBay Promoted Listings product, which is designed to enable sellers to increase the visibility of item listings on eBay to have a better chance of selling. We also removed some competing third-party product listing ads on the eBay platform in select locations.



eBay regularly evaluates pricing relative to alternatives in the market in order to remain competitive. In 2017, we implemented a number of changes to our policies and pricing in an effort to better incent sellers to deliver better buyer experiences. At the same time, we continued to invest in more tools and new programs to help grow the overall seller ecosystem.



We offer choice to buyers and sellers across a number of dimensions.



For sellers, this includes:

•Sellers can choose to list their products and services through fixed price listings or an auction-style format on our platforms. The fixed price format on eBay allows buyers and sellers to close transactions at a pre-determined price set by the seller. Sellers also are able to signal that they would be willing to close the transaction at a lower price through the Best Offer feature. Additionally, our auction-style format allows a seller to select a minimum price for opening bids.

•Sellers can list items that are new, refurbished and used, and common and rare on our Marketplace platforms.

•Sellers can use Promoted Listings to improve the visibility of their item listings so that items have a better chance of standing out and selling faster.

•Sellers can list luxury items, such as high-end handbags, through eBay Authenticate, giving buyers greater confidence in the luxury item they are purchasing.



For buyers, this includes:

•Buyers can search for and purchase items that are new, refurbished and used, and common and rare on our Marketplace platforms, in categories such a Parts and Accessories, Fashion and Electronics.

•Buyers can filter searches for items by one-, two- and three-day delivery through eBay Guaranteed Delivery.

•Buyers can have greater confidence in purchasing high-end handbags through eBay Authenticate.

•Buyers also can have items shipped to them through multiple shipping options offered by sellers. For certain items purchased from certain retailers, buyers can pick up items they purchased online or through mobile devices in one of the retailer’s physical stores (which we refer to as in-store pickup).



Our Impact and Responsibility



For more than two decades, we have worked to create a marketplace that is inclusive and fair, fosters global trade and empowers small business entrepreneurship. By connecting buyers and sellers online, wherever they are in the world, we aim to enable everyone to find their personal version of perfect—and in the process, participate in the global economy and enrich their lives and livelihoods. Through eBay for Charity, we also enable our community to give to the causes they care about. We strive to operate in the most environmentally and socially sustainable way, creating a safe, trusted, diverse environment in which our employees, buyers, sellers, suppliers and partners can thrive.












Financial Information



We measure our footprint in our addressable market according to Gross Merchandise Volume (“GMV”). GMV consists of the total value of all successfully closed transactions between users on our Marketplace and StubHub platforms during the applicable period, regardless of whether the buyer and seller actually consummated the transaction.



At the end of 2017, our Marketplace and StubHub platforms had more than170 millionactive buyers and over one billion live listings globally. The term “active buyer” means, as of any date, all buyers who successfully closed a transaction on our Marketplace and StubHub platforms within the previous 12-month period. Buyers may register more than once and, as a result, may have more than one account.



We generate revenue primarily from the transactions we successfully enable and through marketing services, including classifieds and advertising. The majority of our revenue comes from a take rate on the GMV of transactions closed on our Marketplace and StubHub platforms. We define “take rate” as net transaction revenues divided by GMV. In2017, we generated$88 billionin GMV, of which approximately59%was generated outside the U.S.



For additional financial information as well as the geographic areas where we conduct business, please see “Note 6 - Segments” to the consolidated financial statements included in this report. Additionally, please see the information in “Item 1A:  Risk Factors” under the caption “Our international operations are subject to increased risks, which could harm our business,” which describes risks associated with eBay Inc.’s foreign operations.



Notable Business Transactions in 2017



We regularly review and manage our investments to ensure that they support eBay’s strategic direction and complement our disciplined approach to value creation, profitability and capital allocation.  During the third quarter of 2017, we made a $500 million cash investment in and sold our eBay India business to Flipkart. eBay and Flipkart also entered into an exclusive agreement in which they will jointly pursue cross-border trade opportunities to make eBay’s global inventory accessible to more India consumers, while eBay’s millions of active buyers globally will have access to Indian inventory provided by Flipkart.



Competition



We encounter vigorous competition in our business from numerous sources. Our users can find, buy, sell and pay for similar items through a variety of competing online, mobile and offline channels. These include, but are not limited to, retailers, distributors, liquidators, import and export companies, auctioneers, catalog and mail-order companies, classifieds, directories, search engines, commerce participants (consumer-to-consumer, business-to-consumer and business-to-business), shopping channels and networks. As our product offerings continue to broaden into new categories of items and new commerce formats, we expect to face additional competition from other online, mobile and offline channels for those new offerings. We compete on the basis of price, product selection and services.



For more information regarding these risks, see the information in “Item 1A:  Risk Factors” under the captions “Substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in ecommerce may harm our business” and “We are subject to regulatory activity and antitrust litigation under competition laws.”



To compete effectively, we will need to continue to expend significant resources in technology and marketing. These efforts require substantial expenditures, which could reduce our margins and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, operating results and cash flows and reduce the market price of our common stock and outstanding debt securities. Despite our efforts to preserve and expand the size, diversity and transaction activity of our buyers and sellers and to enhance the user experience, we may not be able to effectively manage our operating expenses, to increase or maintain our revenue or to avoid a decline in our consolidated net income or a net loss.



Government Regulation



Government regulation impacts key aspects of our business. In particular, we are subject to laws and regulations that affect the ecommerce industry in many countries where we operate. For more information regarding these risks, see the information in “Item 1A: Risk Factors” under the caption “Our business is subject to extensive government regulation and oversight.”












Seasonality



We expect transaction activity patterns on our platforms to mirror general consumer buying patterns. Please see the additional information in “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the caption “Seasonality.”



Technology



eBay Inc.’s platforms utilize a combination of proprietary technologies and services as well as technologies and services provided by others. We have developed intuitive user interfaces, buyer and seller tools and transaction processing, database and network applications that help enable our users to reliably and securely complete transactions on our sites. Our technology infrastructure simplifies the storage and processing of large amounts of data, eases the deployment and operation of large-scale global products and services and automates much of the administration of large-scale clusters of computers. Our infrastructure has been designed around industry-standard architectures to reduce downtime in the event of outages or catastrophic occurrences. We strive to continually improve our technology to enhance the buyer and seller experience and to increase efficiency, scalability and security. Additionally, we recently embarked on a multi-year evolution of our shopping platform that aims to deliver relevant, persistent and personalized experiences for consumers. For information regarding technology-related risks, see the information in “Item 1A: Risk Factors” under the caption “Systems failures or cyberattacks and resulting interruptions in the availability of or degradation in the performance of our websites, applications, products or services could harm our business.”



Intellectual Property



We regard the protection of our intellectual property, including our trademarks (particularly those covering the eBay name), patents, copyrights, domain names, trade dress and trade secrets as critical to our success. We aggressively protect our intellectual property rights by relying on federal, state and common law rights in the U.S. and internationally, as well as a variety of administrative procedures. We also rely on contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights in products and services. We routinely enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors and nondisclosure agreements with parties with whom we conduct business to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information.



We pursue the registration of our domain names, trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and internationally. Additionally, we have filed U.S. and international patent applications covering certain aspects of our proprietary technology. Effective trademark, copyright, patent, domain name, trade dress and trade secret protection is typically expensive to maintain and may require litigation. We must protect our intellectual property rights and other proprietary rights in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and time consuming and may not be successful.



We have registered our core brands as trademarks and domain names in the U.S. and a large number of other jurisdictions and have in place an active program to continue to secure trademarks and domain names that correspond to our brands in markets of interest. If we are unable to register or protect our trademarks or domain names, we could be adversely affected in any jurisdiction in which our trademarks or domain names are not registered or protected. We have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to others.



From time to time, third parties have claimed - and others will likely claim in the future - that we have infringed their intellectual property rights. We are typically involved in a number of such legal proceedings at any time. Please see the information in “Item 3: Legal Proceedings” and in “Item 1A: Risk Factors” under the captions “We are subject to patent litigation,” “The listing or sale by our users of items that allegedly infringe the intellectual property rights of rights owners, including pirated or counterfeit items, may harm our business,” and “We may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, or third parties may allege that we are infringing their intellectual property rights.”



Employees



As ofDecember 31, 2017, we employed approximately 14,100 people globally. Approximately 7,300 of our employees were located in the U.S.












Available Information



Our Internet address iswww.ebay.com. Our investor relations website is located athttps://investors.ebayinc.com. We make available free of charge on our investor relations website under the heading “SEC Filings” our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with (or furnished to) the SEC.



We webcast our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community on our investor relations website. Additionally, we provide notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, and blogs on our investor relations website. Further corporate governance information, including our governance guidelines for our board of directors, board committee charters and code of conduct, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading “Corporate Governance.”



The contents of our websites and webcasts are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with (or furnish to) the SEC, and any references to our websites and webcasts are intended to be inactive textual references only.












