ITEM 1:BUSINESS



eBay Inc. was formed as a sole proprietorship in September 1995 and was incorporated in California in May 1996. In April 1998, we reincorporated in Delaware, and in September 1998, we completed the initial public offering of our common stock. Our principal executive offices are located at 2065 Hamilton Avenue, San Jose, California 95125, and our telephone number is (408) 376-7400. When we refer to “we,” “our,” “us” or “eBay” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we mean the current Delaware corporation (eBay Inc.) and its California predecessor, as well as all of its consolidated subsidiaries. When we refer to “eBay.com,” we mean the online marketplace located atwww.ebay.comand its localized counterparts. When we refer to “PayPal,” we mean the online payments platform located atwww.paypal.comand its localized counterparts. When we refer to “Enterprise,” we mean the ecommerce and marketing solutions provided by eBay Enterprise, formerly GSI Commerce, which we acquired in June 2011.





Our primary focus is on our customers.  Our company is only successful when the users and merchants we enable are successful.  Whether online, through the mobile channel or in the physical world, we are primarily a transaction-based business that generates revenue from the transactions and payments that we successfully enable.  We also generate revenue through marketing services, classifieds and advertising.  In addition, we have created an open source platform that provides software developers and merchants access to our applications programming interfaces, or APIs, to develop software and solutions for commerce.  Our developer community includes more than 1.8 million members.  As of December 31, 2013, our Marketplaces segment had more than 128 million active users and more than 550 million listings globally, while our Payments segment had 143 million active registered accounts.  See the definitions of "active user" and “active registered accounts” in our Marketplaces and Payments discussions, respectively, below.



For additional financial information about our reportable segments as well as the geographic areas where we conduct business, please see "Note 5 - Segments" to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Additionally, please see the information in "Item 1A:  Risk Factors" under the caption "There are many risks associated with our international operations," which describes risks associated with the foreign operations of our reportable segments.












Marketplaces



Our Marketplaces segment includes our core global ecommerce platform, ebay.com; other localized sites around the world such as eBay.de and eBay.co.uk; related commerce platforms, including our vertical shopping websites, such as StubHub, and our classifieds websites, such as Marktplaats.nl and mobile.de; and our advertising services business. We have made investments and acquisitions to help consumers access these businesses across devices and to enable commerce for users and merchants online, on mobile devices and in the physical world.  Our objective is to bring the world’s inventory to the world’s buyers.



We had more than 128 million active users as of December 31, 2013.  The term “active user” means, as of any date, any user (excluding users of Half.com, StubHub and the trading platforms of our Korean subsidiary) who bid on, bought or listed an item on any of our Marketplaces trading platforms, within the previous 12-month period.  A user may have more than one account on our Marketplaces trading platforms and therefore may be counted more than once when we calculate the number of active users.



Our Marketplaces platforms offer the following features:



We are a leading commerce platform for users and merchants.

Our business model and pricing is designed so that our Marketplaces business is only successful when our merchants are successful.  The majority of our Marketplaces revenue comes from a take rate on the Gross Merchandise Volume, or GMV, of transactions closed on our Marketplaces trading platforms.  We define GMV as the total value of all successfullyclosed items between users on our Marketplaces trading platforms (excluding eBay's classifieds websites, brands4friends and Shopping.com) during the applicable period, regardless of whether the buyer and seller actually consummated the transaction.



Our eBay Top Rated Seller program, or eTRS, rewards qualifying sellers with fee discounts and improved search standing for qualifying listings if they are able to maintain excellent customer service ratings and meet specified criteria for shipping and returns.  We believe that sellers who fulfill these standards help promote our goal of maintaining an online marketplace that is safe and hassle-free.  eTRS is currently available in the U.S., the U.K., Germany and Australia.



eBay Buyer Protection (also known as eBay Guarantee) covers items purchased on our websites in the U.S., the U.K. and Germany through a qualifying payment method and protects most buyers with respect to items that are not received or are received but not as described in the listing.  Some purchases, including most vehicles, are not covered.  eBay Buyer Protection provides coverage for the purchase price of the item, plus original shipping costs, for a limited period of time from the original date of transaction, and includes a streamlined interface to help buyers and sellers navigate the process.



The size and scale of our Marketplaces platforms are designed to enable our users and merchants to leverage our economies of scale and capital investment, for example in sales and marketing, new channels such as mobile, customer acquisition and customer service.



We provide a variety of access points for consumers to shop virtually anytime, anywhere.

Our Marketplaces platforms are accessible through a traditional online experience (e.g., an Internet-connected computer), from mobile devices (e.g., smartphones and tablets), and to a limited extent, via screens in the physical world (e.g., dedicated terminals installed/located within retail stores).  We offer downloadable, easy-to-use mobile applications for the iPhone, the iPad, Android and Windows mobile devices that allow access to eBay.com and some of our other websites and vertical shopping experiences, including StubHub, Fashion, Motors and Half.com.  In 2013, over $22 billion in mobile commerce volume was transacted across our platforms, representing an increase of more than 70% compared to 2012.



We provide a large selection of inventory globally.

We had over 550 million items listed for sale as of December 31, 2013, which we believe makes us one of the world’s largest online marketplaces.  For 2013, approximately 60% of our GMV was international (i.e., outside the U.S.), and approximately 17% of our GMV was cross-border.



We strive to provide value to consumers.

We believe that we have some of the lowest prices available for a number of consumer products.  In the U.S., over 50% of successfully closed transactions included free shipping during 2013.  We have developed a number of features on our Marketplaces platforms in the areas of trust and safety (including our Feedback Forum, SafeHarbor Program, Verified Rights Owner Program, eTRS and eBay Buyer Protection), customer support and value-added tools and services, as well as loyalty programs (for both buyers and sellers).  These features are designed to make users more comfortable trading with unknown










partners and completing transactions online or through mobile devices, as well as rewarding our top buyers and sellers for their loyalty.



We offer consumers choice.

We offer choice to consumers across a number of dimensions:

•By listing format:  Merchants and individuals can choose to list their products and services through fixed price listings or an auction-style format on our core Marketplaces platform.

◦Our fixed price format on eBay.com allows buyers and sellers to close transactions at a pre-determined price set by the seller.  Sellers are also able to signal that they would be willing to close the transaction at a lower price through the Best Offer feature.

◦Our auction-style format allows a seller to select a minimum price for opening bids.

◦Our classifieds websites have listings in over 1,500 cities around the world and are designed to help people list their products and services generally for free and then trade at a local level. Our classifieds websites include alaMaula, BilBasen, dba.dk, eBay Classifieds (eBay Classifieds, eBay Kleinanzeigen and eBay Annunci), Gumtree, Kijiji, iBazar, 2dehands.be, 2ememain.be, LoQUo, Marktplaats.nl and mobile.de. In addition, we have a non-controlling equity investment in craigslist, Inc., which operates the craigslist classifieds websites.

•By item condition:  Merchants and sellers can list, and consumers can search for and buy, items that are new, refurbished and used, common and rare items and branded and unbranded products on our core Marketplaces platform.

•By delivery format:  Consumers can have items shipped to them through shipping options offered by the seller and selected by the buyer on our core Marketplaces platform.  For certain items in a limited number of U.S. markets, consumers can have the items couriered to them in about an hour through our eBay Now service.  Finally, in the case of items purchased from certain retailers, consumers can pick up items they purchased online or through mobile devices in one of the retailer’s physical stores (which we refer to as in store pickup).  This brings more choice for buyers and sellers around delivery cost and convenience.



We offer a variety of specialized vertical experiences.

We continue to focus on customizing our buying and selling experiences to make it easier for users to list, find and buy items by offering formats dedicated to specific products or categories.  On our core eBay.com websites, we have built specialized experiences for certain vertical formats, such as Daily Deals, Fashion, Motors (vehicles; parts and accessories) and Electronics.  Our Daily Deals vertical offers a variety of products in multiple categories at discounted prices with free shipping.  StubHub is a leading marketplace for event tickets, enabling fans to buy and sell tickets to a large selection of sports, concert, theater and other live entertainment events.



Payments





Our objective for the Payments segment is to become the digital wallet of choice for consumers and merchants to pay and get paid virtually anywhere, anytime and on any Internet connected device, whether they are online or in the physical world.  We believe that simplifying and integrating payments can provide value to consumers and drive incremental sales for our merchant partners. The PayPal digital wallet gives people a fast, safe and convenient way to receive, send or spend their money.  Our payment networks are designed to be simple, safe and secure and are built upon the existing global financial infrastructure to create global, real-time payment solutions.  PayPal connects with financial institutions around the world, and consumers can typically use their payment method of choice, regardless of where a seller is located.Users of our PayPal










payments solutions can engage in cross-border shopping, which can help merchants to increase sales volume by allowing them to sell to a global base of consumers, and they can send payments to each other nearly everywhere in the world and in a wide range of currencies.



We had 143 million active registered accounts as of December 31, 2013.The term “active registered accounts” means, as of a given date, all registered accounts that successfully sent or received at least one payment or payment reversal through our PayPal payments networks, including Bill Me Later, within the last 12 months and which are currently able to transact.   Users may have more than one account with PayPal or Bill Me Later and therefore the number of active registered accounts may be greater than the number of underlying users.



Our Payments platforms offer the following features:



We enable payments in the online and physical worlds.

PayPal started as a payment solution for online transactions between consumers and merchants through a traditional online experience (i.e., an Internet-connected computer).   As a result of being simple and secure for consumers, we believe that PayPal can help merchants to increase conversion of online traffic to sales.  An online merchant can typically open a standard PayPal account and begin accepting payments through PayPal within a few minutes.  Most online or mobile merchants are approved instantly.  Processing online with PayPal does not require a merchant to invest in new or specialized hardware.  PayPal's technology platform supports growth with a variety of value-added services.  This is designed to help businesses of all sizes manage their cash flow, invoice clients and pay bills, and to reduce the need for merchants to receive and store sensitive customer financial information, enabling  Payment Card Industry, or PCI, compliant transactions.  PayPal does not charge merchants any setup fees and offers a standard service with no recurring monthly fees.



With the growth of Internet-enabled mobile devices, PayPal is a popular form of payment for mobile commerce.  In December 2013, we completed our acquisition of Braintree to help strengthen our position in mobile payments and extend our coverage to a new class of retailers who offer their services primarily via mobile apps.  In 2013, PayPal's net TPV for transactions using mobile devices exceeded $27 billion, of which approximately 50% was from eBay Marketplaces.  To expand PayPal’s availability as a payment option in physical stores, PayPal has entered into a partnership with Discover in the U.S., as well as similar relationships with merchant acquirers and ePOS (electronic point of sale) providers in the United States and Europe.  PayPal also offers PayPal Here, a mobile payment processing solution for small businesses in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Australia, Hong Kong and Japan.



Our global reach and scale provides value for consumers and merchants.

With 143 million active registered accounts as of December 31, 2013, PayPal provides merchants with a large base of potential customers.  As a result of being available in approximately 193 markets and in 26 currencies as of December 31, 2013, PayPal also provides merchants with global reach and reduces some of the complexity and friction involved in overseas and cross-border trade.  For the year ended December 31, 2013, approximately 48% of PayPal’s net TPV was international, and approximately 25% was cross-border.  Our U.S. merchants are also able to offer consumer credit to U.S. consumers at the point of sale through our Bill Me Later service.



We offer consumers choice by providing a variety of funding mechanisms.

Consumers can fund their PayPal accounts in a variety of ways, including by credit card, debit card, electronic funds transfers from their bank account and through a PayPal balance if the consumer has previously received payments through PayPal or chosen to pre-fund their PayPal account.  We refer to the allocation of funding sources used by PayPal consumers as our “funding mix.”



We also provide credit products through our Bill Me Later service. Currently, when a consumer funds a purchase using Bill Me Later, a chartered financial institution extends credit to the consumer, funds the extension of credit at the point of sale and advances funds to the merchant.   Bill Me Later is neither a chartered financial institution nor is it licensed to make loans in any state. Accordingly, Bill Me Later must rely on a bank or other licensed lender to issue credit products and extend credit to customers.  Although the chartered financial institution continues to own each of the customer accounts, we subsequently purchase and retain most of the consumer receivables related to the consumer loans made by the chartered financial institution and are also responsible for servicing functions related to the customer account.



Bill Me Later accounts are most commonly opened on U.S. merchant websites, including ebay.com, offering Bill Me Later as a payment method, but can also be opened by U.S. consumers through a qualified PayPal account or at the Bill Me Later website.  U.S. consumers may be offered an opportunity to defer payments under some promotional arrangements offered on select merchant sites. Interest on such purchases can be deferred for up to 18 months.












For information regarding risks related to our Bill Me Later business, see the information in “Item 1A:  Risk Factors” under the captions "Bill Me Later's operations depend on lending services provided by unaffiliated lenders" and "Bill Me Later's operations expose us to additional risks."



We are focused on making our solutions simple for customers and developers.

Our Payments business seeks to put the customer first.  We are focused on creating easy to use products that leverage our technological leadership; we are using a true “mobile first” approach to make payments simple and intuitive.  Our PayPal platform and open APIs are designed to allow developers to innovate with ease and to offer cutting edge applications to a large ecosystem of merchants and consumers, while at the same time maintaining the safety of our users’ financial information.  PayPal provides developers with intuitive, flexible and powerful tools that are designed to leverage PayPal’s global reach and payment capabilities.  Some of our software developer kits, or SDKs, are specifically focused on the mobile app market and are designed to remove friction by not requiring a redirect to PayPal.com or an additional log in.



Our payments solutions offer leading fraud prevention and protection.

PayPal enables consumers to pay merchants quickly and easily without sharing sensitive financial information, such as credit card or debit card numbers.  To make payments using PayPal, consumers need to disclose only their email address or mobile phone number to merchants.  The account-based nature of PayPal's network helps us to better detect and prevent fraud when funds enter, flow through and exit the PayPal network.  PayPal also utilizes eBay Marketplaces global transaction data to help manage risk.  As a result of the systems and processes that we have built over many years, we believe that PayPal is one of the world’s most trusted payments brands.



PayPal has developed a number of trust and safety programs, including PayPal's Seller Protection and Purchase Protection Programs. These programs provide additional protection to certain account holders who pay or receive payment for their transactions through PayPal on or off ebay.com in certain key geographies. PayPal's Seller Protection Program covers sellers in certain key geographies who follow specific shipping and handling practices against claims that a transaction was not authorized by the buyer or that the item was not received. PayPal's Purchase Protection Program reimburses the buyer, subject to specified limitations, for qualified purchases using PayPal on or off ebay.com in certain key geographies if the buyer does not receive the item or, in limited markets, if the item is significantly not as described. In some non-U.S. markets, protection for buyers is limited to a maximum amount per transaction.



Enterprise



In June 2011, eBay acquired GSI Commerce, Inc., or GSI, which provides  commerce technologies, omnichannel operations and marketing solutions for large, nationally recognized retailers and brands that operate in general merchandise categories, including apparel, sporting goods, toys & baby, health & beauty and home. In June 2013, eBay renamed the GSI segment as Enterprise.



Enterprise operates three primary lines of business: Commerce Technologies, Omnichannel Operations and Marketing Solutions.  Enterprise provides its products and services on an individual basis and as bundled solutions.

Each of these three primary lines of business complements the other, which allows for cross-selling opportunities.



Enterprise’s Commerce Technologies.Enterprise’s Commerce Technologies are comprised of a suite of interfaces and tools that support a retailer’s ecommerce storefront available through the web and mobile devices, customer service call centers and land based stores. In addition to storefront commerce solutions, Enterprise’s commerce exchange platform is a unique set of integrated capabilities, services and infrastructure that support a retailer’s distributed order management, multi-channel inventory management, fulfillment integration, payments processing, fraud management and reporting.



•Enterprise’s storefront commerce solutions include secure shopping cart and checkout offerings, analytical tools, site management tools, such as catalog, content and promotions management tools, and guided product discovery capabilities.



•Enterprise’s commerce exchange platform includes a suite of multi-channel enabling software products that support a retailer’s in-store pickup, ship-from-store, ship-to-store and drop ship capabilities.  Enterprise’s payments infrastructure provides a robust online payment processing engine with capabilities including price, tax and shipping calculations, address verification, order review, fraud prevention, credit card authorization, settlement and alternative payment processing, and permits payment using PayPal as well as private label credit cards, gift cards and online gift certificates.












Enterprise’s Omnichannel Operations.  Enterprise’s Omnichannel Operations support fulfillment and customer service functions for its clients.



•Enterprise operates five ecommerce fulfillment centers in the U.S., one in Canada and one in the U.K.  Within these facilities, Enterprise utilizes warehouse management systems and infrastructure to provide customized direct-to-consumer fulfillment solutions, including order management, real-time order status updates and reverse logistics services. Through scale and partnerships with leading freight providers, Enterprise offers clients favorable shipping rates and innovative freight programs, including its ShipQuik shipping program. Under this program, packages are presorted by customer zip code, which helps to shorten the amount of time packages are in transit.



•Enterprise provides customer care services for ecommerce via telephone, live chat and email through three call centers and a network of customer support agents in the U.S., plus an additional call center in the U.K. Enterprise’s customer care platform combines proprietary and third-party technologies, including automatic call distribution, computer telephony integration, interactive voice response, email, workforce management, voice recording/monitoring, and customer relationship management systems. The U.K. call center offers customer care in multiple languages.



Enterprise’s Marketing Solutions.Enterprise’s Marketing Solutions are focused on providing comprehensive, industry-leading solutions designed to help clients acquire new customers, convert more website visitors into buyers, build customer loyalty and drive revenue across various channels. Marketing Solutions offers full-service digital agency capabilities, brand marketing, email marketing, database management, mobile and social advertising, affiliate and search engine marketing, online advertising display retargeting and in-depth analytics capabilities.



While Enterprise operates on a global basis, nearly all of its net revenues in 2013 were derived from its North American operations.  Similar to our Marketplaces and Payments segments, the majority of our Enterprise revenue comes from a take rate on the Merchandise Sales that we enable through our Commerce Technologies and Omnichannel Operations suite of services, with the remaining revenue coming from Marketing Solutions.  We define Merchandise Sales as the retail value of all sales transactions, inclusive of freight charges and net of allowance for returns and discounts, which flow through our Enterprise Commerce Technologies whether we record the full amount of such transaction as a product sale or a percentage of such transaction as a service fee.



Competition



We encounter vigorous competition in our businesses from numerous sources. For our Marketplaces segment, our users can find, buy, sell and pay for similar items through a variety of competing online, mobile and offline channels. These include, but are not limited to, retailers, distributors, liquidators, import and export companies, auctioneers, catalog and mail-order companies, classifieds, directories, search engines, commerce participants (consumer-to-consumer, business-to-consumer and business-to-business), shopping channels and networks. As our product offerings continue to broaden into new categories of items and new commerce formats, we expect to face additional competition from other online, mobile and offline channels for those new offerings. We compete on the basis of price, product selection and services.



For our Payments segment, our users may choose to pay through a variety of alternative means, including credit and debit cards, automated clearing house and bank wires, other online payment services, offline payment methods such as cash, check or money order and using mobile phones.  Likewise, our users may elect to finance their purchases through a broad range of other sources of financing, including credit cards, lines of credit provided by financial institutions and store credit or layaway plans provided by merchants.



Our Enterprise segment faces different competitors in each of its primary lines of business.   Enterprise seeks to compete on the basis of offering premium capabilities at attractive prices.  Each of Enterprise's business units competes on a stand-alone basis with in-house solutions promoted and supported by internal departments of retailers and other sellers, as well as technology and service providers that supply ecommerce solutions or components of ecommerce solutions (e.g., website and mobile platforms, customer care/call center services and fulfillment and logistics) and interactive marketing services, as the case may be. Enterprise also seeks to differentiate itself by cross-selling and bundling services to offer more attractive pricing and integrated implementations.



For more information regarding these risks, see the information in “Item 1A:  Risk Factors” under the captions “Our industries are intensely competitive” and “We are subject to regulatory activity and antitrust litigation under competition laws.”












To compete effectively, we may need to expend significant resources in technology and marketing. These efforts may be expensive and could reduce our margins and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, operating results and cash flows and reduce the market price of our common stock. Despite our efforts to preserve and expand the size, diversity and transaction activity of our users and customers and to enhance the user experience, we may not be able to continue to manage our operating expenses or increase or maintain our revenue to avoid or reduce a decline in our consolidated net income or avoid a net loss.



Seasonality



We expect transaction activity patterns on our websites to mirror general consumer buying patterns.  Our Enterprise segment is highly seasonal.  The fourth calendar quarter typically accounts for a disproportionate amount of Enterprise's total annual revenue because consumers increase their purchases and businesses increase their advertising to consumers during the fourth quarter holiday season.Please see the additional information in “Item 7:  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the caption “Seasonality.”



Technology



Our Marketplaces, Payments and Enterprise platforms utilize a combination of proprietary technologies and services as well as technologies and services provided by others. We have developed intuitive user interfaces, customer tools and transaction processing, database and network applications that help enable our users to reliably and securely complete transactions on our sites and help eBay Enterprise's clients to utilize its suite of services.  Our technology infrastructure simplifies the storage and processing of large amounts of data, eases the deployment and operation of large-scale global products and services and automates much of the administration of large-scale clusters of computers. Our infrastructure has been designed around industry-standard architectures to reduce downtime in the event of outages or catastrophic occurrences. We strive to continually improve our technology to enhance the customer experience and to increase efficiency, scalability and security. For information regarding technology-related risks, see the information in “Item 1A:  Risk Factors” under the captions “System failures and resulting interruptions in the availability of our websites and services could harm our business” and “Our failure to cost-effectively manage certain aspects of our business could harm us.”



Intellectual Property



We regard the protection of our intellectual property, including our trademarks (particularly those covering the eBay and PayPal names), patents, copyrights, domain names, trade dress and trade secrets as critical to our success. We aggressively protect our intellectual property rights by relying on federal, state and common law rights in the U.S. and internationally, as well as a variety of administrative procedures. We also rely on contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights in products and services. We have entered into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors and nondisclosure agreements with parties with whom we conduct business to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information.



We pursue the registration of our domain names, trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and internationally. Additionally, we have filed U.S. and international patent applications covering certain aspects of our proprietary technology.  Effective trademark, copyright, patent, domain name, trade dress and trade secret protection is very expensive to maintain and may require litigation. We must protect our intellectual property rights and other proprietary rights in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and time consuming and may not be successful.



We have registered our core brands as trademarks and domain names in the U.S. and a large number of other jurisdictions and have in place an active program to continue to secure trademarks and domain names that correspond to our brands in markets of interest. If we are unable to protect our trademarks or domain names, we could be adversely affected in any jurisdiction in which our trademarks or domain names are not registered or protected.  We have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to others.



Third parties have from time to time claimed, and others will likely claim in the future, that we have infringed their intellectual property rights. We are typically involved in a number of such legal proceedings at any time. Please see the information in “Item 3:  Legal Proceedings” and in “Item 1A:  Risk Factors” under the captions "The listing or sale by our users of pirated or counterfeit items may harm our business," "We are subject to patent litigation" and "We may be unable to protect or enforce our own intellectual property rights adequately.”












Employees



As of December 31, 2013, we employed approximately 33,500 people globally including approximately 1,700 temporary employees. Approximately 21,000 of our employees were located in the U.S.



Available Information



Our Internet address iswww.ebay.com. Our investor relations website is located athttp://investor.ebayinc.com. We make available free of charge on our investor relations website under the heading “SEC Filings” our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with (or furnished to) the SEC.

We webcast our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community on our investor relations website. Additionally, we provide notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, and blogs on our investor relations website. Further corporate governance information, including our governance guidelines for our board of directors, board committee charters, and code of conduct, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading “Corporate Governance.”

The contents of our websites and webcasts are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites and webcasts are intended to be inactive textual references only.




















