
10-K405




                             UNITED STATES
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                       Washington, D.C. 20549
                              FORM 10-K

(Mark One)
[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934
      For the fiscal year ended  December 31, 1996
                                  OR
[ ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
      For the transition period from                         to
                    Commission file number 0-9165
                           STRYKER CORPORATION
        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
         Michigan                                       38-1239739
(State or other jurisdiction of                      (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                      Identification No.)
P.O. Box 4085, Kalamazoo, Michigan                           49003-4085
(Address of principal executive offices)                     (Zip Code)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  616/385-2600
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  None
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  Common Stock $.10
par value

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [x]  No [ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K. [x]

Based on the closing sales price of March 3, 1997, the aggregate market value
of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the registrant was approximately
$1,894,255,356.            

The number of shares outstanding of the registrant's common stock, $.10 par
value, was 96,890,416 at March 3, 1997.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the annual stockholders report for the year ended December 31, 1996
are incorporated by reference into Parts II and IV.

Portions of the proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission relating to the 1997 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "1997 proxy
statement") are incorporated by reference into Part III.


PART I

ITEM I.  BUSINESS

General

Stryker Corporation and its subsidiaries (the "Company" or "Stryker") develop,
manufacture and market specialty surgical and medical products, including
orthopaedic implants, powered surgical instruments, endoscopic systems and
patient care and handling equipment for the global market and provide physical
therapy services in the United States.  Stryker was incorporated in Michigan in
1946 as the successor company to a business founded in 1941 by Dr. Homer H.
Stryker, a leading orthopaedic surgeon and the inventor of several orthopaedic
products.

In August 1993, the Company purchased 20% of the outstanding common stock of
Matsumoto Medical Instruments, Inc. ("Matsumoto"), Osaka, Japan.  Matsumoto is
one of the largest distributors of medical devices in Japan and is the
exclusive distributor of Stryker products in that country.  In August 1994,
the Company purchased an additional 31% of Matsumoto's outstanding common
stock, thereby increasing its direct ownership in Matsumoto to 51%.  The
results of operations for Matsumoto were consolidated with Stryker beginning
in August 1994.

In June 1994, the Company purchased the Steri-Shield product line, which is a
personal protection system for operating room personnel, from a private
company.

The Company's subsidiary, Physiotherapy Associates, Inc., has also purchased a
number of physical therapy clinic operations during each of the last five years.

In September 1996, the Company purchased 100% of the outstanding common stock
of Osteo Holding AG and subsidiaries ("Osteo"), Selzach, Switzerland.  Osteo
designs and manufacturers trauma products and reconstructive orthopedic devices.

PRODUCT SALES

The Company's products can be divided into three classes:  Stryker Surgical
Products, Stryker Medical Products, and Matsumoto Distributed Products.
Stryker Surgical Products are designed, manufactured and marketed under
the Osteonics, Dimso, Osteo, Stryker Instruments and Stryker Endoscopy names
and principally serve the orthopedic market.  Stryker Medical Products
consist of specialty beds and stretchers and general patient room beds
designed, manufactured and marketed under the Stryker Medical name and
rehabilitation services provided through Physiotherapy Associates, Inc.
Matsumoto Distributed Products represent products sourced by Matsumoto
Medical Instruments, Inc., the Company's 51% owned subsidiary, from other
companies for sale in Japan.  The following amounts ($000's) and percentages
are the sales during each of the three years ended December 31:


Approximately two-thirds of the Company's sales in 1996 and 1995 and
approximately 60% of the Company's sales in 1994 consisted of products with
short lives and service revenues, such as implants (while implants have a long
useful life to the patient, they have a one-time use to the hospital), physical
therapy revenues, disposables, expendable tools and parts and service and
repair charges.  The balance of sales in each of the years were of products
that could be considered capital equipment, having useful lives in excess of
one year.

The Company's backlog of firm orders is not considered material to an
understanding of its business.

STRYKER SURGICAL PRODUCTS

Stryker Surgical products are designed and manufactured by Osteonics,
Allendale, New Jersey; Dimso, Bordeaux, France; Osteo AG, Selzach,
Switzerland; Stryker Instruments, Kalamazoo, Michigan; and Stryker Endoscopy,
Santa Clara, California.  The principal specialty served by Stryker Surgical
products is orthopedics.  Orthopaedic reconstructive products, such as hip,
knee, shoulder and spinal implants, compression hip screws and interlocking
compression nails, heavy-duty powered instruments, pulsating irrigation
systems, cement injection systems, medical video cameras and arthroscopes
are manufactured and marketed for use by the orthopaedic surgeon.

Osteonics designs and manufactures innovative total and partial hip, knee and
shoulder replacements and associated instruments for sale around the world.
These artificial implants are made of cobalt chrome or titanium alloys and are
implanted in patients whose natural joints have been damaged by arthritis,
osteoporosis, other diseases or injury.  In late 1990, Osteonics became the
first company to receive clearance from the U.S. Food & Drug Administration
(FDA) to commercially release for sale in the U.S. a hip implant with HA
surface treatment.  HA is a naturally occurring calcium phosphate material
that demonstrates a high level of biocompatibility due to its resemblance to
human bone.  Osteonics' clinical experience with HA-coated hip stems now
extends over ten years and their clinical performance continues to equal or
exceed that of any comparable stem reported in the scientific literature.

The Osteonics Omniflex Hip Stem, which has been in clinical use since 1987 and
has U.S. patent protection, provides a means for interoperatively fitting a
femoral stem to the patient.  The device allows the distal portion of the stem
to be uncoupled from the femur, thus helping to avoid stress shielding of the
femur's proximal bone.

In addition to OmniFlex, Osteonics offers a wide array of high performance
cemented and cementless stems and cups, with which physicians may treat the
spectrum of their primary and revision total hip requirements.  For example, on
the primary side, the Secur-Fit HA Stems and Acetabular Shells combine
Osteonics revolutionary design concepts with its high quality
hydroxylapatite coating on an abrasion resistant, titanium surface, to
enhance bone loading and implant stability from the time of implantation
onward.  For revision indications, Osteonics offers its Restoration Hip
System, a versatile array of implants which is designed to address the
variety of complex surgical needs and patient anomalies that are presented
in revision surgery and where extensive fixation, both distally and
proximally, is required to support the prosthesis.

The Osteonics Series 7000 Total Knee System, the Insight Knee Positioning and
Alignment System and Passport Knee instrumentation provides the surgeon with a
simplified, cost effect approach to total knee arthroplasty.  The Series 7000
Total Knee System and Passport Knee instrumentation provide surgeons with the
interoperative flexibility to address a wide range of patient needs, while the
Insight Knee Positioning and Alignment System provide surgeons the ability to
realize precise, customized knee alignment and superior leg position in knee
surgery, which helps reduce the risk of post-operative complications.

In 1996, Osteonics launched the Osteonics Total Shoulder System and received
FDA clearance for its N2/Vac packaging and sterilization process, which helps
avoid the potential oxidative degradation of polyethylene bearing material.

Dimso designs and manufactures spinal implant systems for use by spinal
surgeons in the treatment of degenerative spinal diseases and deformities
and the stabilization of the spine in trauma cases.  During 1995, Osteonics
began to market a version of the Dimso spinal implant system in the United
States following the receipt of U.S. FDA acceptance for limited surgical
indications and, in 1997, will launch the Top Loading Connector and the
Cross Connector.  In 1996, Dimso launched, for international markets only,
the Ogival Intersomatic Cage, which restores disk height space and allows
lumbar vertebrae to be fused to stabilize the spine.

In September 1996, Stryker acquired Osteo Holding AG, a Swiss manufacturer of
high quality orthopaedic and trauma products, including compression hip screws
and interlocking compression nails for bone fixation in fracture cases.  Sold
in more than 50 countries, Osteo products have been especially successful in
Europe and the Far East.  Under the guidance of U.S. orthopedists' with whom
Stryker has long-standing relationships, the Osteo line is being adopted to
better meet the needs of American surgeons.

Stryker Instruments' products include a broad line of powered surgical drills,
saws, fixation and reaming equipment and other surgical instruments that are
used by surgeons for drilling, burring, rasping or cutting bone, wiring or
pinning bone fractures and preparing hip or knee surfaces for the placement of
artificial hip or knee joints.  Stryker Instruments provides hundreds of
different sized and shaped drill bits, burrs, blades, chisels and other
attachments for use by the orthopaedic surgeon.

Stryker Instruments System 2000 Heavy Duty Battery Powered Instruments provides
surgeons with a complete line of heavy duty instruments that are powerful,
precise and maneuverable.  In 1995, Stryker Instruments released the 4100
Cordless Driver, the first battery-powered wire driver, which provides trauma
and sports medicine specialists the power and versatility needed in surgery. 
In conjunction with joint replacement surgery, Stryker Instruments Advance
Cement Mixing System greatly reduces the risk that air bubbles will weaken the
long-term bond between implant and surrounding bone.  For cleansing the
surgical site during total joint arthroplasty, SurgiLav Plus, a disposable,
self-contained pulsed lavage system is used due to its ease of use.  Stryker
Instruments CBC II System is a post-operative wound drainage and blood
reinfusion device which enables joint replacement patients to receive their own
blood rather than donor blood.  For operating room personnel, Stryker
Instruments Steri-Shield Personal Protection System (a product line purchased
in 1994) uses an enclosed hood and toga to provide protection against
contamination from blood and airborne particles.

Stryker Endoscopy products include medical video cameras, lightsources,
arthroscopes, laparscopes, powered instruments and a disposable
suction/irrigation device.  These systems allow the surgeon to perform numerous
surgical procedures through small incisions usually less than 2cm in length
versus incisions that could be as long as ten inches.  The advantage to the
patient is shorter time spent in the operating room along with a reduced
rehabilitation period.

Stryker Endoscopy offers two types of video cameras.  A low cost single chip
camera with procedure specific head configurations as well as a broadcast
quality 3-Chip Camera, which has a programmable three function button allowing
the surgeon to control documentation equipment and picture quality from the
surgical site.  Both can be used in virtually every surgical specialty.  They
have extremely high resolution, which is typically two to three times that of a
standard television set as well as true color reproduction allowing the surgeon
to see the anatomy as if he or she were looking at it with the naked eye.
Stryker Endoscopy's fiber optic scopes range in diameter from 2.33mm to 10mm.
These scopes contain a series of precision lenses as well as fiberoptics, which
allow the surgeon to see into the body.  The video camera is attached to the
scope transmitting the image onto a monitor.

Stryker Endoscopy also produces a totally disposable suction irrigation device
that allows the surgeon to irrigate tissue where necessary as well as remove
the fluid, all out of a 5mm or 10mm portal.  This device is also capable of
cauterizing tissue when necessary.  This product is self contained, and totally
disposable eliminating the need for any additional equipment in the crowded
operating room.

Stryker Instruments and Endoscopy both produce small, light "micro" powered
tools and instruments that are used in orthopedics, maxillofacial surgery,
functional endoscopic sinus surgery, neurosurgery, spinal surgery and plastic
surgery.  Stryker Instruments Total Performance System (TPS), which was
released in 1996, provides a universal surgical system that can be used by
several specialties.  Spine and neuro surgeons use the TPS Universal Drill and
TPS burs, while sports medicine and plastic surgeons use the TPS MicroDriver
and TPS Sagittal Saw.  The TPS System is also compatible with Stryker
Endoscopy's SE5 Shaver System.  Stryker Endoscopy's Hummer 2 Micro Debrider
System is a powered instrument used in sinus surgery which incorporates new
irrigation capabilities and specialized cutters for sinus surgery.  This device
eliminates the need for over 50% of the instrumentation required for sinoscopy
surgery.

STRYKER MEDICAL PRODUCTS

Stryker Medical products consist of specialty stretchers, medical/surgical
beds, intensive care unit beds, maternity beds and products and assorted room
furnishings, which are assembled on a design-to-order basis at the Company's
Medical Division in Kalamazoo, Michigan, and rehabilitation services provided
through Physiotherapy Associates, Inc.  Medical Division products are designed
and developed through extensive clinical research, and tested in real-world
environments before product designs are finalized. In 1996, the Medical
Division introduced the Complete Care ICU bed for critical care units.  This
innovative treatment platform offers a load-cell patient weighing system to
help avoid time-consuming, awkward transfers.  An LCD monitor provides
accurate readings with just a touch and the 90 degree fowler range makes it
easy to take upright chest x-rays while the patient stays in bed.  Similarly,
the Medical Division plans to release in 1997 its FirstCare maternity bed
for labor and delivery room and labor and delivery room postpartum settings. 
Ergonomically engineered features like a one-step breakdown foot section,
adjustable seat section and powered pelvic tilt make positioning the patient
for delivery more efficient and make it easy for clinicians to move quickly.

Stryker Medical product sales also include revenue of the Company's
Physiotherapy Associates, Inc. subsidiary.  This organization operates
outpatient rehabilitation centers, which offer physical, occupational and
speech therapy to patients who have suffered orthopaedic or neurological
injuries.  It focuses, in particular, on expediting injured workers' return
to work.  Physiotherapy Associates, Inc. is headquartered in Memphis,
Tennessee and operates 185 outpatient physical therapy centers in 20 states
and the District of Columbia.

MATSUMOTO DISTRIBUTED PRODUCTS

Matsumoto Distributed Products represent products sourced by Matsumoto Medical
Instruments, Inc. from other companies for sale in Japan.  These products are
sold for use in the areas of orthopedics, ophthalmology, general surgery and
emergency care.

PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT

Most of the Company's products and product improvements have been developed
internally.  In addition, the Company maintains close working relationships
with physicians and medical personnel in hospitals and universities who assist
in product research and development.  New and improved products play a
critical role in the Company's sales growth.  The Company has placed increased
emphasis on the development of proprietary products and product improvements
to complement and expand its existing product lines.

Total expenditures for product research, development and engineering were
$56,870,000 in 1996; $43,771,000 in 1995; and $39,630,000 in 1994. Research,
development and engineering expenses increased in 1996 and 1995 due principally
to ongoing clinical trials of the Company's OP-1 Bone Growth Device and the
development of new implant designs (the Secur-Fit HA total hip implant system
and Restoration HA Hip System for revision surgery were developed in 1995),
further enhancements to instrumentation related to knee replacement procedures,
including development of the Insight Positioning and Alignment System in 1995
and the Passport knee instruments in 1996, the development of advanced powered
instruments and video technology (the 4100 Cordless Driver, the first battery-
powered wire driver, the next generation 810 3-Chip Camera System and the
StrykeFlow suction/irrigator for laparoscopic surgery, all introduced in 1995
and the TPS advanced micro-powered instrument set, the 882 3-Chip Camera
System, the Hummer 2 Micro Debrider System and several new arthroscopy
instruments, all introduced in 1996), the development of new specialized
operating room equipment (the Advanced Cement Mixing System introduced in 1996),
the development of new patient handling equipment (the Stryker Stretcher Chair
introduced in 1995 and the Complete Care 2025 ICU Bed introduced in 1996).

In 1991, the Company received FDA approval to begin human clinical trials of
its OP-1 Bone Growth Device which was developed in collaboration with Creative
BioMolecules, Inc. (Creative), as part of a long-term research program funded
by Stryker since 1985.  This device is composed of recombinant human
osteogenic protein (OP-1) and a bioresorbable collagen matrix.  OP-1 is
naturally present in the human body and directs a cascade of
cellular events that result in bone growth.  In preclinical studies, OP-1 
induced the formation of new bone when implanted into bony defect sites.  In
addition, results from early-stage animal trials of OP-1 in cartilage repair
have been encouraging.  The initial human clinical study, which began in 1992,
compares the efficacy of the OP-1 Bone Growth Device to autografts (the current
standard bone graft procedure for the treatment of tibial non-union fractures,
which uses bone chips removed from a patient's hip in a second operation) in
the repair of non-union fractures of the tibia.  The patients involved in the
trial all suffered tibial fractures that showed no evidence of healing at
least nine months from the initial injury and at least three months after any
prior surgical intervention.  Patients received either the OP-1 Bone Growth
Device or autograft bone on a random basis. During 1996, the surgical
procedures on the 122 patients in the Company's tibial non-union clinical
trial were completed and preliminary data from two of 18 study sites indicate
that the OP-1 Bone Growth Device is comparable to autograft. The data from the
two sites have not yet undergone blinded radiographic analysis by an
independent panel and represent only 15% of patients under study.  Full
analysis of all of the results, including blinded radiographic analysis by an
independent panel, the primary endpoint in the study, is currently underway. In
late 1995, the FDA allowed the Company to enlarge the scope of these trials
for expanded indications of non-union fractures in all long bones.  
Additionally, the surgical procedures for several pilot human clinical trials
in Europe in cases involving trauma, spine, and oral/maxillofacial indications
were completed in 1996.

Stryker owns the patents on its osteogenic protein technology and has exclusive
worldwide rights under those patents to develop, market and sell OP-1 for
treatment, repair or replacement of bone and joint tissue.  Creative has an
exclusive license to the technology for use in other applications.  Stryker and
Creative are obligated to pay royalties to the other on its sales of OP-1 based
products. 

In 1996, the Company completed a royalty-free cross license agreement with
Genetics Institute, Inc., which holds patents covering a molecule different
from OP-1 that may produce similar effects.  The agreement will enable Stryker
to proceed to commercialize OP-1 unencumbered by patent litigation with this
competitor.  Others are also attempting to develop osteogenic proteins and
bioresorbable carriers for the treatment, repair or replacement of bone and
joint tissue.  These other companies have filed and obtained patents in the
U.S. and elsewhere claiming such compounds and methods of making them and
using them and may in the future file and obtain other such patents.  The
Company can provide no assurance that it will not need a license under one or
more of those patents to further expand the OP-1 program or whether such
licenses will be available.

MARKETING

Most of the Company's products are marketed in the United States directly to
more than 5,000 hospitals, and to doctors and other health care facilities, by
the Company's sales force consisting of approximately 400 salespersons. 
Stryker maintains separate and dedicated sales forces for each of its principal
product lines to provide focus and a high level of expertise to each medical
specialty served.  Certain products, primarily orthopaedic implants, are sold
to hospitals in the United States through both direct sales forces and
independent dealer organizations.

Approximately 23% of the Company's domestic revenues in 1996 were accounted
for by sales to hospital cooperative buying groups and other large national
accounts and 1% by sales to the Veterans Administration and other hospitals
operated by the Federal government.

International sales accounted for 38% of total revenues in 1996.  Stryker
products are sold in over 100 foreign countries, through more than 450 local
dealers whose efforts are coordinated by approximately 660 sales and marketing
personnel who are local nationals, and through direct sales efforts.  Stryker
distributes its products through sales subsidiaries and branches with offices
located in The Netherlands, Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Spain,
Switzerland, the United Kingdom, Australia, Hong Kong, Japan, Canada and
Mexico. Stryker exports products to dealers and to customers in Latin America,
the Middle East, Singapore, Korea, India, Taiwan, Malaysia, the CIS (former
Soviet Union) and China.  Additional information regarding the Company's
foreign and domestic operations and export sales appearing in "Note
11-Geographic Data" on page 39 of the 1996 Annual Report is incorporated herein
by reference.

The Company's business is generally not seasonal in nature; however, the number
of orthopaedic surgeries is lower during the summer months.

COMPETITION

The Company is one of the six leading competitors in the U.S. market for
orthopaedic reconstructive products, the others being Zimmer, USA Inc. (a
subsidiary of Bristol-Myers, Squibb, Inc.), Howmedica, Inc.(a subsidiary of
Pfizer, Inc.), DePuy Orthopedics, Inc., Biomet, Inc., and J&J Professional,
Inc. (a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson). While competition abroad varies
from area to area, the Company believes it is also a leading factor in the
international markets, with these same companies being its principal
competitors.

In the international market for spinal implants, the Company is one of the four
market leaders through its Dimso S.A. subsidiary, with the principal
competitors being Sofamor Danek Group, Inc., AcroMed Corporation and the
Synthes companies. The Company entered the U.S. market for spinal implants
during 1995 and faces competition from these same and other companies.

In the powered surgical instruments market, Stryker is one of the three market
leaders, with the principal domestic competitors being Zimmer and Midas-Rex,
Inc..  These same companies are competitors in the international markets along
with Aesculap-Werke AG, a large European manufacturer.

In the arthroscopy market, the Company considers itself to be one of the three
market leaders, with the principal competitors being Smith & Nephew Endoscopy
(a division of Smith & Nephew PLC) and Linvatec, Inc. (a subsidiary of Bristol-
Myers, Squibb, Inc.).  In the laparoscopic imaging products market, the Company
considers itself to be one of the four market leaders, with the principal
competitors being Karl Storz GmbH & Co. (a German company), Circon Corporation
and Olympus Optical Co. Ltd. (a Japanese company).

The Company's primary competitor in the hospital bed market is Hill-Rom (a
division of Hillenbrand Industries) and in the specialty stretcher market the
primary competitors are Ferno-Washington, Hausted, Inc., Hill-Rom and Midmark
Corporation. In the outpatient physical therapy market, the Company's primary
competitors are physician owned/independent practices and hospital-based
services.  There are also several other national rehabilitation companies,
such as HealthSouth Corporation and NovaCare, Inc.

In the area of research and development of the Company's OP-1 Bone Growth
Device, the Company believes that several companies are engaged in the research
and development of morphogenic proteins for the repair of hard and soft
tissues. Genetics Institute, Inc., a subsidiary of American Home Products
Corporation, has also begun human clinical trials of a recombinant bone
morphogenetic protein for repair of orthopaedic and other skeletal defects. 
A number of other companies currently provide various other therapies,
including allografts, bone fillers and electrical stimulation devices, for the
treatment, repair or replacement of bone and joint tissue.  The Company's
OP-1 Bone Growth Device, which is currently in clinical trials, would
ultimately compete with these products and traditional therapies such as
autografts.  

The principal factors which the Company believes differentiate its products in
these highly competitive markets and enable it to compete effectively are
innovative products, reliability, service and reputation.  The Company is not
able to predict the effect that continuing efforts to reduce health care
expenses generally and hospital costs in particular will have on the future
sales of its products or its competitive position.  (See "Regulation and
Product Quality.")  The Company believes that its competitive position in the
future will depend to a large degree upon the new products and improvements in
existing products it is able to develop.  While the Company does not consider
patents a major factor in its overall competitive success, patents and
trademarks are significant to the extent that a product or attribute of a
product represents a unique design or process.  Patent or trademark protection
of such products restricts competitors from duplicating these unique product
designs and features.  Stryker seeks to obtain patent protection whenever
possible on its products.  The Company currently has approximately 130 U.S.
patents and 115 foreign patents which generally expire in the next 10-15 years.

MANUFACTURING AND SOURCES OF SUPPLY

The Company's manufacturing processes consist primarily of precision machining,
metal fabrication and assembly operations and the investment casting of cobalt
chrome and finishing of cobalt chrome and titanium.  Approximately 19% of the
Company's cost of sales in 1996 represented finished products which were
purchased complete from outside suppliers.  The Company also purchases parts and
components, such as forgings, castings, gears, bearings, casters and electrical
components and uses outside sources for certain finishing operations such as
plating, hardening and coating of machined components and sterilization of
certain products.  The principal raw materials used by the Company are
stainless steel, aluminum, cobalt chrome and titanium alloys.  In all,
purchases from outside sources were approximately 42% of the total cost of
sales in 1996.

Pursuant to the Company's agreement with Creative, Creative has the exclusive
right and obligation to supply the Company's worldwide commercial requirements
of OP-1 Bone Growth Device as long as certain conditions relating to quality,
quantity and pricing are satisfied.

While the Company relies on single sources for certain purchased materials and
services, it believes alternate sources are available if needed.  The Company
has not experienced any significant difficulty in the past in obtaining the
materials necessary to meet its production schedules.

Products manufactured by the Company's Medical Division are generally assembled
to order, while other products are stocked in inventory.

REGULATION AND PRODUCT QUALITY

The Medical Device Amendments of 1976 to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic
Act, the Safe Medical Devices Act of 1990, and regulations issued or proposed
thereunder, provide for regulation by the FDA of the manufacture of medical
devices, including most of the Company's products.

The FDA's "Good Manufacturing Practices" and "Quality System" regulations set
forth standards for the Company's product design and manufacturing processes,
require the maintenance of certain records and  provide for inspections of the
Company's facilities by the FDA.  There are also certain requirements of state,
local and foreign governments which must be complied with in the manufacturing
and marketing of the Company's products.  The Company believes that the
manufacturing and quality control procedures it employs meet the requirements
of these regulations.

Most of the Company's new products fall into FDA classifications which require
notification of and review by the FDA before marketing (submitted as a 510(k)).
The Company's Osteogenic Protein Device (see "Product Development") requires
extensive clinical testing, consisting of safety and efficacy studies, followed
by a Pre-Market Approval (PMA) application.  The Company currently is in the
clinical testing stage of this process and has not yet filed a PMA application
but expects to do so in late 1997.  A panel of industry and medical experts
will review the results of clinical studies and make their recommendations to
the FDA.  If there is a positive recommendation by the panel, the FDA may
grant a PMA allowing the product to be marketed.

Stryker also is subject to the laws that govern the manufacture and
distribution of medical devices of each country in which the Company
manufactures or sells products.  The member states of the European Union ("EU")
have adopted the European Medical Device Directives, which create a single set
of medical device regulations for all EU member countries.  These regulations
require companies that wish to manufacture and distribute medical devices in EU
member countries to obtain CE marks for their products by June 14, 1998. 
Stryker has authorization to apply the CE mark to its hip, knee, upper
extremity, spinal implant and trauma products, its SE 5 Arthroscopy System,
its castcutter, and its Medical Division products, and continues to work to
obtain CE marks for all other products that it will manufacture or distribute
in EU member states.

Government agencies and legislative bodies in the United States and other
countries are considering various proposals designed to hold down increases in
health care costs.  It is impossible to predict at this time the long-term
impact of such cost containment measures on the Company's future business.

EMPLOYEES

At December 31, 1996, the Company had 5,274 employees worldwide, including
1,571 involved in manufacturing, warehousing and distribution operations,
1,402 in marketing and sales, 265 in research, development and engineering,
698 providing physical, occupational and speech therapy and the balance in
general management and administration.  No employees are covered by
collective bargaining agreements.  The Company believes that its employee
relations are satisfactory.

Item 2.  PROPERTIES

The Company has the following properties:


ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The Company is a defendant and plaintiff in various legal actions arising in
the normal course of business.  The Company does not anticipate material
losses as a result of these actions.

In September 1996, the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
affirmed the 1995 decision of the Federal District Court for the Eastern
District of New York awarding the Company damages, attorney fees and interest
for infringement of the Company's U.S. patent on its OmniFlex Hip System.  A
petition for rehearing or rehearing en banc was denied by the Federal Circuit
in December 1996 and the Company was paid $77,600,000.  The Company recognized
a pre-tax gain, net of related legal fees and other expenses of $61,094,000.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

Not applicable.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

Certain information with respect to the executive officers of the Company is
set forth in Item 10 of this report.

PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
         MATTERS

The Company's common stock is traded in the over-the-counter market on The
NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol STRY.  Quarterly stock prices appearing
under the caption "Summary of Quarterly Data" on page 41 of the 1996 Annual
Report and dividend information for the years ended December 31, 1996 and 1995
under the caption "Ten Year Review" on page 22 of the 1996 Annual Report are
incorporated herein by reference.  The Company's Board of Directors intends to
consider a year-end cash dividend annually at its December meeting.

On December 31, 1993, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the
repurchase in the open market from time to time, depending upon prevailing
market conditions, of up to 1,200,000 shares of its common stock (after
adjustment for the two-for-one stock split) of which 895,000 split-adjusted
shares had been repurchased under this plan.  This repurchase authorization
was replaced by a new authorization approved by the Company's Board of
Directors on April 24, 1996, for repurchase of up to 1,000,000 split adjusted
shares of common stock. At March 20, 1997, 11,200 shares had been repurchased
under this plan.

On December 31, 1996, there were 3,306 stockholders of record of the Company's
common stock.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The financial information for each of the five years in the period ended
December 31, 1996 under the caption "Ten Year Review" on pages 22 and 23 of the
1996 Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
         RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The information under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations" on pages 24 through 27 of the
1996 Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The consolidated financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries and
report of independent auditors, included on pages 28 through 42 of the 1996
Annual Report are incorporated herein by reference.

Quarterly results of operations appearing under the caption "Summary of
Quarterly Data" on page 41 of the 1996 Annual Report are incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 9.  DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

Not applicable.

PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

Information regarding the directors of the Company appearing under the caption
"Election of Directors" and the information appearing under the caption
"Miscellaneous - Section 16 Reporting" in the 1997 proxy statement is
incorporated herein by reference.

Information regarding the executive officers of the Company appears below.  All
officers are elected annually.  Reported ages are as of January 31, 1997.

John W. Brown, age 62, has been Chairman of the Board since January 1981, and
President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since February 1977.  He
is also a director of Lunar Corporation, a medical products company, First of
America Bank Corporation, a bank, the Health Industry Manufacturers Association
and The American Business Conference.

Ronald A. Elenbaas, age 43, was appointed President of the Surgical Group in
1985 and has been a Vice President of the Company since August 1983. 
Previously he was the Director of Surgical Sales since May 1982.  Since
joining the Company in September 1975 he has held various other positions,
including Sales Representative, Marketing Product Manager, Plant Manager,
Canadian Sales Director, Assistant to the President and Director of Customer
Relations.

Michael R. Mainelli, Jr., age 35, was appointed Vice President, Business
Development and Assistant to the Chairman upon joining the Company in April
1996.  He had previously spent twelve years with General Electric Company in
manufacturing, marketing, and product line management positions.  Most recently
he was responsible for world-wide planning, development, and marketing of
magnetic resonance imaging products at GE Medical Systems.

William T. Laube, III, age 57, was appointed President of Stryker Pacific Group
in 1985 and has been a Vice President of the Company since March 1979.  Since
joining the Company in July 1975 he has held various international sales
management positions.

Edward B. Lipes, age 44, was appointed a Vice President of the Company in May
1994 and has been President of Osteonics Corp. since August 1989.  He held the
position of President, Physiotherapy Associates, Inc. upon joining the Company
in April 1988.

Christopher F. Homrich, age 37, was appointed Treasurer upon joining the 
Company in April 1996.  He had previously been Assistant Treasurer at Ingram
Industries Inc., a privately held corporation with business activities
including wholesale distribution of microcomputer products, books and video
cassettes, inland marine transportation, oil and gas wellhead manufacturing
and insurance since June 1991.

David J. Simpson, age 50, was appointed Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
and Secretary upon joining the Company in June 1987.  He had previously been
Vice President and Treasurer of Rexnord Inc., a manufacturer of industrial and
aerospace products, since July 1985.

Thomas R. Winkel, age 44, was appointed President of Stryker Americas/Middle
East in March 1992 and has been a Vice President of the Company since December
1984.  He had previously been Vice President, Administration since June 1987.
Since joining the Company in October 1978 he has held various other positions,
including Assistant Controller, Secretary and Corporate Controller.

Jeffrey R. Winter, age 38, was appointed Controller upon joining the Company in
October 1996. He had previously been a Senior Manager at Ernst & Young LLP,
independent public accountants, since October 1991.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Information regarding the compensation of the management of the Company
appearing under the captions "Director Compensation" and "Executive
Compensation" in the 1997 proxy statement is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information under the captions "Beneficial Ownership of More than 5% of the
Outstanding Common Stock" and "Beneficial Ownership of Management" in the 1997
proxy statement is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

Not applicable.

PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

          (a)(1) and (2) -   The response to this portion of Item 14 is
                     submitted as a separate section of this report following
                     the signature page.

                  (a)(3) -   Exhibits

                     Exhibit 3 - Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws

                       (i)  Restated Articles of Incorporation and amendment
                             thereto dated December 28, 1993--Incorporated  by
                             reference to Exhibit 3(i) to the Company's Form
                             10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993
                             (Commission File No. 0-9165).

                      (ii)  By-Laws--Incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
                             3(ii) to the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter
                             ended June 30, 1988 (Commission File No. 0-9165).

                     Exhibit 4 - Instruments defining the rights of security
                             holders, including indentures--The Company agrees
                             to furnish to the Commission upon request a copy
                             of each instrument pursuant to which long-term
                             debt of the Company and its subsidiaries not
                             exceeding 10% of the total assets of the Company
                             and its consolidated subsidiaries is authorized.
                     
                     Exhibit 10-Material contracts

                       (i)* 1988 Stock Option Plan as amended--
                             Incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10(i) to the
                             Company's Form 10-K for the year ended
                             December 31, 1992 (Commission File No. 0-9165).

                      (ii)* Supplemental Savings and Retirement Plan (as
                             Amended Effective January 1, 1995).--Incorporated
                             by reference to Exhibit 10(iii) to the Company's
                             Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994
                             (Commission File No. 0-9165)

                     (iii)*  Resolution amending Supplemental Savings
                             and Retirement Plan (effective January 1,1996).

                      (iv)* Description of bonus arrangements between the
                            Company and certain officers, including Messrs.
                            Brown, Elenbaas, Laube, Lipes, Simpson and Winkel.

                     Exhibit 11-Statement re computation of per share earnings

                               (i)  Statement Re:  Computation of earnings per
                                                   share of common stock.

                     Exhibit 13-Annual report to security holders

                               (i)  Portions of the 1996 Annual Report that are
                                    incorporated herein by reference.
 
                     Exhibit 21-Subsidiaries of the registrant

                       (i)  List of Subsidiaries.

                     Exhibit 23-Consents of experts and counsel

                       (i)  Consent of Independent Auditors.

                     Exhibit 27-Financial data schedule

                       (i)  Financial data schedule (included in EDGAR filing
                             only).

          (b)    Reports on Form 8-K - Filed in the fourth quarter of 1996.

                     Form 8-K dated October 1, 1996.

                     Item 5.   Other Events - Disclosure of United States Court
                               of Appeals for the Federal Circuit decision
                               affirming the 1995 decision of the Federal
                               District Court awarding the Company damages
                               in a patent suit brought by the Company.
     
                     Item 7.   Financial Statements and Exhibits - Exhibit,
                               press release.

          (c)    Exhibits - Exhibit Index appears on page 19 of this report.

          (d)    Financial statement schedules - The response to this portion of
                 Item 14 is submitted as a separate section of this report
                 following the signature page.

* compensation arrangement

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf of the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                           STRYKER CORPORATION

Date: 3/20/97                                DAVID J. SIMPSON
                                   David J. Simpson, Vice President, Chief
                                      Financial Officer and Secretary

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this 
report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the registrant 
and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.




JOHN W. BROWN              3/20/97        DAVID J. SIMPSON             3/20/97
__________________________________        ____________________________________
John W. Brown, Chairman, President        David J. Simpson, Vice President,
 and Chief Executive Officer               Chief Financial Officer and
 (Principal Executive Officer)             Secretary
                                           (Principal Financial Officer)



HOWARD E. COX, JR.         3/20/97        JEFFREY R. WINTER            3/20/97
__________________________________        ____________________________________
Howard E. Cox, Jr.-Director               Jeffrey R. Winter, Controller
                                           (Principal Accounting Officer)



DONALD M. ENGELMAN         3/20/97        RONDA E. STRYKER            3/20/97
__________________________________        ___________________________________
Donald M. Engelman, Ph.D.-Director        Ronda E. Stryker-Director




JEROME H. GROSSMAN         3/20/97        WILLIAM U. PARFET           3/20/97
__________________________________        ___________________________________
Jerome H. Grossman,M.D.-Director          William U. Parfet-Director




JOHN S. LILLARD            3/20/97
__________________________________
John S. Lillard-Director




                      ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

                  ITEM 14(a)(1) and (2), (c) and (d)

    LIST OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

                           CERTAIN EXHIBITS

                     FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

                     YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996

                         STRYKER CORPORATION

                         KALAMAZOO, MICHIGAN




FORM 10-K--ITEM 14(a)(1), (2) AND (d)

STRYKER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

List of Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule

The following consolidated financial statements of Stryker Corporation and
subsidiaries and report of independent auditors, included in the annual
stockholders report of the registrant for the year ended December 31, 1996, are
incorporated by reference in Item 8:

   Report of independent auditors

   Consolidated balance sheets--December 31, 1996 and 1995.

   Consolidated statements of earnings--years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and
   1994.

   Consolidated statements of stockholders' equity--years ended December 31,
   1996, 1995 and 1994.

   Consolidated statements of cash flows--years ended December 31, 1996, 1995
   and 1994.

   Notes to consolidated financial statements--December 31, 1996.

The following consolidated financial statement schedule of Stryker Corporation
and subsidiaries is included in Item 14(d):

   Schedule II--Valuation and qualifying accounts

All other schedules for which provision is made in the applicable accounting
regulation of the Securities and Exchange Commission are not required under the
related instructions or are inapplicable, and therefore have been omitted.






FORM 10-K--ITEM 14(c)

STRYKER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Exhibit Index


Exhibit
                                                                  Page*
(3)  Articles of incorporation and by-laws
     (i)  Restated Articles of Incorporation and amendment thereto
          dated December 28, 1993.. . . . . . . . . . . . . .      13**

    (ii)  By Laws . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      13**

(10) Material contracts
     (i)  1988 Stock Option Plan as amended . . . . . . . . .      14**

    (ii)  Supplemental Savings and Retirement Plan
          (as Amended Effective January 1, 1995). . . . . . .      14**

   (iii)  Resolution amending the Supplemental Savings
          and Retirement Plan (effective January 1, 1996) . .      20

    (iv)  Description of bonus arrangements between the Company and
          certain officers, including Messrs. Brown, Elenbaas,
          Laube, Lipes, Simpson and Winkel  . . . . . . . . .      21

(11)      Statement re computation of per share earnings
     (i)  Statement Re: Computation of earnings per share of
          common stock. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      22

(13)      Annual report to security holders
     (i)  Portions of the 1996 Annual Report that are
          incorporated herein by reference. . . . . . . . . .      14**

(21)      Subsidiaries of the registrant
     (i)  List of Subsidiaries. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      23

(23)      Consents of experts and counsel
     (i)  Consent of Independent Auditors . . . . . . . . . . .    24

(27)      Financial data schedule
     (i)  Financial data schedule (included in EDGAR filing only)

 *Page number in sequential numbering system where such exhibit can be found,
  or it is stated that such exhibit is incorporated by reference.

**Incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


                                                       EXHIBIT (10)(iii)



     RESOLUTION AMENDING SUPPLEMENTAL SAVINGS AND RETIREMENT PLAN
(Adoped at a meeting of the Board of Directors of Stryker Corporation
                held on Wednesday, December 6, 1995)


   RESOLVED, that the Stryker Corporation Supplemental Savings
   and Retirement Plan (the "Supplemental Plan") be, an it hereby is,
   ameded effective January 1, 1996, to eliminate from the definition
   of Compensation the proviso limiting Compensation to 200% of the
   Section 401(a)(17) Limitation.

   Further RESOLVED, that the proper Officers of the Company be, and they
   hereby are, authorized and directed to take such steps as they deem
   necessary or appropriate to effectuate the intent of the foregoing
   resolutions.

   Further RESOLVED, that the proper Officers of the Company be, and they
   hereby are, authorized and directed to adopt from time to time such
   technical amendments, and such other amendments that are not expected
   give rise to a material cost increase to the Company, to the
   Supplemental Plan and to the Company's savings plans as they deem 
   necessary or appriate.

                                                       EXHIBIT (10)(iv)





                  DESCRIPTION OF BONUS ARRANGEMENTS


The Company has entered into bonus arrangements with certain executive officers
for 1997, including Mr. Brown, Mr. Elenbaas, Mr. Laube, Mr. Lipes, Mr. Simpson
and Mr. Winkel, based on specific performance criteria including sales, profits
and asset management.  The aggregate amount of such bonuses is not expected to
exceed $1,800,000.



                                                        EXHIBIT (11)





   STATEMENT RE:  COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS PER SHARE OF COMMON STOCK






Note: Shares subject to stock options are not included in the earnings
      per share computation because the present effect thereof is not
      materially dilutive.

                                                           EXHIBIT (21)

                         List of Subsidiaries


                                                    State or Country of
Name of Subsidiary                                     Incorporation

Diagnostic Treatment Rehabilitation Clinic Limited     United Kingdom
Dimso Iberica S.A.                                     Spain
Dimso SA                                               France
Favro B.V.                                             The Netherlands
N.V. Stryker S.A.                                      Belgium
Oscobal AG                                             Switzerland
Osteo AG                                               Switzerland
Osteo America                                          New Jersey
Osteo Australia Pty. Limited                           Australia
Osteo Deutschland GmbH                                 Germany
Osteo France SARL                                      France
Osteo Holding AG                                       Switzerland
Osteo Polska SP.z0.0                                   Poland
Osteonics Corp.                                        New Jersey
Physiotherapy Associates, Inc.                         Michigan
Physiotherapy Associates UK Ltd.                       United Kingdom
Stryker AB                                             Sweden
Stryker Arroyo, Inc.                                   Delaware
Stryker A/S                                            Denmark
Stryker Australia Pty. Ltd.                            Australia
Stryker B.V.                                           The Netherlands
Stryker (Barbados) Foreign Sales Corporation           Barbados
Stryker Biotech B.V.                                   The Netherlands
Stryker Biotech France SARL                            France
Stryker Canada Inc.                                    Canada
Stryker China Limited                                  Hong Kong
Stryker Corporation (Chile) y Compania Limitada        Chile
Stryker Corporation (Malaysia) SDN.BHD.                Malaysia
Stryker Deutschland GmbH                               Germany
Stryker Far East, Inc.                                 Delaware
Stryker France SA                                      France
Stryker Korea Ltd.                                     Korea
Stryker B.V.                                           The Netherlands
Stryker Mexico, S.A. de C.V.                           Mexico
Stryker-Osteonics SA                                   Switzerland
Stryker/Osteonics PTY Ltd.                             South Africa
Stryker Ostereich GmbH                                 Austria
Stryker Pacific Limited                                Hong Kong
Stryker Puerto Rico, Inc.                              Delaware
Stryker SA                                             Switzerland
Stryker Sales Corporation                              Michigan
Stryker Singapore Private Limited                      Singapore

Stryker Corporation directly or indirectly owns 100% of the outstanding
voting securities of each of the above-named subsidiaries.

Stryker is a 51% investor in:
     Matsumoto Medical Instruments, Inc.               Japan

Stryker effectively controls:
     Stryker India Medical Equipment Private Limited   India





                                                            Exhibit 23



                     CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS



We consent to the incorporation by reference in this Annual Report (Form 10K)
of Stryker Corporation of our report dated January 31, 1997, included in the 
1996 Annual Report to Stockholders of Stryker Corporation.

Our audits also included the financial statement schedule of Stryker 
Corporation and subsidiaries listed in Item 14(a).  This schedule is the 
responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express
an opinion based on our audits.  In our opinion, the financial statement 
schedule referred to above, when considered in relation to the basic 
consolidation financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all
material respects, the information set forth therein.

We also consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration State-
ment Number 33-55662 on Form S-8 dated December 11, 1992, Registration 
Statement Number 2-96467 on Form S-8 dated April 4, 1985, Registration 
Statement Number 33-32240 on Form S-8 dated November 20, 1989, and to the
related prospectus for each of the registration statements of our report
dated January 31, 1997, with respect to the consolidated financial statements
incorporated herein by reference, and our report included in the preceding
paragraph with respect to the financial statement schedule included in this
Annual Report (Form 10K) of Stryker Corporation.


                                        ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Kalamazoo, Michigan
March 17, 1997












