10-K


syk10k04.htm

STRYKER CORP 2004 FORM 10-K

Stryker 2004 Form 10-K

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington,
 D.C.  20549

FORM 10-K

[X]

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
  SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004

Commission file number: 0-9165

STRYKER CORPORATION

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code:

(269) 385-2600

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of Each Class

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered

Common Stock, $.10 par value

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
Act:  None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities and
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

YES
[X]         NO [  ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III
of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

[      ]

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined in
Rule 12b-2 of the Act).

YES
[X]         NO [  ]

Based on the closing sales price of June 30, 2004, the
aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
registrant was approximately $15,994,986,000.

The number of shares outstanding of the registrant's Common
Stock*, $.10 par value, was 402,903,237 at February 28, 2005.

* Note:  These
shares have been adjusted to reflect the two-for-one stock split effective May 14, 2004 for
stockholders of record on May 3, 2004.  All
share and per share data in this report have been adjusted to reflect the stock
split as though it had occurred at the beginning of the periods presented.


DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the proxy statement filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission relating to the 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders
(the "2005 proxy statement") are incorporated by reference into Part III.

This report may contain information that includes or is
based on forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal
securities laws that are subject to risks and uncertainties.  These statements may be identified by the use
of words such as "anticipates," "expects,"
"estimates," "projects," "intends" and
"believes" and variations thereof and other terms of similar
meaning.  Factors that could cause the
Company's actual results and financial condition to differ from the Company's
expectations include, but are not limited to: regulatory actions, including
cost-containment measures, that could adversely affect the price of or demand
for the Company's products; unanticipated issues arising in connection with
clinical studies and eventual United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
approval of osteogenic protein-1 (OP-1), SpineCore's products or other new
product introductions; changes in reimbursement levels from third-party payors;
a significant increase in product liability claims; changes in economic
conditions that adversely affect the level of demand for the Company's
products; changes in foreign exchange markets; changes in financial markets;
and changes in the competitive environment.

While the Company believes that the assumptions underlying
such forward-looking statements are reasonable, there can be no assurance that
future events or developments will not cause such statements to be
inaccurate.  All forward-looking
statements contained in this report are qualified in their entirety by this
cautionary statement.

REGISTERED TRADEMARKS

Stryker
Corporation or its subsidiaries own the registered trademarks ABG, Accolade,
Apex, BoneSource, CentPillar, Chaperone, Crossfire, DEKOMPRESSOR, Duracon,
FlexiCore, Formula, Gamma, Grosse & Kempf, Hoffman, Howmedica, Hummer, i-Suite,
Monutube, MX-PRO, Neptune, NRG, Omnifit, OP-1,
Opus, Osteonics, PainPump, Partnership, Passport, Reflex, Restoration, Scorpio, SIDNE, Simplex P,
Solar, SpineCore, SpinePlex, STAIR-PRO, Stryker, Stryker Leibinger, T2, Triathlon, Trident, Xia
and Zoom; the trademarks 3-chip, Asnis, Avon, CerviCore, ConstaVac, Dall-Miles,
EIUS, Exeter, Gamma, Glideaway, Hoffman II Compact, Kinemax, Lock-Rite, MRS, OASYS,
Omega, PureFix, Ray Threaded Fusion Cage, Revolution, S2, SDC Pro2, Secur-Fit,
TenXor, Triax and the
service mark Physiotherapy Associates.

Not all
products referenced in this report are approved or cleared for sale,
distribution or use in the United
  States.




PART I

ITEM 1.

BUSINESS

GENERAL

Stryker Corporation (the "Company" or
"Stryker") is a leader in the worldwide orthopaedic market and is one
of the world's largest medical device companies.  Stryker delivers results through a wide range
of capabilities including joint replacements, trauma, spine and micro implant
systems, orthobiologics, powered surgical instruments, surgical navigation
systems and endoscopic products as well as patient handling and emergency
medical equipment.  Stryker also provides
outpatient physical therapy services in the United States.  Stryker was incorporated in
Michigan in 1946 as the successor company to
a business founded in 1941 by Dr. Homer H. Stryker, a leading orthopaedic
surgeon and the inventor of several orthopaedic products.

Stryker's filings with the United States Securities and
Exchange Commission, including its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, are accessible free of
charge at www.stryker.com within the "For Investors" link.

In the
third quarter of 2004, the Company completed its acquisition, by merger, of
SpineCore, Inc. (SpineCore), a developer of artificial lumbar and cervical
discs.  This acquisition is expected to
enhance the Company's presence in the spinal implant market, an important
growth area within its Orthopaedic Implants segment.

In October 2002, the Company purchased the
DEKOMPRESSOR
product line from Pain Concepts, Inc. 
The DEKOMPRESSOR is a single-use disposable device indicated for the
percutaneous removal of disc nucleus material.

In July
2002, the Company acquired the Surgical Dynamics Inc. spinal implant business
(SDI) from Tyco International Ltd.  The
acquisition expanded the Company's spinal product line by adding interbody
spinal cages for the United
  States market as well as other thoracolumbar
and cervical spinal fixation devices.

The
Company's Physiotherapy Associates, Inc. subsidiary has also purchased a number
of physical therapy clinic operations during each of the last three years.

PRODUCT SALES

The Company segregates its operations into two reportable
business segments: Orthopaedic Implants and MedSurg Equipment.  The Orthopaedic Implants segment sells
orthopaedic reconstructive (hip, knee and shoulder), trauma, spine and micro
implant systems, bone cement and the bone growth factor OP-1.  The MedSurg Equipment segment sells powered
surgical instruments, surgical navigation systems, endoscopic products, medical
video imaging equipment and hospital beds and stretchers.  The Other category includes Physical Therapy
Services and corporate administration, interest expense and interest
income.  The following amounts (in
millions) and percentages represent business segment and domestic/international
net sales during each of the three years ended December 31:


Additional financial information regarding the Company's
operating segments and geographic areas can be found under the captions "

Results of Operations

" on pages 21 through
27 and "

Note 12 - Segment and Geographic Data

"
on pages 52 through 54 of this report.

Approximately 78% of the Company's sales in 2004 and 79% in
2003 and 2002 consisted of products with short lives, such as reconstructive,
trauma, spine and micro implants (while implants have a long useful life to the
patient, they have a one-time use to the hospital), disposables and expendable
tools and parts and service revenues, such as service and repair charges and
physical therapy revenues.  The balance
of sales in each of the years came from products that could be considered
capital equipment, having useful lives in excess of one year.

The Company's backlog of firm orders is not considered
material to an understanding of its business.

Orthopaedic Implants

Orthopaedic Implants are designed and manufactured by
Stryker Orthopaedics, Stryker Trauma, Stryker Spine, Stryker Leibinger Micro
Implants and Stryker Biotech and consist of such products as reconstructive,
trauma, spine and micro implant systems, associated instrumentation for
surgical implants, bone cement and OP-1. 
Artificial joints are made of cobalt chromium, titanium alloys, ceramics
or ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene and are implanted in patients whose
natural joints have been damaged by arthritis, osteoporosis, other diseases or
injury.  The Company's OP-1 bone growth
factor, which induces the formation of new bone when implanted into bone, is
composed of recombinant human osteogenic protein-1 and a bioresorbable collagen
matrix.

Minimally Invasive Surgery

Many of Stryker's technologically advanced reconstructive implants are
suited to minimally invasive surgery (MIS) procedures that are intended to
reduce soft-tissue damage and pain while hastening return to function.  The Company supports surgeons with technology,
procedural development and specialized instrumentation as they develop new MIS
techniques.  During 2003, the Company
began the initial introduction of Scorpio Total Knee Minimally Invasive
Instrumentation.  This line of
instruments is designed to complement the unique, minimally invasive total knee
procedure pioneered by a leading orthopaedic surgeon.  This technique can reduce the length of the
incision by approximately 70%.  Because
of the Company's commitment to responsible science, a multicenter study was
conducted to validate the technique's reproducibility and potential benefits,
such as reduced pain and earlier return to function.  The EIUS Unicondylar Knee and the Avon
Patellofemoral Joint are resurfacing, bone-conserving designs that are used to
treat disease isolated to one compartment of the knee.  These pre-total knee treatment options can
also be implanted using minimally invasive techniques.

In order to facilitate emerging procedural approaches, the
Company has also developed instrumentation for MIS total hip arthroplasty.  The Company's surgical navigation systems are
frequently used in MIS procedures to improve the accuracy of measurements and
to position the implant.

Stryker Trauma has a market leadership position in the
Intramedullary (IM) Hip Screw market due to the minimally invasive nature of
the Gamma Nail. Stryker recently launched a new version of the Gamma Nail that
can be implanted through an even smaller incision. In addition, surgeons are
testing the use of the Company's surgical navigation systems for this procedure
as well as in surgery for pelvic fractures.


Hip Implant Systems

Through Stryker Orthopaedics, the Company offers a variety
of hip systems for the global reconstructive market.  The ABG Hip System, Partnership Hip System, Secur-Fit Hip System, Omnifit Hip System,
Accolade Hip System and Restoration Hip System each represents a comprehensive
system of hip implants and associated instrumentation designed to provide
physicians and patients with reliable results and to reduce operating time for
primary and revision procedures.  The
Exeter Total Hip System is based on a unique, collarless, highly polished,
double-tapered femoral design that reduces shear stresses and increases
compression at the cement/bone interface. 
During 2004, the Company began transitioning to its new Restoration
Modular Revision Hip System in the United States,
Europe, Australia and Canada.  This system offers the revision surgeon
flexibility in treating complex stem revisions and restoring patient
biomechanics.  The Restoration Modular
Revision Hip System also takes advantage of Stryker's long clinical history
with hydroxylapatite (HA), a naturally occurring calcium phosphate material
that demonstrates a high level of biocompatibility due to its resemblance to
bone, by incorporating PureFix HA coating on many components.  The Restoration Modular Revision Hip System
complements the Company's existing Restoration HA and Restoration PS monolithic
revision systems.

Stryker was the first company to
receive clearance from the FDA to commercially release for sale in the United States a
hip implant with HA surface treatment. 
The Company's global clinical experience with HA-coated hip stems now
extends over 15 years, and reported clinical performance continues to equal or
exceed that of comparable hip stems reported in the scientific literature.

The Company began a limited launch of its CentPillar Hip
System in the Japanese market in 2003, with a full rollout in 2004.  The Taro Hip System and CentPillar Hip System
provide lines of products that offer an increased range of motion and a
minimally invasive technique preferred by Japanese surgeons for their
patients.

On February
 3, 2003, the Company received premarket approval (PMA) from the FDA
for its ceramic-on-ceramic hip replacement system, the Trident Ceramic
Acetabular Insert, for patients in the United States.  Stryker Orthopaedics successfully launched
the Trident ceramic insert in the United States
in the second quarter of 2003 following successful launches in Europe, Australia and Canada in 2002.  The Trident insert is wear resistant, and it
is protected and strengthened by a patented titanium sleeve.  Other technologies used for total hip
replacement include metal-on-conventional polyethylene and metal-on-highly crosslinked polyethylene (Crossfire) articulations.  By the end of 2004, approximately 61% of the
Company's acetabular inserts sold in the United States utilized Crossfire
technology, a highly cross-linked polyethylene designed to reduce wear, and
approximately 35% of the inserts utilized the Company's ceramic insert
technology.

In 2002, the Company launched the Trident Acetabular Cup
system.  This patented design, which
allows for the use of either polyethylene inserts or ceramic inserts,
positioned the Company well for the launch of its ceramic acetabular products
in the United States
in 2003.  Trident's two independent
locking mechanisms provide maximum security for each bearing surface and
increase the strength of the ceramic liner. 
Also released in 2002 was the Accolade C-Cemented stem.  This stem complements the Accolade TMZF
cementless stem launched in 2001 and incorporates many of the same innovative
design features for use with cemented stems. 
Accolade C utilizes the simple and efficient Accolade instrumentation
system.

The Company entered 2005 with more than 30 years of clinical
history with the Exeter Hip System, more than 20 years of clinical history with
the Omnifit cemented stem and 15 years of clinical history with the Omnifit HA
stem.  Long-term clinical results are an
important factor in the Company's ability to market hip implants.

Knee Implant Systems

The Company offers six major knee systems under the Stryker
brand name:  the Duracon, Kinemax,  EIUS, Global Modular Replacement System
(GMRS), Scorpio and Triathlon systems. 
Introduced in 1991 and utilized in more than 500,000 procedures
worldwide, the Duracon system combines high levels of joint conformity
throughout the range of motion and consistent anatomic tracking.  The DuraconTS and ScorpioTS
Revision systems and Modular Rotating Hinge, which were introduced in 1999 and
2001, respectively, completed the product line offerings with implants for
complex revision procedures.


Launched on a limited basis in the United States and Europe
in 2004, the Triathlon Knee system represents the Company's evolutionary design
that has been developed to more closely reproduce natural knee motion and is
designed to provide mobility with stability through more than 150 degrees of
flexion.  The state-of-the-art Triathlon
Knee instrumentation is designed to improve operating room efficiency through a
streamlined, integrated system providing options and flexibility to meet
surgeons' varying preferences and multiple surgical techniques.

Launched in 2003, the GMRS is a global product that offers a
comprehensive solution for severe bone loss in oncology, trauma and revision
surgery patients.  GMRS has tibial and
femoral components, including a total femur, and a modular rotating hinge
knee.  The system employs both titanium
and cobalt chrome alloys for strength and lightness of weight, together with
the superior flexibility of the hinge. 
The MRS system, the
predecessor to the GMRS, was the first modular segmental replacement system and
has maintained a leadership role in this market segment since its introduction
in 1988.

The Kinemax system is focused in markets outside the United States
and offers versatility through design principles based on the clinically
successful Total Condylar and Kinematic Knee Systems.  Precision-designed Monogram instruments
provide a common instrument platform for the Duracon and Kinemax  knee systems.

The Scorpio knee implant design is based on the epicondylar
axis of the knee.  This patented approach
addresses significant clinical issues, such as improved patient rehabilitation
and midflexion stability, through an increase in the patella-femoral moment arm
and a single anterior-posterior radius. 
The Scorpio Plus Mobile Bearing tibial component was launched in markets
outside the United States in
2001 and a clinical trial in the United States is ongoing.  This addition to the Scorpio line provides a
competitive entry into the growing, mobile-bearing market segment.  The ScorpioFlex, which is available for both
posterior cruciate-retaining and cruciate-substituting indications, is
specifically designed for patients who have the ability and motivation to
return to high-flexion activities such as gardening and golfing.  ScorpioFlex has enjoyed success in Japan, where it is sold under the trade name
Scorpio SuperFlex, and is now being sold in the United States.  The Scorpio system is supported by the
Passport instrumentation system, which was designed to provide intraoperative
flexibility and precision as well as a simple, cost-effective approach to total
knee replacement surgery.

The EIUS Unicondylar Knee replacement system is designed for
the quickly growing minimally invasive knee surgery market segment.  This system marries bone-sparing femoral and
tibial implants with sophisticated instrumentation and a surgical technique
aimed at reducing rehabilitation time for patients.

Knee Navigation 3.0, the next generation of surgical
navigation software for total knee replacement, was introduced in 2004.  This image-guided system offers high
precision and consistency through unique two-way communication between the
computer and the surgical instruments, giving the patient the most precise fit
available.  Knee Navigation 3.0 improves
the prior version by incorporating more intuitive hardware and software
functionality.  Training programs are offered to surgeons to provide for the integration
of Knee Navigation technology with total knee and unicondylar knee
replacements.

Other Reconstructive Products

The
Company markets other reconstructive products, principally shoulder and elbow
implants and related instruments, under the Stryker brand name.  The Solar Total Shoulder System provides a
unique design for the humeral head that allows the surgeon to adjust tension of
the supporting tissues while maximizing range of motion.  The shoulder instruments offer the surgeon
increased visibility and access to this tightly confined joint space.  The Solar BiPolar Shoulder provides the
surgeon with additional options for addressing rotator cuff arthropathy
arthritis of the shoulder and is designed with the patented bipolar locking
mechanism that is also used in the Company's hip implants.  The Solar Shoulder product line gives the
surgeon increased intraoperative flexibility to restore the patient's shoulder
kinematics.  The Solar Total Elbow
complements products offered for upper extremity procedures.  The semiconstrained design and modular
components address varying types of patient anatomy.


Bone Cement

Simplex
bone cement, a material used to secure cemented implants to bone, was first
approved for orthopaedic use in the United States in 1971 and is the
most widely used bone cement in the world. 
The Company manufactures and provides several variations of Simplex bone
cement to meet specific patient needs. 
Simplex has more than 40 years of clinical history, the longest of any
bone cement, with more than 400 published clinical papers.

In 2003, Stryker received FDA clearance to market Simplex P
with Tobramycin, a preblended antibiotic bone cement.  The new, blended Simplex, which has been on
the market in Europe since 2000, is indicated in the United States for patients who are
undergoing the second stage of a two-stage revision for a total joint
procedure.

Trauma Implant Systems

Through Stryker Trauma, the Company develops, manufactures
and markets its trauma implant systems. 
Trauma products, including nailing, plating, hip fracture and external
fixation systems, are used primarily in the fixation of fractures resulting
from sudden injury. These products consist of internal fixation devices
marketed under such names as Gamma, Grosse & Kempf, Omega, Dall-Miles,
Asnis, T2 and S2, along with external fixation devices marketed under the Apex,
Hoffmann II and Monotube Triax names.

The Company's internal fixation product portfolio includes a
full array of intramedullary nails, hip fracture devices and plates and screws
in both titanium and stainless steel. 
These trauma products complement the total hip and knee replacement
offerings mentioned above by offering a restorative option in addition to total
replacement.

To address the hip trauma and fracture segment, the Company
markets several products, including the IM nail portfolio, led by the T2
Nailing System; the Gamma Nail, a unique IM nail for trochanteric fractures;
the Omega hip screw system; the Asnis Cannulated Screw System; and the Hansson
pin system, providing a complete offering of surgical solutions for the hip
trauma patient.  These hip fracture
systems offer orthopaedic surgeons multiple options depending on their
preferences and patient needs.

The T2 Nailing System includes femoral, tibial and humeral
components with a common instrument platform for accuracy and ease of use.  Building on the success of this titanium
nail, the Company introduced the stainless steel S2 tibial and femoral nails in
2003.  The S2 nails are designed to meet
the needs of Level 1 trauma centers in the United States as well as broadening
the Stryker product line in the rest of the world.  Following an initial release in selected
markets during 2003, the Gamma3 intramedullary hip fracture nail was fully
launched in the United States,
Japan and throughout Europe.  The Gamma3
is based on more than 15 years of Gamma Nail experience and is the third
generation of IM short and long Gamma fixation nails.  The new Gamma3 system is designed to
facilitate minimally invasive surgery and reduce surgery time through the use
of newly designed implants and new instrumentation.  The Asnis Cannulated Screw System can help
simplify the operative procedure through features that allow the surgeon to
place, insert and remove locking screws easily.

To address the knee trauma segment, Stryker offers the
Hoffman II Modular Fixation System and the T2 SCN Nailing System.  The Hoffman II knee-bridging frame is used to
stabilize injuries to the knee until definitive treatment with a plate, nail or
reconstruction option takes place.  In
addition, Stryker offers the T2 SCN Nail, which can be used for definitive
treatment of supracondylar femur fractures just above the knee joint. This nail
can also be used for periprosthetic fracture fixation for traumatic fractures
in patients who have already had a joint replacement.

Stryker has four product lines for upper extremity trauma.
The Numelock II Polyaxial Locked Plating system is the only comprehensive,
upper extremity,polyaxial
periarticular fracture fixation system on the market. The recently introduced
T2 Proximal Humeral Nail has been very well received and offers a minimally
invasive option for fractures of the humerus. The Universal Distal Radius Set complements
the stainless steel Numelock II with a titanium option in distal radius plates
and screws. The Universal Distal Radius Set offers a wide array of
pre-contoured, variable-sized plates for volar, distal and column approaches
and both open reduction and internal fixation techniques.


The Company's external fixation products also include the
Hoffmann II Compact, the Monotube Triax monolateral system, the TenXor circular
fixation system for complex fractures and a complete range of pins and wires
for attaching the devices to fractured bones. The Hoffmann II Compact for upper
extremity fractures includes a patented snap-fit mechanism that makes it easy
for the surgeon to construct the fixation device to fit the patient and align
the fractured bones, and it includes a full selection of lightweight
radiolucent connection bars that allow for quick intraoperative fracture
repair. The Monotube Triax system is available in three different sizes and
includes an adjustable feature that enables the surgeon to not only stabilize
fractures, but also to lengthen the bone in cases where bone has been removed
due to damage.  The TenXor hybrid frame enables
a surgeon to treat complex fractures around the joints with both pins and long
transfixing wires.  This attribute is
especially useful for patients with multipart fractures near the ankle and
knee.  The system features advanced
composite materials and is compatible with the Hoffman II snap-fit connection
devices.

Spine Implant Systems

Through Stryker Spine, the Company develops, manufactures
and markets spine implant products including cervical, thoracolumbar and
interbody systems used in spine injury, deformity and degenerative
therapies.  Spine implant products
comprise plates, rods, screws, connectors, spacers and cages, along with
proprietary implant instrumentation.  In
2004, Stryker introduced OASYS, a new fixation system developed to serve posterior
cervical fusion, an emerging area of spine surgery. The product was introduced
in the United States
following a successful launch in the European market during 2003.  Also in 2004, Stryker introduced the Reflex
Hybrid anterior cervical plate and the AVS
vertebral spacer system.  The Reflex
Hybrid features the ability to utilize both fixed and variable angle
screws.   The AVS PL
spacers represented Stryker's initial product offering in the vertebral spacer
category.

In 2004, the Company acquired SpineCore, a developer of
artificial lumbar and cervical discs. 
Current products under development include the FlexiCore lumbar
artificial disc and the CerviCore cervical artificial disc.  FlexiCore is currently involved in a U.S. clinical
study under an approved investigational device exemption (IDE) granted by the
FDA.  After completion of enrollment in
the clinical study, a two-year patient follow-up is planned prior to submission
of a PMA application to the FDA. 
Submission of a PMA application for the FlexiCore disc is currently
estimated to occur as early as 2007.  The
Company expects to submit an IDE application to the FDA for the CerviCore
cervical disc and begin a clinical study in 2005 which would lead to submission
of a PMA application in 2008.

In 2003, Stryker extended the Xia Spinal System by adding a
new, low-profile hook system and additional components for anterior
fixation

In 2002, the Company acquired SDI, adding the Ray Threaded
Fusion Cage interbody system and the SR90D thoracolumbar system to the global
product portfolio.  Also in 2002, Stryker
introduced enhanced versions of the Xia titanium system and launched the
original Reflex anterior cervical plating system.

Stryker Spine's other products include Xia
Titanium, Xia
Stainless Steel, Diapason, Opus, OIC, Solis and the Stabilis Systems.  The Xia
Stainless Steel System, an offering
within the Xia Spinal System, is designed to better serve deformity correction
requirements, while the Xia Titanium System is a broad spectrum of posterior
implants designed to relieve pain by stabilizing the spine in the thoracic,
lumbar and sacral regions.  It is
accompanied by instrumentation that simplifies the surgical procedures.
Diapason and Opus represent the original Stryker "Ball Ring Technology" that
has been on the market for over 10 years. Launched in international markets,
the OIC, Solis and Stabilis systems are novel interbody fusion devices designed
to improve stability and alignment during fusion.

Micro Implant Systems

Through Stryker Leibinger Micro Implants, the Company
develops, manufactures and markets plating systems and related products for
craniomaxillofacial and hand surgery.  In
2004, the Company extended its Universal Fixation System for
craniomaxillofacial surgery with the addition of a cranial/neurological
application system and for the hand surgery market with the addition of a
distal radius fixation system.  The
Hummer 4 was


also introduced in 2004 for the ear, nose and throat (ENT) market. 
In 2003, the Company extended the Universal Fixation System with the
launch of the Midface System.  Also in
2003, BoneSource Classic was introduced, representing an advance in Stryker's
BoneSource line of products to include HA.

In 2002, the Company launched the Universal Mandible Plating
System. This innovative system accommodates all mandibular fracture and
reconstruction needs in one small, simple and easy-to-use system.  The Profyle Modular Hand Plating System,
launched in 2002, features simple instrumentation, low-profile implants and a
wide variety of screw diameters and plate configurations.

OP-1

More
than two decades ago, Stryker saw the potential that orthobiologic products
held for orthopaedics in an aging world and began a long-term investment in
OP-1, a proprietary, recombinant version of a signaling protein with multiple
tissue regeneration properties.  Initial
interest focused on the bone growth properties of OP-1.  OP-1 was originally discovered by Creative
BioMolecules, Inc. (a company that subsequently merged into Curis, Inc.), with
which Stryker funded a long-term development collaboration with a vision to
develop the first molecules to stimulate tissue regeneration. Stryker's first
therapeutic product, OP-1 Implant, is composed of recombinant human OP-1 and a
bioresorbable collagen matrix.  OP-1 is a
natural protein that the human body makes to induce bone formation. In
preclinical studies, OP-1 induced the formation of new bone when implanted into
bony defect sites. Stryker was the first company to enter clinical studies with
a bone morphogenic protein, BMP-7 (or OP-1). Studies have been performed in two
challenging clinical indications: first, in non-union fractures of long bones,
and second, in revision posterolateral spine fusion.

In 2001, Stryker received approval for a Humanitarian Device
Exemption (HDE) from the FDA.  This
approval in the United States is for the use of OP-1 Implant as an alternative
to autograft in recalcitrant long-bone non-unions where use of autograft is not
feasible and alternative treatments have failed.  An HDE, as defined by the FDA, is for a
product intended to benefit patients by treating or diagnosing a disease or
condition that affects fewer than 4,000 individuals per year in the United
States.  As of December 31, 2004, more
than 600 hospitals had received Institutional Review Board (IRB) approval for
OP-1 Implant in patients in the United States under the HDE.

The Company has received market
approvals from regulators in Europe, Australia and Canada for the indication of
non-union fractures of the tibia that either failed prior to autograft
treatment, or when autograft treatment is not feasible, for the treatment of
long-bone non-unions secondary to trauma for the purpose of initiating new bone
formation or for the clinical indication of long-bone non-unions.  The Company filed a Marketing Authorization
Application (MAA) with the
European Medicines Evaluation Agency (EMEA) for certain OP-1 uses, and the MAA was accepted for filing in July 1999.  On December 14, 2000, the Committee for Proprietary
Medicinal Products (CPMP) in Europe voted unanimously to recommend market
authorization for OP-1 Implant (marketed under the name Osigraft) for the
indication of non-unions of the tibia that failed prior autograft treatment or
when autograft is not feasible.  Final
European approval was obtained in May 2001 for this indication.  A New Drug Application with the Therapeutic
Goods Administration (TGA) in Australia was filed in December 1999, and in
February 2001 the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee (ADEC) recommended the
granting of marketing authorization for OP-1 for treatment of long-bone
non-unions secondary to trauma for the purpose of initiating new bone
formation.  Approval from the TGA was
received in April 2001. In February 2002, the Company received approval to
market OP-1 in Canada for the clinical indication of long-bone non-unions. Most
recently, Switzerland granted approval to market a form of OP-1 in 2004 for the
clinical indication of non-union tibial fractures.

With this unique set of global approvals, the Company began
to market OP-1.  During the past three
years, the increase in the number of patients treated has demonstrated the
success of the sales effort and the trust that surgeons have developed in the
product based on favorable patient outcomes.

In the United States, Stryker Biotech received a further HDE
in May 2004 for revision posterolateral spine fusion following the completion of
a pilot clinical study that indicated possible benefit of a new formulation of
OP-1, known as OP-1 Putty, for this application.


Demand for OP-1 Implant and OP-1 Putty continued to increase

during each quarter of 2004. 
Stryker is committed to the further development of OP-1 for spinal
indications, including spinal stenosis. 
This degenerative condition, which is widespread in the over-65
population, causes severe pain in the lower back and legs as a result of
abnormal movement in the lower spine. 
Spinal fusion is used to stabilize the spine and reduce stenotic
pain.  Fusing the spine with OP-1 can
eliminate the need for painful additional surgery to harvest bone from the
patient's hip to use in the fusion process.

Currently, the Company is conducting a multicenter pivotal
trial in the United States and Canada for posterolateral spine fusion using the
new product, OP-1 Putty, to treat degenerative spondylolisthesis.  In 2003 the Company completed enrollment in
this trial.  The Company currently
anticipates that the evaluation of the 297 enrolled patients will be completed
in late 2005.

In October 2002, the Company entered into an agreement with
Curis, Inc., which eliminated all royalties payable to Curis relating to future
Stryker sales of OP-1. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company made a one-time
cash payment to Curis and subsequently owns the patents on its osteogenic
protein technology and has exclusive worldwide rights under those patents to
develop, market and sell OP-1 for treatment, repair or replacement of bone and
joint tissue.

MedSurg Equipment

MedSurg Equipment products include powered surgical
instruments, surgical navigation systems, endoscopic products, medical video
imaging equipment and hospital beds and stretchers.  These products are designed and manufactured
by Stryker Instruments, Stryker Endoscopy and Stryker Medical.

The Stryker Instruments and Stryker Endoscopy product
portfolios include micro-powered tools and instruments that are used in
orthopaedics, functional endoscopic sinus surgery, neurosurgery, spinal surgery
and plastic surgery. The Total Performance System (TPS) is a universal surgical
system that can be utilized within several medical specialties. The TPS U2
Drill, introduced in 2000, and TPS Burs are designed for use by spine surgeons
and neurosurgeons, while the TPS MicroDriver and TPS Sagittal Saw are designed
for use by sports physicians and plastic surgeons.  The Elite attachment line with a proprietary
extendable bar system and Saber Drill for ENT
surgery were added in 2001 to further extend the TPS system in spine,
neurosurgery and ENT applications.
The TPS System also powers  Stryker Endoscopy Shaver Systems and
certain products within Stryker Leibinger Micro Implants' Hummer line.

Powered Surgical Instruments and Operating Room Equipment

Through Stryker Instruments, the Company offers a broad line
of powered surgical instruments that are used by all surgical specialties for
drilling, burring, rasping or cutting bone in small bone orthopaedics,
neurosurgical, spine and ENT
procedures; wiring or pinning bone fractures; and preparing hip or knee
surfaces for the placement of artificial implants. Stryker Instruments also
manufactures an array of different attachments and cutting accessories for use
by orthopaedic, neurological and small-bone specialists.

In 2004, Stryker launched the CORE
electric console for use with its line of CORE
powered instruments. The CORE
platform console is a technological advancement on the precision and
versatility offered by the TPS console platform and offers integrated
irrigation, multi-handpiece functionality and a standardized user
interface.

In 2003, Stryker launched the CORE
platform of micro-powered surgical instruments in the U.S. market.  This platform includes specialty-driven
handpieces, including those for spine and neurosurgery procedures, providing
increased power and torque, greater speed and precision cutting.  The CORE
platform is a technological advancement on the precision and versatility
offered by the TPS platform.

In 2002, the Company launched System 5, its fifth-generation
product offering of its flagship, heavy-duty, battery-powered surgical
instruments. This line provides enhanced cutting speed and torque as well as
versatility in an ergonomic handpiece system. 
Applications for this line include total joint, trauma and sports
medicine procedures.


Stryker Instruments also produces products that are utilized
in conjunction with joint replacement surgery. 
In 2004, Stryker introduced the Revolution Cement Mixing System,
representing an improved design over its existing Advanced Cement Mixing
System.  The Revolution system is
designed to provide one solution for mixing all surgical cements, in addition
to offering mixing efficacy, safety and ease of use.  Interpulse is a disposable, self-contained
pulsed lavage system that is used by physicians to cleanse the surgical site
during total joint arthroplasty. The ConstaVac CBC
II Blood Conservation System is a postoperative wound drainage and blood
reinfusion device that enables joint replacement patients to receive their own
blood rather than donor blood.

In 2002, the Company introduced the
PainPump2, a disposable system that offers electronically controlled flow rates
of pain medication directly to the surgical site to help manage a patient's
postoperative discomfort. This innovative design allows the physician to program
the pump and provides a patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) option, previously
unavailable to the market in a disposable pump. 
In 2003, Stryker made product improvements to the PainPump2, allowing
the pump to be programmed to extend continuous peripheral nerve blockage during
surgery and provide non-narcotic pain management following the procedure.

As part of a broad surgical product portfolio, Stryker works
closely with hospitals and other health-care organizations to promote safety
for patients and medical staff.  The
Neptune Waste Management System represents Stryker's leading product for waste
management in the operating room.  The
self-contained device, first introduced in 2000 and consistently improved,
collects and disposes of fluid and smoke waste from surgical procedures,
minimizing the need for operator intervention and therefore the risk of
exposure.  In 2004, the Company
introduced the Neptune Bronze platform, which provides a low-cost alternative
to its operating room waste management solution.  Stryker also markets the
Sterishield
T4 Personal Protection System, combining a helmet, hood and gown to help provide
protection for operating room personnel from infection, cross-contamination and
harmful microorganisms.

Interventional Pain Products

Through Stryker Instruments, the Company offers SpinePlex, a
variation of its surgical Simplex bone cement for applications in both vertebroplasty and
kyphoplasty.  In 2004, Stryker also
introduced a next-generation radiofrequency system for chronic pain management that greatly enhances the
user interface while simplifying the system operation.   In 2002, Stryker acquired the
DEKOMPRESSOR
product line from Pain Concepts Inc. The DEKOMPRESSOR is a single-use
disposable device indicated for the percutaneous removal of disc nucleus
material, offering an early, less invasive approach to mitigating back and leg
pain associated with contained lumbar herniations.  This important advance in lumbar disc pain
management, along with Stryker's offerings in Percutaneous Cement Delivery and
Radiofrequency Denervation, allows Stryker to focus on the Interventional Pain
Management marketplace.

Surgical Navigation Systems

Through Stryker Instruments, the Company launched the Navigation
System II Cart and Camera as well as Hip 2.0, Uni-knee, and Knee 3.0 for use
with the Stryker Navigation System in 2004. 
All of these new product offerings are imageless platforms incorporating
more intuitive hardware and software functions that result in increased ease of
use, less invasive procedures and reduced surgical time.  In 2002, the Company introduced its new
surgical navigation software module for fluoroscopic image-guided surgery.  This software, designed for the Stryker
Navigation System, allows surgeons to employ image-guided surgery in
conjunction with intraoperative fluoroscopic images.

Endoscopic Products and Medical Video Imaging Equipment

Stryker
Endoscopy produces and markets medical video-imaging and communications equipment
and instruments for arthroscopy, general surgery and urology.  Stryker Endoscopy has established a position
of leadership in the production of medical imaging video technology and
accessories for minimally invasive surgery, as well as communications equipment
to provide local or worldwide interconnectivity.  Products include medical video cameras,
digital documentation equipment, digital image software, arthroscopes,
laparoscopes, powered surgical instruments, sports medicine instrumentation and
implants, radio frequency ablation systems, irrigation fluid management
systems, i-Suite operating room solutions and state-of-the-art equipment for
telemedicine and


enterprise-wide connectivity. 
Stryker's line of rigid scopes, which range in diameter from 2.3 millimeters to
10 millimeters, contains a series of precision lenses as well as fiber optics
that allow the physician to view internal anatomy with a high degree of clarity.

In
2004, Stryker introduced the next-generation 3-chip camera, the 1088HD, bringing
high-definition video to the operating room. 
To accommodate the recording of high-definition images, the Company
introduced the Stryker Digital Capture (SDC)
HD digital documentation system. 
Additionally, Stryker launched its Image Portal business to provide
state-of-the-art digital image capture manipulation and storage to orthopaedic
clinics and offices.  Another milestone
was the introduction of best-in-class scope technology with the U-500
FlexVision flexible ureteroscope. 
Stryker also launched its Formula shaver system, which is small, light
and equipped with radio frequency identification (RFID), which facilitates
communication between the blade and console.

In 2003, Stryker extended its
market-leading 988 Digital 3-Chip camera by introducing a fully autoclavable
model for more efficient sterilization. 
The 3-Chip cameras continue to provide multispecialty video imaging
through several product generations.  In
addition, the Company introduced the Stryker Integrated Delivery Network
(SIDNE), a voice-activated operating room network, in 2003.  Also in 2003, Stryker signed an exclusive
license and distribution services agreement with a third party to provide
distribution services for certain allograft products for sports medicine
applications in the United States. 
Allografts are used in numerous sports medicine procedures, including
the repair of anterior cruciate ligaments.

In 2002, Stryker continued its leading market share position
with the i-Suite Operating Room.  An
enhancement that changed the way minimally invasive surgery is documented is
the SDC Pro 2 surgical DVD documentation system, which was developed to
store high quality digital images to a DVD
drive and distribute images on an existing hospital network.

Hospital Beds and Stretchers

Stryker Medical is a leader in the stretcher products
segment, offering a wide variety of stretchers customized to fit the needs of
acute care and specialty surgical care facilities. In 2004, Stryker Medical
launched a completely new concept in stretcher design, the M-Series
Stretcher.  With a focus on patient
safety and product mobility, the M-Series features Stryker's Glideaway
siderails that provide maximum coverage when raised and a zero-transfer-gap
when lowered; a 700-pound weight capacity; an integrated transfer board; and
four-wheel, steel- ring brakes for stability. The M-Series provides customers
with three different mobility options to suit their transportation needs: a
fifth wheel for enhanced steering, Big Wheel technology for increased maneuverability
and the self-propelled Zoom technology. All three mobility options provide a
safe and comfortable surface for patients while reducing the risk of back
injury for hospital staff.

Stryker also produces beds that are designed to fit the
unique needs of specialty departments within the acute care environment.  New in 2004, the MA204 medical/surgical bed
features low bed-height for safe patient ingress and exit. The MA204 also
offers the optional Chaperone center-of-gravity bed-exit system with Zone
Control to help prevent patient falls. 
Zone Control is a feature that enables the caregiver to adjust the
sensitivity of the bed-exit system to accommodate different patient needs.
Stryker's innovative design extended to the labor and delivery market in 2004
with the introduction of the LD304 birthing bed, which features a removable
foot section with the unique Lock-Rite system. Stryker has a complete line of
ICU beds for critical care and step-down units. 
The beds incorporate advanced features that facilitate patient care,
such as in-bed scales that accurately weigh the patient regardless of bed
position and a radiolucent surface that facilitates chest x-rays without moving
the patient from the bed.  Stryker also
offers a continuum of mattresses as an option with its frames.  The Company's legacy of innovation in the
prehospital market continued in 2004 with the launch of the MX-PRO BT ambulance
cot with a weight capacity of 850 pounds for use in the emergency medical
services transport market. To facilitate patient transport up and down stairs,
Stryker offers the STAIRPRO series of stair chairs.


Other

Other includes Physical Therapy Services.  Physiotherapy Associates provides physical,
occupational and speech therapy services to patients recovering from
orthopaedic or neurological illness and injury through a network of 428
outpatient physical therapy centers in 25 states and the District of
Columbia.  Physiotherapy Associates works
closely with referring physicians to design and execute rehabilitation
protocols with the goal of quick recoveries for injured workers, athletes and
other patients.

PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT

Most of the Company's products and product improvements have
been developed internally.  The Company
maintains close working relationships with physicians and medical personnel in
hospitals and universities who assist in product research and development.  New and improved products play a critical
role in the Company's sales growth.  The
Company continues to place emphasis on the development of proprietary products
and product improvements to complement and expand its existing product
lines.  The Company has a decentralized
research and development focus, with manufacturing locations responsible for
new product development and product improvements.  Research, development and engineering
functions at the manufacturing locations maintain relationships with
distribution locations and customers to understand changes in the market and
product needs.

Total expenditures for product research, development and
engineering were $211.0 million in 2004, $180.2 million in 2003 and $141.4
million in 2002.  Research, development
and engineering expenses represented 5.0% of sales in both 2004 and 2003,
compared with 4.7% of sales in 2002.  
The higher spending levels are the result of final development spending
in advance of the Company's product launches and continued focus on new product
development for anticipated future product launches, together with, beginning
in the third quarter of 2004, spending associated with the continued
development of products acquired from SpineCore.  Recent new product introductions in the
Orthopaedic Implants and MedSurg segments are more fully described under the
caption "

Product Sales

" on pages 4
through 14 of this report.

MARKETING

Domestic sales accounted for 65% of total revenues in
2004.  Most of the Company's products are
marketed directly to more than 6,000 hospitals and to other health-care
facilities and doctors by approximately 2,350 sales and marketing personnel in
the United States.  Stryker primarily
maintains separate and dedicated sales forces for each of its principal product
lines to provide focus and a high level of expertise to each medical specialty
served.

International sales accounted for 35% of total revenues in
2004.  The Company's products are sold in
more than 100 countries through more than 1,750 local dealers and direct sales
efforts.  Local dealer support and direct
sales are coordinated by approximately 1,900 sales and marketing
personnel.  Stryker distributes its
products through sales subsidiaries and branches with offices located in
Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Denmark, Finland,
France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, India, Italy, Japan, Korea, Mexico, The
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Singapore, South
Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan and the United Kingdom.  Stryker exports products to dealers and to
customers in Africa, Bangladesh, China, the CIS (former Soviet Union), Cyprus,
India, Indonesia, Ireland, Korea, Latin America, Malaysia, the Middle East,
the Philippines, Taiwan, Thailand, Turkey, Vietnam and Yugoslavia.  Additional information regarding the
Company's international and domestic operations and sales appears in "

Note 12 - Segment and Geographic Data

" on pages 52
through 54 of this report.

The Company's business is generally not seasonal in nature;
however, the number of orthopaedic implant surgeries is lower during the summer
months.


COMPETITION

The Company is one of four leading competitors in the United
States for orthopaedic reconstructive products. 
The three other leading competitors are DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc. (a
subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson), Zimmer Holdings, Inc., and Biomet, Inc.
While competition abroad varies from area to area, the Company believes it is
also a leading player in the international markets with these same companies as
its principal competitors.

In the
trauma implant segment, Stryker is one of five leaders competing principally
with Synthes-Stratec, Smith & Nephew Orthopaedics (a division of Smith
& Nephew plc), Zimmer Holdings, Inc., and DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc.

In the spinal implant segment, the Company is one of four
leaders, including the principal competitors Medtronic Sofamor Danek, Inc. (a
subsidiary of Medtronic, Inc.), DePuy Spine, Inc. (a subsidiary of Johnson
& Johnson), and Synthes-Stratec.

In the craniomaxillofacial segment, Stryker is one of four leaders,
together with the principal competitors Synthes-Stratec, Walter Lorenz
Surgical, Inc. (a subsidiary of Biomet, Inc.), and KLS Martin L.P.

The Company believes that several companies are engaged in
the research and development of morphogenic proteins for the repair of hard and
soft tissues that would compete with the Company's OP-1 product.  Medtronic
Sofamor Danek has received FDA
approval for its recombinant bone morphogenetic protein ("rhBMP-2")
for certain spine, trauma and orthopaedic indications including the treatment
of acute, open fractures of the tibial shaft and spinal fusion surgeries.  A number of companies currently provide
various other therapies, including allografts, bone fillers and electrical
stimulation devices for the treatment, repair or replacement of bone and joint
tissue.  The Company believes that its
OP-1 product, which is approved for limited trauma and spine indications in
certain markets and is currently in clinical trials for other indications,
would ultimately compete with these products and with traditional therapies,
such as autograft and allograft.

In the powered surgical instruments segment, Stryker is one
of three leaders, together with the principal domestic competitors Medtronic
Midas Rex, Inc. (a subsidiary of Medtronic, Inc.), and Linvatec, Inc. (a
subsidiary of CONMED Corporation).  These
companies are also competitors in the international segments, along with
Aesculap-Werke AG (a division of B. Braun Melsungen AG), a large European
manufacturer.

In the surgical navigation segment, Stryker is one of five
principal competitors including Medtronic Surgical Navigation Technologies (a
division of Medtronic, Inc.), BrainLAB Inc. (a subsidiary of BrainLAB AG),
AESCULAP
AG & Co. KG (a division of B. Braun Melsungen AG), Radionics, Inc. (a
subsidiary of Tyco International Ltd.), and GE Medical Systems Navigation and
Visualization, Inc. (a subsidiary of General Electric Company).

In the arthroscopy segment, the Company is one of four
leaders, together with the principal competitors Smith & Nephew Endoscopy
(a division of Smith & Nephew plc), Linvatec, Inc., and Arthrex, Inc.  In the laparoscopic imaging products segment,
the Company is one of four leaders, together with the principal competitors
Karl Storz GmbH & Co. (a German company), ACMI
Corporation and Olympus Optical Co. Ltd. (a Japanese company).

The Company's primary competitor in the patient-handling
segment is Hill-Rom Company, Inc. (a division of Hillenbrand Industries,
Inc.).  In the specialty stretcher segment,
the primary competitors are Hausted, Inc. (a subsidiary of STERIS Corporation),
Hill-Rom Company, Inc., and Midmark Hospital Products Group (a subsidiary of
Ohio Medical Instrument Company, Inc.). 
In the emergency medical services segment, Ferno-Washington, Inc., is
the Company's principal competitor.

In the United States outpatient physical and occupational
rehabilitation segment, the Company's primary competitors are independent,
therapist-owned practices and hospital-based services, in addition to other
national rehabilitation companies, including HEALTHSOUTH Corporation and
NovaCare Rehabilitation (a division of Select Medical Corporation).


The
principal factors that the Company believes differentiate it in these highly
competitive market segments and enable it to compete effectively are
innovation, reliability, service and reputation.  The Company is not able to predict the effect
that continuing efforts to reduce health-care expenses generally and hospital
costs in particular will have on the future sales of its products or its
competitive position.  (See "

Regulation and Product Quality

.")  The Company believes that its competitive
position in the future will depend to a large degree on its ability to develop
new products and make improvements to existing products.  While the Company does not consider patents a
major factor in its overall competitive success, patents and trademarks are
significant to the extent that a product or attribute of a product represents a
unique design or process.  Patent or
trademark protection of such products restricts competitors from duplicating
these unique designs and features. 
Stryker seeks to obtain patent protection on its products whenever
possible.  The Company currently owns
approximately 860 United States patents and 1,450 international patents.

MANUFACTURING AND
SOURCES OF SUPPLY

The Company's manufacturing processes consist primarily of
precision machining, metal fabrication and assembly operations; the forging and
investment casting of cobalt chrome; and the finishing of cobalt chrome and
titanium.  In addition, the Company is
the sole manufacturer of its OP-1 product. 
Approximately 9% of the Company's cost of sales in 2004 represented
finished products that were purchased complete from outside suppliers.  The Company also purchases parts and
components, such as forgings, castings, gears, bearings, casters and electrical
components, and uses outside sources for certain finishing operations, such as
plating, hardening and coating of machined components and sterilization of
certain products.  The principal raw
materials used by the Company are stainless steel, aluminum, cobalt chrome and
titanium alloys.  In all, purchased parts
and components from outside sources were approximately 41% of the total cost of
sales in 2004.

While the Company relies on single sources for certain
purchased materials and services, it believes alternate sources are available
if needed.  The Company has not
experienced any significant difficulty in the past in obtaining the materials
necessary to meet its production schedules.

Substantially all products manufactured by the Company are
stocked in inventory, while certain products manufactured within the Company's
MedSurg segment are assembled to order.

REGULATION

AND PRODUCT QUALITY

The Medical Device Amendments of 1976 to the federal Food,
Drug and Cosmetic Act; the Safe Medical Devices Act of 1990; and regulations
issued or proposed thereunder provide for regulation by the FDA of the design,
manufacture and marketing of medical devices, including most of the Company's
products.

The FDA's Quality System regulations set forth standards for
the Company's product design and manufacturing processes, require the
maintenance of certain records and provide for inspections of the Company's
facilities by the FDA.  There are also
certain requirements of state, local and foreign governments that must be
complied with in the manufacturing and marketing of the Company's
products.  The Company believes that the
manufacturing and quality control procedures it employs meet the requirements
of these regulations.

Most of the Company's new products fall into FDA
classifications that require notification of and review by the FDA before
marketing, submitted as a 510(k).  The
Company's FlexiCore and CerviCore artificial disc products and OP-1 products
require extensive clinical testing, consisting of safety and efficacy studies,
followed by PMA applications for specific surgical indications.

Stryker
also is subject to the laws that govern the manufacture and distribution of
medical devices of each country in which the Company manufactures or sells
products.  The member states of the
European Union ("EU") have adopted the European Medical Device Directives,
which create a single set of medical device regulations for all EU member
countries.  These regulations require
companies that wish to manufacture and distribute medical devices in EU member
countries to obtain Community European (CE) marks for their products. 
Stryker has authorization to apply the CE mark to its hip, knee, upper
extremity, trauma, spine and micro implant systems,


bone cement, powered surgical
instruments, surgical navigation systems, endoscopic products, medical video
imaging equipment and hospital beds and stretchers.  The Company's OP-1
product has been considered a drug under the regulations for Europe, Australia
and Japan.

The Company's Physiotherapy Associates, Inc., subsidiary is
subject to various federal and state regulations regarding the provision of
physical therapy services.  The primary
entities administering these regulations are the Centers for Medicare &
Medicaid Services, CHAMPUS, state workers compensation agencies, state
insurance commissioners and state licensing agencies.

Government agencies, legislative bodies and private-sector
initiatives to limit the growth of health-care costs, including price
regulation and competitive pricing, are continuing in markets where the Company
does business.  It is impossible to
predict at this time the long-term impact of such cost-containment measures on
the Company's future business.

EMPLOYEES

At December 31, 2004, the Company had 15,891 employees
worldwide, including 5,704 involved in manufacturing, warehousing and distribution
operations; 4,307 in sales and marketing; 936 in research, development and
engineering; 3,406 providing physical, occupational and speech therapy; and the
balance in general management and administration.  Certain international employees are covered
by collective bargaining agreements that are updated annually.  The Company believes that its employee
relations are satisfactory.

ITEM 2.

PROPERTIES

The Company has the following properties:


In addition to the above, the Company maintains
administrative and sales offices and warehousing and distribution facilities in
various countries, including the United States, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hong
Kong, India, Italy, Japan, Korea, Mexico, The Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway,
Poland, Portugal, Romania, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland
and the United Kingdom.

Each of the properties listed above is suitable and adequate
for the manufacture and distribution of the Company's products.  To meet anticipated future demand for certain
product offerings, the Company is currently expanding certain manufacturing and
distribution facilities including facilities for the manufacturing of OP-1,
spinal implants, powered surgical instruments and patient-handling and
emergency medical equipment.

ITEM 3.

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The Company is a defendant in various proceedings, legal
actions and claims arising in the normal course of business, including
proceedings related to product, labor, intellectual property and other
matters.  Such matters are subject to
many uncertainties and outcomes are not predictable with assurance.  The Company records amounts for losses that
are deemed to be probable and subject to reasonable estimate.  The Company does not anticipate material
losses as a result of these proceedings beyond amounts already provided for.

ITEM 4.

SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

Not applicable.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

Certain information with respect to the executive officers
of the Company is set forth in Item 10 of this report.

PART II

ITEM 5.

MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED
  STOCKHOLDER

MATTERS AND
  ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

The Company's Common Stock is traded on the New York Stock
Exchange under the symbol SYK.   Quarterly stock prices appear under the
caption "

Summary of Quarterly Data (Unaudited)

"
on page 56 of this report and dividend information for the years ended December 31, 2004
and 2003 under the caption "

Summary of Operations

"
in Item 6 below.  The Company's Board of
Directors considers a year-end cash dividend annually at its December meeting.


In the fourth quarter of 2004, the Company issued 240 shares
of Common Stock as performance incentive awards to certain employees.  The shares were not registered under the
Securities Act of 1933 based on the conclusion that the awards would not be
events of sale within the meaning of Section 2(a)(3) of the Act.

On February 28, 2005, there were
3,900 stockholders of record of the Company's Common Stock.

ITEM 6.

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The financial information for each of the
five years in the period ended
December 31, 2004 is set forth below (dollars
in millions, except per share amounts):

(a) Adjusted for the two-for-one stock splits effective May 12, 2000 and
May 14, 2004.

(b) Excludes net
extraordinary loss per share of $.01 basic and $.01 diluted.


FINANCIAL AND STATISTICAL DATA

ITEM 7.

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND
  ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS
  OF OPERATIONS

Executive Level Overview

Stryker Corporation (the "Company" or
"Stryker") is a leader in the worldwide orthopaedic market and is one
of the world's largest medical device companies.  Stryker delivers results through a wide range
of capabilities including joint replacements, trauma, spine and micro implant
systems, orthobiologics, powered surgical instruments, surgical navigation
systems and endoscopic products as well as patient handling and emergency
medical equipment.  Stryker also provides
outpatient physical therapy services in the United States.

The Company segregates its operations into two reportable
business segments: Orthopaedic Implants and MedSurg Equipment.  The Orthopaedic Implants segment sells
orthopaedic reconstructive (hip, knee and shoulder), trauma, spine and micro
implant systems, bone cement and the bone growth factor osteogenic protein-1
(OP-1).  The MedSurg Equipment segment
sells powered surgical instruments, surgical navigation systems, endoscopic
products, medical video imaging equipment and hospital beds and
stretchers.  The Other category includes
Physical Therapy Services and corporate administration, interest expense and
interest income.

Domestic sales accounted for 65% of total revenues in
2004.  Most of the Company's products are
marketed directly to more than 6,000 hospitals and to doctors and other
health-care facilities by approximately 2,350 sales and marketing personnel in
the United States.  Stryker primarily
maintains separate and dedicated sales forces for each of its principal product
lines to provide focus and a high level of expertise to each medical specialty
served.

International sales accounted for 35% of total revenues in
2004.  The Company's products are sold in
more than 100 countries through more than 1,750 local dealers and direct sales
forces.  Local dealer support and direct
sales are coordinated by approximately 1,900 local and regional sales and
marketing personnel.  Stryker distributes
its products through sales subsidiaries and branches with offices located in
Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Denmark,
Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, India, Italy, Japan, Korea,
Mexico, The Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania,
Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan and the United
Kingdom.  Stryker exports products to
dealers and to customers in Africa, Bangladesh, China, the CIS (former Soviet
Union), Cyprus, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Korea, Latin America, Malaysia, the
Middle East, the Philippines, Taiwan, Thailand, Turkey, Vietnam and Yugoslavia.

The Company's business is generally not seasonal in nature;
however, the number of orthopaedic implant surgeries is lower during the summer
months.


In the third quarter of 2004, the Company completed its
acquisition, by merger, of all of the outstanding stock of SpineCore, Inc.
(SpineCore), for an upfront payment of $120.0 million in cash plus certain
transaction costs.  SpineCore is a
developer of artificial lumbar and cervical discs.  Terms of the transaction also include
milestone and royalty payments of up to an additional $240.0 million upon the
achievement of commercialization of SpineCore's products in the United States,
which is not expected to occur before 2008. 
This acquisition is expected to enhance the Company's presence in the
spinal implant market, an important growth area within its Orthopaedic Implants
segment.  Additional details, including
the financial statement impact resulting from the acquisition, are included in

Results of Operations

.

Outlook for 2005

The Company's outlook for 2005 continues to be optimistic
regarding the markets it participates in and the underlying growth rates in
orthopaedic procedures.  The Company
expects diluted net earnings per share for 2005 to approximate $1.74, excluding
the anticipated impact from the recognition of the cost of employee stock
options as more fully described in

Other Matters

.  The financial expectations for 2005 include a
net sales increase of approximately 15% as a result of strong growth in
shipments of Orthopaedic Implants and MedSurg Equipment, favorable foreign
currency exchange rate movements and higher revenue from Physical Therapy
Services.  If foreign currency exchange
rates hold at current levels, the Company anticipates a favorable impact on net
sales in the first quarter and full year of 2005 of approximately $15 million
and $75 million, respectively.  Excluding
the effect of foreign currency exchange rates, the Company expects sales growth
of approximately 13% in 2005, which is comparable to the 14% sales growth,
excluding the effect of foreign currency exchange rates, reported for the full
year of 2004.

The Company has paid off substantially all previously
outstanding borrowings under its existing credit facilities and eliminated the
amounts previously outstanding under its accounts receivable securitization
facility and expects to generate cash earnings (net earnings plus noncash
adjustments) in excess of its needs to fund future working capital
requirements.   The Company anticipates
investing in future business growth, including business and product line
acquisitions to supplement its current product offerings, loaner
instrumentation for surgical implants in support of new product launches and
future building expansions, including manufacturing facility expansions for
certain divisions.

Results of Operations

The
table below outlines the components of the consolidated statements of earnings
as a percentage of net sales and the year-to-year percentage change in dollar
amounts:


The table below sets forth domestic/international and
product line sales information:

The table below sets forth additional sales growth
information for significant products within the Company's Orthopaedic Implants
and MedSurg Equipment product lines on both a reported basis and excluding the
impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates:


2004 Compared with 2003

Stryker
Corporation's net sales increased 18% in 2004 to $4,262.3 million from
$3,625.3 million in 2003.  Net sales
grew by 13% as a result of increased unit volume and changes in product mix; 3%
due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates; and 2% related to higher
selling prices.

Domestic sales were $2,753.0 million for 2004, representing
an increase of 18% as a result of strong shipments of Orthopaedic Implants and
MedSurg Equipment and higher revenue from Physical Therapy Services.  International sales were $1,509.3 million for
2004, representing an increase of 17% as a result of higher shipments of
Orthopaedic Implants and MedSurg Equipment. 
The impact of foreign currency comparisons to the dollar value of
international sales was favorable by $120.8 million for 2004.  Excluding the impact of foreign currency,
international sales increased 7% in 2004.

Worldwide sales of Orthopaedic Implants were $2,562.5
million for 2004, representing an increase of 17% as a result of higher
shipments of reconstructive, trauma, spine and micro implant systems, bone
cement and the bone growth factor OP-1. 
Excluding the impact of foreign currency, sales of Orthopaedic Implants
increased 13% for the year.  Sales of hip
implant systems increased 14% during the year, 9% excluding changes in foreign
currency exchange rates.  Sales growth
for hip products slowed during 2004 primarily due to tougher comparables
resulting from the launch of the Trident ceramic-on-ceramic hip system in the
United States in the second quarter of 2003. 
Sales of knee implant systems increased 18% during the year, 14%
excluding changes in foreign currency exchange rates, due to strong growth in
Scorpio and Duracon knee systems in the United States.  Sales of trauma implant systems increased 17%
during the year, 11% excluding changes in foreign currency exchange rates, as a
result of the full-scale launch of the Gamma3 Hip Fracture System in the United
States, Japan and Europe in 2004.  Strong
growth in the Company's T2 Nailing System, both in the United States and internationally,
also drove trauma sales growth in 2004. 
Sales of spinal implant systems increased 18% during the year, 15%
excluding changes in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily due to strong
sales growth of cervical and interbody products in the United States.  Sales of micro implant systems increased 16%
during the year, 12% excluding changes in foreign currency exchange rates, as a
result of solid worldwide sales of craniomaxillofacial products.

Worldwide sales of MedSurg Equipment were $1,454.9 million
for 2004, representing an increase of 20% as a result of higher shipments of
powered surgical instruments and surgical navigation systems, endoscopic
products, and patient handling and emergency medical equipment. Excluding the
impact of foreign currency, sales of MedSurg Equipment increased 18% for the
year.  Sales of powered surgical
instruments and surgical navigation systems increased 17% during the year, 15%
excluding changes in foreign currency exchange rates, due to strong sales
growth in heavy-duty powered instruments, interventional pain products and
surgical navigation systems both domestically and in Europe.  Sales of endoscopic products increased 21%
during the year, 20% excluding changes in foreign currency exchange rates, as a
result of solid growth in medical video imaging equipment and sports medicine
products in the United States.  Sales of
patient handling and emergency medical equipment increased 25% during the year,
23% excluding changes in foreign currency exchange rates, due to strong growth
in hospital beds and emergency medical equipment both domestically and in the
international markets.

Physical Therapy Services revenues were $244.9 million for
2004, representing an increase of 10% with 6% of the growth resulting from new
physical therapy centers and 4% of the increase coming from higher revenues at
existing centers.

Cost of sales represented
35.4% of sales in 2004 compared with 36.2% in 2003.  The lower cost of sales percentage in 2004 is
partially due to increased average selling prices for the Company's products
and improved manufacturing efficiencies at several of the Company's
manufacturing and distribution facilities, including its recently completed
Mahwah, New Jersey, manufacturing and distribution facility, and lower purchase
prices of raw materials, including cobalt chromium and titanium alloys.

Research,
development and engineering expenses represented 5.0% of sales in both 2004 and
2003. These expenses increased 17% in 2004 to $211.0 million.  The higher spending level is the result of
final development spending in advance of the Company's product launches in 2004
and continued focus on new product


development for anticipated future product
launches, together with, beginning in the third quarter of 2004, spending
associated with the continued development of products acquired from
SpineCore.  New product introductions in
2004 in the Orthopaedic Implants segment included the Restoration Modular Hip
System in the United States and Europe, the Triathlon Knee System in the United
States and Europe, the Scorpio NRG
knee and CentPillar hip systems in the Japanese market, a worldwide launch of
the OASYS posterior cervical fixation system and a full-scale launch of the
Gamma3 Hip Fracture System in the United States, Japan and Europe.  The Triathlon system represents the Company's
evolutionary design developed to more closely reproduce natural knee motion and
to provide mobility with stability through more than 150 degrees of flexion.  Within the MedSurg Equipment segment, new
product introductions in 2004 included a new video platform with the 1088 High
Definition Camera, the first fully digital, high-definition, progressive-scan
medical video camera, and the new M-Series stretcher, designed to fit the needs
of acute care and specialty surgical care facilities.

Selling,
general and administrative expenses increased 17% in 2004 and represented 38.8%
of sales compared with 39.1% in 2003. 
The 17% increase in selling, general and administrative expenses is
partially due to an increase in sales commission expense as a result of the 18%
increase in net sales in 2004, increased meeting costs and higher amortization
expense associated with loaner instrument sets. 
In addition, the Company incurred a $12.1 million increase in insurance
costs during 2004 resulting from increased premiums charged by third-party
insurers and its wholly owned captive insurance company established in 2003 as
more fully described in

Other Matters

.

The purchased in-process research and development charge of
$120.8 million recorded in the third quarter of 2004 relates to the acquisition
of SpineCore, a development stage company. 
At the date of the acquisition, the artificial lumbar and cervical
spinal disc implant technologies acquired were in preliminary stages of
clinical studies in the United States and had not yet reached technological
feasibility.  The upfront payment of
$120.0 million, plus certain transaction costs, was allocated to assets
acquired, purchased in-process research and development and liabilities assumed
based on their estimated fair value at the date of acquisition.

Interest expense declined to $6.8
million in 2004 from $22.6 million in 2003, primarily as a result of lower
outstanding debt balances.

The
effective income tax rate was 35.0% in 2004. 
The reported effective income tax rate for 2004 reflects the nondeductibility for U.S. income tax purposes of the purchased in-process
research and development charge recognized pursuant to the aforementioned
acquisition of SpineCore.  Excluding this
nondeductible charge, the Company's effective income tax rate was reduced to
30.0% in 2004 compared with 30.5% in 2003 primarily as a result of increased
manufacturing in lower tax jurisdictions such as Ireland and Puerto Rico.

Net
earnings increased 3% to $465.7 million from $453.5 million in 2003; basic net
earnings per share increased 2% to $1.16 in 2004 from $1.14 in 2003; and
diluted net earnings per share increased 3% to $1.14 in 2004 from $1.11 in 2003.

Excluding
the impact of the $120.8 million purchased in-process research and development
charge recorded in the third quarter of 2004, adjusted net earnings increased
29% from $453.5 million in 2003 to $586.5 million in 2004; adjusted basic net
earnings per share increased 28% from $1.14 in 2003 to $1.46 in 2004; and
adjusted diluted net earnings per share increased 29% from $1.11 in 2003 to
$1.43 in 2004.

This
adjusted financial measure does not replace the presentation of the Company's
reported financial results stated under generally accepted accounting
principles (GAAP).  The Company has
provided this supplemental non-GAAP financial measure because it provides
meaningful information regarding the Company's results on a consistent and
comparable basis for the periods presented. 
Management uses this non-GAAP financial measure for reviewing the
operating results of its business segments and for analyzing potential future
business trends in connection with its budget process.  In addition, the Company believes investors
will utilize this information to evaluate period-to-period results and to
better understand potential future operating results.  The Company encourages investors and other
users of these financial statements to review its Consolidated Financial
Statements and other publicly filed reports in their entirety and to not rely
solely on any single financial measure. 
The reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure is as follows (in
millions):


2003 Compared with 2002

Stryker
Corporation's net sales increased 20% in 2003 to $3,625.3 million from
$3,011.6 million in 2002.  Net sales
grew by 12% as a result of increased unit volume and changes in product mix; 5%
due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates; 2% related to higher selling
prices; and 1% as a result of acquired businesses.

Domestic sales were $2,333.4 million for 2003, representing
an increase of 18% as a result of strong shipments of Orthopaedic Implants and
MedSurg Equipment and higher revenue from Physical Therapy Services.  International sales were $1,291.9 million for
2003, representing an increase of 24% as a result of higher shipments of
Orthopaedic Implants and MedSurg Equipment. 
The impact of foreign currency comparisons to the dollar value of
international sales was favorable by $145.9 million for 2003.  Excluding the impact of foreign currency,
international sales increased 10% in 2003.

Worldwide sales of Orthopaedic Implants were $2,192.5
million for 2003, representing an increase of 22% as a result of higher
shipments of reconstructive, trauma, spine and micro implant systems, bone
cement and the bone growth factor OP-1. 
Excluding the impact of foreign currency, sales of Orthopaedic Implants
increased 16% for the year.  Sales of hip
implant systems increased 20% during the year, 14% excluding changes in foreign
currency exchange rates.  Sales growth
for hip products was primarily driven by the launch of the Trident
ceramic-on-ceramic hip system in the United States in the second quarter of
2003.  Sales of knee implant systems
increased 18% during the year, 13% excluding changes in foreign currency
exchange rates, due to strong growth in Scorpio and Duracon knee systems in the
United States and in Scorpio systems in Japan and the Pacific region.  Sales of trauma implant systems increased 25%
during the year, 15% excluding changes in foreign currency exchange rates, as a
result of strong growth in the intramedullary nail product portfolio in the
United States, led by the T2 Nailing System, and strong growth in hip fracture
and external fixation products in Japan. 
Sales of spinal implant systems increased 40% during the year, 35%
excluding changes in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily due to
incremental sales of interbody cages resulting from the third quarter 2002
acquisition of Surgical Dynamics Inc. in the United States and strong domestic
and international growth in thoracolumbar implant products.

Worldwide sales of MedSurg Equipment were $1,209.8 million
for 2003, representing an increase of 20% as a result of higher shipments of
powered surgical instruments and surgical navigation systems, endoscopic
products, and patient handling and emergency medical equipment. Excluding the
impact of foreign currency, sales of MedSurg Equipment increased 16% for the
year.  Sales of powered surgical
instruments and surgical navigation systems increased 21% during the year, 17%
excluding changes in foreign currency exchange rates, due to strong sales
growth in heavy-duty powered instruments, micro-powered tools and
interventional pain products both domestically and in Europe and domestic sales
growth of the DEKOMPRESSOR discectomy probe acquired in the fourth quarter of
2002.  Sales of endoscopic products increased 21% during the year, 19%
excluding changes in foreign currency exchange rates, as a result of strong
growth in medical video imaging


equipment and arthroscopic products
in the United States.  Sales of patient handling and emergency medical
equipment increased 12% during the year, 10% excluding changes in foreign
currency exchange rates, due to strong domestic growth in hospital beds and
emergency medical equipment.

Physical Therapy Services revenues were $223.0 million for
2003, representing an increase of 11% with 8% of the growth resulting from new
physical therapy centers and 3% of the increase coming from higher revenues at
existing centers.

Cost of sales represented
36.2% of sales compared with 36.9% in 2002. 
The lower cost of sales percentage in 2003 was due to the faster sales
growth in the higher margin Orthopaedic Implants business and an increase in the
absorption of fixed manufacturing costs caused by increased production at
certain of the Company's manufacturing plants to meet current demand.

Research,
development and engineering expenses represented 5.0% of sales in 2003 compared
with 4.7% in 2002.  The higher spending
level was the result of final development spending in advance of the Company's
product launches in 2003 and continued focus on new product development for
anticipated future product launches.  New
product introductions in 2003 included the Trident Ceramic Acetabular System,
Simplex P with Tobramycin Bone Cement and the CORE
platform of micro-powered surgical instruments in the United States market and
the System 5 heavy-duty, battery-powered surgical instruments in Europe.

Selling,
general and administrative expenses increased 22% in 2003 and represented 39.1%
of sales compared with 38.7% in 2002. 
The 22% increase in selling, general and administrative expenses was
partially due to an increase in sales commission expense as a result of the 20%
increase in net sales in 2003.  In
addition, the Company incurred a $14.0 million increase in insurance costs
during 2003 resulting from increased premiums charged by third-party insurers
and a wholly owned captive insurance company established in 2003 as more fully
described in

Other Matters

.  The increase in selling, general and
administrative expenses as a percentage of sales in 2003 was primarily due to
higher distribution costs associated with the increased sales mix of
Orthopaedic Implants, increased amortization of loaner instrument sets, the
increase in insurance costs and higher advertising costs associated with the
Company's previously announced patient education campaign.

The increase in intangibles amortization to $45.4 million in
2003 from $28.9 million in 2002 was primarily the result of the increased
intangible assets recorded as a result of the July 1, 2002 acquisition of the
Surgical Dynamics Inc. spinal implant business (SDI) from Tyco International
Ltd.  In addition, the Company recorded a
$6.5 million charge related to a trademark impairment resulting from a branding
initiative adopted by the Company in the fourth quarter of 2003.  The branding initiative is intended to
improve the Company's customers' and other stakeholders' overall awareness of
Stryker's capabilities.  The charge is
included in intangibles amortization in the consolidated statements of
earnings.

The Company recognized charges of $17.2 million ($11.5
million net of income taxes) related to restructuring and acquisition-related
items in the third quarter of 2002.  The
2002 restructuring and acquisition-related items included a charge of $21.0
million ($14.1 million net of income taxes) for employment-related costs to
close the Company's Rutherford, New Jersey, manufacturing facility, partially
offset by a credit of $3.8 million ($2.6 million net of income taxes) to
reverse certain Howmedica acquisition-related costs to reflect actual final
payments required.

Interest
expense declined to $22.6 million in 2003 from $40.3 million in 2002, primarily
as a result of lower outstanding debt balances. 
Other income was $3.8 million in 2003, compared with $0.5 million of
other expense in 2002 due to foreign currency transaction gains in the current
year compared to losses in the prior year and higher interest income.

The
effective income tax rate was 30.5% in 2003 compared with 31.8% in 2002.  The Company's effective income tax rate for
2003 was reduced primarily as a result of increased manufacturing in lower tax
jurisdictions such as Ireland and Puerto Rico.


Net
earnings increased 31% to $453.5 million from $345.6 million in 2002; basic net
earnings per share increased 31% to $1.14 in 2003 from $.87 in 2002; and
diluted net earnings per share increased 31% to $1.11 in 2003 from $.85 in
2002.

Excluding
the impact of the restructuring and acquisition-related items for the year
ended    December
 31, 2002, adjusted net earnings increased 27% from $357.1 million
in 2002 to $453.5 million in 2003. 
Adjusted basic net earnings per share increased 27% from $.90 in 2002 to
$1.14 in 2003.  Adjusted diluted net
earnings per share increased 26% from $.88 in 2002 to $1.11 in 2003.

This
adjusted financial measure does not replace the presentation of the Company's
reported financial results stated under GAAP. 
The Company has provided this supplemental non-GAAP financial measure
because it provides meaningful information regarding the Company's results on a
consistent and comparable basis for the periods presented.  Management uses this non-GAAP financial
measure for reviewing the operating results of its business segments and for
analyzing potential future business trends in connection with its budget
process.  In addition, the Company believes
investors will utilize this information to evaluate period-to-period results
and to better understand potential future operating results.  The Company believes that the economic nature
of the restructuring charge and the acquisition-related credit were
sufficiently unique that similar items were not recorded in the prior two
fiscal years, nor were they reasonably likely to recur within two years.  In addition, the Company believes that the
financial impact of each of these individual items was insignificant by the end
of 2004.  The Company encourages
investors and other users of these financial statements to review its
Consolidated Financial Statements and other publicly filed reports in their
entirety and to not rely solely on any single financial measure.  The reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial
measure is as follows (in millions):

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The
Company's working capital at
December 31, 2004 increased $465.9 million to
$1,029.1 million from $563.2 million at

December 31, 2003.  The increase in working capital resulted from
growth in the Company's overall business and the use of cash earnings to fully
repay amounts outstanding under the Company's accounts receivable
securitization program and to fund increases in accounts receivable, inventory,
prepaid expenses and loaner instrumentation for surgical implants.  Accounts payable and other accrued
liabilities increased in 2004 as a result of the growth in the business, higher
obligations for sales commissions, royalties, non-income-based taxes, increased
reserves for legal claims and assessments and increases in other accrued
liabilities.  Accounts receivable days
sales outstanding, excluding the effect of amounts outstanding ($0 at December 31, 2004
and $150.0 million at December 31, 2003) under the Company's $200.0 million
accounts receivable securitization facility, was 58 days at both December 31, 2004
and 2003.  Days sales in inventory
increased 2 days to 122 days at
December 31, 2004 from 120 days at December 31, 2003.  The higher days sales in inventory is
partially due to increased inventories to support 2004 and anticipated 2005
product launches.


The
Company generated cash of $593.3 million from operations in 2004 compared with
$648.5 million in 2003.  The reduction in
cash from operations in 2004 compared to the prior year is primarily due to the
repayment of all amounts previously outstanding under the accounts receivable
securitization facility representing an operating cash usage of $150.0 million
in 2004 compared with an operating cash source of $20.0 million in 2003.  The generation of cash of $593.3 million in
2004 is the result of cash earnings and increases in accounts payable, current
income taxes payable and accrued expenses. 
These items were partially offset by the aforementioned repayment of
amounts outstanding under the accounts receivable securitization facility and
increases in loaner instrumentation and accounts receivable from increased
sales.  In 2004, the Company used cash of
$144.7 million for acquisitions, $187.8 million for capital expenditures and
$28.0 million for the payment of dividends. 
During 2004, the Company repaid the remaining $15.5 million of debt
outstanding under the Company's Unsecured Credit Facility from the Howmedica
acquisition.  Total borrowings declined
by $16.1 million after adjusting for the effects of foreign currency
translation.

In
2004, the Company used cash of $187.8 million for capital expenditures,
including $36.1 million related to the expansion of the Company's manufacturing
facility in West Lebanon, New Hampshire, and $20.7 million related to the
construction of the Company's new manufacturing facilities in Portage,
Michigan.

The
Company had $349.4 million in cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2004.  The Company also had outstanding borrowings
totaling $10.0 million at that date. 
Current maturities of long-term debt at December 31, 2004 are $9.3
million.  The Company believes its cash
on hand, as well as anticipated cash flows from operations, will be sufficient
to fund future operating capital requirements, future manufacturing facility
construction and other capital expenditures and future acquisitions to
supplement its current product offerings. 
Should additional funds be required, the Company had $826.0 million of
additional borrowing capacity available under all of its existing credit
facilities, including the Company's $750.0 million five-year, nonamortizing,
revolving credit agreement that expires in December 2006.  In addition, the Company had $200.0 million
of eligible accounts receivable that could be sold through its accounts receivable
securitization facility at December 31, 2004.

The
Company's future contractual obligations for agreements with initial terms
greater than one year, including agreements to purchase materials in the normal
course of business, are summarized as follows (in millions):

The
Company's additional borrowing capacity, along with the expected expiration
period of the commitments, is summarized as follows (in millions):

Critical Accounting Policies

The preparation of the Company's
Consolidated Financial Statements requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and
accompanying notes.  Management evaluates these estimates and assumptions
on an ongoing basis.  Estimates are based on historical experience, when
available, and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable
under the


circumstances, the results of which
form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and
liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.  Actual
results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or
conditions.

Management believes that of its significant accounting
policies (see

Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements

),
an understanding of the following critical accounting policies is important in
obtaining an overall understanding of the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

The Company maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts for
estimated losses in the collection of accounts receivable.  The Company makes estimates regarding the
future ability of its customers to make required payments based on historical
credit experience and expected future trends. 
If actual customer financial conditions are less favorable than projected
by management, additional accounts receivable write-offs may be necessary,
which could unfavorably affect future operating results.

Inventory Reserves

The Company maintains reserves for excess and obsolete
inventory resulting from the potential inability to sell its products at prices
in excess of current carrying costs.  The
markets in which the Company operates are highly competitive, with new products
and surgical procedures introduced on an ongoing basis.  Such marketplace changes may cause some of
the Company's products to become obsolete. 
The Company makes estimates regarding the future recoverability of the
costs of these products and records a provision for excess and obsolete
inventories based on historical experience, expiration of sterilization dates
and expected future trends.  If actual
product life cycles, product demand or acceptance of new product introductions
are less favorable than projected by management, additional inventory
write-downs may be required, which could unfavorably affect future operating
results.

Income Taxes

The Company operates in multiple tax jurisdictions both
inside and outside the United States. 
Accordingly, management must determine the appropriate allocation of
income to each of these jurisdictions. 
Tax audits associated with the allocation of this income and other
complex issues may require an extended period of time to resolve and may result
in income tax adjustments if changes to the income allocation are required
between jurisdictions with different tax rates. 
Because tax adjustments in certain jurisdictions can be significant, the
Company records accruals representing management's best estimate of the
probable resolution of these matters.  To
the extent additional information becomes available, such accruals are adjusted
to reflect the revised estimated probable outcome.

Other Matters

The
Company distributes its products throughout the world.  As a result, the Company's financial results
could be significantly affected by factors such as changes in foreign currency
exchange rates or weak economic conditions in foreign markets.  The Company's operating results are primarily
exposed to changes in exchange rates among the United States dollar and the
Japanese yen and European currencies, in particular the euro and the British
pound.  When the United States dollar
weakens against foreign currencies, the dollar value of sales denominated in
foreign currencies increases.  When the
United States dollar strengthens, the opposite situation occurs.  The Company manufactures its products in the
United States, France, Germany, Ireland, Switzerland, Canada and Puerto Rico
and incurs the costs to manufacture in the applicable local currencies.  This worldwide deployment of factories serves
to partially mitigate the impact of currency exchange rate changes on the
Company's cost of sales.

The Company enters into forward
currency exchange contracts to mitigate the impact of currency fluctuations on
transactions denominated in nonfunctional currencies, thereby limiting risk to
the Company that would otherwise result from changes in exchange rates. These
nonfunctional currency exposures principally relate


to intercompany receivables and
payables arising from intercompany purchases of manufactured products.  The
periods of the forward currency exchange contracts correspond to the periods of
the exposed transactions, with realized gains and losses included in the
measurement and recording of transactions denominated in the nonfunctional
currencies.

At December 31, 2004,
the Company had outstanding forward currency exchange contracts to purchase
$137.7 million and sell $173.1 million of various currencies (principally
United States dollars and euros) with maturities ranging principally from 30 to
180 days.  The estimated fair value of
forward currency exchange contracts represents the measurement of the contracts
at month-end spot rates as adjusted by current forward points.  A hypothetical 10% change in exchange rates
for these currencies would change the
December 31, 2004 fair value by approximately
$6.1 million.  The Company is exposed to
credit loss in the event of nonperformance by counterparties on its outstanding
forward currency exchange contracts but does not anticipate nonperformance by
any of the counterparties.

The Company has certain investments in net assets in
international locations that are not hedged. 
These investments are subject to translation gains and losses due to
changes in foreign currencies that are deferred and recorded as a separate
component of stockholders' equity.  For
the year ended December
 31, 2004, the strengthening of foreign currencies relative to the
U.S. dollar increased the value of these investments in net assets, and the
related deferred gain in stockholders' equity, by $102.2 million to $209.9
million.

The Company is partially self-insured for product liability
claims.  In 2003, the Company established
a wholly owned captive insurance company in the United States to manage its
self-insured retention limits.  The
captive insurance company provides insurance reserves for estimated liabilities
for product claims incurred but not reported based on actuarially determined
liabilities.  The actuarial valuations
are based on historical information along with certain assumptions about future
events.

In December 2003, the Company announced that its subsidiary
Physiotherapy Associates, Inc., and Stryker received a subpoena from the United
States Attorney's Office in Boston, Massachusetts, in connection with a
Department of Justice investigation of Physiotherapy Associates' billing and
coding practices. Physiotherapy Associates provides physical, occupational and
speech therapy services to patients through 428 outpatient centers in the
United States as of December
 31, 2004 and represented 6% of Stryker's net sales for each of the
years ended December
 31, 2004 and 2003.  Revenues
derived from billings to U.S. federal health-care programs approximated 14% of
Physiotherapy Associates' revenues during these periods. The Company is fully
cooperating with the Department of Justice regarding this matter.

On October 22, 2004, the President of the United States
signed the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Act).  The Act creates a temporary incentive for
United States corporations to repatriate accumulated income earned in foreign jurisdictions
by providing an 85% dividends-received deduction for certain dividends from
controlled foreign corporations.  The
deduction is subject to a number of limitations, and significant uncertainty
remains about the way to interpret numerous provisions in the Act.  Due to these factors, the Company is not yet
in a position to determine whether, and to what extent, it might repatriate
foreign earnings that have not yet been remitted to the United States.  Based on its current analysis, the Company
may repatriate up to $800.0 million, with a related income tax expense and
liability of up to $56.0 million.  The
Company plans to finalize its assessment after Congress or the Treasury
Department provides additional clarifying language on key elements of the
repatriation provision.

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(FASB) issued a revision to Statement No. 123,

Share-Based Payment

.  This revision supersedes Accounting
Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25,

Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees

,
and its related implementation guidance. 
This revision requires companies to recognize the cost of stock options
based on the grant-date fair value pursuant to their employee stock option
plans over the period during which the recipient is required to provide
services in exchange for the options, typically the vesting period.  Pursuant to the requirements of the
Statement, the Company plans to adopt the provisions of the standard during the
third quarter of 2005 using the modified-retrospective transition method
provided in the Statement.  Under this
method, the Company will restate all prior periods presented on a consistent
basis.  The Company does not believe the
adoption of this Statement will have a material impact on the trend of net
earnings or net earnings per share.


ITEM 7A.

QUANTITATIVE AND
  QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk
are included in the

Results of Operations

and

Other Matters

sections of the Company's
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition on pages 21 through
27 and 29 through 30, respectively.

ITEM 8.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
  SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Stryker
Corporation:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets
of Stryker Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the
related consolidated statements of earnings, stockholders' equity and cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2004.  These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management. 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. 
An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as
well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position
of Stryker Corporation and subsidiaries at December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the
consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended
December 31, 2004, in conformity with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles.

We also
have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of Stryker Corporation's
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, based on criteria
established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 4, 2005
expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Grand Rapids, Michigan

February 4, 2005


CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

Stryker Corporation and Subsidiaries

See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS

Stryker Corporation and Subsidiaries

See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS'
EQUITY

Stryker Corporation and Subsidiaries

See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH
FLOWS

Stryker Corporation and Subsidiaries

(in millions)

See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Stryker Corporation and Subsidiaries

December 31, 2004

(in millions, except per share amounts)

NOTE 1

SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Business:

Stryker Corporation (the "Company" or "Stryker")
develops, manufactures and markets joint replacements, trauma, spine and micro
implant systems, orthobiologics, powered surgical instruments, surgical
navigation systems and endoscopic products, as well as patient handling and
emergency medical equipment.  Stryker
also provides outpatient physical therapy services in the United States.

Principles of Consolidation:

The Consolidated Financial
Statements include the accounts of the Company and its majority-owned
subsidiaries after elimination of intercompany accounts and transactions.

Revenue Recognition:

A significant portion of the Company's
Orthopaedic Implants revenue is generated from consigned inventory maintained
at hospitals or with field representatives. 
For these products, revenue is recognized at the time the Company
receives appropriate notification that the product has been used or implanted.  The Company records revenue from MedSurg
Equipment product sales when title and risk of ownership have been transferred
to the customer, which is typically upon shipment to the customer.  For its Physical Therapy Services line of
business, the Company records revenue when the services have been
rendered.  The Company records estimated
sales returns, discounts and other applicable adjustments as a reduction of net
sales in the same period revenue is recognized.

Shipping and Handling of Products:

Amounts billed to
customers for shipping and handling of products are included in net sales.  Costs incurred related to shipping and
handling of products are included in cost of sales.

Use of Estimates:

The preparation of these Consolidated
Financial Statements in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States requires Company management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial
Statements and accompanying notes. 
Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Foreign Currency Translation:

The functional currencies for
substantially all of the Company's international affiliates are their local
currencies.  Accordingly, the financial
statements of these international affiliates are translated into United States dollars
using current exchange rates for balance sheets and average exchange rates for
statements of earnings and cash flows. 
Unrealized translation adjustments are included in accumulated other
comprehensive gain (loss) in stockholders' equity.  Transaction gains and losses, such as those
resulting from the settlement of nonfunctional currency receivables or
payables, are included in net earnings.

Cash Equivalents and Investments:

Cash equivalents are
highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less when
purchased.  Investments include
marketable equity securities and other investments classified in other
assets.  Other investments consist
primarily of mutual funds that are acquired to offset changes in certain
liabilities related to deferred compensation arrangements and are expected to
be used to settle these liabilities.

The Company's investments are stated at fair value based on
quoted market prices. Interest, dividends and realized gains and losses on the
sale of cash equivalents and marketable equity securities are included in other
expense (income).  Adjustments to the
fair value of marketable equity securities and other investments that are
classified as available-for-sale are recorded as increases or decreases, net of
income taxes, within accumulated other comprehensive gain (loss) in
stockholders' equity.  Adjustments to the
fair value of other investments that are classified as trading are recorded in
earnings as offsets to the related changes in liabilities under deferred compensation
arrangements.


Accounts Receivable:

Accounts receivable consists of trade and other miscellaneous
receivables.  The Company maintains an
allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses in the collection of
accounts receivable.  The Company makes
estimates regarding the future ability of its customers to make required
payments based on historical credit experience and expected future trends.

Accounts Receivable Securitization:

As amended and restated
on April 24, 2003,
the Company has an accounts receivable securitization facility pursuant to
which certain subsidiaries of the Company sell on an ongoing basis all of their
domestic accounts receivable to Stryker Funding Corporation (SFC), a wholly owned special-purpose subsidiary of
the Company, which in turn may sell up to an aggregate of a $200.0 undivided
percentage ownership interest in such receivables to bank-administered
multiseller commercial paper conduits. 
Creditors of SFC have a
claim to its assets before any equity becomes available to the Company.

There were no amounts of undivided percentage ownership
interests in accounts receivable sold by SFC
under the facility as of December 31, 2004 and $150.0, net of SFC's retained interest, at December 31, 2003.  The accounts receivable sold are reflected in
the consolidated balance sheet at

December 31, 2003 as a reduction of accounts
receivable.  The amount of receivables
sold is subject to change monthly, based on the level of defined eligible
receivables less contractual reserves. The Company's retained interest in
accounts receivable held by SFC,
which is in the form of a subordinated note, represents an
overcollateralization of the undivided interest sold.  This retained interest totaled $320.3 and
$107.1 at December
 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. 
Discount expense associated with the securitization facility, including
the conduit's financing cost of issuing its commercial paper, was $1.3 in 2004,
$2.6 in 2003 and $2.7 in 2002 and is included in selling, general and
administrative expenses.

Inventories:

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or
market.  Cost for approximately 83% of
inventories is determined using the lower of first-in, first-out (FIFO) cost or
market.  Cost for certain domestic
inventories is determined using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) cost method.  The FIFO cost for all inventories
approximates replacement cost.

The Company maintains reserves for excess and obsolete
inventory resulting from the potential inability to sell its products at prices
in excess of current carrying costs.  The
markets in which the Company operates are highly competitive, with new products
and surgical procedures introduced on an ongoing basis.  Such marketplace changes may cause the
Company's products to become obsolete. 
The Company makes estimates regarding the future recoverability of the
cost of these products and records a provision for excess and obsolete
inventories based on historical experience, expiration of sterilization dates
and expected future trends.

Property, Plant and Equipment:

Property, plant and equipment
is stated at cost. Depreciation is computed by either the straight-line or
declining-balance method over the estimated useful lives of 3 to 30 years for
buildings and improvements and 3 to 10 years for machinery and equipment.

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets:

Goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over fair value of
tangible net assets of acquired businesses after amounts allocated to other
intangible assets.  Other intangible
assets include developed technology, which is amortized on a straight-line
basis over 20 years, and customer relationships (which reflect expected
continued customer patronage), trademarks and patents, which are amortized on a
straight-line basis over 5 to 40 years (weighted average life of 14 years for
other intangible assets).

Loaner Instrumentation:

Loaner instrumentation represents
the net book value of loaner instruments for surgical implants provided to
customers by the Company.  Loaner
instrumentation is amortized on a straight-line basis over a three-year
period.  Amortization expense for loaner
instrumentation is included in selling, general and administrative expenses.

Income Taxes:

The Company accounts for income taxes using the liability
method.  Under this method, deferred
income tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between
financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured
using the enacted tax rates in effect for the years in which the differences
are expected to reverse.  Deferred income
tax credit represents the change in net deferred tax assets and liabilities
during the year.


The Company operates in multiple tax jurisdictions both
inside and outside the United States. 
Accordingly, management must determine the appropriate allocation of
income to each of these jurisdictions. 
Tax audits associated with the allocation of this income and other
complex issues may require an extended period of time to resolve and may result
in income tax adjustments if changes to the income allocation are required
between jurisdictions with different tax rates. 
Because tax adjustments in certain jurisdictions can be significant, the
Company records accruals representing management's best estimate of the
probable resolution of these matters.  To
the extent additional information becomes available, such accruals are adjusted
to reflect the revised estimated probable outcome.

Derivative Financial Instruments:

The Company uses
derivative financial instruments to manage the economic impact of fluctuations
in currency exchange rates.  The Company
enters into forward currency exchange contracts to manage these economic
risks.  From 1998 through December 2003,
the Company entered into interest rate swap contracts with various maturity
dates to manage the economic impact of fluctuations in interest rates.

The
Company follows the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
Statement No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities, as amended by Statements No. 137 and No. 138, in accounting for its
derivative financial instruments.  The
Statements require the Company to recognize all derivatives on the balance
sheet at fair value.  Derivatives that
are not hedges must be adjusted to fair value through earnings.  If a derivative is a hedge, depending on the
nature of the hedge, changes in the fair value of the derivative are either
offset against the changes in fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or
firm commitments through earnings or recognized in accumulated other
comprehensive gain (loss) until the hedged item is recognized in earnings (see

Note 2

).

Legal and Other Contingencies:

The Company is involved in various
proceedings, legal actions and claims arising in the normal course of business,
including proceedings related to product, labor, intellectual property and
other matters.  The potential future
outcomes of these matters are outside of management's complete control and will
generally not be known for prolonged periods of time.  In certain of the legal proceedings, the
claimants seek damages, as well as other compensatory relief, which could
result in the payment of significant claims and settlements.  In legal matters for which management has
sufficient information to reasonably estimate the Company's future obligations,
a liability representing management's best estimate of the probable cost for
the resolution of these legal matters is recorded.  The estimates are based on consultation with
outside counsel, previous settlement experience and settlement strategies.

Comprehensive Gain (Loss):

The components of accumulated
other comprehensive gain (loss) are as follows:


Stock Options:

At
December 31, 2004, the Company has key
employee and director stock option plans, which are described more fully in

Note 8

.  The Company
follows Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25,

Accounting for Stock
Issued to Employees

, in accounting for its stock option plans.  Under Opinion No. 25, no compensation
expense is recognized because the exercise price of the Company's stock options
equals the market price of the underlying stock on the measurement date (date
of grant).  Had compensation expense for
the Company's stock-based compensation plans been determined based on the fair
value at the grant dates for awards under those plans consistent with the
method of FASB Statement No. 123,

Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation

, the Company's
net earnings and net earnings per share would have been as follows:

The weighted-average fair value per share of options granted
during 2004, 2003 and 2002, estimated on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes option pricing model, was $16.83, $15.19 and $11.47,
respectively.  The fair value of options
granted was estimated on the date of grant using the following assumptions:

Recently Issued Accounting Standards:

In December 2004, the FASB issued a revision
to Statement No. 123,

Share-Based Payment

. 
This revision supersedes APB Opinion No. 25,

Accounting for Stock Issued
to Employees

, and its related implementation guidance.  This revision requires companies to recognize
the cost of stock options, based on the grant-date fair value, granted pursuant
to their employee stock option plans over the period during which the recipient
is required to provide services in exchange for the options, typically the
vesting period.  Pursuant to the
requirements of the Statement, the Company plans to adopt the provisions of the
Statement during the third quarter of 2005 using the modified-retrospective
transition method provided in the Statement. 
Under this method, the Company will restate all prior periods presented
on a consistent basis.  The pro forma
effect of adopting this Statement is disclosed above and is not expected to
have a material impact on the trend of net earnings or earnings per share.

Reclassifications:

Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the
presentation used in 2004.


NOTE 2

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK
MANAGEMENT

The following is a summary of the Company's investments:

Interest income, which is included in other income, totaled
$4.7 in 2004, $3.1 in 2003 and $2.4 in 2002.

The
Company enters into forward currency exchange contracts to mitigate the impact
of currency fluctuations on transactions denominated in nonfunctional
currencies, thereby limiting risk to the Company that would otherwise result
from changes in exchange rates.  These
nonfunctional currency exposures relate principally to intercompany receivables
and payables arising from intercompany purchases of manufactured products.  The periods of the forward currency exchange
contracts correspond to the periods of the exposed transactions, with realized
gains and losses included in the measurement and recording of transactions
denominated in the nonfunctional currencies. 
All forward currency exchange contracts are marked-to-market each period
with resulting gains (losses) included in other expense (income) in the
consolidated statements of earnings.

At December 31, 2004,
the Company had outstanding forward currency exchange contracts to purchase
$137.7 and sell $173.1 of various currencies (principally United States dollars
and euros) with maturities ranging principally from 30 to 180 days.  At

December 31, 2003, the Company had outstanding
forward currency exchange contracts to purchase $123.9 and sell $154.9 of
various currencies (principally United States dollars and euros) with
maturities ranging principally from 30 to 180 days.  The estimated fair value of forward currency
exchange contracts represents the measurement of the contracts at month-end
spot rates as adjusted by current forward points and is recorded as a component
of accrued expenses and other liabilities in the consolidated balance
sheets.  At December 31, 2004, the
Company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by
counterparties on its outstanding forward currency exchange contracts but does
not anticipate nonperformance by any of the counterparties.

From
1998 through 2003, the Company entered into interest rate swap agreements that
effectively converted a portion of its variable-rate borrowings to a fixed-rate
basis, thus reducing the impact of changes in interest rates on interest expense
during that period.  The swap agreements
fixed the Company's base rate on $250.0 of its variable-rate borrowings during
2003 at an average rate of 5.58%. 
Pursuant to FASB Statement No. 133, as amended, the Company recognized
gains of $9.2 and $9.3 attributable to changes in the fair value of interest
rate swap agreements as components of accumulated other comprehensive gain
(loss) in 2003 and 2002, respectively.  Interest
rate differentials paid as a result of interest rate swaps were recognized as
an adjustment of interest expense related to the designated borrowings.

Prior
to 2004, the Company had used yen-denominated floating-rate borrowings to
protect a portion of the value of its investment in its subsidiary in
Japan.  All yen-denominated borrowings
previously outstanding were fully repaid during 2003.  Realized and unrealized gains and losses from
this hedge were not included in the consolidated statements of earnings, but
were recorded as foreign currency translation adjustments within accumulated
other comprehensive gain (loss) in stockholders' equity.  Net losses of $2.1 and $1.6 attributable to
the yen-denominated floating-rate borrowings hedge were recorded as foreign
currency translation adjustments in 2003 and 2002, respectively.


NOTE 3

INVENTORIES

Inventories are summarized as follows:

NOTE 4

ACQUISITIONS

On August 12, 2004, the Company completed its acquisition, by
merger, of all of the outstanding stock of SpineCore, Inc. (SpineCore), for an
upfront payment of $120.0 in cash plus certain transaction costs.  The acquisition of SpineCore, a developer of
artificial lumbar and cervical spinal disc implant technologies, is expected to
enhance the Company's presence in the spinal implant market, an important
growth area within its Orthopaedic Implants segment.  SpineCore's operating results are included in
the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements from the date of the
acquisition and are not material to the Company's operating results.

The purchase price has been allocated to assets acquired,
purchased in-process research and development and liabilities assumed based on
their estimated fair value at the date of acquisition.  The amount of the purchase price allocated to
purchased in-process research and development resulted in a charge of $120.8,
or $.29 per diluted share, against the Company's 2004 operating results.  At the date of the transaction, the spinal
implant technologies acquired were in preliminary stages of clinical studies in
the United States and had not yet reached technological feasibility.  The amount written off as purchased in-process
research and development is not deductible for income tax purposes in the
United States.

Terms of the transaction also include potential milestone
and royalty payments of up to an additional $240.0 upon commercialization of
SpineCore's products in the United States, which is not expected to occur
before 2008.  The potential milestone
payments are expected to be capitalized at their fair values as intangible
assets at the time of payment and will be amortized over their remaining useful
lives.

In October 2002, the Company purchased the
DEKOMPRESSOR
product line from Pain Concepts, Inc., at a total cost of $10.0, giving the
Company access to intellectual property and commercial rights relating to the
design and manufacture of certain medical devices.  Intangible assets acquired are being
amortized over 17 years.  The Company is
contingently liable for potential future milestone payments of up to $37.5,
primarily based on future sales growth.

On October 1, 2002, the Company entered into an agreement
with Curis, Inc., which eliminated all royalties payable to Curis relating to
future Stryker sales of osteogenic protein-1 (OP-1).  Under the terms of the agreement, the Company
made a one-time cash payment of $14.0 to Curis. 
The payment was allocated to existing patents and is being amortized
over 15 years.

On July 1, 2002, the
Company acquired the Surgical Dynamics Inc. spinal implant business (SDI) from
Tyco International Ltd. for $135.0 in cash. 
The acquisition expanded the Company's spinal product line by adding
interbody spinal cages for the United States market as well as other
thoracolumbar and cervical spinal fixation devices.  The acquisition was funded using existing
credit facilities.


The acquisition of SDI was accounted for using the purchase
method of accounting.  The results of
operations for the acquired business are included in the Company's Consolidated
Financial Statements beginning July 1, 2002. 
The purchase price of $135.0 in cash, less a contractually required
adjustment of $6.6 received in the third quarter of 2003 based on the decrease
in SDI's working capital between April 30, 2002 and closing, and liabilities
assumed have been allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed
based on their estimated fair value at the date of acquisition.  The purchase price allocation was finalized
in 2003.  Based on the final purchase
price allocation (as adjusted for the determined working capital adjustment
amount), $87.7 of the purchase price was allocated to patent licensing agreements
to be amortized over their remaining life of eight years, $9.1 to inventory,
$34.7 to deferred tax assets related to future tax deductions, $4.8 to other
tangible assets and $7.9 to liabilities assumed.  Immediately after the acquisition was
consummated, management of the Company began to implement an integration plan
to combine Stryker and SDI.  In
conjunction with the integration plan, the Company recorded additional purchase
liabilities of $3.6, which were included in the purchase price allocation.  The additional purchase liabilities included
$3.1 for severance and related costs and $0.5 for contractual obligations.  The severance and related costs were provided
for workforce reductions covering 37 SDI employees.  The workforce reductions were completed
during the fourth quarter of 2002 with severance payments made through the
third quarter of 2003.  The Company's pro
forma consolidated financial results did not differ significantly as a result
of the SDI acquisition.

NOTE 5

GOODWILL AND
OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS

The changes in the net carrying amount of goodwill by
segment for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 are as follows:

In the fourth quarters of 2004, 2003 and 2002, the Company
completed the required annual impairment tests of goodwill as prescribed by
FASB Statement No. 142,

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

, and determined,
in all instances, that recorded goodwill was not impaired and that no goodwill
write-down was necessary.


The following is a summary of the Company's other intangible
assets:

The estimated amortization expense for each of the five
succeeding years is as follows:

In the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company recorded a $6.5
charge related to a trademark impairment resulting from a branding initiative
adopted by the Company in that period. 
The branding initiative is intended to improve the Company's customers'
and other stakeholders' overall awareness of Stryker's capabilities.  The charge reduced the book value of a
trademark within the Orthopaedic Implants segment to its fair value as
determined by using a discounted cash flow model.  The charge is included in intangibles
amortization in the 2003 consolidated statement of earnings.

NOTE 6

RESTRUCTURING AND
ACQUISITION-RELATED LIABILITIES

The Company recorded restructuring and acquisition-related
pretax charges (credits) in 2002 consisting of the following items:

The
restructuring and acquisition-related items were recorded in the third quarter
of 2002 and represented employment-related costs to close the Company's
Rutherford, New Jersey, manufacturing facility, partially offset by a credit to
reverse certain Howmedica acquisition-related costs to reflect actual final
payments required.


The $21.0 restructuring charge related primarily to a
shutdown agreement reached between the Company and the employee bargaining unit
to close the Orthopaedics division implant manufacturing facility in
Rutherford, New Jersey, which was ratified by the members of the I.U.E.-CWA
Local 485 on August
 23, 2002.  The charge covered
employment-related severance costs for 353 employees.  The Rutherford facility was closed during
2003 with final severance payments made in 2004.  The Orthopaedics division has completed the
transition of production to its facilities in Mahwah, New Jersey, as well as
Cork and Limerick, Ireland.

The following table provides a rollforward of remaining
liabilities, included within accrued expenses and other liabilities in the
consolidated balance sheets, associated with business acquisition purchase
liabilities and restructuring and acquisition-related charges recorded by the
Company in 2002 and prior years:

During
2004, the Company reviewed its business acquisition purchase liabilities and
determined certain of those obligations were no longer required.  These adjustments were reflected as
reductions in other intangible assets in accordance with the purchase method of
accounting.

NOTE 7

LONG-TERM DEBT

Long-term debt is summarized as follows:

The Company's Unsecured Credit Facilities represent a $750.0
five-year, nonamortizing, revolving credit agreement at December 31, 2004 that
expires in December 2006, with a $250.0 multicurrency sublimit, under which yen
and euro can be borrowed.  The five-year
facility also has a $50.0 swing line sublimit and a $100.0 letter of credit
sublimit.  The five-year facility bears interest at a base rate, as
defined, plus an applicable margin ranging from 0.235% to 0.775%, depending on
the Company's debt rating.  The Unsecured Credit Facilities require a
commitment fee ranging from 0.065% to 0.225% on the aggregate commitment of the
facilities, depending on the Company's debt rating.  In addition, a
utilization fee of 0.125% is required when the sum of the outstanding amounts
exceeds 50% of the aggregate commitments.  During 2004, the weighted
average interest rate, excluding commitment and utilization fees, for all
borrowings under the Unsecured Credit Facilities was 1.7%.  The Unsecured
Credit Facilities require the Company to comply with certain financial and other
covenants.  The Company was in compliance with all covenants at December
31, 2004.  In addition to the Unsecured Credit


Facilities, the Company has lines of
credit, issued by various financial institutions, available to fund the
Company's day-to-day operating needs.

The Unsecured Credit Facilities previously included a $250.0
364-day revolving credit agreement that expired in December 2003.  The Company did not renew this revolving
credit agreement as it believes its cash on hand, as well as anticipated cash
flows from operations, will be sufficient to fund future operating and
investing activities.  Should additional
funds be required, the Company had $826.0 of additional borrowing capacity
available under all its existing credit facilities at December 31, 2004.

During 2003, the Company had borrowed yen 4,820.5 under the
multicurrency sublimit available under the five-year revolving credit
agreement.  This borrowing was repaid in
full during the third quarter of 2003. 
The yen borrowing acted as a hedge of the Company's net investment in
Japan.  As a result, adjustments made to
the loan balance to reflect applicable currency exchange rates during 2003 were
included within accumulated other comprehensive gain (loss) in stockholders'
equity.

The
carrying amounts of the Company's long-term debt approximate their fair values,
based on the quoted interest rates for similar types and amounts of borrowing
agreements.

Interest
paid on debt, including commitment and utilization fees, was $6.0 in 2004,
$22.9 in 2003 and $37.1 in 2002; these sums approximate interest expense.

NOTE 8

CAPITAL STOCK

On April 20, 2004, the Company's stockholders approved an
amendment to Section A of Article III
of the Company's Restated Articles of Incorporation to increase its authorized
shares of common stock to one billion from 500 million shares.

On April 20, 2004, the Company's Board of Directors approved
a two-for-one stock split, effective May 14, 2004, for stockholders of record on May 3, 2004.  All share and per share data have been
adjusted to reflect the stock split as though it had occurred at the beginning
of all periods presented.


The Company has key employee and director stock option plans
under which options are granted at a price not less than fair market value at
the date of grant.  The options are
granted for periods of up to 10 years and become exercisable in varying
installments.  A summary of stock option
activity follows:

Options outstanding at December 31, 2004 had a
weighted-average remaining contractual life of 6.3 years.  Shares reserved for future grants were 13.1
and 15.8 at December
 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

Exercise prices for options outstanding as of December 31, 2004
ranged from $5.50 to $47.00.  A summary
of shares exercisable follows:

The Company has 0.5 authorized shares of $1 par value
preferred stock, none of which are outstanding.


During the second quarter of 2003, the Company issued 0.1
shares of restricted stock to its newly appointed President and Chief Operating
Officer.  The stock vests ratably on the
first five anniversary dates of the grant, provided that the recipient is still
employed by the Company.  The aggregate
market value of the restricted stock at the date of issuance of $3.4, as
measured at the quoted price of the Company's common stock, has been recorded
as deferred stock-based compensation, a separate component of stockholders'
equity, and is being amortized over the five-year vesting period.

NOTE 9

NET EARNINGS PER SHARE

The following table sets forth the computation of basic and
diluted net earnings per share:


NOTE 10

RETIREMENT PLANS

Certain of the Company's subsidiaries have both funded and
unfunded defined benefit plans covering some or all of their employees.  All of the defined benefit plans have
projected benefit obligations in excess of plan assets.  The Company uses a December 31 measurement
date for the determination of plan obligations and funded status of its
plans.  A summary of the information
related to all of the Company's defined benefit plans is as follows:


The
components of the amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheets are as follows:

The
accumulated benefit obligation for all of the defined benefit plans was $118.5
and $96.2 as of December
 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. 
Pension plans with an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan
assets had projected benefit obligations, accumulated benefit obligations and
fair value of plan assets of $118.9, $104.1 and $58.0, respectively, as of December 31, 2004
and $95.6, $85.4 and $49.6, respectively, as of December 31, 2003.

The
components of net periodic benefit cost are as follows:

The
Company has assumed an average long-term expected return on defined benefit
plan assets of 5.2% as of December 31, 2004. 
The expected return is determined by applying the target allocation in
each asset category of plan investments to the anticipated return for each
asset category based on historical and projected returns.

The
weighted-average allocation of plan assets by asset category is as follows:

The investment strategy for the Company's defined benefit
plans is both to meet the liabilities of the plans as they fall due and to
maximize the return on invested assets within appropriate risk tolerances.  Reflected below are target investment
allocation ranges for the plans at
December 31, 2004:


The Company anticipates contributing
approximately $11.8 to its defined benefit plans in 2005.

The following estimated future benefit payments, which
reflect expected future service as appropriate, are expected to be paid in the
years indicated:






2010-2014

Expected benefit payments

$3.8

$4.3

$4.7

$5.0

$5.7

$36.4

Retirement plan expense under the Company's defined
contribution retirement plans totaled $61.1 in 2004, $55.5 in 2003 and $45.2 in
2002.  A portion of the Company's
retirement plan expenses was funded with Stryker common stock totaling $5.4 in
2004, $4.8 in 2003 and $4.1 in 2002.  The
use of Stryker common stock represents a noncash operating activity that is not
reflected in the consolidated statements of cash flows.  The amount of Stryker common stock held by
the Company's defined contribution retirement plans totaled $78.4
(approximately 1.6 shares) and $68.6 (approximately 1.6 shares) as of December 31, 2004
and 2003, respectively.  The value of
Stryker common stock as a percentage of total defined contribution retirement
plan assets was 17% as of December 31, 2004 and 19% as of December 31, 2003.

NOTE 11

INCOME TAXES

Earnings before income taxes consist of the following:

The components of the provision for income taxes follow:


A reconciliation of the United States statutory income tax
rate to the Company's effective income tax rate follows:

Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of
temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities
for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax
purposes.  The tax effect of significant
temporary differences, which comprise the Company's deferred income tax assets
and liabilities, is as follows:

Net operating loss carryforwards totaling approximately
$44.9 at December
 31, 2004 are available to reduce future taxable earnings of certain
foreign subsidiaries.

Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are included in
the consolidated balance sheets as follows:


On October 22, 2004, the President of the United States
signed the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Act).  The Act creates a temporary incentive for
United States corporations to repatriate accumulated income earned in foreign
jurisdictions by providing an 85% dividends-received deduction for certain
dividends from controlled foreign corporations. 
The deduction is subject to a number of limitations, and significant
uncertainty remains about the way to interpret numerous provisions in the
Act.  Due to these factors, the Company
is not yet in a position to determine whether, and to what extent, it might
repatriate foreign earnings that have not yet been remitted to the United
States.  Based on its current analysis,
the Company may repatriate up to $800.0, with a related income tax expense and
liability of up to $56.0.  The Company
plans to finalize its assessment after Congress or the Treasury Department
provides additional clarifying language on key elements of the repatriation
provision.

No provision has been made for United States federal and
state income taxes or foreign taxes that may result from future remittances of
the undistributed earnings ($1,462.1 at
December 31, 2004) of foreign subsidiaries
because it is expected that such earnings will be reinvested overseas
indefinitely.  Determination of the
amount of any unrecognized deferred income tax liability on these unremitted
earnings, other than if repatriated under the Act described above, is not
practicable.

Total income taxes paid, net of refunds received, were
$235.8 in 2004, $189.5 in 2003 and $112.1 in 2002.

NOTE 12

SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA

The Company segregates its operations into two reportable
business segments: Orthopaedic Implants and MedSurg Equipment. The Orthopaedic
Implants segment sells orthopaedic reconstructive (hip, knee and shoulder),
trauma, spine and micro implant systems, bone cement and the bone growth factor
OP-1.  The MedSurg Equipment segment
sells powered surgical instruments, surgical navigation systems, endoscopic
products, medical video imaging equipment and hospital beds and
stretchers.  The Other category includes
Physical Therapy Services and corporate administration, interest expense and
interest income.

Effective January 1, 2004, the Company changed its business segment
reporting to include the financial results of micro implant systems within its
Orthopaedic Implants reportable segment rather than within its MedSurg
Equipment reportable segment.  The
Company believes these products are better aggregated with its other
Orthopaedic Implants based on similarities in manufacturing and marketing
practices and customer base.  Prior year
results have been reclassified to correspond with this change in reporting.

The Company's reportable segments are business units that
offer different products and services and are managed separately because each
business requires different manufacturing, technology and marketing
strategies.  The accounting policies of
the segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant
accounting policies. The Company measures the financial results of its
reportable segments using an internal performance measure that excludes purchased
in-process research and development charges and restructuring and
acquisition-related items.  Identifiable
assets are those assets used exclusively in the operations of each business
segment or are allocated when used jointly. Corporate assets are principally
cash and cash equivalents, investments and property, plant and equipment.


Sales and other financial information by business segment
follows:


The Company's principal areas of operation outside of the
United States are Japan and Europe.  The
Company also has operations in the Pacific, Canada, Latin America and the
Middle East.  Geographic information
follows:

NOTE 13

LEASES

The Company leases various manufacturing and office
facilities and equipment under operating leases.  Future minimum lease commitments under these
leases are as follows:

Rent expense totaled $79.9 in 2004, $72.0 in 2003 and $61.3
in 2002.


NOTE 14

CONTINGENCIES

The Company is involved in various proceedings, legal
actions and claims arising in the normal course of business, including
proceedings related to product, labor, intellectual property and other
matters.  Such matters are subject to
many uncertainties, and outcomes are not predictable with assurance.  The Company records amounts for losses that
are deemed to be probable and subject to reasonable estimate.  However, the Company does not anticipate
material losses as a result of these proceedings beyond amounts already
provided in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.

In December 2003, the Company announced that its subsidiary
Physiotherapy Associates, Inc., and Stryker received a subpoena from the United
States Attorney's Office in Boston, Massachusetts, in connection with a
Department of Justice investigation of Physiotherapy Associates' billing and
coding practices. Physiotherapy Associates provides physical, occupational and
speech therapy services to patients through 428 outpatient centers in the
United States as of December
 31, 2004 and represented 6% of Stryker's net sales for each of the
years ended December
 31, 2004 and 2003 and 7% of net sales for the year ended December 31, 2002.  Revenues derived from billings to U.S.
federal health-care programs approximated 14% of Physiotherapy Associates'
revenues during these periods. The Company is fully cooperating with the
Department of Justice regarding this matter.

Pursuant to certain of the Company's credit and lease
agreements, the Company has provided financial guarantees to third parties in
the form of indemnification provisions. 
These provisions indemnify the third parties for costs, including but
not limited to adverse judgments in lawsuits and the imposition of additional
taxes due to either a change in the tax law or an adverse interpretation of the
tax law.  The terms of the guarantees are
equal to the terms of the related credit or lease agreements.  The Company is not able to calculate the
maximum potential amount of future payments it could be required to make under
these guarantees, as the potential payment is dependent on the occurrence of
future unknown events (e.g., changes in United States or foreign tax laws).


SUMMARY OF QUARTERLY DATA (UNAUDITED)

Stryker Corporation and Subsidiaries

(in millions, except per share data)

The price quotations reported above were supplied by the New
York Stock Exchange.

(a)  In the third quarter of 2003, the
Company reduced the effective tax rate for the year to 30.5% from 31.0%,

thereby decreasing income
tax expense by $2.3.

ITEM 9.

CHANGES IN AND
  DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING

AND FINANCIAL
  DISCLOSURE

Not applicable.

ITEM 9A.

CONTROLS AND
  PROCEDURES

Evaluation of Disclosure
Controls and Procedures

- An evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and
operation of the Company's disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) as of December 31, 2004 was
carried out under the supervision and with the participation of the Company's
management, including the President and Chief Executive Officer and the Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer ("the Certifying
Officers").  Based on that
evaluation, the Certifying Officers concluded that the Company's disclosure
controls and procedures are effective to bring to the attention of the
Company's management the relevant information necessary to permit an assessment
of the need to disclose material developments and risks pertaining to the
Company's business in its periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  There was no change to the
Company's internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2004
that materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
Company's internal control over financial reporting.

Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting

- The management of Stryker Corporation is responsible for
establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting,
as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f).  Stryker
Corporation's internal control system was


designed to provide reasonable
assurance to the Company's management and Board of Directors regarding the
preparation and fair presentation of published financial statements.

Stryker Corporation's management assessed the effectiveness
of the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004
under the supervision and with the participation of the Certifying Officers.  In making this assessment, it used the
criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission in Internal Control-Integrated Framework.  Based on that assessment, management believes
that, as of December
 31, 2004, the Company's internal control over financial reporting
is effective.

Stryker Corporation's independent registered public
accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, has issued an attestation report on
management's assessment of the Company's internal control over financial
reporting.  This report appears below.

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER
FINANCIAL REPORTING

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Stryker
Corporation

:

We have audited management's assessment, included in the
accompanying Management Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting,
that Stryker Corporation and subsidiaries maintained effective internal control
over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2004, based on criteria
established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). The
Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control
over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on management's assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the
Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of
the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in
all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management's assessment,
testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal
control, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our
opinion.

A company's internal control over financial reporting is a
process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's
internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the
assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, management's assessment that Stryker
Corporation and subsidiaries maintained effective internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, is fairly stated, in all material
respects, based on the COSO criteria. Also, in our opinion, the Company
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial
reporting as of December
 31, 2004, based on the COSO criteria.


We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of
the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated
balance sheets of Stryker Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2004
and 2003, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, stockholders'
equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2004,
and our report dated February
 4, 2005 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Grand Rapids, Michigan

February
 4, 2005

ITEM 9B.

OTHER INFORMATION

Not applicable.

PART III

ITEM 10.

DIRECTORS AND
  EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Information regarding the directors of the Company and certain
corporate governance matters appearing under the captions "Election of
Directors", "Audit Committee" and "Miscellaneous - Section
16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" in the 2005 proxy
statement is incorporated herein by reference.

Information regarding the executive officers of the Company
appears below.  All officers are elected
annually.  Reported ages are as of January 31, 2005.

Stephen P. MacMillan, age 41, was appointed President and
Chief Operating Officer of the Company in June 2003 and Chief Executive Officer
as of January 1,
 2005.  Prior to joining the
Company, he was most recently Sector Vice President, Global Specialty
Operations for Pharmacia Corporation, which he joined in 1999.  Prior to Pharmacia, he spent 11 years at Johnson
& Johnson ("J&J"), most recently as President of Johnson
& Johnson-Merck Consumer Pharmaceuticals, a joint venture between J&J
and Merck.  Prior to joining J&J, he
held various marketing positions at Procter & Gamble.

Dean H. Bergy, age 45, was appointed Vice President, Chief
Financial Officer and Secretary in January 2003 and was the Vice President,
Finance of the Company since October 1998. 
He had previously been Vice President, Finance of the Stryker Medical
division since October 1996 and Controller of the Company from June 1994. Mr.
Bergy relinquished the office of Secretary of the Company in February
2005.  Prior to joining the Company in
June 1994, he was a Senior Manager with Ernst & Young LLP.

Stephen Si Johnson, age 48, was appointed Vice President of
the Company in February 2000 and was appointed Group President, MedSurg in
September 1999.  He had previously been
President of Stryker Instruments since 1995. 
After joining the Company in 1980 he held various sales and marketing
positions in the MedSurg Group and was appointed General Manager of Stryker
Instruments in 1992 and Executive Vice President of Stryker Instruments in
1994.

James
E. Kemler, age 47, was appointed Vice President of the Company and Group
President, Stryker Biotech, Spine and Trauma in August 2001.  He had previously been President of Stryker
Biotech since 1996 and General Manager of Stryker Biotech since October
1995.  Prior to joining the Company in
October 1995, he spent 11 years with Baxter International Inc. in a variety of
marketing, manufacturing and financial management positions, which included
three years in Baxter's German subsidiary.

James R. Lawson, age 60, was
appointed Group President, Orthopaedics and International in January 2004.
Previously he was Group President, Stryker International since October 2001 and
has been a Vice President


of the Company since July 1999. 
Upon joining the Company in December 1998, he served as Senior Vice President of
Sales, Marketing and Product Development for Stryker Howmedica Osteonics and
became President, Worldwide Business Development for Stryker Corporation in July
1999.  Prior to the Howmedica acquisition, he was Senior Vice President,
Sales and Customer Service of the Howmedica division of Pfizer Inc. since 1996. 
He had been associated with Howmedica for 29 years where he had also been a
Sales Representative and owner of a Howmedica distributorship.

Thomas R. Winkel, age 52, was appointed Vice President of
Administration of the Company in December 1998 and Secretary of the Company in
February 2005.  He has been a Vice
President of the Company since December 1984. 
He had previously been President of Stryker Americas/Middle East since
March 1992 and Vice President, Administration since June 1987.  Since joining the Company in October 1978, he
has held various other positions, including Assistant Controller and
Controller.

The Corporate Governance Guidelines adopted by the Company's
Board of Directors, as well as the charters of each of the Audit Committee, the
Governance and Nominating Committee, the Compensation Committee and the Stock
Option Committee and the Code of Ethics applicable to the principal executive
officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer or
controller or persons performing similar functions may be accessed at the
"Corporate Governance" page of the company's website at
www.stryker.com.  Print copies of such documents are available upon
written request sent to the Secretary of the Company at 2725 Fairfield Road,
Kalamazoo, Michigan 49002.

ITEM 11.

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Information regarding the compensation of the management of
the Company appearing under the captions "Director Compensation" and
"Executive Compensation - General" in the 2005 proxy statement is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12.

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information under the captions "Beneficial
Ownership of More than 5% of the Outstanding Common Stock" and
"Beneficial Ownership of Management" in the 2005 proxy statement is
incorporated herein by reference.

At December 31, 2004, the Company had key employee and
director stock option plans under which options are granted at a price not less
than fair market value at the date of grant. 
These stock option plans were previously submitted to and approved by
the Company's stockholders.  Additional
information regarding the Company's stock option plans appear in "

Note 1 - Significant Accounting Polices

" and "

Note 8 - Capital Stock

" on pages 36 through 39 and pages
45 through 47 of this report, respectively. 
At December
 31, 2004, the Company also had a stock performance incentive award
program pursuant to which shares of the Company's Common Stock have been and may
be issued to certain employees with respect to performance in any calendar year
through    December
 31, 2012.  This performance
incentive award program was previously submitted to and approved by the
Company's stockholders.  The status of
these plans as of December
 31, 2004 follows:


ITEM 13.

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND
  RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The information under the caption "Executive
Compensation - Transactions with Executive Officer" in the 2005 proxy
statement is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 14.

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES

The information under the caption "Miscellaneous -
Relationship with Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" in the 2005 proxy statement is
incorporated herein by reference.

PART IV

ITEM 15.

EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf
of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


FORM 10-K - ITEM 15(a) 3. and ITEM 15(c)

STRYKER CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

EXHIBIT INDEX

*compensation arrangement

END OF FILING