
10-K



                     U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              Washington, D.C.  20549

                                    FORM 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 
1934 (FEE REQUIRED)

For the fiscal year ended     December 31, 1995                                 
                            -------------------- 
                                         OR

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934 (NO FEE REQUIRED)

For the transition period from  ------------------      to  ------------------ 
Commission file number 0-8251

                              ADOLPH COORS COMPANY 
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------   
           (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

           Colorado                                        84-0178360     
       ------------------                     -------------------------
(State or other jurisdiction of          (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
 incorporation or organization)

          Golden, Colorado                                       80401 
      -------------------                    --------------------------
 (Address of principal executive offices)              (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code       (303) 279-6565  
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
                                     
       Title of each class         Name of each exchange on which registered   
            None                                    None              
- -----------------------------       --------------------------------------------
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                    Class B Common Stock (non-voting), no par value   
      -----------------------------------------------------------------
                                  (Title of class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports 
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the 
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to 
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.
 YES X  NO 
    ----   -----
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the 
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to 
this Form 10-K.  (X)

State the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of 
the registrant:  All voting shares are held by Adolph Coors, Jr. Trust.

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's classes
of common stock, as of March 14, 1996: 

                     Class A Common Stock -  1,260,000 shares                  
                     Class B Common Stock - 36,753,476 shares

                                     PART I
ITEM 1. Business

(a) General Development of Business

Founded in 1873, Adolph Coors Company ("ACC" or the "Company") is the holding 
company for Coors Brewing Company ("CBC"). CBC produces and markets beer and 
other malt-based beverages.  The Company's business was conducted as a 
partnership or sole proprietorship until 1913, when it incorporated under the
laws of the State of Colorado. During the 1980's, the Company developed a 
number of technology-based businesses. At the end of 1992, ACC spun off its
aluminum, packaging, ceramics and other technology businesses in a tax-free 
distribution to shareholders. The spin-off was accomplished through a 
dividend of the shares of common stock in a new public company, ACX 
Technologies, Inc. (ACX)(NYSE:ACX).

CBC owns Coors Distributing Company and a number of smaller subsidiaries, 
including Coors Transportation Company; Coors Energy Company; The Wannamaker 
Ditch Company; The Rocky Mountain Water Company; CBC International, Inc. 
(CBCI); Coors Global, Inc. (CGI); Coors Intercontinental, Inc. (CII) and 
Coors Japan Company, Ltd. In 1992, substantially all of the assets of Coors 
Energy Company and Coors Transportation Company were sold.

CBC and three of its subsidiaries, CBCI, CGI and CII own Coors Brewing 
International C.V. (CV) which owns Coors Brewing Iberica S.A. (Coors Iberica)
and Coors Services, S.A. Coors Services, S.A. was established in 1995 to 
provide management and administrative services to the CV. The CV conducts sales
and marketing in Europe, Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa.

Some of the statements that follow relate to the Company's future products 
and business plans, financial results, performance and events which are 
forward-looking based on current expectations. Actual results may differ 
materially from the forward-looking statements.

(b) Financial Information About Industry Segments

The Company has continuing operations in a single industry segment, the 
production and marketing of beer and other malt-based beverages.

(c) Narrative Description of Business
 
Coors Brewing Company - General 

CBC is engaged in the production and marketing of high quality malt-based 
beverage products.  CBC places a priority on higher-margin products in the 
premium and above-premium categories and has a number of distinctive brands 
that satisfy consumer demands and taste trends. Most of CBC's sales are in 
U.S. markets; however, CBC is committed to building profitable sales in 
international markets. Sales of malt beverage products were 20.3 million 
barrels in 1995, 20.4 million barrels in 1994 and 19.8 million barrels in 
1993.

Marketing

Principal products and services: There are currently 26 products in the CBC 
brand portfolio.  CBC produces seven premium products in the Coors family of
brands, including Coors Light, Original Coors, Coors Artic Ice, Coors Artic 
Ice Light, Coors Extra Gold, Coors Dry and Coors Cutter, a non-alcoholic 
brew.

CBC produces and markets Zima Clearmalt, an innovative malt-based beverage 
in the above-premium category. CBC, through UniBev, Ltd. (UniBev), an 
operating unit which focuses on specialty and import beers, offers beers in 
the specialty, above-premium category, including Winterfest; Herman Joseph's;
Memphis Brown; and Blue Moon, Honey Blonde Ale, Blue Moon Nut Brown Ale, 
Blue Moon Belgian White Ale, Blue Moon Raspberry Cream Ale and Blue Moon 
Harvest Pumpkin Ale, a seasonal product. 

Through UniBev, CBC also sells a number of import or licensed products, 
including George Killian's Irish Red, George Killian's Irish Brown Ale, 
George Killian's Wilde Honey Ale, Castlemaine XXXX and Steinlager. Through 
a joint venture, CBC also produces Cass Fresh, a product distributed in 
South Korea. 

CBC sells products in the popular-priced category: Keystone, Keystone Light, 
Keystone Dry, Keystone Ice and Keystone Amber Light. Coors malt beverage 
products are sold in most states with the exception of Coors Dry and Memphis 
Brown, which are in limited distribution. A number of Coors products are 
exported or produced and sold in overseas markets. International sales are 
described in greater detail below.

New products/opportunities: In 1995, CBC introduced a new product, Killian's 
Irish Brown Ale.  Killian's Irish Brown Ale joined Killian's Irish Red in 
establishing an "Irish family of brands" marketed by UniBev. UniBev also 
distributes Steinlager in the U.S.; Steinlager is the number-one premium 
beer in New Zealand and is distributed by Coors under license from Lion
Nathan International of New Zealand.

In the first quarter of 1995, CBC announced a limited market distribution 
arrangement between UniBev and F.X. Matt Company of Utica, New York. UniBev 
started a distribution test of a number of F.X. Matt's Saranac brands, 
including Saranac Adirondack Amber, Saranac Golden Pilsner, Saranac Black 
and Tan, Saranac Black Forest and Saranac Pale Ale.

Blue Moon Brewing Company (Blue Moon) is an operating unit of CBC created 
during 1995 to support a new product line of unique, specialty brews. These
products are contract-brewed by F.X. Matt Company and marketed by UniBev. 
Blue Moon introduced three year-round products in 1995:  Blue Moon Honey Blonde
Ale, Nut Brown Ale and Belgian White Ale. In 1995, Blue Moon introduced one 
seasonal product, Blue Moon Harvest Pumpkin Ale.  

Three seasonal beers marketed by UniBev in 1994, Eisbock, Weizenbier and 
Oktoberfest, were discontinued in 1995.  

Coors Red Light was introduced nationwide during 1995. Red Light was designed 
for consumers who liked some attributes of specialty beers, but found them 
too heavy or bitter. Since this segment of the market did not develop as 
anticipated, Coors discontinued Red Light early in 1996.

In early 1995, Coors introduced Coors Special Lager. This product was a 
traditional full flavored lager containing only 89 calories. The product did 
not meet expectations and was discontinued early in 1996.

In view of heightened consumer interest in craft-brewed products, Coors 
Brewing Company reintroduced Herman Joseph's beer in late 1995. Herman Joseph's
beer is a special premium beer for consumers who want craft-brewed flavor 
without the heavy taste or usual high cost of craft-brewed beers.

Zima Gold brand was introduced in 1995. Zima Gold brand was developed as an 
alternative beverage with a bold, distinctive taste. Unfortunately, the success
of this product was not as expected and the product was withdrawn later in 
the year. 

In the spring of 1995, CBC celebrated the grand-opening of Coors Field ballpark
in Denver, Colorado by opening the first "brewery in a ballpark." This brewery,
with an annual capacity of approximately 4,000 barrels, is named The SandLot 
Brewery at Coors Field and brews a full spectrum of specialty beers. The 
SandLot Brewery is open year round.

In 1993, CBC announced that it would produce and market Castlemaine XXXX (an 
Australian lager) in the U.S. through a joint venture with Lion Nathan 
International of New Zealand. In 1994, CBC expanded its relationship with 
Lion Nathan to include exclusive U.S. distribution of Steinlager, which has 
been the best-selling premium beer in New Zealand.

Brand names, trademarks, patents and licenses: Trademarks owned by CBC include:
Original Coors, Coors Light, Coors Artic Ice, Coors Artic Ice Light, Coors 
Extra Gold, Coors Dry, Coors Cutter, Zima Clearmalt, Winterfest, Keystone, 
Keystone Light, Keystone Dry, Keystone Ice, Keystone Amber Light, Coors Red 
Light, Coors Special Lager, Herman Joseph's and Blue Moon. CBC recognizes 
that consumer knowledge of and loyalty to its brand names and trademarks is 
extremely important to the long-term success of the Company. CBC also holds a 
number of patents on innovative processes related to can-making, can-decorating
and other technical operations. The Company derives revenue from royalties 
and licenses, but does not consider its business to be substantially 
dependent upon such revenue.

Brand performance: Coors Light is the best selling brand in CBC's product 
portfolio. For the past three years, Coors Light has accounted for 
approximately two-thirds of CBC's total sales volume. CBC's next highest 
volume brand is Original Coors. Products in the premium and above-premium 
categories make up approximately 87% of CBC's volume.

Domestic sales operations: CBC's highest volume sales are in the states of 
California, Texas, Pennsylvania, New York and New Jersey, comprising 47% of 
total domestic volume.

In 1994, CBC reorganized its field sales department into eight field business 
areas (FBAs) to enable CBC to become more familiar with its customers and to 
anticipate and respond more quickly to their needs.

International marketing/partnerships: CBC intends to increase its presence in 
international markets. The potential exists for financial returns that may 
be superior to those in the domestic market. With the establishment of 
production capacity in foreign locations, building market share and 
distribution is now the first priority.

CBC, through its U.S. and foreign production facilities, exports its products
to a number of markets outside the United States, including American Samoa, 
Australia, Austria, the Bahamas, Bahrain, Belgium, Bermuda, Cayman Islands, 
Columbia, Cyprus, Dominican Republic, France, Greece, Guam, Guatemala, 
Holland, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Panama, Palau, Puerto Rico, Russia, 
St. Maarten, Saipan, Singapore, Sweden, Switzerland, the Turks and Caicos 
Islands, the U.S. and British Virgin Islands and Zimbabwe. CBC also exports its
products to U.S. military bases worldwide. While export volumes do not 
presently account for a significant portion of CBC's sales, they are 
significantly more profitable, on a per barrel basis, than domestic sales.

CBC has existing licensing agreements with a number of international brewers. 
CBC licenses Molson Breweries of Canada Limited (Molson) to brew and
distribute Original Coors and Coors Light in Canada, where Coors Light is the
best selling light beer. 

In 1992, Miller Brewing Company (Miller) increased its ownership in Molson 
to 20%. As a result of this and other matters which had arisen between CBC and
Molson, CBC initiated two legal actions related to its contractual arrangements
with Molson. These legal actions are ongoing and have not impacted the 
success of CBC's brands in Canada. In connection with its agreement with 
Molson, in March 1996, the Company received past due royalties and interest 
income totalling $5.7 million (net of $0.6 million of withholding taxes). The 
obligation of Molson to make this payment to CBC will be a subject of 
arbitration proceedings that are scheduled to begin in May 1996.

In July 1995, because of differences in business goals, CBC and Asahi
Breweries, Ltd. (Asahi) agreed to terminate the licensing of the Coors
brand to Asahi in Japan. The Coors brand had been one of the top three
foreign premium brands in Japan for the past eight years. As a substitute
for its licensing agreement with Asahi, CBC established a subsidiary company,
Coors Japan Company, Ltd. (Coors Japan). The new subsidiary is based in
Tokyo, Japan and has assumed responsibility for the distribution, sales
and marketing of Coors products. The establishment of Coors Japan represents
an important step in CBC's long-term international strategy in Japan.

In September 1992, a joint venture between CBC and Scottish Courage, formerly
Scottish & Newcastle Breweries of Scotland, began brewing and distributing 
Coors Extra Gold in the United Kingdom. Coors Extra Gold was introduced in 
Scotland and northwest England in August 1992. In 1993, distribution was 
expanded to include the remainder of Great Britain. In 1993, CBC introduced 
Coors Extra Gold in Ireland. The brand is brewed by Scottish Courage in the 
U.K. and distributed under license to Murphy Brewery Ireland Ltd., Dublin, a 
subsidiary of Heineken. Coors Extra Gold was rated overall Best Draught Lager
at the 1994 Brewing Industry International Awards in England.

Beginning in 1991, CBC established a joint venture with Jinro Limited of
the Republic of Korea. CBC owns one-third of the joint venture, Jinro-Coors
Brewing Company,; Jinro Limited holds the remaining two-thirds. In the
second quarter of 1994, Jinro-Coors completed construction of a
1.8-million-barrel brewery in South Korea and began to produce the Cass
Fresh brand. In 1995, the brewing capacity was expanded to approximately 3.6
million barrels. 

In its first few months, the Cass Fresh brand captured a 10% share of the 
South Korean beer market. Presently, the brand represents 13% of the market 
in South Korea. In October of 1994, Jinro-Coors launched Coors Extra Gold 
brand in the South Korean market. Volume and sales of Jinro-Coors Brewing 
Company are not included in CBC's financial results.

In March 1994, Coors Iberica purchased a 500,000-hectoliter brewery in
Zaragoza, Spain. The brewery was purchased from El Aguila S.A., of Madrid,
Spain. El Aguila S.A. is 51% owned by Amsterdam-based Heineken, N.V., the
world's second-largest brewer. The total investment by CBC in Spain is
expected to exceed $50 million, including the initial purchase price and
future spending on operations and marketing. CBC will contract brew
El Aguila products through 1998.

Coors Iberica brews the Coors Gold brand for sale in Spain and the Coors 
Extra Gold brand for export to Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, France, Greece, 
Holland, Ireland, Italy, Russia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and Zimbabwe. 
Distribution of Coors products in Spain is managed by El Aguila. Sales and 
marketing are managed jointly by Coors Iberica and El Aguila. This
arrangement provides significant advantages over direct export of products
from U.S. facilities. Volume and sales from the Zaragoza brewery are
included in CBC's financial results.

In early 1996, ACC established a foreign sales corporation, Coors Export
Ltd., to take advantage of favorable U.S. tax laws involving foreign sales.

Product distribution: Delivery to retail markets in the United States is
accomplished through a national network of 575 independent distributors
and 4 distributors owned and operated by CBC's subsidiary, Coors
Distributing Company. Some distributors have multiple branches. The total
number of distributor locations in the U.S., including branch operations,
is 633. Delivery to export/international markets is accomplished via
licensing and distribution agreements with independent distributors.

In order to ensure the highest product quality, CBC has one of the
industry's most extensive distributor monitoring programs. This program
is designed to ensure that guidelines for proper refrigeration and rotation
of CBC's malt beverage products at both the wholesale and retail levels are
followed. Distributors are responsible for maintaining proper rotation of
the products at retail accounts and are required to replace CBC's malt
beverage products if sales to consumers have not occurred within a
prescribed time period.

No single distributor accounted for more than 5% of 1995 total sales.

Transportation

The number and geographic location of CBC's brewing operations require its
malt beverage products to be shipped a greater distance than most
competitors' products. Major competitors have multiple breweries and,
therefore, incur lower transportation costs than CBC to deliver products to
distributors. By packaging some products in Memphis, Tennessee, and Elkton,
Virginia, CBC is able to achieve more efficient product distribution and a 
reduction of freight costs for certain markets. During 1995, 29% of total CBC 
products sold were first shipped in CBC's insulated rail tank cars from Golden 
and then blended, finished and packaged at the Memphis and Shenandoah plants.

CBC's Golden facilities are served by Burlington Northern, Inc., which
transports approximately 67% of CBC products packaged at the Golden facility
to Denver. From Denver the products are shipped by various railroad lines
to satellite redistribution centers and distributors throughout the country.
The rail cars assigned to CBC are specially built and insulated to maintain
temperature in route. 

CBC is able to maintain high rail volume by use of 20 satellite
redistribution centers strategically located throughout the country. These
centers, operated by public warehouse companies and CBC, transfer CBC's malt
beverage products from rail cars to trucks for shipment to distributors. In
1995, approximately 75% of total rail car volume of packaged product from 
Golden moved through the satellite redistribution centers.

CBC is heavily dependent upon rail distribution of its products, as noted
above.  Any disruption by strike would impact CBC more than its major
competitors but the risk of such disruption appears unlikely.

The remaining 33% of CBC volume packaged in Golden is shipped by truck and
intermodal (piggyback) directly to distributors. Transportation vehicles are
also refrigerated or insulated to keep CBC's malt beverage products at
proper temperatures while in transit.

Operations

Production/packaging capacity: CBC currently has three domestic production
facilities. It owns and operates the world's largest single-site brewery in
Golden, Colorado; a packaging and brewing facility in Memphis, Tennessee;
and a packaging plant and distribution facility near Elkton, Virginia
(referred to as the Shenandoah facility).

The Golden brewery is the source location for all brands with the Coors
name, except for Coors Cutter. Most (66%) of CBC's beer is packaged in 
Golden. The remainder is shipped in bulk from the Golden brewery to the 
Shenandoah and Memphis facilities for blending, finishing and packaging. 

The Memphis facility is currently packaging all products for export from the
United States and is brewing and packaging Zima Clearmalt, Castlemaine XXXX,
Killian's Wilde Honey Ale, Memphis Brown and Coors Cutter. Depending on 
product mix and market opportunities, the full utilization of brewing 
capacity in Memphis may or may not require additions to plant and equipment.

The Shenandoah facility, which currently packages certain CBC products for
distribution into eastern markets, can be expanded if necessary.

At the end of 1995, CBC had approximately 25 million barrels of annual
brewing capacity and 30 million barrels of annual packaging capacity.
Current capacity figures are dependent on product mix and may change with
shifting consumer preferences for specific brands and/or packages. The
increasing proliferation of products and packages creates logistical challenges
for CBC as well as for most other brewers. CBC's three facilities provide
sufficient brewing and packaging capacity to meet foreseeable consumer demand.

Significant portions of CBC's aluminum can, end, glass bottle and malt
requirements are produced in owned facilities or facilities shared with
joint venture partners. CBC has arranged for sufficient supplies for its
container requirements with its joint venture partners. CBC has sufficient
malting facilities to fulfill its current and projected requirements.

Container manufacturing facilities: CBC owns a can manufacturing facility,
which produces approximately 3.6 billion aluminum cans per year. In addition,
CBC owns an aluminum can end manufacturing facility, which provides aluminum 
ends and tabs to CBC. Together, container assets comprise approximately 11.5%
of CBC's property assets. In May of 1994, CBC and American National Can 
Company began a container joint venture to produce beverage can ends at the 
CBC end manufacturing facility for sale to CBC and to outside customers. This
joint venture was expanded in the third quarter of 1994 to include can 
manufacturing. The joint venture has an initial term of seven years and can 
be extended for two additional three-year terms. Over time, the joint venture
is intended to improve utilization of both facilities and to enhance the 
return on this investment. In 1995, substantially all of the cans produced 
were purchased by CBC. The joint venture is committed to supplying 100% of 
the CBC Golden facility's can and end requirements.

In June 1995, CBC and Anchor Glass Container Corporation (Anchor)
established a long-term joint venture, the Rocky Mountain Bottle Company,
to produce glass bottles at the CBC glass manufacturing facility. The joint
venture is intended to lower unit costs, increase output and create
efficiencies at the glass plant. CBC contributed approximately $16.2 million in
machinery, equipment and certain personal property to the formation of the
bottle partnership. The partnership has an initial term of 10 years and can
be extended for additional two-year periods.

In 1995, the bottle manufacturing plant produced approximately 778 million
bottles for use by CBC. There were no outside sales. Bottles manufactured by
CBC are made with an average recycled content of 35%. To assist in its goal
of manufacturing bottles with recycled material, CBC has constructed a glass
recycling facility in Wheat Ridge, Colorado. Construction of the facility
was completed in mid-1994 and doubled the amount of glass the facility can
recycle annually. The recycling facility is operated by the Rocky Mountain
Bottle Company.

Other facilities: CBC owns waste treatment facilities, which process waste
from CBC's manufacturing operations as well as municipal waste from the City
of Golden. 

In September 1995, CBC sold its power plant equipment and support facilities 
to Trigen-Nations Energy Corporation, L.L.L.P. (Trigen) for $22 million. CBC
has agreed to purchase from Trigen the electricity and steam needed to 
operate the brewery's Golden facilities.  The 25-year agreement provides for 
significant improvements by Trigen. 

CBC continues to improve asset utilization by divestiture of non-core
assets and by continued improvement of capacity utilization through joint
ventures and alliances. Joint venture partnerships for the malting
operation are being considered.

Capital expansion: In 1995, the Company spent approximately $146 million
on capital expenditures. While management plans to invest appropriately in
order to ensure the ongoing productivity and efficiency of CBC assets, a
priority will be given to those projects which the Company believes
offer returns on investment in excess of CBC's cost of capital. CBC
expects its capital expenditures for 1996 to be approximately $100 million.

Raw Materials/Sources and Availability

CBC uses all natural ingredients in the production of its beers. CBC has one
of the longest beer brewing cycles in the industry. CBC adheres to strict
formulation and quality standards in selecting its raw materials. CBC 
believes it has sufficient access to raw materials and packaging materials
to continue to meet its quality and production requirements.

Barley, barley malt, starch and hops: CBC uses a proprietary strain of
barley, developed by CBC's agronomists, in most of its malt beverage
products. Virtually all of this barley is grown on irrigated farmland in
the western United States under contractual agreements with area farmers.
CBC's malting facility in Golden, Colorado, produces malt for all CBC products
except Zima Clearmalt. CBC maintains inventory levels in owned locations
sufficient to continue production in the event of any disruption in supply
of barley or malt.

Rice and refined cereal starch, which are interchangeable in CBC's brewing
process, are purchased from outside suppliers. Foreign and domestic hops
are also  purchased. Again, adequate inventories are maintained to
continue production through any foreseeable disruption in supply.

Water:  CBC utilizes naturally filtered water from underground aquifers
to brew malt beverages at its Golden facility. Water from private deep
wells is used for final blending and packaging operations for malt beverages
packaged at plants located outside Colorado. Water quality and composition
were primary factors in all facility site selections. Water from CBC's
sources in Golden, Memphis and Shenandoah is ideally balanced with minerals and
dissolved solids to brew high-quality malt beverages. 

CBC continually monitors the quality of all the water used in its brewing
and packaging processes for compliance with CBC's own stringent quality
standards as well as applicable federal and state water standards. CBC owns
water rights believed to be adequate to meet all of CBC's present
requirements for both brewing and industrial uses; however, it continues to
acquire water rights and add water reservoir capacity, as appropriate, to
provide for long-term strategic growth plans and to sustain brewing
operations in the event of a prolonged drought.

Packaging materials: During 1994 and 1995, approximately 57% of CBC's malt
beverage products were packaged in aluminum cans. 

Approximately 39% of the cost of malt beverage products packaged in cans is
the cost of the aluminum can. CBC's aluminum requirements for cans and ends
are purchased through CBC's joint venture agreement with American National
Can Company (ANC), including purchases from Golden Aluminum Company, a
subsidiary of ACX. Aluminum cans for CBC's malt beverage products packaged
at the Memphis plant were purchased from an outside supplier.

Glass bottles were used to package approximately 31% of CBC's malt beverage
products in 1995. Approximately half of all bottles were produced in CBC's
bottle manufacturing plant, which is now part of the Rocky Mountain Bottle
Company, a joint venture with Anchor. Beginning in 1996, CBC will purchase
all of its glass bottles from either the Rocky Mountain Bottle Company or
directly from Anchor, a preferred supplier.

The remainder of the malt beverages sold during 1995 was packaged in
quarter- and half-barrel stainless steel kegs and two different sizes of
a plastic sphere called "The Party Ball," an innovation in packaging
introduced by CBC in 1988.

Most of the secondary packaging for CBC's products, including bottle labels
and paperboard products, is supplied by Graphic Packaging Corporation, an
ACX subsidiary.

Aluminum costs in 1995 rose dramatically, driving up cost of goods sold.
See related discussion in the Management's Discussion and Analysis.
Aluminum costs are expected to decline slightly in 1996 because of
modifications in the can-making process and lower aluminum prices.

Supply contracts with ACX companies:  At the time of the spin-off of ACX,
in 1992, CBC negotiated long-term supply contracts with operating subsidiaries
of ACX for aluminum and packaging materials. These contracts, negotiated at
market prices, were to be in effect through 1997. The aluminum contracts were
cancelled in 1995.  See discussion under Item 11, Compensation Committee 
Interlocks and Insider Participation for further details.

Energy: With sale of the power plant equipment to Trigen, CBC now purchases
electricity and steam for its Golden manufacturing facilities from Trigen. 
Coors Energy Company supplies Trigen with coal for its steam generator
system. CBC does not anticipate future energy supply problems.

Seasonality of the Business

The beer industry is subject to seasonal fluctuation. CBC's sales volumes
are normally at their lowest in the first and fourth quarters and highest
in the second and third quarters. The Company's fiscal year is a 52- or 53-week
year that ends on the last Sunday in December. The 1995 fiscal year was
53 weeks in length while 1996 will be 52 weeks long. Additionally, the
Company will change its reporting to a 12-period fiscal year from the
13-period fiscal year that was used in 1995, 1994 and prior years. The
12-period fiscal year is composed of four 13-week quarters compared to
the former 13-period fiscal year which had three 12-week quarters and one
16-week quarter (third quarter). The change to 13-week quarters creates a
fiscal year that is more comparable to the reporting practices of the 
Company's competitors.

Research and Development

CBC's research and development expenditures are primarily related to new
product and package development, brewing process and ingredients, brewing
equipment, improved manufacturing techniques for packaging supplies, and
environmental improvements in CBC's processes and packaging materials.
The focus of these programs is to improve the quality and value of its
malt beverage products while reducing costs through more efficient
processing and packaging techniques, equipment design, and improved
varieties of raw materials. CBC's research and development dollars are being
strategically applied to short-term as well as long-term opportunities. 
Approximately $15.4 million, $13.3 million and $13.0 million was spent on 
research and project development in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

To support the development of new products, CBC maintains a fully-equipped 
pilot brewery within the Golden facility, with a 6,500-barrel annual capacity.
This on-site resource enables CBC to brew small batches of innovative products 
without interrupting ongoing production and operations in the main brewery.

Regulations

Federal laws and regulations govern the operations of breweries; the federal 
government and all states regulate trade practices, advertising and marketing
practices, relationships with distributors and related matters. Governmental 
entities also levy various taxes, license fees and other similar charges and
may require bonds to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations.

There are a number of emerging regulatory issues that could impact business 
operations over the next few years, including potential increases in state 
and federal excise taxes, restrictions on the advertising and sale of alcohol
beverages, new packaging regulations and others.

Federal excise taxes on malt beverages are presently $18.00 per barrel. State 
excise taxes are also levied at rates that ranged in 1995 from a high of 
$32.65 per barrel in Alabama to a low of $0.62 per barrel in Wyoming, with 
an average of $7.19 per barrel. In 1995, CBC paid more than $385 million in 
federal and state excise taxes. A substantial increase in federal excise 
taxes would have a negative impact on the entire industry and could have a 
material effect on CBC sales and profitability. CBC is vigorously opposed to 
any additional increases in federal and/or state excise taxes and will work 
diligently to ensure that its view is adequately represented in the ongoing 
debate.

Environmental

Compliance with the provisions of federal, state and local environmental laws 
and regulations did not have a material effect on the capital expenditures, 
earnings or competitive position of the Company during 1995.

The Company also continues its commitment to programs directed toward efficient
use of resources, waste reduction and pollution prevention. Programs 
currently underway include recycling initiatives, down-weighting of product 
packages, and, where practicable, increasing the recycled content of product
packaging materials, paper and other supplies. A number of employee task 
forces throughout CBC continually seek effective ways to control hazardous
materials and to develop new ways to reduce emissions and waste.

Employees and Employee Relations

The Company has approximately 6,200 full-time employees, 1,800 of whom are 
salaried.

In July 1995, employees at CBC's Elkton, Virginia facility, rejected a 
Teamsters bid to serve as the collective bargaining agent for workers at the 
plant. Of CBC's three production facilities, only the Memphis, Tennessee, plant
workers are represented by a labor union (Teamsters).

Foreign Operations

The Company's foreign operations and export sales are not yet a material part
of its business. The Company is committed to expanding its foreign operations 
through export sales, licensing agreements and joint ventures.

Brewing Company Subsidiaries

Coors Distributing Company (CDC) is CBC's largest subsidiary. CDC owns and 
operates distributorships in five markets across the United States. CDC 
operations in 1995 accounted for approximately 5.2% of CBC's total beer sales.

In late 1992, Coors Energy Company (CEC) became a subsidiary of CBC. During 
1992, CEC sold substantially all of its oil and gas exploration and production
assets.  CEC owned a transmission pipeline to bring natural gas to various 
CBC facilities in Colorado. This pipeline was sold to Trigen in September
1995 as part of the power plant sale. Through a subsidiary, CEC continues 
to operate a gas transmission pipeline to provide for the energy needs of 
CBC's Shenandoah facility. In early 1995, CEC divested a portion of its 
Colorado coal reserves (see Note 12 to the financial statements in Item 8).

In 1992, CBC sold substantially all of the assets and operations of Coors 
Transportation Company.

Other subsidiary operations of CBC include The Wannamaker Ditch Company and The
Rocky Mountain Water Company (both carry process water from nearby Clear Creek 
to various CBC reservoirs in Golden).

Coors Japan Company, Ltd. was also established in 1995 and is a direct 
subsidiary of CBC. See discussion of this subsidiary presented above under 
International Marketing/Partnerships. 

Competitive conditions

Known trends and competitive conditions: Industry and competitive information 
was compiled from the following industry sources: Beer Marketer's Insights and 
The Wall Street Journal.  While management believes these sources are reliable,
the Company cannot guarantee the absolute accuracy of these numbers and 
estimates.

1995 Industry overview: The beer industry in the United States is highly 
competitive.  Industry volume growth in domestic markets has been below 1% a 
year for the past several years. In 1995, domestic shipments are estimated to 
be down 1.1% from 1994. For the past several years, brewers have attempted to
gain market share through competitive pricing. In 1995, price promotions and 
price discounting continued to erode net price realizations for brewers. 
While projected increases in raw materials costs throughout the industry could
result in modest price increases and some relief from price discounting in the 
near term, it is possible that competitors will continue to concentrate on 
market share gains instead of profitability, which will place continued 
downward pressure on pricing. Industry growth is increasingly dependent on 
introductions of new, higher-margin products including imports, specialty 
brews, and other innovative brands and expansion into international markets.

A number of important trends continued in the U.S. beer market in 1995. The 
first was a trend toward "trading up." Consumers continued to move away from 
lower-priced brands to higher-priced brands, including specialty products and
imports in the above-premium category. This caused a related shift in 
packaging preferences, toward glass bottles and away from aluminum cans. 
Concurrent with the shift in consumer preference is the recent proliferation of
microbreweries.

To capitalize on the trend toward specialty products and craft-brewed beers, 
brewers are introducing new products at an accelerating rate. This 
proliferation of products creates unique challenges in operations, logistics 
and marketing for all brewers, distributors and retailers.

CBC competitive position: CBC's malt beverage products compete with numerous 
above-premium, premium, low-calorie, popular-priced, non-alcohol and 
imported brands produced by national, regional, local and international 
brewers. More than 89% of domestic volume is attributable to the top six 
domestic brewers, Anheuser-Busch, Inc. (AB), Philip Morris, Inc. through its
subsidiary Miller Brewing Company (Miller), CBC, The Stroh Brewery Company, 
G. Heileman Brewing, and S & P Company. CBC competes most directly with AB and 
Miller, the dominant companies in the industry. CBC is the nation's third-
largest brewer and, according to Beer Marketer's Insights (BMI) estimates,
accounted for approximately 10.1% of the total 1995 U.S. brewing industry
shipments of malt beverages (including exports and U.S. shipments of
imports). This compares to Miller's 22.6% share and AB's 44.1% share.

Given its position in the industry, CBC continues to face significant 
competitive disadvantages related to economies of scale. In addition to lower 
transportation costs achieved by major competitors with multiple breweries, 
these larger brewers also recognize economies of scale in advertising 
expenditures. CBC, in an effort to achieve and maintain national advertising 
exposure, must spend substantially more per barrel of beer sold than its 
major competitors. On a per barrel basis, the Company estimated that CBC spends
nearly 75% more on advertising than AB; however, the gap between CBC's 
and Miller's spending (on a per barrel basis) appears to be narrowing. A 
significant level of advertising expenditure is necessary for CBC to hold 
and increase its share of the U.S. beer market. This, coupled with ongoing 
price competition, puts more pressure on CBC's margins in comparison to those 
of CBC's principal competitors.

On February 29, 1996, The Stroh Brewery Company announced that it had signed a 
letter of intent with G. Heileman Brewing Company, Inc. to acquire all of 
Heileman's assets. As a result of the transaction, expected to be completed by 
July 1996, Stroh would acquire five Heileman breweries and all Heileman brands.

ITEM 2.  Properties 

The Company's major facilities are set out below:

The original brewery site at Golden, which is approximately 2,400 acres, 
contains brewing, packaging and can manufacturing facilities, as well as 
gravel deposits and water-storage facilities. 

CBC's can and end plants are operated by a joint venture between CBC and 
American National Can Company.

CBC and Anchor Glass Container Corporation formally established a long-term 
partnership, the Rocky Mountain Bottle Company, to produce glass bottles at the
CBC glass manufacturing facility in Wheat Ridge, Colorado.

The Company owns 2,700 acres of land in Rockingham County, Virginia, where the
Shenandoah facility is located, and 132 acres in Shelby County, Tennessee,
where the Memphis plant is located.

All of the Company's facilities are well maintained and suitable for their 
respective operations. In 1995, CBC estimates the brewing facilities operated 
at approximately 81% of the 1996 brewing capacity and the packaging facilities 
operated at approximately 67% of the 1996 packaging capacity. Annual production
capacity can vary due to product mix, packaging mix and seasonality.

A CEC subsidiary continues to operate a gas transmission pipeline to provide 
for the energy needs of the Shenandoah facility.

ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings

See the Environmental section of Management's Discussion and Analysis for a 
discussion of the Company's obligation for potential remediation costs at the 
Lowry Landfill Superfund site and related legal proceedings.

The Company is party to numerous other legal proceedings arising from its 
business operations. In each proceeding, the Company is vigorously defending 
the allegations. Although the eventual outcome of the various proceedings 
cannot be predicted, no single such proceeding, and no group of such similar 
matters, is expected to result in liability that would be material to the 
Company's financial position or results of operations.

ITEM 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the 
fourth quarter ended December 31, 1995.



                                     PART II

ITEM 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder 
        Matters

Adolph Coors Company Class B common stock is traded on the over-the-counter 
market and is included in the NASDAQ Stock Market National Market (NNM) 
listings, under the symbol "ACCOB." Daily stock prices are listed in major 
newspapers, generally alphabetically under "CoorsB."

The approximate number of record security holders by class of stock at 
March 14, 1996 is listed below:

The range of the high and low quotations and the dividends paid per share on
the Class B Common Stock for each quarter of the past two years are shown 
below. The Company expects to continue paying comparable dividends in the 
future:


ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data

Following is selected financial data for ACC for the nine years ended
December 31, 1995:



ITEM 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and 
Results of Operations

INTRODUCTION  Adolph Coors Company ("ACC" or the "Company") is the holding 
company for Coors Brewing Company ("CBC"). CBC produces and markets quality 
malt-based beverages.

The following summarizes the significant factors affecting the consolidated 
results of operations and liquidity and capital resources of ACC during the 
three year period ended December 31, 1995. Unusual or nonrecurring items make 
it more difficult to evaluate the Company's ongoing operations. Consequently, 
consolidated financial results for each year are first reviewed separately 
including the effects of special and nonrecurring items. Then consolidated 
financial results are reviewed excluding these special and nonrecurring items.
This analysis should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and 
notes to the financial statements included in this annual report.

CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR FISCAL YEARS 1995, 1994 AND 1993

Summary of operating results:

1995 Consolidated Results of Operations:  For the 53-week fiscal year ended 
December 31, 1995, ACC reported net income of $43.2 million, or $1.13 per 
share. In the fourth quarter, ACC recorded a net special credit which included 
a gain from the curtailment of certain postretirement benefits. Partially 
offsetting this credit were severance charges for a limited work force 
reduction. The net effect of these two items was a special credit of $15.2 
million pretax, or $0.24 per share after tax. Without the net special credit, 
ACC would have reported net income of $33.9 million, or $0.89 per share.

1994 Consolidated Results of Operations:  For the 52-week fiscal year ended 
December 25, 1994, ACC reported net income of $58.1 million, or $1.52 per 
share.  Two nonrecurring items in 1994 resulted in a net special credit to 
ACC. The Company reached a settlement with a number of its insurance carriers 
which enabled it to recover a portion of the costs associated with the Lowry 
Landfill Superfund site. This was partially offset by a write-down of 
distributor assets.  The effect of these two items was a net special credit of
approximately $13.9 million pretax, or $0.22 per share after tax. Without the 
net special credit, ACC would have reported 1994 net income of $49.7 million,
or $1.30 per share.

1993 Consolidated Results of Operations:  For the 52-week fiscal year ended 
December 26, 1993, the Company reported a net loss of $41.9 million, or $1.10 
per share. The Company recorded special charges of $122.5 million in the fourth
quarter primarily related to the costs of a significant restructuring intended 
to reduce costs and improve performance. The net loss was also the result of 
an after-tax charge of $3.2 million, or $0.08 per share, related to the 1993 
retroactive increase of 1% in the federal corporate income tax rate, and
the related revaluation of deferred income tax liability. Excluding these 
special charges, the Company's net income would have been $33.6 million, or 
$0.88 per share.

The 1993 restructuring charge, which totalled $109.5 million pretax, included 
$70.2 million for voluntary separation and enhanced early retirement 
packages designed to reduce CBC's white collar work force. Of the remaining 
$39.3 million, approximately $22.0 million related to workplace redesign and 
other profit improvement initiatives, and approximately $17.3 million 
related to asset write-downs. Substantially all of the charges related to 
voluntary separation and enhanced early retirement packages were paid in 
1993; other costs related to workplace redesign and other profit improvement 
initiatives were accrued in 1993 and substantially all were paid in 1994 and 
1995. Special charges related to the write down of certain distributor assets 
and a provision for environmental enhancements totalled $13.0 million. 
Together the aggregate impact of the special charges was $1.98 per share.

Trend summary: percentage increase/(decrease) 1995, 1994 and 1993:
The table below reflects trends in operating results, excluding special and 
non-recurring items.

CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF CONTINUING OPERATIONS: 1995 VS. 1994, 1994 VS. 1993
Excluding special and non-recurring items.

1995 vs. 1994
Although total barrel sales declined by 0.3%, net sales increased by 0.8% in 
1995 from 1994 because of fourth quarter price increases in a few high volume 
states and, to a lesser extent, because of volume increases in higher priced 
international markets. Also impacting net sales was an unfavorable change in 
product mix - primarily lower Zima Clearmalt volumes. Zima volumes declined 
approximately 49% in 1995 versus the national rollout volumes of 1994.

Gross profit decreased $16.3 million and it also decreased as a percent of net 
sales to 34.8% from 36.1% in 1994. This decrease was primarily the result of 
increased aluminum and other packaging costs and the lower sales volume of 
Zima Clearmalt, which has a higher gross profit percentage than other brands. 
Other unfavorable factors included non-recurring costs from the sale of the 
Company's power plant equipment and support facilities, costs associated with 
the Rocky Mountain Bottle Company plant and the write off of obsolete 
packaging supplies. These costs were offset in part by incremental container 
joint venture income (see Note 10 to the financial statements contained in 
Item 8).

Operating income declined 31.3% in 1995 from 1994. This was caused by the lower
gross profit discussed above as well as expense increases of 2.3% in 
marketing (including advertising), 2.2% in general and administrative (G & A) 
and 16.0% in research and project development. The increase in marketing 
expense was caused primarily by the Company's efforts to strengthen the 
domestic and international sales organizations. Advertising expense in total 
was relatively unchanged from 1994 although a significant amount of the 
expense was redirected from Zima, Artic Ice and Artic Ice Light to Coors 
Light and new brand introductions. The G & A increase over 1994 was caused 
by labor cost increases and continuing efforts to develop and execute
the Company's performance initiatives. Research and project development 
increases over 1994 were the result of an increase in the numbers of new 
products and packages being considered.

Net non-operating expense increased to $6.7 million in 1995 compared to $3.9 
million in 1994. Although $44 million in principal payments were made in 1995 
on ACC's medium-term notes, interest expense was 3.5% higher in 1995 versus 
1994 due to the additional $100 million placement of Senior Notes in the 
third quarter of 1995. Income from miscellaneous items was $2.1 million 
higher in 1994 than 1995 due to a gain on the sale of a distributorship and
other investments.

The Company's effective tax rate declined in 1995 to 41.6% from 45.0%. The 1994
rate was higher than the 1995 rate primarily due to the effect of a valuation 
allowance for a tax loss carryforward. Also contributing to the decline were 
some non-recurring, non-taxable income items in 1995. The 1995 effective tax 
rate was higher than the statutory tax rate because of non-deductible expenses.

Net income in 1995 was $33.9 million, or $0.89 per share, compared to $49.7 
million, or $1.30 per share, in 1994, representing a 31.5% decline in 
earnings per share.

1994 vs. 1993
Net sales increased by 5.1% in 1994 from 1993. This increase was due to a 2.7% 
increase in volume and a shift in product mix to products in the premium and 
above-premium price categories. Gross profit improved to 36.1% of net sales as 
compared to 34.5% in 1993. This improvement was primarily the result of 
increased volume, improved brand mix profitability, operational efficiencies 
and lower aluminum costs.

Operating income improved 21.1% in 1994 over 1993. Although marketing 
expense (including advertising) grew substantially in 1994, general and 
administrative (G&A) expense declined by 9.7%. The increase in marketing 
expense was primarily due to the national rollout of Zima Clearmalt and the 
introduction and expansion of Coors Artic Ice and Coors Artic Ice Light. The 
decline in G&A expense resulted from the restructuring effort that was begun
in 1993 to reduce overhead costs. Research and project development expense 
was essentially unchanged in 1994 as compared to 1993.

Net non-operating expenses decreased to $3.9 million in 1994 compared to $12.1
million in 1993. Income from miscellaneous items increased by $4.9 million due 
to a gain on the sale of investments and higher royalty income related to 
licensed can-making and can-decorating technology. Net interest expense 
decreased $3.3 million because of the $50 million principal payment in June 
1994 on ACC's medium-term notes.

The Company's effective tax rate declined in 1994 to 45.0% from 48.9% in 1993.
The decline was largely attributable to the revaluation of ACC's deferred tax 
liability in 1993 related to the 1993 1% increase in the federal corporate 
income tax rate. The 1994 effective tax rate was higher than the statutory tax 
rate because of non-deductible expenses and a valuation allowance for a tax 
loss carryforward.

Net income was $49.7 million, or $1.30 per share, in 1994 compared to $33.6 
million, or $0.88 per share, representing a 47.7% improvement in earnings per
share.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES: 

The Company's primary sources of liquidity are cash provided from operating 
activities and external borrowing. The Company continues to be in a strong 
position to generate cash internally because of a strong working capital 
position and the expectation of a continued ability to generate significant 
amounts of cash from operating activities. The Company's 1995 net cash 
position was $32.4 million, a slight increase compared to $27.2 million in 
1994. The Company's 1994 net cash position decreased significantly from $82.2 
million in 1993. 

Anticipated capital expenditures in 1996 are expected to be approximately $100 
million, significantly below 1995 expenditures. Because of this reduction, 
the Company believes that cash flows from operations and short-term borrowings 
are adequate to meet its ongoing operating requirements, scheduled principal 
debt repayments and debt service costs, anticipated capital expenditures and 
dividend payments. 

Operating Activities 
Including net special credits/charges, net cash provided by operations was 
$90.1 million in 1995, $186.4 million in 1994 and $168.5 million in 1993.

The 1995 decrease in cash from operations was primarily due to lower net 
income, significantly lower accounts payable and other liabilities and 
increases in accounts and notes receivable and other assets. The reduction in 
accounts payable reflects the payment of amounts owed to various suppliers 
including advertising agencies. Some of these amounts were particularly high at
the end of 1994 due to new or markedly different supplier relationships such as
the new container joint venture between CBC and American National Can. Accounts
and notes receivable was higher in 1995 because of an increase in international
sales which was offset in part by decreased receivables from the container 
joint venture. Accrued expenses declined in 1995 primarily due to the payment 
of items related to the Lowry and 1993 restructuring accruals. Other assets 
increased primarily due to increased investment and equity in the container 
joint ventures. 

The 1994 increase in cash from operations was primarily due to higher net 
income, higher accumulated deferred income taxes, and higher depreciation 
offset in part by an increase in accounts and notes receivable, a decrease in 
accrued expenses and other liabilities (primarily due to the payment of 
obligations related to the 1993 restructuring) and an increase in accounts 
payable. Accumulated deferred income taxes increased $18.2 million in 1994. 
This was caused by the 1994 payment of various restructuring accruals which 
were not tax deductible in 1993. The increase in accounts and notes 
receivable reflected higher 1994 sales and amounts owed to CBC by the 
container joint venture that was formed in 1994. Higher accounts payable 
were partly due to amounts owed to the container joint venture for purchases
by CBC.

Investing Activities (including capital expenditures)
In 1995 the Company spent $116.2 million on investment activities, compared 
with $174.7 million in 1994 and $119.3 million in 1993. Capital expenditures 
(additions to properties) were $145.8 million in 1995 versus $160.3 million 
in 1994 and $120.4 million in 1993. Intangible assets increased $11.8 million
and $16.9 million in 1995 and 1994, respectively, due principally to the 
purchase of distributorships. In 1995, capital expenditures were focused 
on upgrades and expansion of Golden-based facilities - particularly bottling
capacity. Proceeds from the sale of properties was $44.4 million in 1995 versus
$4.4 million in 1994 and $2.3 million in 1993. The principal assets sold in 
1995 included the Company's power plant equipment and support facilities for 
$22.0 million and certain bottleline machinery and equipment for $17.0 
million. The bottleline assets were sold in a sale-leaseback transaction. 
In 1994, capital expenditures focused on expansion of facilities
(primarily bottling capacity) and the purchase of a brewery in Zaragoza, 
Spain. In 1993, capital expenditures were made for expansion of capacity in 
Memphis for Zima Clearmalt, routine maintenance and incremental upgrades 
to all production facilities.

Net Cash Used/Provided by Financing Activities 
The Company generated $31.0 million of cash in financing activities in 1995. 
In the third quarter of 1995, the Company received $100 million from a private 
placement of Senior Notes. Also in the third quarter, the Company made 
principal payments totalling $44 million on its medium-term notes. In 
addition, the Company made two separate purchases of Class B common shares 
totalling $9.9 million.  The shares were purchased, based on a first right of
refusal, from an estate and a trust of members of the extended Coors family. 
The Company paid dividends of $19.1 million.

The Company used $67.0 million of cash in financing activities in 1994. At the 
beginning of the third quarter of 1994, the Company made its first principal 
payment on its medium-term notes, in the amount of $50 million. In addition, 
the Company paid dividends of $19.1 million.

In 1993, the Company used $6.6 million of cash in financing activities. The 
Company paid $19 million in dividends. The Company received cash through the 
exercise of stock options and the proceeds from industrial development bonds 
for an expansion project. 

Debt Securities 
As of December 31, 1995, the Company had $126.0 million outstanding in 
medium-term notes. Principal payments of $44 million in 1995 and $50 million 
in 1994 were funded by a combination of cash on hand and borrowings. Fixed 
interest rates on the Company's medium-term notes range between 8.63% and 
9.15%. Aggregate annual maturities for the remaining outstanding notes are 
$36 million in 1996, $19 million in 1997, $31 million in 1998 and $40
million in 1999. 

In the third quarter of 1995, the Company completed a $100 million private 
placement of Senior Notes at fixed interest rates ranging from 6.76% to 6.95%
per annum. The repayment schedule is $80 million in 2002 and $20 million in 
2005. The proceeds from this borrowing were used primarily to reduce debt 
under the revolving line of credit and for principal payments due on the 
medium-term notes in the third quarter. 

The Company's debt-to-total capitalization ratios was 24.9% at the end of 1995,
20.6% at the end of 1994 and 26.3% at the end of 1993. 
 
Revolving Line of Credit 
In addition to the medium-term notes and the private placement Senior Notes, 
the Company has an unsecured, committed revolving line of credit totalling $144
million. From time to time this line of credit is used for working capital 
requirements and general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 1995, the 
full $144 million was available. For 1995, the Company met its two financial 
covenants under the committed revolving line of credit: a minimum tangible net
worth test and a debt-to-total capitalization test.  

Hedging Activities 
As of December 31, 1995, hedging activities consisted exclusively of hard 
currency forward contracts to directly offset hard currency exposures. These 
irrevocable contracts eliminated the risk to financial position and results 
of operations from changes in foreign exchange rates. Any variation in the 
exchange rate that would accrue to the contract would be directly offset by 
an equal change in the related obligation. Therefore, after the contract 
entrance date, variation in the exchange rate would have no additional impact 
on the Company's financial statements. ACC's hedging activities are minimal 
and hard currency exposures are not material. The Company does not enter into
derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
   
OUTLOOK 1996:
 
The Company will report 1996 results based on a 52-week fiscal year versus 
the 53-week year used in 1995. Additionally, the Company will change its 
reporting to a 12-period fiscal year from the 13-period fiscal year that was
used in 1995 and prior years. The 1996 fiscal year is composed of four 13-week
quarters, compared to prior years, which had three 12-week quarters and one
16-week quarter (the third quarter). The change in quarter length will require
restatement of the 1995 quarterly results in order to make the results of 1996 
comparable. The change to 13-week quarters creates a fiscal year that is 
similar to a calendar year and more comparable to the reporting practices of 
other consumer-product companies.

For the first quarter of 1996, the Company has announced that it expects to 
report a net loss somewhat greater than the net loss of $0.02 per share posted 
for the restated first quarter of 1995. Volume and profitability in the first 
quarter are typically low and generally not indicative of results for the year.
The Company continues to believe that 1996 financial performance can improve 
over 1995.

Following industry pricing trends, the Company raised prices in several key
U.S. markets in the fourth quarter of 1995, and price increases have gone into
effect in many of the remaining states in the middle of the first quarter of 
1996. Although the Company continues to believe that industry prices will more
closely track inflation in 1996, it cannot predict the degree to which pricing 
will be eroded by discounting or the impact that higher prices will have on 
total volume or consumers trading down to lower-margin products.

Trends early in 1996 indicate that packaging and commodities costs will be 
stable. While the Company continues to believe that initiatives in its 
operations and technology areas have the potential to deliver substantial cost
reductions over time, significant savings are not likely to be realized before 
the second half of 1996.

Total interest expense in the first half of the year will be higher than in the
same period of 1995 by approximately $2.7 million primarily as a result of the 
$100 million private debt placement that closed in July 1995.

The increasing efficiencies from the can, end and glass joint ventures should 
continue to provide income to the Company. Marketing, general and 
administrative costs are expected to remain basically unchanged for 1996.

The Company's effective tax rate is expected to remain near the 1995 rate of 
41% assuming increased pre-tax income, decreased non-taxable income items and 
continued non-deductible items.

In 1996, the Company has planned capital expenditures (including contributions
to its container joint ventures for capital improvements) of approximately $100
million compared with capital expenditures that averaged $142.2 million over
the previous 3 years. The decline reflects the completion of several plant 
acquisition and capacity expansion projects, along with the Company's intention
to manage capital expenditures and cash more aggresively through a variety of 
means, including asset sales, lease financing and joint ventures. In addition 
to the Company's 1996 planned capital expenditures, incremental strategic 
investments will be considered on a case by case basis.

In connection with its pending legal proceedings with Molson Breweries of 
Canada Limited, the Company received a cash payment for past due royalties and
interest totalling $5.7 million (net of $0.6 million of withholding taxes) 
during the first quarter of 1996. The obligation of Molson to make this payment
will be a subject of the arbitration proceedings that are scheduled to begin in
May 1996. The Company expects final resolution of this issue in 1996. 

Cautionary Statement Pursuant to Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private 
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 

This report contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the 
federal securities laws. These forward-looking statements include, among 
others, statements concerning the Company's outlook for 1996, overall and 
brand-specific volume trends, pricing trends and forces in the industry, 
cost reduction strategies and their results, targeted goals for return on 
investment capital, the Company's expectations as to funding its capital
expenditures and operations during 1996, and other statements of 
expectations, beliefs, future plans and strategies, anticipated events or 
trends and similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical 
facts. The forward-looking statements in this report are subject to risks 
and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from
those expressed in or implied by the statements.

To improve its financial performance, the Company must grow premium beverage 
volume, achieve modest price increases for its products and reduce its 
overall cost structure. The most important factors that could prevent the 
Company from achieving these goals - and cause actual results to differ 
materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statement - include, 
but are not limited to the following:

- - the ability of the Company and its distributors to develop and execute     
  effective marketing and sales strategies for Coors products 

- - the potential erosion of recent price increases through discounting

- - a potential shift in consumer preferences toward lower-priced products in 
  response to price increases

- - the intensely competitive, no-growth nature of the beer industry

- - demographic trends and social attitudes that can reduce beer sales

- - continued rapid growth in the popularity of microbrews and other specialty
  beers

- - changes in the cost of aluminum, paper packaging and other raw materials

- - an inability to reduce the Company's manufacturing and overhead cost  
  structure to a more competitive level

- - changes in significant government regulations affecting environmental
  compliance, income taxes and advertising or other marketing efforts for 
  the Company's products

- - increases in federal or state beer excise taxes

- - changes in rail transportation rates or interruption of rail service

- - potential impact of industry consolidation

- - risks associated with investments and operations in foreign countries, 
  including those related to foreign regulatory requirements, exchange rate
  fluctuations and local political, social and economic factors

These and other risks and uncertainties affecting the Company are discussed in 
greater detail in this report and in other filings by the Company with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission.

ENVIRONMENTAL: 

The Company was one of numerous parties named by the Environmental Protection 
Agency (EPA) as a "potentially responsible party" (PRP) for the Lowry Landfill 
Superfund site, a legally permitted landfill owned by the City and County of 
Denver. In 1990, the Company recorded a special pretax charge of $30 million 
for potential clean-up costs of the site.

The City and County of Denver, Waste Management of Colorado, Inc. and Chemical 
Waste Management, Inc. brought litigation in 1991 in U.S. District Court 
against the Company and 37 other PRP's to determine the allocation of costs 
of Lowry site remediation. In 1993, the Court approved a settlement agreement
between the Company and the plaintiffs, resolving the Company's liabilities 
for the site. The Company agreed to initial payments based on an assumed 
present value of $120 million in total site remediation costs. In addition, the
Company agreed to pay a specified share of costs if total remediation costs 
are in excess of this amount.  Payments representing the Company's agreed 
share based on the $120 million assumption were made into a trust to be 
applied to costs of site remediation and operating and maintenance costs.

The City and County of Denver, Waste Management of Colorado and Chemical Waste 
Management, Inc. are expected to implement remediation of the site. The EPA's 
projected costs to meet the announced remediation objectives and requirements 
are below the $120 million total assumed as a basis for the Company's 
settlement. The Company has no reason to believe that total remediation costs 
will result in additional liability to the Company.

In 1991, the Company filed suit against certain of its former and current 
insurance carriers, seeking recovery of past defense costs and investigation, 
study and remediation costs. Settlements were reached during 1993 and 1994 
with all defendants. As a result, in the fourth quarter of 1994, the Company 
recognized a special pretax credit of $18.9 million.

The Company has also been notified that it is or may be a PRP under the 
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA)
or similar state laws with respect to the cleanup of other sites where 
hazardous substances have allegedly been released into the environment. The 
Company cannot predict with certainty the total costs of cleanup, its share of 
the total cost or the extent to which contributions will be available from 
other parties, the amount of time necessary to complete the cleanups, or 
insurance coverage. However, based on investigations to date, the Company 
believes that any liability would not be material to the financial condition of
the Company with respect to these sites. There can be no certainty, however, 
that the Company will not be named as a PRP at additional CERCLA sites in the
future, or that the costs associated with those additional sites will not be
material.

While it is impossible to predict the eventual aggregate cost to the Company 
for environmental and related matters, management believes that any payments, 
if required, for these matters would be made over a period of years in amounts 
that would not be material in any one year to the consolidated results of 
operations or to the financial or competitive position of the Company. The 
Company believes adequate disclosures have been provided for losses that are 
reasonably possible. Furthermore, as the Company continues to focus attention
on resource conservation, waste reduction and pollution prevention, it is the
Company's belief that potential future liabilities will be reduced.

ACCOUNTING CHANGES:

In March 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement
No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Long-Lived 
Assets to Be Disposed Of," which requires losses to be recorded on long-lived
assets used in operations when indicators of impairment are present and the 
undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated by those assets are less 
than the assets' carrying amount. Statement No. 121 also addresses the 
accounting for long-lived assets that are expected to be disposed. The Company
will adopt Statement No. 121 in the first quarter of 1996 and, based on current
circumstances, does not believe the effect of adoption will be material.

In October 1995, the FASB issued Statement No. 123,"Accounting for Stock-Based 
Compensation," which requires that the Company's financial statements include 
certain disclosures about stock-based employee compensation arrangements. As 
allowed by Statement No. 123, the Company will continue to apply the 
accounting provisions of APB Opinion 25; accordingly the adoption of 
Statement No. 123 will have no effect on future reported net income or 
earnings per share.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA


Report of Independent Accountants

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Adolph Coors Company

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the index 
appearing under Item 14 (a)(1) and (2) on page 62 present fairly, in all 
material respects, the financial position of Adolph Coors Company and its 
subsidiaries at December 31, 1995, and December 25, 1994, and the results of 
their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the 
period ended December 31, 1995, in conformity with generally accepted 
accounting principles. These financial statements are the responsibility of 
the Company's management; our responsibility is to express an opinion on 
these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of 
these statements in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards 
which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable 
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material 
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence 
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, 
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made
by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. 
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion 
expressed above. 


PRICE WATERHOUSE LLP

Denver, Colorado
February 16, 1996
ADOLPH COORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

ADOLPH COORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
                          ADOLPH COORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
                           CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS


See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                            ADOLPH COORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
                             ADOLPH COORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
                          NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 1:

Summary of Accounting Policies

Fiscal year: The fiscal year of the Company is a 52- or 53-week period ending
on the last Sunday in December. Fiscal years for the financial statements
included herein ended December 31, 1995, a 53-week period, and December 25, 
1994, and December 26, 1993, both 52-week periods.

Principles of consolidation: The consolidated financial statements include
the accounts of Adolph Coors Company (ACC), its principal subsidiary,
Coors Brewing Company (CBC), and the majority-owned and controlled
domestic and foreign subsidiaries of both ACC and CBC (collectively
referred to as "the Company"). All significant intercompany accounts and
transactions have been eliminated. The equity method of accounting is used
for the Company's 50% or less owned affiliates over which the Company has
the ability to exercise significant influence (See Note 10). The Company
has other investments which are accounted for at cost.

Certain reclassifications have been made to the 1993 and 1994 financial
information presented in the financial statements to be consistent
with 1995 presentation. 

Nature of operations: The Company is a multi-national brewer and marketer of
beer and other malt-based beverages. The vast majority of the Company's
volume is sold in the United States to independent wholesalers. The
Company's international volume, which is sold in over 30 countries, is
produced, marketed and distributed under varying business arrangements
including export, direct-investment, joint ventures and licensing.

Inventories: Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost
is determined by the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for substantially
all inventories.

Current cost, as determined principally on the first-in, first-out method,
exceeded LIFO cost by $42.2 million and $41.7 million at December 31, 1995
and December 25, 1994, respectively. During 1995 and 1994, total
inventory costs and quantities were reduced, resulting in LIFO liquidations,
the effects of which were not material.

Properties: Land, buildings and equipment are capitalized at cost. Depreciation
is provided principally on the straight-line method over the following 
estimated useful lives: buildings and improvements, 10 to 45 years; machinery 
and equipment, 3 to 20 years. Accelerated depreciation methods are generally 
used for income tax purposes. Expenditures for new facilities and improvements 
that substantially extend the capacity or useful life of an asset are 
capitalized. Start-up costs associated with manufacturing facilities, but not 
related to construction, are expensed as incurred. Ordinary repairs and 
maintenance are expensed as incurred (Note 2).

Excess of cost over net assets of businesses acquired: The excess of cost
over the net assets of businesses acquired in transactions accounted for
as purchases is being amortized on a straight-line basis, generally
over a 40-year period.

Hedging transactions: The Company periodically enters into forward, future and
option contracts for foreign currency and commodities to hedge its exposure
to exchange rates and price fluctuations for raw materials and fixed assets
used in the production of beer. The gains and losses on these contracts are
deferred and recognized in cost of sales as part of the product cost.

As of December 31, 1995, hedging activities consisted exclusively of hard
currency forward contracts to directly offset hard currency exposures.
These irrevocable contracts eliminated the risk to financial position
and results of operations from changes in the underlying foreign exchange 
rate. Any variation in the exchange rate that would accrue to the contract 
would be directly offset by an equal change in the related obligation. 
Therefore, after the contract entrance date, variation in the exchange rate 
would have had no additional impact on the Company. The Company's hedging 
activities are minimal and hard currency exposures are not material.

Concentration of credit risk: The majority of the accounts receivable 
balances as of December 31, 1995, and December 25, 1994, were from malt 
beverage distributors. The Company secures substantially all of this credit 
risk with purchase money security interests in inventory and proceeds, 
personal guarantees and/or letters of credit.

Statement of Cash Flows: The Company defines cash equivalents as highly
liquid investments with original maturities of 90 days or less. The fair
value of these investments approximate their carrying value. The Company's
1995 investment in the Rocky Mountain Bottle Company was a $16.2 million
noncash transaction that is not reflected as an investing activity in the
Statement of Cash Flows. Income taxes paid were $15.8 million in 1995,
$31.0 million in 1994 and $15.4 million in 1993.

Net income per common share: Net income per common share is based on the
weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during each year.

Environmental expenditures: Environmental expenditures that relate to current
operations are expensed or capitalized as appropriate. Expenditures that
relate to an existing condition caused by past operations, which do not
contribute to current or future revenue generation, are expensed. Liabilities
are recorded when environmental assessments and/or remedial efforts are 
probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated.

Advertising: Advertising costs, included in marketing, general and
administrative, are expensed when the advertising first takes place. 
Advertising expense was $330.4 million, $327.6 million and $272.5 million
for the years ended December 31, 1995, December 25, 1994 and December 26,
1993, respectively. The Company had $8.9 million and $5.0 million of prepaid
advertising production costs reported as assets at December 31, 1995 and
December 25, 1994, respectively.

Use of estimates: The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the
financial statements and accompanying notes.  Actual results could differ
from those estimates.

New accounting standards: In March 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board (FASB) issued Statement No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of
Long-Lived Assets and Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of," which requires
losses to be recorded on long-lived assets used in operations when
indicators of impairment are present and the undiscounted cash flows
estimated to be generated by those assets are less than the assets' carrying
amount. Statement No. 121 also addresses the accounting for long-lived
assets that are expected to be disposed. The Company will adopt Statement
No. 121 in the first quarter of 1996 and, based on current circumstances,
does not believe the effect of adoption will be material.

In October 1995, the FASB issued Statement No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation," which requires that the Company's financial statements include
certain disclosures about stock-based employee compensation arrangements. As
allowed by Statement No. 123, the Company will continue to apply the accounting
provisions of APB Opinion 25; accordingly the adoption of Statement No. 123 
will have no effect on future reported net income or earnings per share.

NOTE 2:

Properties

The cost of properties and related accumulated depreciation, depletion and
amortization consists of the following:



Interest capitalized, expensed and paid was as follows:


NOTE 3: 

Leases

The Company leases certain office facilities and operating equipment under 
cancellable and noncancellable agreements accounted for as operating leases.
At December 31, 1995, the minimum aggregate rental commitment under all
noncancellable leases was (in thousands): 1996, $7,866; 1997, $5,515; 1998,
$4,116; 1999, $3,310; 2000, $2,948; and $15,210 for years thereafter. Total
rent expense was (in thousands) $10,376, $11,231 and $15,006 for the years
ended December 31, 1995, December 25, 1994 and December 26, 1993, respectively.

NOTE 4:

Debt

Long-term debt consists of the following:

                                                                          
(a) Fair values were determined using discounted cash flows at current interest
rates.
  
As of December 31, 1995, the Company had outstanding $126 million of unsecured
medium-term notes. Interest is due semi-annually in April and October at fixed
interest rates ranging from 8.63% to 9.15% per annum. Aggregate annual
maturities for the notes issued are $36 million in 1996, $19 million in
1997, $31 million in 1998 and $40 million in 1999.

On July 14, 1995, the Company completed a $100 million private placement of
unsecured Senior Notes at fixed interest rates ranging from 6.76% to 6.95%
per annum. Interest on the notes is due semi-annually in January and July.
The Notes are payable as follows: $80 million in 2002 and $20 million in 2005.

The Company is obligated to pay the principal, interest and premium, if any, on
the $5 million, City of Wheat Ridge, Colorado Industrial Development Bonds
(Adolph Coors Company Project) Series 1993. The bonds mature in 2013 and are
secured by a letter of credit. They are currently variable rate securities
with interest payable on the first of March, June, September and December.
The weighted average interest rate during 1995 was 4.1%. 

The Company has an unsecured committed credit arrangement totalling $144
million, and as of December 31, 1995, all $144 million was available. This
line of credit has a three-year term through December 12, 1998, and is
subject to the Company maintaining certain financial ratios. Fees paid
under this line of credit include a facilities fee on the total amount of
the committed credit and a commitment fee which is based on the undrawn portion
of the line of credit. The only restriction for withdrawal is that the Company
meet specific covenant criteria. The Company was in compliance with the
covenants for all years presented. As of December 31, 1995, the Company
also had approximately $100 million of uncommitted credit arrangements
available, of which none was outstanding. The Company pays no commitment fees
for these uncommitted arrangements, which are on a funds-available basis.
Interest rates are negotiated at the time of borrowing.

NOTE 5:

Income Taxes

The provision (benefit) for income taxes was as follows:


Income taxes as reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Income differ from
the amounts computed by applying the statutory federal corporate tax rate to
income as follows:

The deferred tax assets (liabilities) are composed of the following:


The Company has recorded a net deferred tax asset of $4.8 million reflecting
the benefit of $17.5 million in loss carryforwards from some of the Company's
foreign operations. The loss carryforwards expire in varying amounts in 1999
and 2000. Realization is dependent on generating sufficient taxable
income prior to expiration of the loss carryforwards. Although realization
is not assured, management believes it is more likely than not that all of the
deferred tax asset will be realizable; however, such realization could be
reduced in the near term if estimates of future taxable income during the
carryforward period are reduced.

The Internal Revenue Service is currently examining the federal income tax
returns for the fiscal years 1991 and 1992. In the opinion of management,
adequate accruals have been provided for all income tax matters and related
interest.

The Company and ACX (See Note 12), are parties to a tax sharing agreement that
provides for, among other things, the treatment of tax matters for periods
prior to the distribution of ACX stock and responsibility for adjustments
as a result of audits by taxing authorities and is designed to preserve
the status of the distribution as tax-free.

NOTE 6:

Stock Option, Restricted Stock Award and Employee Award Plans

Under the Company's stock option plans, officers and other key employees may be
granted options which allow for the purchase of shares of the Company's Class
B common stock. The option price on outstanding options is equal to the fair
market value of the stock at the date of grant. The 1983 non-qualified
Adolph Coors Company Stock Option Plan, as amended, provides for options
to be granted at the discretion of the board of directors. These options
expire 10 years from date of grant. No options have been granted under this
plan since 1989. At this time, the board of directors has decided not to grant
additional options under this plan. 

The 1990 Equity Incentive Plan (1990 EI Plan) that became effective
January 1, 1990, as amended, provides for two types of grants: stock options
and restricted stock awards. The stock options have a term of 10 years
with exercise prices equal to fair market value on the day of the grant.
Prior to 1994, one-third of the stock option grant was vested in each of the
three successive years after the date of grant. Effective January 1, 1994,
stock options vest at 10% for each one dollar increase in fair market value of
ACC stock from date of grant, with a one year holding period, or vest 100%
after nine years. Once a portion has vested, it is not forfeited even if
the fair market value drops. Vesting in the restricted stock awards is
over a three-year period from the date of grant.  The compensation cost
associated with these awards is amortized to expense over the vesting period.
No restricted shares have been earned or issued under the 1990 Equity Incentive
Plan since 1993.

In 1991, the Company adopted an Equity Compensation Plan for Non-Employee
Directors (EC Plan). The EC Plan provides for two grants of the Company's
stock; the first grant is automatic and equals 20% of the Director's
annual retainer and the second grant is elective and covers all or any
portion of the balance of the retainer. A director may elect to receive
his remaining 80% retainer in cash or restricted stock or any combination of
the two. Grants of stock vest after completion of the director's annual term.
The compensation cost associated with the EC Plan is amortized over the
Director's term.

Changes in stock options are as follows:

In 1995, the Company adopted a supplemental compensation plan which covers
substantially all Company employees. Under the plan, management is allowed to
recognize employee achievements through awards of Coors Stock Units (CSU's) 
or cash (at the employee's discretion). CSU's are a measurement component 
equal to the fair market value of the Company's Class B common stock. CSU's 
have a six-month holding period after which the recipient may redeem the CSU
for cash, or, if the holder has 100 or more CSU's, in shares of the Company's
Class B common stock. Awards under the plan in 1995 were immaterial.

Common stock reserved for options, restricted stock awards and employee awards
totalled 4,424,600 shares as of December 31, 1995, and 1,866,800 shares as of
December 25, 1994.

NOTE 7:

Employee Retirement Plans

The Company maintains several defined benefit pension plans for the majority of
its employees. Benefits are based on years of service and average base
compensation levels over a period of years. Plan assets consist primarily
of equity, interest- bearing investments and real estate. The Company's
funding policy is to contribute annually not less than the ERISA minimum
funding standards, nor more than the maximum amount that can be deducted for
federal income tax purposes. Total expense for these plans, as well as a
savings and investment (thrift) plan, was $22.7 million in 1995, $29.5
million in 1994 and $39.9 million in 1993. The decrease in 1995 pension
expense versus 1994 was caused primarily by an increase in the discount
rate (settlement rate) from the 1994 rate of 8.5% to the 1995 rate of 7.25%.
the decrease in pension expense in 1994 versus 1993 was caused primarily by the
early retirement program and plan changes in 1993 with some offset from the
discount rate increase from 7.25% in 1993 to 8.5% in 1994.  The 1993
service cost includes $16.5 million for the early retirement program which 
was included in restructuring costs (Note 9).


The funded status of the pension plans and amounts recognized in the
Consolidated Balance Sheet are as follows:

Significant assumptions used in determining the valuation of the projected
benefit obligations as of the end of 1995, 1994 and 1993 were:


NOTE 8:

Non-Pension Postretirement Benefits

The Company has postretirement plans that provide medical benefits and life
insurance for retirees and eligible dependents. The plans are not funded.

This obligation was determined by the application of the terms of medical
and life insurance plans, together with relevant actuarial assumptions and
health care cost trend rates ranging ratably from 10.5% in 1995 to 4.5%
in the year 2007. The effect of an annual 1% increase in trend rates would 
increase the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation by approximately 
$4.7 million and $8.5 million in 1995 and 1994, respectively. The effect of a 
1% increase in trend rates also would have increased the ongoing annual cost 
by $0.7 million and $1.2 million in 1995 and 1994, respectively. The discount
rate used in determining the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation 
was 7.25% and 8.5% at December 31, 1995, and December 25, 1994, respectively.

Net periodic postretirement benefit cost included the following:

The 1994 decrease in plan expense resulted principally from the 1993 early
retirement program.  Included in the 1993 service cost is $7.7 million which
was the result of the early retirement program. That 1993 expense has been
included in restructuring costs (Note 9). 

The status of the plan was as follows:

Effective November 29, 1995, changes were made to post-retirement life
insurance and medical benefits which resulted in a curtailment gain of
$18.6 million and a decrease in current year expense of $0.1 million.

NOTE 9:

Special (Credits) Charges

Fourth quarter results for 1995 include a pretax net special credit of $15.2
million which is shown as a separate item in the accompanying Consolidated
Statement of Income and resulted in income of $0.24 per share after tax.
The net credit is primarily the result of a gain for the curtailment of
certain postretirement benefits other than pensions (see Note 8). Offsetting
a portion of this curtailment gain are severance charges for limited reductions
of the Company's work force.

Fourth quarter results for 1994 include a net special credit of $13.9 million
and resulted in income of $0.22 per share after tax. Two nonrecurring items 
contributed to the net credit. First, the Company reached a settlement with a
number of its insurance carriers which enabled it to recover a portion of the
costs associated with the Lowry Landfill Superfund site (see Note 10). 
Offsetting this was an impairment reserve for the write down of certain 
distributor assets.

Fourth quarter results for 1993 include several special charges which
aggregated $122.5 million pretax, or $1.98 per share after tax. A
restructuring charge, which totaled $109.5 million, or $1.77 per share
after tax, resulted from the Company's announcement in July 1993 of a
restructuring program designed to reduce costs, improve operating efficiencies
and increase shareholder value. The restructuring charge includes $70.2
million for voluntary severance and enhanced early retirement incentives
designed to reduce the Company's white-collar work force, as well as
$39.3 million for workplace redesign, asset write-downs and other expenses
related to profit improvement initiatives. Substantially all of the payments
for voluntary severance and enhanced early retirement incentives occurred in
1993. Of the $39.3 million, approximately $22 million related to workplace
redesign and other expenses related to profit improvement initiatives,
and approximately $17.3 million related to asset write-downs. Substantially
all costs related to workplace redesign and other profitability improvement
initiatives accrued in 1993 were paid in 1994. Other special charges unrelated
to the profit improvement initiatives totalled $13.0 million for the write
down of certain distributor assets and a provision for environmental
enhancements.

The 1993 restructuring charge and subsequent activity are summarized as follows:

          
The majority of the remaining personnel accruals relate to obligations under
deferred compensation arrangements and postretirement benefits other than
pensions.
                                                                              
NOTE 10:

Equity Investments

The Company has 50% or less owned investments in affiliates that are
accounted for on the equity method. The Company's investments aggregated
$42.3 million and $7.5 million at December 31, 1995 and December 25, 1994,
respectively. These investment amounts are included in other assets on the
Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet. 

Summarized balance sheet and income statement information for the Company's
equity investments are as follows:

Summarized balance sheet

Summarized statement of operations

In 1995, CBC and Anchor Glass Container Corporation (Anchor) entered into
a ten-year, 50/50 partnership, to produce glass bottles at the CBC glass
manufacturing facility for sale to CBC and outside customers. Under the
agreement, CBC agreed to contribute machinery, equipment and certain
personal property with an approximate net book value of $16.2 million and
Anchor agreed to contribute technology and capital which would be used to
modernize and expand the capacity of the plant. Also under the agreement,
CBC agreed to reimburse certain annual operating costs of the facility and
to purchase an annual quantity of bottles which together represent a 1996
commitment of approximately $53 million. The expenditures under this
agreement in 1995 were approximately $23 million. Additionally, the companies
entered into another agreement that made Anchor a long-term, preferred
supplier for CBC, satisfying 100% of CBC's other glass requirements.

In 1994, CBC and American National Can Company formed a 50/50 joint venture to
produce beverage cans and ends at CBC manufacturing facilities for sale to CBC
and outside customers. The agreement has an initial term of seven years and
can be extended two additional three-year periods. Additionally, the
agreement requires CBC to purchase 100% of its can and end needs from the
joint venture at contracted unit prices and to pay an annual fee for certain 
operating costs. The aggregate amount paid to the joint venture for cans and
ends in 1995 was approximately $238 million. In 1994, the aggregate amount 
paid to the joint venture for ends was approximately $31 million. The estimated
cost in 1996 under this agreement for cans and ends is $223 million.

NOTE 11:

Stock Activity

Common stock: Both classes of common stock have the same rights and privileges,
except for voting, which is the sole right of the holder of Class A stock.

The revised Colorado Business Corporation Act, which became effective in
July 1994, eliminated the concept of treasury stock for Colorado 
corporations.  Pursuant to that revision, the 9,463,488 shares at 
December 31, 1995, and the 9,133,060 shares at December 25, 1994, that were 
previously classified as treasury shares, were restored to status of 
"authorized but unissued". The elimination of the treasury stock amounts in 
the Company's consolidated balance sheet caused a reclassification of equal 
amounts which reduced the balances of Class B common stock and 
paid-in-capital. The amounts for Class B common stock were reduced by a 
stated value of $0.24 per share or, $2.3 million and $2.2 million at
December 31, 1995 and December 25, 1994, respectively. Similarly, the amounts
for paid-in-capital were reduced by $26.6 million and $17.3 million at December
31, 1995 and December 25, 1994, respectively.

Activity in the Company's Class A and Class B common stock for each of the
three years ended December 31, 1995, December 25, 1994 and December 26,
1993 is summarized below:

At December 31, 1995, December 25, 1994 and December 26, 1993, 25,000,000
shares of $1.00 par value preferred stock were authorized but unissued.

NOTE 12:

Commitments and Contingencies

It is the policy of the Company to act as a self-insurer for certain insurable
risks consisting primarily of employee health insurance programs, workers'
compensation and general liability contract deductibles.

In 1995, a subsidiary of CBC, Coors Energy Company (CEC), sold a portion of 
its coal reserves to Bowie Resources Ltd. (Bowie). CEC also entered into a 
ten-year agreement to purchase 100% of the coal requirements from Bowie. The
coal is then sold to Trigen-Nations Energy Corporation, L.L.L.P. (Trigen).  

In September 1995, CBC concluded the sale of its power plant and support
facilities to Trigen. In conjunction with this sale, CBC agreed to purchase
the electricity and steam needed to operate the brewery's Golden facilities. 
CBC's financial commitment under this agreement is divided between a fixed, 
non-cancellable cost of approximately $15.7 million for 1996, which increases
annually for inflation, and a variable cost which is generally based on CBC's 
electricity and steam use. The 25-year agreement also provides for a 
significant investment by Trigen to upgrade the facilities. 

At the end of 1992, the Company distributed to its shareholders the common 
stock of ACX Technologies, Inc. ("ACX" or "ACX Technologies"). ACX was formed 
in late 1992 to own the ceramics, aluminum, packaging and technology-based 
development businesses which were then owned by ACC. Joseph Coors and William 
K. Coors are both directors of ACC and ACX and serve as trustees of one or more
family trusts that collectively own all of the voting stock of ACC and a 
majority of the common stock of ACX. ACC and ACX, or their subsidiaries, have 
certain business relationships and have engaged in certain relationships with 
one another as described below.

CBC is a limited partner in a limited partnership with an ACX subsidiary as
general partner. The partnership owns, develops, operates and sells
certain real estate previously owned directly by CBC or ACC.  Each partner is
obligated to make additional contributions of up to $500,000 upon call of
the general partner. Distributions are allocated equally between the
partners until CBC recovers its investment, and thereafter 80% to the general
partner and 20% to CBC.

In 1992, CBC entered into market-based, long-term supply contracts with certain
ACX subsidiaries to provide packaging, aluminum and starch products to CBC.
Under the packaging supply agreement, CBC agreed to purchase from an ACX
subsidiary substantially all of CBC's paper packaging requirements through
1997. Under the aluminum supply agreement, which was cancelled effective
at the end of 1995, CBC agreed to purchase from an ACX subsidiary all of
CBC's requirements for aluminum end stock and a substantial amount of CBC's tab
stock needs, as well as substantial amounts of can body stock. Since late
1994, American National Can Company (ANC) has acted as the purchasing agent
for the CBC/ANC end and can joint venture (Note 10). ANC has ordered tab
stock from the ACX subsidiary for use by CBC in 1996. CBC also expects to
receive limited quantities of can body stock in 1996 from the ACX subsidiary
through purchases by ANC. Commitments for aluminum purchases beyond 1996 
have not yet been determined.  Under the starch supply agreement, CBC
agreed to purchase from an ACX subsidiary 100 million pounds of refined
corn starch annually through 1997. Total purchases by CBC under these
supply agreements in 1995 were approximately $240 million. Purchases by CBC in
1996 under the packaging and starch supply agreements together with the
aluminum purchase orders currently in place, are estimated to total 
approximately $145 million.

In 1992, ACC and CBC (as well as two former affiliates that are now
subsidiaries of ACX) were sued by TransRim Enterprises (USA) Ltd. in
Federal District Court for the District of Colorado.  TransRim alleged
that the defendants misused confidential information and breached an
implied contract to proceed with a joint venture project to build and operate a
paper board mill. TransRim initially claimed damages totalling $159 million
based on a number of theories, some of which were removed from the case by
the judge granting the defendants'motion for the partial summary judgement.
Trial by a jury was held in April, 1994, and the jury returned a verdict
in favor of all defendants to all claims. TransRim filed an appeal to the
U.S. Court of Appeals, 10th Judicial Circuit, which upheld the verdict in a
decision rendered April 7, 1995. TransRim's petition to have the 10th
Circuit rehear the appeal was denied.

In 1991, the Company became aware that Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Company
(MBLIC) had been placed under the control of the State of New Jersey. The
Company is a holder of several life insurance policies and annuities through 
MBLIC. The cash surrender value under these policies is approximately $7.8 
million. Policyholders have been notified that all claims, benefits and 
annuity payments will continue to be paid in full; however, at this time 
policyholders are able to only partially redeem their policies for cash.

In 1991, CBC entered into an agreement with Colorado Baseball Partnership
1993, Ltd. for an equity investment and multi-year signage and advertising
package. This commitment, totalling approximately $30 million, was
finalized upon the awarding of a National League baseball franchise to
Colorado in 1991. The initial investment as a limited partner has been paid.
The recognition of liability under the multi-year signage and advertising
package began in 1995 with the opening of Coors Field.

In 1991, the City and County of Denver, Waste Management of Colorado, Inc.
and Chemical Waste Management, Inc. brought litigation in U.S. District
Court against the Company and 37 other Potentially Responsible Parties
(PRP) to determine the allocation of costs of Lowry site remediation.
In 1993, the Court approved a settlement agreement between the Company and the
plaintiffs, resolving the Company's liabilities for the site. The Company
agreed to initial payments based on an assumed present value of $120 million in
total site remediation costs. In addition, the Company agreed to pay a
specified share of costs if total remediation costs are in excess of this
amount. Payments representing the Company's agreed share based on the $120
million assumption were made into a trust to be applied to costs of site
remediation and operating and maintenance costs. None of these payments were
material to the Company's cash flow or financial position.

The City and County of Denver, Waste Management of Colorado, Inc. and Chemical
Waste Management are expected to implement remediation of the site. The
Environmental Protection Agency's projected costs to meet the announced
remediation objectives and requirements are below the $120 million total
assumed as a basis for the Company's settlement. The Company has no reason to
believe that total remediation costs will result in additional liability to 
the Company.

In 1991, the Company filed suit against certain of its former and current
insurance carriers, seeking recovery of past defense costs and investigation,
study and remediation costs. Settlements were reached during 1993 and 1994
with all defendants. As a result, in the fourth quarter of 1994, the
Company recognized a special pretax credit of $18.9 million (Note 9).

The Company also is named as defendant in various actions and proceedings
arising in the normal course of business. In all of these cases, the Company 
is denying the allegations and is vigorously defending against them and, in 
some instances, has filed counterclaims. Although the eventual outcome of the
various lawsuits cannot be predicted, it is management's opinion these suits 
will not result in liabilities to that would materially affect the Company's 
financial position or results of operations.

NOTE 13:

Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)

The following summarizes selected quarterly financial information for each of
the two years in the period ended December 31, 1995. 

During 1994 and 1995, the first and second quarters were 12 weeks and the third
quarters were 16 weeks. During 1994, the fourth quarter was 12 weeks; during
1995 the fourth quarter was 13 weeks.

In the fourth quarter of 1995 and 1994, certain adjustments were made which
were of a normal and recurring nature. As described in Note 9, income in the
fourth quarter of 1995 was increased by a special pretax credit of $15.2
million or $0.24 per share, and income in the fourth quarter of 1994 was
increased by a special pretax credit of $13.9 million or $0.22 per share.

ADOLPH COORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
QUARTERLY FINANCIAL STATEMENT (UNAUDITED)



ITEM 9. Disagreements on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

Within the last two fiscal years there have been no changes in the
Company's independent accountants or disagreements on material accounting
and financial statement disclosure matters.

                               PART III

ITEM 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 

(a)  Directors.

JOSEPH COORS (Age 78) is Vice Chairman of Adolph Coors Company and has served
in that capacity since 1975. He has served as a Director since 1942. He retired
from day-to-day operations in December 1987. He serves as a member of the
Executive Committee, the Debt Pricing Committee, and the Audit Committee.
He is also a Director of Coors Brewing Company and ACX Technologies, Inc.

PETER H. COORS (Age 49) is Vice President of Adolph Coors Company and
Chief Executive Officer and Vice Chairman of Coors Brewing Company and has
served in that capacity since 1993. He has served as a Director of Adolph
Coors Company since 1973. Prior to 1993, he served as Executive Vice
President of Adolph Coors Company and Chairman of the Brewing Group. In
December 1993, he was named interim treasurer. He is also a member of the Board
of Directors of Coors Brewing Company. He serves as a member of the Debt
Pricing Committee and the Executive Committee. In his career at Coors
Brewing Company, he has served in a number of different positions,
including Divisional President of Sales Marketing and Administration and
Secretary (1982-1985), Senior Vice President, Sales and Marketing (1978-1982),
Vice President (1976-1978), and Assistant Secretary and Assistant Treasurer
(1974-1976).

WILLIAM K. COORS (Age 79) is Chairman of the Board and President of Adolph
Coors Company and has served in such capacities since 1970 and 1989,
respectively. He has served as a Director since 1940. He serves as
Chairman of the Debt Pricing Committee and the Executive Committee. He is
also a director and Chairman of the Board of Coors Brewing Company and
ACX Technologies, Inc.

J. BRUCE LLEWELLYN (Age 68) has served as a Director and member of the Audit
Committee since 1989. In 1993, he was named chairman of the Audit Committee.
He also serves on the Compensation Committee. He is a member of the Board of
Directors of Coors Brewing Company. He is an attorney and involved in the
management of several businesses in which he is an investor.  He is
presently the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of
Philadelphia Coca Cola Bottling, Inc. He is also a Director of Chemical Bank,
Essence Communications, Inc., and the Black Shopping Network, Inc.

LUIS G. NOGALES (Age 52) has served as a Director since 1989. He became a
member of the Audit Committee in 1992. He has served as a member of the
Compensation Committee since 1989 and was named chairman in May 1994.  He is
a member of the Board of Directors of Coors Brewing Company. He is
chairman and chief executive officer of Embarcadero Media, Inc., a media
(radio) acquisition company in Los Angeles. In the past he was president of
Nogales Partners (1989 to 1993), a media acquisition firm, general partner
of Nogales Castro Partners (1989-1990), President of Univision, the
nation's largest Spanish language television network (1986-1988), and
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of United Press International (1983-
1986). From 1981-1983 he served as Senior Vice President of Fleishman-Hillard,
Inc. He is also a Director of Southern California Edison Company, SCEcorp,
and Kaufman and Broad.

WAYNE R. SANDERS (Age 48) joined the Company as a Director in February of
1995,and serves on the Compensation Committee. He is chairman of the board and
chief executive officer of Kimberly Clark (K-C) Corporation in Dallas.
Sanders joined K-C in 1975 as a Senior Financial Analyst. For the past
20 years, he has served in a number of positions with K-C. He was named to
his current position in 1992. Prior to that, he served as president and chief
executive officer (1991); president, World Consumer, Nonwovens and Service
and Industrial Operations (1990). He was elected to K-C's board of
directors in August 1989.

The Company is currently searching for one additional independent director.

(b)  Executive Officers.

Of the above directors, Peter H. Coors and William K. Coors are executive
officers of Adolph Coors Company. The following also were executive
officers of Adolph Coors Company (as defined by SEC rules) at March 1, 1996:  

ALVIN C. BABB (Age 63) is Senior Vice President of Operations and Technology
for CBC and has served in that capacity since 1983. Prior to that, he served as
Group Vice President of Brewery Operations (1982-1983), Senior Vice
President of Brewery Operations (1981-1982) and Senior Vice President of
Plant Operations (1978-1981). He has been with CBC for more than 40 years. 
He is a member of the Master Brewing Association of America.

CARL L. BARNHILL (Age 47) joined CBC in May of 1994 as Senior Vice President of
Sales. Barnhill brings more than 20 years of marketing experience with consumer
goods companies. Most recently, he was Vice President of Selling Systems
Development for the European and Middle East division of Pepsi Foods 
International. Prior to joining Pepsi in 1993, he spent 16 years with
Frito-Lay in various upper-level sales and marketing positions.

ROBERT W. EHRET (Age 51) joined CBC in May of 1994 as Senior Vice President,
Human Resources. Prior to joining CBC, Ehret served as Senior Vice President
of Human Resources for A.C. Nielsen. From 1983 to 1989, Ehret worked
for PepsiCo Inc. as Director of Employee Relations and Personnel Director
for two of PepsiCo's international divisions based in Tokyo and London.
He also worked in various Human Resource capacities at Celanese Corporation.

W. LEO KIELY, III (Age 49) became President and Chief Operating Officer of CBC
as of March 1, 1993. Prior to joining CBC, he served as division vice president
and then division president of the Frito-Lay, Inc. subsidiary of PepsiCo
in Plano, Texas. From 1989-1991, he served as senior vice president of field 
operations, overseeing the operations of Frito-Lay's four regional business 
teams. From 1984-1989, he was the vice president of sales and marketing for 
Frito-Lay.

ROBERT D. KLUGMAN (Age 48) was named CBC's Senior Vice President of Corporate
Development in May 1994. Prior to that he was Vice President of Corporate
Development in 1993. Prior to that, he was Vice President of Brand
Marketing, a position he held from 1981 - 1987, and again from 1990 - 1993. 
From 1987 to 1990 he was Vice President of International, Development and 
Marketing Services. Before joining CBC, Klugman was a Vice President of 
Client Services at Leo Burnett USA, a Chicago-based advertising agency. 

MICHAEL A. MARRANZINO (Age 48) has served as CBC's Senior Vice President and
Chief International Officer since 1994. Prior to that, he served as
Vice President and Director of International Marketing. He has been with
CBC since 1976, and has held positions in the sales and marketing area,
including director of development, director for Coors and Coors Extra Gold
brands, director of sales and marketing operations, director of field sales and
director of sales operations.

M. CAROLINE TURNER (Age 46) was named Vice President and Assistant Secretary of
ACC and Vice President, General Counsel and Assistant Secretary of CBC
in January, 1996. Prior to that, she was Vice President and Assistant
Secretary of ACC and Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Assistant
Secretary of CBC. In the past she served as Vice President, Chief Legal Officer
(1991-1992) and Director, Legal Affairs (1986-1991) of ACC. Prior to
joining the Company, she was a partner with the law firm of Holme
Roberts & Owen (1983-1986), an associate for Holme Roberts and Owen
(1977-1982) and a clerk in the U.S. 10th Circuit Court of Appeals (1976-
1977).

WILLIAM H. WEINTRAUB (Age 53) was named CBC's Senior Vice President of
Marketing in 1994. He joined CBC as Vice President of Marketing in
July, 1993. Prior to joining CBC, he directed all marketing and
advertising for Tropicana Products as Senior Vice President. From 1982 - 
1991, Weintraub was with the Kellogg Company, with responsibility for
marketing and sales. He also held a number of positions at Proctor &
Gamble from 1967 - 1982.

TIMOTHY V. WOLF (Age 42) was named Vice President, Treasurer and Chief
Financial Officer of ACC and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer of CBC in February 1995. Wolf came to CBC from Hyatt Hotels
Corporation, where he served as Senior Vice President of Planning and
Human Resources from 1993 to 1994. From 1989 to 1993, he served in several
executive positions for The Walt Disney Company including Vice President,
Controller and Chief Accounting Officer. 

ACC and CBC employ a number of other officers who are not considered executive
officers of the Registrant as defined under SEC regulations.

Terms for all officers and directors are for a period of one year, except that
vacancies may be filled and additional officers elected at any regular or
special meeting. Directors are elected at the Annual Shareholders' Meeting
held in May.  There are no arrangements or understandings between any
officer or director pursuant to which any officer or director was elected
as such.

(d)  Family Relationships.

William K. Coors and Joseph Coors are brothers. Peter H. Coors is a son of
Joseph Coors.

(e)  Section 16 Disclosures.

All filing and disclosure requirements were met in 1995. 

ITEM 11. Executive Compensation

I. SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE

(a) Amounts awarded under the Management Incentive Compensation Program.

(b) No restricted stock grants were made in 1995 or 1994.
                    
    In 1993, restricted stock was granted to three of the named officers.
    The number of  grants and their values at December 31, 1995 are as follows:
    Peter H. Coors - 3,000 shares valued at $66,375; W. Leo Kiely III - 1,000
    shares valued at $22,125; and Alvin C. Babb - 300 shares valued at $6,638.

    Restricted stock awards granted in 1993 have a three-year vesting period
    based on year of grant and expire with termination of employment. Dividends
    are paid to the holders of the grants during the vesting period.

(c) In 1995, Timothy V. Wolf received perquisites including moving and
    relocation expenses of $293,450. In 1994, none of the named executives
    received perquisites in excess of the lesser of $50,000 or 10% of salary
    plus bonus. In 1993, W. Leo Kiely III received perquisites, including
    moving expenses of $299,639.

(d) See discussion under Item 11, Part II for options issued in 1995.

(e) See discussion under Item 11, Part IV for the long term incentive program.

(f) The amounts shown in this column are attributable to the officer life
    insurance other than group life, 401(k) plans and the excess of fair
    market value over option price for stock options exercised in 1995. The
    named executives receive officer life insurance provided by the Company
    until retirement. At the time of retirement, the officer's life insurance
    program terminates and for some of the officers, the salary continuation 
    agreement becomes effective. The officer's life insurance provides six 
    times the executive base salary until retirement, at which time the 
    Company becomes the beneficiary. The 1995 annual benefit for each 
    executive: William K. Coors - $34,095; Peter H. Coors - $5,566; 
    W. Leo Kiely III - $3,958; Alvin C. Babb - $10,361. The Company's 50% 
    match on the first 6% of salary contributed by the officer to ACC's 
    qualified 401(k) plan was $4,500 for Peter H. Coors; $4,500 for 
    W. Leo Kiely III; $4,500 for Alvin C. Babb; and $3,900 for Timothy V. 
    Wolf. Peter H. Coors exercised stock options in 1995. See discussion in 
    Item 11, Part III for stock option exercises in 1995.

In response to Code Section 162 of the Revenue Reconciliation Act of 1993,
the Company appointed a special compensation committee to approve and monitor
performance criteria in certain performance based executive compensation
plans for 1995.


II. OPTION/SAR GRANTS TABLE

OPTION Grants in Last Fiscal Year



(a) Grants vest one year from the date of grant and at a rate of one-tenth for 
each one dollar increment in fair market value (FMV) of the stock over the 
exercise price. For example, when the FMV reaches $17.75, 10% of the grant 
is vested; when it reaches $18.75, 20% is vested; etc. FMV is calculated by 
averaging the high and low stock price for each day.   Once a portion has 
vested, it is not forfeited even if the FMV drops. If not sooner, the grant is 
100% vested after 9 years. At December 31, 1995, the 1995 grants were  0 % 
vested because of the one year vesting requirement. The 1995 grants were 60%
vested on January 3, 1996.

III. OPTION/SAR EXERCISES AND YEAR-END VALUE TABLE

Aggregated Option/SAR Exercises in Last Fiscal Year, and FY-End Option/SAR Value

(a) Values stated are the bargain element recognized in 1995, which is the 
difference between the option price and the market price at the time of 
exercise.

IV. LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN AWARDS TABLE 

*   Number of options to be granted at $16.25.
**  Award of 1/2 restricted shares and 1/2 cash.
*** Number of options to be granted at $16.4375.

Under the Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), payout targets are dependent on
cumulative Return on Invested Capital (ROIC), which is defined as earnings
before interest expense and after tax, divided by debt plus equity. The
LTIP cycle is three years, with any payout at the beginning of the fourth
year. Under the first cycle, the earliest potential payout is for
1994-1996. Participants elect the form of payout from three options. The first
option is to receive one-half of the payout in cash, one-half in shares of
restricted stock. Restricted shares will be fully vested, but will be
restricted from sale for a period of five years. The second option allows
the participant to use the cash portion of payout to purchase discounted
shares of stock (based on 75% of the fair market value of the stock at the
time of payout.) Shares purchased under this option are fully vested, but
cannot be sold for a period of three years. The third option allows the
participant to elect a percentage (a multiple of 10, but not more than
100) of the total award amount to be received in the form of stock options; the
number of options to be three times the total award amount divided by the fair
market value of the stock at the time the participant enters the LTIP.
The options will be fully vested and have a ten-year term. The remainder
of the award, if the percentage elected is less than 100%, will be awarded
one-half in cash, one-half in restricted shares of stock. All shares will
receive dividends during the restriction period. 

V. PENSION PLAN TABLE

The following table sets forth annual retirement benefits for representative
years of service and average annual earnings.

*Maximum permissible benefit under ERISA from the qualified retirement income
plan for 1995 was $120,000 and annual compensation in excess of $150,000 is not
considered for benefits under the qualified plan. The Company has a
non-qualified supplemental retirement plan to provide full accrued benefits to
all employees in excess of IRS maximums.

Annual average compensation covered by the qualified and non qualified
retirement plans and credited years of service for individuals named in Item
11(a) are as follows:  William K. Coors - $257,016 and 56 years; Peter H.
Coors - $470,088 and 24 years; and Alvin C. Babb - $289,696 and 42 years;
W. Leo Kiely III - $386,493 and 2 years; Timothy V. Wolf - $312,538
and 1 year.

The Company's principal retirement income plan is a defined benefit plan. The
amount of contribution for officers is not included in the above table since
total plan contributions cannot be readily allocated to individual employees.
The Company's most recent actuarial valuation was as of January 1, 1995, in 
which the ratio of plan contributions to total compensation covered by the 
plan was approximately 6.3%. Covered compensation is defined as the total base 
salary (average of three highest consecutive years out of the last ten) of 
employees participating in the plan, including commissions but excluding 
bonuses and overtime pay. Compensation also includes amounts deferred by the 
individual under Internal Revenue Code Section 401(k) and any amounts deferred 
into a plan under Internal Revenue Code Section 125. Normal retirement age 
under the plan is 65. An employee with at least 5 years of vesting service may 
retire as early as age 55. Benefits are reduced for early retirement based on 
an employee's age and years of service at retirement; however, benefits are not
reduced if (1) the employee is at least age 62 when payments commence or 
(2) the employee's age plus years of service equal at least 85 and the employee
has worked for CBC at least 25 years. The amount of pension actually accrued 
under the pension formula is in the form of a straight life annuity.

In addition to the annual benefit from the qualified Retirement Plan, two of
the named executives are covered by salary continuation agreements. These
agreements provide for a lump sum cash payment to the officer upon normal
retirement in an amount actuarially equivalent in value to 30% of the
officer's last annual base salary, payable for the remainder of the
officer's life, but not less than 10 years. If the officer should die after
age 55, the surviving spouse receives the remaining amount in a lump sum. The
interest rate used in calculating the lump sum is determined using 80%
of the annual average yield of the 10-year Treasury constant maturities
for the month preceding the month of retirement. Using 1995 eligible salary 
amounts as representative of the last annual base salary, the estimated 
annual benefit upon normal retirement for these officers would be: Peter H. 
Coors - $147,400 and Alvin C. Babb - $90,200.

Compensation of Directors

The Company adopted the Equity Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors
(EC Plan) effective May 16, 1991. The EC Plan provides for two grants of Adolph
Coors Company's Class B (non-voting) common stock to non-employee (NE)
directors. The first grant is automatic and equals 20% of the annual 
retainer. The second grant is elective and allows the NE directors to take a 
portion, or all, of the remaining annual retainer in stock. Amounts of both 
grants are determined by the market value of the shares on the date of grant.
Shares received under either grant may not be sold or disposed of before 
completion of the annual term. The Company reserved 50,000 shares of stock to
be issued under the EC Plan. The NE directors' annual retainer is $32,000.

In 1995, the NE members of the Board of Directors were paid 50% of the $32,000
annual retainer for the 1994-1995 term and 50% of the $32,000 annual retainer
for the 1995-1996 term as well as reimbursement of expenses incurred to perform
their duties as directors. Directors who are full-time employees of the
Company receive $15,000 annually. All directors are reimbursed for any
expenses incurred while attending Board of Directors or committee meetings
and in connection with any other CBC business. In addition, Joseph Coors, as
a director and retired executive officer, is provided an office, 
transportation and secretarial support from CBC.

Employment Contracts and Termination of Employment Arrangements

CBC has no agreements with executives or employees providing employment for a
set period.

Timothy V. Wolf, Senior Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer has an
agreement providing a guaranteed bonus of 40% of his base salary in 1995. If he
is terminated without cause within the first two years, he would receive
18 months of his total current annual salary (base plus bonus).
                                                                               
In 1993, Alvin C. Babb, Senior Vice President, Operations & Technology, and 
CBC entered into an agreement providing for certain payments to Mr. Babb if 
his employment terminates on or before December 31, 1996. CBC would pay 
Mr. Babb an amount equal to two times his salary plus a lump-sum payment 
under his salary continuation agreement using a 5% discount factor and would
pay any differential between medical benefits then provided and medical 
benefits provided under CBC's 1993 medical program. 

The standard severance program for officers is one year of base salary plus a
prorated portion of any earned bonus for the year of severance.

Under the Equity Incentive Plan, if there is a change in ownership of the
Company and the Company is not the surviving corporation, the new
corporation may either continue the plan with equivalent stock or
fully vest the existing options, specify a number of days for the options
to be exercised and terminate the options if they are not exercised.




*Assumes that the value of the investment in ACC Common Stock and each index 
 was $100 on December 30, 1990 and that all dividends were reinvested.

**Results for 1992 includes $7.92 for the spin-off occurring in December 1992.

Compensation Committee Report on Executive Compensation

The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors has furnished the
following report on executive compensation for CBC. This report represents 
the Company's compensation philosophy for fiscal year 1995. J. Bruce 
Llewellyn, Luis G. Nogales and Wayne R. Sanders served on the Compensation 
Committee in 1995.

Overview of Compensation Strategy for Executives

Under the supervision of the three member 1995 Compensation Committee of the
Board of Directors, the Company continued to support the philosophy that 
compensation policies, plans and programs developed must enhance the 
profitability of the Company by linking financial incentives of senior
CBC management with the Company's financial performance. Base salary
philosophy remained the same and all incentive programs continued to focus on
increasing shareholder value and profitability.

Annual base salaries were set at median levels found in the external market.
The Company relied on incentive compensation plans to reward officers
for superior corporate and business unit performance. A more aggressive
posture for base salaries for senior officers who have accountability for 
major functions was continued. Incentive compensation strategies were tied
to Company performance and shareholder return to encourage a greater return on
invested capital and to increase share price.

The Compensation Committee's compensation strategy for CBC's CEO and other 
executive officers consisted of:

- -targeting base salary to the 50th percentile of relevant, broadly-defined
 external markets;

- -providing a Company-wide annual profit sharing program under which all 
 eligible  employees share profits based on an equal percentage of payout;
            
- -providing an annual cash incentive award targeted at the 75th percentile
 of the same external markets;

- -providing annual stock grants designed to increase shareholder return;

- -developing a long-term incentive plan designed to increase return on invested
 capital.

Relationship of Performance to Specific Elements of the Compensation Strategy

Following are brief descriptions that outline details and performance measures 
of each component of the 1995 executive compensation strategy.

Base Salary

The Company used compensation survey data to determine salaries competitive at 
the 50th percentile for like positions in similar sized manufacturing 
companies. Company size was determined by total net sales.

Salary ranges were established for executives by using the 50th percentile
market data as the mid-point, with a 50% spread between minimum and maximum.
Where the executive was paid within the range was determined by individual
performance.

Annual Profit Sharing Program

All full time and part time employees of the Company are eligible for a payout
based on annual pre-tax profit goals being met. Payouts to all employees are
based on an equal percentage of their 1995 eligible earnings. Performance
targets for 1995 were not met and no payout was made.

Annual Cash Incentive Award

In 1995, the annual Management Incentive Compensation Program (MIC) continued
with the intent to drive both Company profitability and individual performance.
Executive officers and other key management personnel were measured based
on pre-tax profit and written individual performance plans tied to Company 
objectives. Payout may only occur after profit objectives are realized. The 
Compensation Committee approved annual pre-tax profit objectives as well as 
minimum and maximum payout levels within the program. Annual MIC targets were
not met and no payouts were made.

In 1995, the Senior Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer, as
part of his agreement with CBC, earned a cash incentive award based on a
percentage of his 1995 base salary.

Annual Stock Option Grants

In 1995, the Committee approved granting of stock options to the executive
officers and to other key management personnel. Options were granted as a
percentage of base salary and based on the individual's level in the
organization. Options were granted with a ten year term. Option vesting
is based on a one year holding period and an increase in share value. Options
vest 10% for each one dollar increase in fair market value. All options vest
after nine years regardless of share value increase. Options were granted
through the 1990 Equity Incentive Plan (NQEI).

The NQEI Plan was administered by the Compensation Committee. That committee
was composed of non-employee, independent directors. The NQEI Plan provides
that options be granted at exercise prices equal to the fair market
value on the date the option was granted.

Long Term Incentive Plan

In 1994, the Committee established a Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP).
Participants include all officers and selected key personnel. The plan
is on a biannual basis. Each plan has a three year measurement cycle
(first plan cycle is for years 1994 through 1996). The plan measures
cumulative return on invested capital. The Committee established both minimum
and maximum payout levels for participants as a percentage of 1994
salary and level within the organization. New participants enter the
plan on a pro rata basis based on their entry date. The plan provides
for three different options regarding payout, which must be elected before
the start of the plan cycle.

The first option of payout is to receive one-half of the payout in restricted 
shares, one-half in cash. The restricted shares have a five year restriction. 
The second option is to apply the cash portion of the first option to 
purchase shares of Company stock at a 25% discount, with a three year 
restriction on the purchased shares. The third option is to take all or part 
of the payout in the form of stock options in lieu of both restricted shares 
and cash in 10% increments at a three to one ratio. These options have a ten 
year term with no further restrictions.

CEO Compensation for 1995

The CEO's compensation for 1995 did not reflect any of the incentive elements
of the Company's compensation strategy. While fully supportive of the executive
compensation strategy and fully committed to the Company goal of improved 
profitability and an increase in shareholder value, CEO William K. Coors has 
elected not to participate in the incentive programs. It is Mr. Coors' 
belief that his compensation, although low relative to market and industry 
standards, is adequate to support his needs and that, given his strong 
commitment to corporate goals and objectives, financial incentives would not 
enhance his motivation to achieve superior performance. Mr. Coors received a 
4.0% increase in base salary, which was the same level as all other employees 
of the Company.

Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation

Joseph Coors, J. Bruce Llewellyn, Luis G. Nogales and Wayne R. Sanders served 
on the Compensation Committee during the past fiscal year. Wayne R. Sanders 
replaced Joseph Coors on the Compensation Committee in May, 1995. Joseph 
Coors retired as the President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company in 
December, 1987.

Joseph Coors is a director of both ACC and ACX. He, along with William K.
Coors, a Director of both ACC and ACX, are trustees of one or more family
trusts that collectively own all of the voting stock of ACC and a majority of
the common stock of ACX. (See Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
Owners and Management in Item 12). In 1995, Peter H. Coors, a director and
executive officer of ACC, resigned as a trustee of the trust holding the ACC
voting stock. ACC and ACX, or their subsidiaries, have certain business
relationships and have engaged or proposed to engage in certain transactions
with one another, as described below.

In connection with the spin-off of ACX in December of 1992, CBC entered into
market-based, long-term supply agreements with certain ACX subsidiaries to
provide packaging, aluminum and starch products to CBC. Under the packaging
supply agreement, CBC agreed to purchase from an ACX subsidiary all of
CBC's paperboard (including composite packages and label requirements as
well as a portion of CBC's requirements for can wrappers) through 1997. Under
the aluminum supply agreement, which was cancelled effective at the end
of 1995, CBC agreed to purchase from an ACX subsidiary all of CBC's
requirements for aluminum end stock and a substantial amount of CBC's tab 
stock needs, as well as substantial amounts of can body stock. Since late
1994, American National Can Company (ANC), has acted as purchasing agent for
the CBC/ANC end and can joint ventures. ANC has ordered tab stock from the
ACX subsidiary for use by CBC in 1996. CBC also expects to receive limited 
quantities of can body stock in 1996 from the ACX subsidiary through 
purchases by ANC. Commitments for aluminum purchases beyond 1996 have not yet
been determined. Under the starch supply agreement, CBC agreed to purchase from
an ACX subsidiary 100 million pounds of refined corn starch annually through 
1997. Total purchases by CBC under these supply agreements in 1995 were 
approximately $240 million. Purchases by CBC in 1996 under the packaging and 
starch supply agreements, together with aluminum purchase orders currently 
in place, are estimated to total approximately $145 million.

In 1995, CBC sold approximately $25 million of aluminum scrap from its can 
making operations to an ACX subsidiary pursuant to an agreement that 
commenced at the time of the spin-off and ended by its terms at the end of 
1995. The parties have not renewed that agreement for 1996 as ANC will act 
in the future to sell this scrap from the joint venture operations under a
competitive bid process. Also, CBC and an ACX subsidiary are parties to an 
agreement with a stated term through 1997 under which CBC sells brewery 
by-products to the ACX subsidiary for resale. Payments received by CBC under 
this contract were approximately $9 million in 1995; CBC estimates that 
payments in 1996 will be approximately $10 million.

Also in connection with the spin-off, ACC and ACX and their subsidiaries 
negotiated other agreements, including employee matters, environmental 
management, tax sharing and trademark licensing. These agreements govern 
certain relationships between the relevant parties as described in the 
Company's Report on Form 8-K dated December 27, 1992 and contained in the
Information Statement mailed to ACC's shareholders at the time of the 
spin-off. There were also numerous transitional agreements for various 
services and materials entered into at the time of the spin-off that have
since ended.

In addition, certain subsidiaries of ACC and ACX are parties to other 
miscellaneous market-based transactions, as described in this paragraph. 
Under certain agreements entered into at the time of the spin-off, Coors 
Energy has supplied natural gas to certain Colorado facilities of ACX 
subsidiaries; these agreements are being assigned to Trigen in conjunction
with the power plant sale in September of 1995. Also in 1995, CBC provided 
water and waste water treatment services for an ACX ceramics facility 
located on property leased from CBC, CBC purchased some ceramic tooling 
from an ACX subsidiary for use on CBC lines, CBC served as aggregator for 
long distance telephone services for itself and certain ACX subsidiaries,
and CBC received real estate management and other services from the ACX real 
estate brokerage subsidiary. CBC does not expect to continue to serve as the 
aggregator of long distance services for ACX Companies after the fall of 1996 
when the long distance carrier contract comes up for renewal. During 1995, 
CBC received approximately $800,000 in the aggregate and paid approximately 
$400,000 in the aggregate under the agreements and transactions described in
this paragraph. CBC estimates that it will receive and pay substantially 
similar amounts in 1996 for continuing services and activities pursuant to 
these agreements.

CBC is a limited partner in a limited partnership in which an ACX subsidiary is
the general partner. The partnership, which was formed at the time of the 
spin-off, owns, develops, operates and sells certain real estate previously 
owned directly by CBC or ACC. Distributions of $1 million were made to both 
partners in 1995. CBC also received a special property distribution of 
approximately $130,000 in 1995. Each partner is obligated to make additional 
cash contributions of $500,000 upon call of the general partner. Distributions 
are allocated equally between the partners until CBC receives or recovers its 
investment, and thereafter 80% to the general partner and 20% to CBC.

ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

(a)  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners

The following table sets forth stock ownership of persons holding in excess of 
five percent of any class of voting securities, as of March 14, 1996:

In addition, certain officers and directors hold interests in other family 
trusts, as indicated in Item 12, Section (b) (1) following.

(b)  Security Ownership of Management

The following table sets forth stock ownership of the Company's directors, 
and all executive officers and directors as a group, as of March 14, 1996:


 
(1)  William K. Coors and Peter H. Coors are two of the trustees of the 
Adolph Coors Foundation, which owns 732,413 shares of Class B Common Stock. 
William K. Coors, Joseph Coors and Peter H. Coors are trustees, in addition 
to other trustees, and beneficiaries or contingent beneficiaries in certain 
cases, of various trusts that own an aggregate of 16,737,111 shares of Class 
B common stock. These individuals, and others, are  trustees of four other 
trusts owning 347,100 shares of Class B common stock. In certain of these 
trusts, they act solely as trustees and have no vested or contingent 
benefits. The total of these trust shares, together with other management 
shares shown above, represents 51% of the total number of shares of such 
class outstanding.

(2)  This represents exercisable options to purchase shares under the Company's
1983 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan and 1990 Equity Incentive Plan (as 
amended in 1995) that could be exercised as of March 14, 1996. In addition, 
it reflects restricted stock awards granted under the 1990 Equity Incentive 
Plan. Vesting in the restricted stock is over a three year period from date 
of grant for employee/ officers and at the end of the term for outside 
directors. In the event of a change in control of the Company, all vesting 
restrictions on the restricted stock awards would be lifted.

(c)  Changes in Control.

There are no arrangements that would at some subsequent date result in a change
of control of the Company.

ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

(a) & (b)  For a description of certain business relationships and related 
transactions see the discussion under the caption "Compensation Committee 
Interlock and Insider Participation" contained in Item 11 of this report.
 
(c)  Indebtedness of Management

Loans are made available to employees in connection with the exercise of stock 
options granted under the 1983 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan. No such loans 
were made or outstanding in 1995.

There was no other indebtedness in excess of $60,000 between the Company and 
any member of management or others that have a direct or indirect interest in 
the Company.

PART IV

ITEM 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)  The following documents are filed as part of this report:

     (1)  Financial Statements:  See index of financial statements in Item 8.

     (2)  Financial Statement Schedules:

            Schedule II   -  Valuation and Qualifying Accounts        
                     
All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the required
information is shown in the financial statements or notes thereto.

SCHEDULE II

(a)  Collections of accounts previously written off and additions through
     acquisition of businesses.
(b)  Write off of uncollectible accounts.

(3)  Exhibits:

Exhibit  3.1  Amended Articles of Incorporation. (Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 3.1 to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 1990)

Exhibit  3.2  Amended By-laws. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to
Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended October 1, 1995)

Exhibit  4.1  Form of Indenture for Adolph Coors Company Senior Debt
Securities. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to Registration Statement
on Form S-3 filed March 14, 1990 and amended on March 26, 1990,
file No. 33-33831). Upon request, the Company agrees to provide a copy
of any debt instrument as applicable under Regulation S-K, Item 601,
(b)(4)(iii).

Exhibit  10.1  Officers' Life Insurance Program. (Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10 to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 28, 1980)

Exhibit  10.2* Officers and Directors Salary Continuation Agreement.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
December 26, 1982)

Exhibit  10.3* Adolph Coors Company 1983 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan, as
amended effective February 13, 1992. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3
to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 1991)

Exhibit  10.4* Coors Brewing Company Annual Management Incentive Compensation
Plan

Exhibit  10.5* Coors Brewing Company Long-Term Incentive Plan, 1994-1996 Plan
Cycle. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended December 25, 1994) 

Exhibit  10.6* Adolph Coors Company 1990 Equity Incentive Plan. Amended as of
November 16, 1995.

Exhibit  10.7* Coors Brewing Company Employee Profit Sharing Program. Amended
as of January 25, 1996.

Exhibit  10.8  Adolph Coors Company Non-Employee Director Compensation Deferral
Plan. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 1989)

Exhibit  10.9  Agreement between Adolph Coors Company and a former Executive
Officer and current Director. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1989)

Exhibit  10.10 Form of Coors Brewing Company Distributorship Agreement. 
(Introduced 1989)  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to Form 10-K for
the fiscal year ended December 31, 1989)

Exhibit  10.11 Adolph Coors Company Water Augmentation Plan. (Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.12 to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
1989)

Exhibit  10.12 Adolph Coors Company Equity Compensation Plan for Non- Employee 
Directors (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to Form 10-Q for the 
fiscal quarter ended June 11, 1995)

Exhibit  10.13 Distribution Agreement dated as of October 5, 1992, between the 
Company and ACX Technologies, Inc. (Incorporated herein by reference to the 
Distribution Agreement included as Exhibits 2, 19.1 and 19.1A to the 
Registration Statement on Form 10 filed by ACX Technologies, Inc. 
(file No. 0-20704) with the Commission on October 6, 1992, as amended.)

Exhibit 10.14* Employment Contracts and Termination of Employment Agreements 
for W. Leo Kiely III, Alvin C. Babb and William H. Weintraub. (Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.17 to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 26, 
1993)

Exhibit 10.15  Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of December 12, 1994.

Exhibit 10.16* Employment Contract and Termination Agreement for Timothy V. 
Wolf.

Exhibit 10.17  Adolph Coors Company Stock Unit Plan (Incorporated by reference 
to Registration Statement on Form S-8 filed on June 6, 1995)

Exhibit  21    Subsidiaries of the registrant.

Exhibit  23    Consent of Independent Accountants.

*Represents a management contract.

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K

No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the fourth quarter ended 
December 31, 1995.

(c)  Other Exhibits 

No exhibits in addition to those previously filed and listed in Item 14 (a) 
(2) are filed herein.

(d)  Other Financial Statement Schedules

No additional financial statement schedules are required.

Other Matters

For the purpose of complying with the amendments to the rules governing Form
S-8 (effective July 13, 1990) under the Securities Act of 1933, the undersigned
registrant hereby undertakes as follows, which undertaking shall be
incorporated by reference into registrant's Registration Statements on 
Form S-8 No. 33-2761 (filed January 17, 1986), 33-35035 (filed May 24, 1990),
33-40730 (filed May 21, 1991) and 33-59979 (filed June 6, 1995) and on 
Form S-3 No. 33-33831 (filed March 14, 1990):

Insofar as indemnification for liabilities arising under the Securities Act of
1933 may be permitted to directors, officers and controlling persons of the
registrant pursuant to the foregoing provisions, or otherwise, the
registrant has been advised that in the opinion of the Securities and 
Exchange Commission such indemnification is against public policy as
expressed in the Securities Act of 1933 and is, therefore, unenforceable.
In the event that a claim for indemnification against such liabilities
(other than the payment by the registrant of expenses incurred or paid
by a director, officer or controlling person of the registrant in the
successful defense of any action, suit or proceeding) is asserted by such 
director, officer or controlling person in connection with the securities
being registered, the registrant will, unless in the opinion of its counsel
the matter has been settled by controlling precedent, submit to a court of
appropriate jurisdiction the question whether such indemnification by it is
against public policy as expressed in the Act and will be governed by the 
final adjudication of such issue.

EXHIBIT 21

ADOLPH COORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
SUBSIDIARIES OF REGISTRANT

The following table lists subsidiaries of the Registrant and the respective 
jurisdictions of their organization or incorporation as of December 31, 1995.
All subsidiaries are included in Registrant's consolidated financial 
statements, with the exception of Coors Export Ltd.


   * Organized as a partnership for foreign purposes and as a corporation for 
     U.S. purposes.
  ** Established as a subsidiary of Adolph Coors Company in early 1996.

EXHIBIT 23

Consent of Independent Accountants

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Prospectus 
constituting part of the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 33-33831) 
and in the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (No. 33-2761), (No. 33-35035),
(No. 33-40730) and (No. 33-59979) of Adolph Coors Company of our report 
dated February 16, 1996 appearing on page 27 of this Form 10-K. 




PRICE WATERHOUSE LLP

Denver, Colorado
March 29, 1996



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its 
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


ADOLPH COORS COMPANY


By  /s/ William K. Coors
- -------------------------------                                            
       William K. Coors
       Chairman and President
       (Chief Executive Officer)



By  /s/ Timothy V. Wolf 
- --------------------------------                                            
       Timothy V. Wolf
       Vice President, Treasurer,
       Chief Financial Officer
       (Principal Financial Officer)
       (Principal Accounting Officer)


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this 
report has been signed below by the following directors on behalf of the 
Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.


By  /s/ Joseph Coors                                 By  /s/ J. Bruce Llewellyn
- -------------------------                       ---------------------------    
      Joseph Coors                                         J. Bruce Llewellyn
       Vice Chairman



By  /s/ Peter H. Coors                               By  /s/ Luis G. Nogales
- ------------------------------                       ---------------------------
       Peter H. Coors                                       Luis G. Nogales
       Chief Executive Officer
       Coors Brewing Company


                     
By  /s/ Wayne R. Sanders
- ------------------------------                                                  
       Wayne R. Sanders



March 29, 1996




