
10-K405
NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION 10-K405 FYE 12/31/96


  PAGE 1
            UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                        Washington, D. C.  20549
                       ---------------------------
 
                              FORM 10-K405
 
 (X)ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15(d) of THE SECURITIES
    EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
    For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996.
                                   OR
 ( )TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
    For the transition period from                 to
                                    ---------------    ---------------
                      Commission file number 1-8339
 
                      NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION
 -----------------------------------------------------------------------
         (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
                   Virginia                              52-1188014
 ------------------------------------------------     ------------------
  (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation        (I.R.S. Employer
               or organization)                       Identification No.)
 
    Three Commercial Place, Norfolk, Virginia              23510-2191
 ------------------------------------------------     ------------------
    (Address of principal executive offices)               (Zip Code)
 
 Registrant's telephone number, including area code    (757) 629-2680
                                                      ------------------
 
       Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
 
                                            Name of each exchange
         Title of each Class                 on which registered
         -------------------                ---------------------
   Norfolk Southern Corporation
   Common Stock (Par Value $1.00)          New York Stock Exchange
 
    Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  NONE
 
   Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file
such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements
for the past 90 days.   Yes (X) No ( )
 
   Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein and
will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by 
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K405 or any amendment to 
this Form 10-K405. (X)
 
   The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
nonaffiliates as of February 28, 1997:  $11,407,533,062
 
   The number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's
classes of common stock, as of February 28, 1997:  125,185,548
(excluding 7,252,634 shares held by registrant's consolidated
subsidiaries)
  PAGE 2

                  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:

     Portions of the Registrant's definitive proxy statement (to be
dated April 1, 1997) to be filed electronically pursuant to
Regulation 14A not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal
year are incorporated by reference in Part III.
  PAGE 3


                                                        -----------------

           Item                                                Page
           ----                                                ----
Part I      1.   Business                                        4

            2.   Properties                                      4

            3.   Legal Proceedings                              21

            4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
                    Holders                                     24

                 Executive Officers of the Registrant           25


Part II     5.   Market for Registrant's Common Stock and
                    Related Stockholder Matters                 29

            6.   Selected Financial Data                        30

            7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of
                    Financial Condition and Results of
                    Operations                                  37

            8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    54

            9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants
                    on Accounting and Financial Disclosure      80


Part III   10.   Directors and Executive Officers of the
                    Registrant                                  80

           11.   Executive Compensation                         80

           12.   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
                    Owners and Management                       80

           13.   Certain Relationships and Related
                    Transactions                                80


Part IV    14.   Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedule, and
                    Reports on Form 8-K                         81

                 Index to Consolidated Financial Statement
                    Schedule                                    81


Power of Attorney                                               86

Signatures                                                      86

Exhibit Index                                                   90
  PAGE 4

                                 PART I

Item 1.   Business.
- ------    --------

      and

Item 2.   Properties.
- ------    ----------

          GENERAL - Norfolk Southern Corporation (Norfolk Southern)
was incorporated on July 23, 1980, under the laws of the Commonwealth
of Virginia.  On June l, 1982, Norfolk Southern acquired control of
two major operating railroads, Norfolk and Western Railway Company
(NW) and Southern Railway Company (Southern) in accordance with an
Agreement of Merger and Reorganization dated as of July 31, 1980, and
with the approval of the transaction by the Interstate Commerce
Commission (ICC) (now the Surface Transportation Board {STB}).

          Effective December 31, 1990, Norfolk Southern transferred
all the common stock of NW to Southern, and Southern's name was
changed to Norfolk Southern Railway Company (Norfolk Southern
Railway).  As of December 31, 1996, all the common stock of NW
(100 percent voting control) was owned by Norfolk Southern Railway,
and all the common stock of Norfolk Southern Railway and 16.1 percent
of its voting preferred stock (resulting in 94.8 percent voting
control) was owned directly by Norfolk Southern.

          On June 21, 1985, Norfolk Southern acquired control of North
American Van Lines, Inc. and its subsidiaries (NAVL), a diversified
motor carrier.  In accordance with an Acquisition Agreement dated May
2, 1984, and with the approval of the transaction by the ICC, Norfolk
Southern acquired all the issued and outstanding common stock of NAVL.
During 1993, NAVL underwent a restructuring (see discussion on page 7)
designed to enhance its opportunities to return to profitability.

          Unless indicated otherwise, Norfolk Southern and its
subsidiaries are referred to collectively as NS.

          PROPOSED ACQUISITION OF CONRAIL INC. - On October 24, 1996,
in response to the October 15, 1996, announcement that Conrail Inc.
(Conrail) had entered into a merger agreement with CSX Corporation, NS
commenced an all-cash tender offer for all the Common Stock and
Series A ESOP Convertible Junior Preferred Stock of Conrail
(collectively, Shares), including in each case the associated Common
Stock Purchase Rights.  See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements on page 76 for additional details.

          On February 11, 1997, NS acquired 8.2 million Shares of
Conrail stock (approximately 9.9 percent of the then outstanding
Conrail Common Stock), representing the approximate maximum number NS
could buy without triggering Conrail's anti-takeover defenses, at a
cost of $115 per Share, or $943 million in the aggregate.  The
purchase was financed through issuance of commercial paper backed by a
portion of the revolving debt capacity under the credit facility
obtained in connection with the proposed acquisition of Conrail.  
  PAGE 5

These Shares have been placed in a voting trust and under certain 
circumstances might have to be sold at a loss.

          On February 12, 1997, NS commenced a second tender offer for
the remaining Shares and has notified Conrail of its intention
to conduct a proxy contest in connection with Conrail's 1997 Annual
Meeting of shareholders, currently scheduled for December 19, 1997,
seeking, among other things, to remove certain of the current members
of the Conrail Board and to elect a new slate of nominees designated
by NS.

          Pursuant to an amendment to the merger agreement between 
CSX and Conrail announced on March 7, 1997, CSX has offered to purchase 
all Shares for $115 per Share in cash and CSX is permitted to enter 
into negotiations with other parties, including NS, concerning the 
acquisition of the securities or assets, or concessions relating to 
the assets or operations, of Conrail.  NS and CSX are negotiating 
a comprehensive resolution of the issues confronting the eastern 
railroads based on the proposal submitted by NS to both CSX and 
Conrail on February 24, 1997.  Such a resolution could involve a 
joint acquisition of Shares by NS and CSX.  However, unless and 
until such negotiations are successfully concluded, NS intends to 
continue in effect its tender offer for all Shares not owned 
by NS.

          For additional information concerning NS' pending tender 
offer for Shares not owned by NS, reference is made to NS' Tender 
Offer Statement on Schedule 14D-1, together with the exhibits 
thereto, initially filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission 
on February 12, 1997, as amended.

          RAILROAD OPERATIONS - As of December 31, 1996, NS' railroads
operated approximately 14,300 miles of road in the states of Alabama,
Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana,
Maryland, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, New York, North Carolina,
Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia and West
Virginia, and the Province of Ontario, Canada.  Of this total,
12,094 miles are owned with the balance operated under lease or
trackage rights; most of this total are main line track.  In addition,
its railroads operate 10,800 miles of passing, industrial, yard and
side tracks.

          NS' railroads have major leased lines between Cincinnati,
Ohio, and Chattanooga, Tennessee, and in the State of North Carolina.

          The Cincinnati-Chattanooga lease, covering about 335
miles, expires in 2026, and is subject to an option to extend the
lease for an additional 25 years, at terms to be agreed upon.

          The North Carolina leases, covering approximately 330 miles,
expired by their terms at the end of 1994.  Although a lease extension
agreement was approved by the boards of both Norfolk Southern and the
North Carolina Railroad Company (NCRR) and by the stockholders of
NCRR, the U.S. District Court in Raleigh ruled that there was no quorum 
at the stockholders' meeting and enjoined the parties from performing
under the extension agreement.  NCRR has suits pending against Norfolk
  PAGE 6

Southern and various subsidiaries in federal court in Raleigh to
enforce rights under the expired leases and at the STB to seek the
establishment of terms and conditions of NS' railroads' continued use,
including interim and long-term compensation.  Also, certain NCRR
stockholders earlier had filed four separate, and still pending,
derivative actions challenging the adequacy of the rental terms in the
extension agreement.  NS' railroads presently are operating over the
leased lines under the requirements of federal law, and will continue
to do so until the matter has been resolved through agreement or a
decision by the STB establishing reasonable conditions or permitting
discontinuance of such operations.  Whatever the ultimate resolution
of the litigation, it is not expected to have a material effect on NS'
consolidated financial statements.

          NS' lines carry raw materials, intermediate products and
finished goods primarily in the Southeast and Midwest and to and from
the rest of the United States and parts of Canada.  These lines also
transport overseas freight through several Atlantic and Gulf Coast
ports.  Atlantic ports served by NS include:  Norfolk, Virginia;
Morehead City, North Carolina; Charleston, South Carolina; Savannah
and Brunswick, Georgia; and Jacksonville, Florida.  Gulf Coast ports
served include:  Mobile, Alabama, and New Orleans, Louisiana.

          The lines of NS' railroads reach most of the larger
industrial and trading centers of the Southeast and Midwest, with the
exception of those in central and southern Florida.  Atlanta,
Birmingham, New Orleans, Memphis, St. Louis, Kansas City (Missouri),
Chicago, Detroit, Cincinnati, Buffalo, Norfolk, Charleston, Savannah
and Jacksonville are among the leading centers originating and
terminating freight traffic on the system.  In addition, a haulage
arrangement with the Florida East Coast Railway allows NS' railroads
to provide single-line service to and from south Florida, including
the port cities of Miami, West Palm Beach and Fort Lauderdale.  The
system's lines also reach many individual industries, mines (in
western Virginia, eastern Kentucky and southern West Virginia) and
businesses located in smaller communities in its service area.  The
traffic corridors carrying the heaviest volumes of freight include
those from the Appalachian coal fields of Virginia, West Virginia and
Kentucky to Norfolk and Sandusky, Ohio; Buffalo to Chicago and Kansas
City; Chicago to Jacksonville (via Cincinnati, Chattanooga and
Atlanta); and Washington, D.C./Hagerstown, Maryland, to New Orleans
(via Atlanta and Birmingham).

          Buffalo, Chicago, Hagerstown, Jacksonville, Kansas City,
Memphis, New Orleans and St. Louis are major gateways for
interterritorial system traffic.

          NS' railroads and other railroads have entered into
service interruption agreements, effective December 30, 1994,
providing indemnities to parties affected by a strike over specified
industry issues.  If NS were so affected, it could receive daily
indemnities from non-affected parties; if parties other than NS were
affected, NS could be required to pay indemnities to those parties.
If NS were required to pay the maximum amount of indemnities
required of it under these agreements--an event considered unlikely
at this time--such liability should not exceed approximately 
$85 million.
  PAGE 7

          MOTOR CARRIER OPERATIONS - DOMESTIC OPERATIONS - NAVL's
principal transportation activity is the domestic, irregular route
common and contract carriage of used household goods and special
commodities between points in the United States.  NAVL also operates
as an intrastate carrier of property in 29 states.  Prior to its
restructuring in 1993, NAVL's domestic motor carrier business was
organized into three primary divisions: Relocation Services (RS)
specializing in residential relocation of used household goods; High
Value Products (HVP) specializing in office and industrial relocations
and transporting exhibits; and Commercial Transport (CT) specializing
in the transportation of truckload shipments of general commodities.
In 1993, NAVL underwent a restructuring involving termination of the
CT Division and sale of the operations of Tran-Star, Inc. (Tran-Star),
NAVL's refrigerated trucking subsidiary.  In 1993, NAVL discontinued
CT's operations, transferred some parts of CT's business to other
divisions and began selling CT's assets that were not needed in NAVL's
other operations.  The sale of Tran-Star's operations was completed on
December 31, 1993.

          During 1996, the RS and HVP divisions conducted operations
through a network of over 400 agents at approximately 680 locations in
the United States.  Agents are local moving and storage companies that
provide NAVL with such services as solicitation, packing and
warehousing in connection with the movement of household goods and
specialized products.  NAVL's future domestic operations are expected
to be conducted principally through the RS and HVP divisions.

          Customized Logistics Services (CLS) was established in 1993
as an operating unit of the HVP Division.  CLS' business is to focus
NAVL's resources to respond to a variety of customer needs for
integrated logistics services.  The services include emergency parts
order fulfillment, time-definite transportation and in-transit merge
programs (delivering an entire order, merged from multiple
manufacturing points, to a customer at one time).

          FOREIGN OPERATIONS - NAVL's foreign operations are conducted
through the RS and HVP Divisions and through foreign subsidiaries,
including North American Van Lines Canada, Ltd.  The Canadian
subsidiary provides motor carrier service for the transportation of
used household goods and specialized commodities between most points
in Canada through a network of approximately 150 agent locations.
During 1996, certain administrative functions related to the Canadian
operations were transferred to NAVL's Fort Wayne, Indiana,
headquarters.

          NAVL's international operations consist primarily of
forwarding used household goods to and from the United States and
between foreign countries through a network of approximately
360 foreign agents and representatives.  NAVL's international
operations are structurally aligned with the services provided by its
domestic operating divisions.  All international household goods
operations and related subsidiaries in Alaska and Canada are assigned
to the RS Division.  The remaining international operations, which
include subsidiaries in the United States, Germany and the United
Kingdom, are involved in the transportation of selected general and
specialized commodities and are assigned to the HVP Division.
  PAGE 8

          TRIPLE CROWN OPERATIONS - Until April 1993, Norfolk
Southern's intermodal subsidiary, Triple Crown Services, Inc. (TCS),
offered intermodal service using RoadRailer (Registered
Trademark) (RT) equipment and domestic containers.  RoadRailer(RT)
units are enclosed vans which can be pulled over highways in tractor-
trailer configuration and over the rails by locomotives.  On April 1,
1993, the business, name and operations of TCS were transferred to
Triple Crown Services Company (TCSC), a partnership in which
subsidiaries of Norfolk Southern and Conrail are equal partners.
RoadRailer(RT) equipment owned or leased by TCS (which was renamed TCS
Leasing, Inc.) is operated by TCSC.  Because NS indirectly owns only
50 percent of TCSC, the revenues of TCSC are not consolidated with the
results of NS.  TCSC offers door-to-door intermodal service using
RoadRailer(RT) equipment and domestic containers in the corridors
previously served by TCS, as well as service to the New York and New
Jersey markets via Conrail.  Major traffic corridors include those
between New York and Chicago, Chicago and Atlanta, and Atlanta 
and New York.

  PAGE 9

  PAGE 10

          COAL TRAFFIC - Coal, coke and iron ore--most of which is
bituminous coal--is NS' railroads' principal commodity group.  They
originated 116.8 million tons of coal, coke and iron ore in 1996 and
handled a total of 130.2 million tons.  Originated tonnage increased
2 percent from 114.2 million tons in 1995, and total tons handled
increased 4 percent from 125.1 million tons in 1995.  Revenues from
coal, coke and iron ore account for about 27 percent of NS' total
transportation operating revenues.


          Of this originated coal, coke and iron ore, approximately
26.9 million tons moved for export, principally through NS' pier
facilities at Norfolk (Lamberts Point), Virginia; 19.7 million tons
moved to domestic and Canadian steel industries; 62.3 million tons of
steam coal moved to electric utilities; and 7.9 million tons moved to
other industrial and miscellaneous users.

          NS' railroads moved 8.7 million tons of originated coal,
coke and iron ore to various docks on the Ohio River, and 3.6 million
tons to various Lake Erie ports.  Other than coal for export,
virtually all coal handled by NS' railroads was terminated in states
situated east of the Mississippi River.
  PAGE 11

          Total coal handled through all system ports in 1996 was
41.7 million tons.  Of this total, 71 percent moved through the pier
facilities at Lamberts Point.  In 1996, total tonnage handled at
Lamberts Point, including coastwise traffic, was 29.5 million tons, a
2 percent increase from the 28.9 million tons handled in 1995.

          See the discussion of coal traffic, by type of coal, in
Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis," on page 37.

          MERCHANDISE RAIL TRAFFIC - The merchandise traffic group
consists of Intermodal and five major commodity groupings:
Paper/Forest; Chemicals; Automotive; Agriculture; and
Metals/Construction.  Total merchandise revenues in 1996 were
$2.8 billion, a 2 percent increase over 1995.  Merchandise carloads
handled in 1996 were 3.24 million, compared with 3.18 million handled
in 1995, an increase of 2 percent.

          Intermodal results, for 1993 and later, reflect the effect
of the formation, in April 1993, of TCSC, a partnership between NS and
Conrail subsidiaries (see also page 7).  This partnership provides
RoadRailer(RT) service previously offered by a wholly owned subsidiary
of NS.  Because NS owns only 50 percent of TCSC, its revenues are not
consolidated.  NS' intermodal revenues include only revenues for rail
service NS provides the partnership.

          In 1996, 106.2 million tons of merchandise freight, or
approximately 68 percent of total merchandise tonnage handled by NS,
originated on line.  The balance of merchandise traffic was received
from connecting carriers (mostly railroads, with some truck, water
and highway as well), usually at interterritorial gateways.  The
principal interchange points for NS-received traffic included Chicago,
Memphis, New Orleans, Cincinnati, Kansas City, Detroit, Hagerstown,
St. Louis/East St. Louis and Louisville.

          Revenues in four of the six market groups comprising
merchandise traffic improved in 1996 over 1995.  The biggest gains
were in Automotive, up $39.6 million; Chemicals, up $19.4 million; and
Intermodal, up $13.1 million.

          See the discussion of merchandise rail traffic by commodity
group in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis," on
page 37.
  PAGE 12

          MOTOR CARRIER TRAFFIC - Motor carrier revenues increased
2 percent to $669.0 million in 1996, primarily due to gains in the
HVP Division.  In 1995, motor carrier revenues were $656.2 million,
down 1 percent from 1994, as gains in the HVP Division were offset by
reductions in RS.

          DOMESTIC OPERATIONS are conducted through NAVL's RS and HVP
divisions.  In 1996, total domestic shipments for these divisions were
383,137, up 0.5 percent from 1995.

          RS - Domestic shipments of used household goods transported
by the RS Division fall into three market categories.  Approximately
52 percent of the domestic shipment volume comes from the sale of
moving services to individual consumers.  Another 38 percent comes
from corporations and other businesses that pay for the relocation of
their employees.  The remaining 10 percent is derived from military,
government and other sources.  Total domestic RS Division shipments in
1996 represented 27 percent of the NAVL domestic motor carrier
shipments transported by the two primary divisions.  Total domestic
revenues from this division were down 2 percent, compared with 1995,
and represented 40 percent of total revenues from operations.

          HVP - The HVP Division specializes in providing
transportation services in less-than-truckload (LTL) and truckload
(TL) quantities of sensitive products.  These products are divided
into the following categories:  office furniture and equipment,
exhibits and displays, electronic equipment, industrial machinery,
commercial relocation, LTL furniture and selected general commodities.
Total HVP Division shipments transported in 1996, including TL and
LTL, represented 73 percent of the NAVL domestic motor carrier
shipments transported by the two primary divisions.  Revenues from
this division were up 5 percent from 1995 levels and represented
47 percent of total revenues from operations.

          FOREIGN OPERATIONS include NAVL's Canadian subsidiary, North
American Van Lines Canada, Ltd., as well as operating subsidiaries in
England and Germany.  Foreign operations involving the transportation
of used household goods and selected general and specialized
commodities generated revenues of $86.0 million in 1996, up 5 percent
from 1995.  Revenues from foreign operations represented 13 percent of
NAVL's total revenues.
  PAGE 13

          FREIGHT RATES - In 1996, NS' railroads continued their
reliance on private contracts and exempt price quotes as their
predominant pricing mechanisms.  Thus, a major portion of NS'
railroads' freight business is not economically regulated by the
government.  In general, market forces have been substituted for
government regulation and now are the primary determinant of rail
service prices.

          In 1996, NS' railroads were found by the STB to be
"revenue adequate" based on results for the year 1995.  A railroad
is "revenue adequate" under the applicable law when its return on
net investment exceeds the rail industry's composite cost of
capital.

          The revenue adequacy measure is one of several factors
considered by the STB when it is called upon to rule on the
reasonableness of regulated rates.

          Pricing and service flexibility afforded by the Motor
Carrier Act of 1980 and the Household Goods Transportation Act of
1980 has resulted in NAVL's increased emphasis on innovative pricing
action in order to remain competitive.  Since 1980, NAVL has
increasingly operated as a contract carrier.  As of December 31,
1996, domestic contract carriage agreements accounted for the
following percentage of shipments:  RS Division, 31 percent and 
HVP Division, 69 percent.
  PAGE 14

          PASSENGER OPERATIONS - Regularly scheduled passenger
operations on NS' railroads' lines consist of Amtrak trains
operating between Alexandria and New Orleans, and between Charlotte
and Selma, North Carolina.  Former Amtrak operations between East
St. Louis and Centralia, Illinois, were discontinued by Amtrak on
November 3, 1993.  Commuter trains continued operations on the NS
line between Manassas and Alexandria under contract with two
transportation commissions of the Commonwealth of Virginia,
providing for rental and for reimbursement of related expenses
incurred by NS.  During 1993, a lease of the Chicago to Manhattan,
Illinois, line to the Commuter Rail Division of the Regional
Transportation Authority of Northeast Illinois replaced an agreement
under which NS had provided commuter rail service for the Authority.

          NONCARRIER OPERATIONS - Norfolk Southern's noncarrier
subsidiaries engage principally in the acquisition and subsequent leasing
of coal, oil, gas and timberlands, the development of commercial real
estate and the leasing or sale of rail property and equipment.  In 1996,
no such noncarrier subsidiary or industry segment grouping of noncarrier
subsidiaries met the requirements for a reportable business segment set
forth in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 14.
  PAGE 15

          RAILWAY PROPERTY:

  PAGE 16

          The average age of the freight car fleet at December 31,
1996, was 22.3 years.  During 1996, 7,485 freight cars were retired.
As of December 31, 1996, the average age of the locomotive fleet was
15.4 years.  During 1996, 105 locomotives, the average age of which
was 24.4 years, were retired.  Since 1988, more than 23,000 coal cars
have been rebodied.  As a result, the remaining serviceability of the
freight car fleet is greater than may be inferred from the high
percentage of freight cars built in earlier years.

          Ongoing freight car and locomotive maintenance programs
are intended to ensure the highest standards of safety, reliability,
customer satisfaction and equipment marketability.  In past years,
the bad order ratio reflected the storage of certain types of cars
which were not in high demand. The ratio has declined more recently
as a result of a disposition program for underutilized,
unserviceable and over-age revenue cars.  In this connection, an
orderly disposition of 17,000 freight cars, begun in October 1994,
was substantially complete at the end of 1996.

  PAGE 17

          TRACKAGE - All NS trackage is standard gauge, and the rail
in approximately 95 percent of the main line trackage (including
first, second, third and branch main tracks, all excluding trackage
rights) ranges from 100 to 140 pounds per yard.  Of the 22,369 miles
of track maintained as of December 31, 1996, 15,877 were laid with
welded rail.


          MICROWAVE SYSTEM - The NS microwave system, consisting of
6,960 radio path miles, 398 active stations and 5 passive repeater
stations, provides communications between most operating locations.
The microwave system is used principally for voice communications,
VHF radio control circuits, data and facsimile transmissions, traffic
control operations, AEI data transmissions and relay of intelligence
from defective equipment detectors.

          TRAFFIC CONTROL - Of a total of 12,762 road miles operated
by NS, excluding trackage rights over foreign lines, 5,400 road miles
are governed by centralized traffic control systems (of which
230 miles are controlled by data radio from 14 microwave site
locations) and 2,600 road miles are equipped for automatic block
system operation.

          COMPUTERS - Data processing facilities connect the yards,
terminals, transportation offices, rolling stock repair points, sales
offices and other key system locations to the central computer complex
in Atlanta, Ga.  Operating and traffic data are compiled and stored to
provide customers with information on their shipments throughout the
system.  Data processing facilities are capable of providing current
information on the location of every train and each car on line, as
well as related waybill and other train and car movement data.  
  PAGE 18

Additionally, these facilities afford substantial capacity for, and
are utilized to assist management in the performance of, a wide
variety of functions and services, including payroll, car and revenue
accounting, billing, material management activities and controls, and
special studies.

          OTHER - The railroads have extensive facilities for support
of operations, including freight depots, car construction shops,
maintenance shops, office buildings, and signals and communications
facilities.

          MOTOR CARRIER PROPERTY:

          REAL ESTATE - NAVL owns and leases real estate in support of
its operations.  Principal real estate holdings include NAVL's
headquarters complex and warehouse and vehicle maintenance facilities
in Fort Wayne, Indiana, vehicle maintenance facilities in Fontana,
California, and terminal facilities in Grand Rapids, Michigan, and
Great Falls, Montana.  NAVL also leases facilities throughout the
United States for sales offices, maintenance facilities and for
warehouse, terminal and distribution center operations.

          EQUIPMENT - NAVL relies extensively on independent
contractors (owner-operators) who supply the power equipment
(tractors) used to pull NAVL trailers.  Agents also provide a
substantial portion of NAVL's equipment needs, particularly for the
transportation of household goods, by furnishing tractors and trailers
on either a permanent or an intermittent lease basis.

          As of December 31, 1996, agents and owner-operators together
supplied 3,438 tractors, representing 97 percent of the U.S. power
equipment operated in NAVL service.  Also as of December 31, 1996,
NAVL owned 2,976 trailer units, representing 52 percent of the U.S.
trailer fleet in NAVL service.  The remaining 48 percent was provided
mainly by agents and owner-operators.  Agents and owner-operators also
provided 1,058 straight trucks, or 97 percent, of such units in NAVL
service.

          NAVL has an extensive program for the repair and maintenance
of its trailer equipment.  In 1996, approximately 12,920 work orders
were completed at NAVL's facility in Fort Wayne.  As of December 31,
1996, the average age of trailer equipment in the NAVL fleet was
8.4 years.

          COMPUTERS - NAVL relies extensively on data processing
facilities for shipment planning and dispatch functions as well as
shipment tracing.  Data processing capabilities are also utilized in
revenue processing functions, driver and agent account settlement
activity, and internal accounting and record keeping service.

          ENCUMBRANCES - Certain railroad equipment is subject to the
prior lien of equipment financing obligations amounting to
approximately $593.4 million as of December 31, 1996, and
$545.4 million at December 31, 1995.  In addition, a portion of NS'
properties is subject to liens securing, as of December 31, 1996, and
1995, approximately $50.9 million and $77.2 million of mortgage debt,
respectively.
  PAGE 19

          Many of the tractors utilized in NAVL service are purchased
by NAVL from manufacturers and resold to agents and owner-operators
under a NAVL-sponsored financing program.  At December 31, 1996, NAVL
had $13.9 million in such tractor contracts receivable.  This program
allows NAVL to generate the funds necessary to purchase the tractors
and to resell them under favorable financing terms.  The equipment is
sold under conditional sales contracts with the agents and owner-
operators.

          Capital spending and maintenance programs are and have been
designed to assure the ability to provide safe, efficient and reliable
transportation services.  For 1997, NS is planning $792 million of
capital spending, of which $781 million will be for railway projects
and $11 million for motor carrier property.  Looking further ahead,
total rail and motor carrier spending is expected to be similar to
1995 and 1996 levels.  A substantial portion of future capital
spending is expected to be funded through internally generated cash,
although debt financing will continue as the primary funding source
for equipment acquisitions.

          Acquisition of all or part of Conrail (see page 4) could
cause the reallocation of already-planned capital spending and/or
additional capital spending.

          ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS - Compliance with federal, state and
local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the
environment is a principal NS goal.  To date, such compliance has not
affected materially NS' capital additions, earnings, liquidity or
competitive position.

          See the discussion of "Environmental Matters" in Part II,
Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis" on page 37, and in
Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 76.

          EMPLOYEES - NS employed an average of 25,830 employees in
1996, compared with an average of 26,944 in 1995.  The approximate
average cost per employee during 1996 was $45,173 in wages and $17,772
in employee benefits.  Approximately 74 percent of these employees are
represented by various labor organizations.
  PAGE 20

          As of the end of 1996, NS had negotiated labor agreements
with all of its unions, except the American Train Dispatchers, which
represents about 200 employees.  The accords with the 12 other union
organizations, which include compensation settlements in line with
other major industries, will not be due for change until after
January 1, 2000.

          GOVERNMENT REGULATION - In addition to environmental,
safety, securities and other regulations generally applicable to all
businesses, NS' railroads are subject to regulation by the STB, which
succeeded the ICC on January 1, 1996.  The STB has jurisdiction over
some rates, routes, conditions of service, and the extension or
abandonment of rail lines.  The STB also has jurisdiction over the
consolidation, merger or acquisition of control of and by rail common
carriers.  The Department of Transportation regulates certain track
and mechanical equipment standards.

          The relaxation of economic regulation of railroads, begun
over a decade ago by the ICC under the Staggers Rail Act of 1980, is
expected to continue under the STB.  Thus it appears that additional
rail business will be exempted from regulation in the future.
Significant exemptions are TOFC/COFC (i.e., "piggyback") business,
rail boxcar traffic, lumber, manufactured steel, automobiles and
certain bulk commodities such as sand, gravel, pulpwood and wood chips
for paper manufacturing.  Transportation contracts on regulated
shipments, which no longer require regulatory approval, effectively
remove those shipments from regulation as well.  Over 80 percent of
NS' freight revenues come from either exempt traffic or traffic moving
under transportation contracts.

          For motor carrier operations conducted by NAVL, the
Department of Transportation and the STB are the principal regulatory
entities.  The STB exercises jurisdiction over the relationship
between carriers and owner-operators, and carrier practices and common
carrier rates relating to the transportation of household goods.  The
primary focus of the Department of Transportation is on driver
qualification and safety standards, including maximum trailer length
and width.

          COMPETITION - There is continuing strong competition among
rail, water and highway carriers.  Price is usually only one factor of
importance as shippers and receivers choose a transport mode and
specific hauling company.  Inventory carrying costs, service
reliability, ease of handling and the desire to avoid loss and damage
during transit are increasingly important considerations, especially
for higher valued finished goods, machinery and consumer products.
Even for raw materials, semi-finished goods and work-in-process, users
are increasingly sensitive to transport arrangements which minimize
problems at successive production stages.
  PAGE 21

          NS' primary rail competitor is the CSX system; both operate
throughout much of the same territory.  Other railroads also operate
in parts of the territory.  NS also competes with motor carriers,
water carriers and with shippers who have the additional option of
handling their own goods in private carriage.  Consummation of the
proposed merger agreement between Conrail and CSX (see page 4) could
result in a serious imbalance in rail competition in the East--an
outcome NS is resisting vigorously on a number of fronts and that the
negotiations with CSX could prevent.

          Certain cooperative strategies between railroads (such as
the TCSC partnership involving NS and Conrail, see page 7) and between
railroads and motor carriers enable carriers to compete more
effectively in specific markets.

          NAVL continues to face strong competition due to
deregulation and overcapacity in the industry that will keep profits
at a modest level.  While service remains a key issue, many shippers
now place greater emphasis on price.  For the RS Division, contract
carriage and volume discount programs dominate the corporate
relocation segment, and guaranteed price options are common to the
individual consumer segment.  Contract carriage agreements are also
utilized extensively by the HVP Division to meet the service and price
requirements of its customers.


Item 3.   Legal Proceedings.
- ------    -----------------

          Conrail.  On October 15, 1996, Conrail Inc. ("Conrail")
and CSX Corporation ("CSX") announced an agreement to merge, in
connection with which CSX announced its intention to commence a
multi-tier tender offer for shares of Conrail stock in return for
cash and shares of CSX stock.

          On October 23, 1996, NS announced it would make a
competing, all-cash tender offer for all shares of Conrail stock; on
the same date, NS, Atlantic Acquisition Corporation (a wholly owned
Pennsylvania subsidiary of NS) and a Conrail stockholder who is an
NS employee (such parties together, the "Plaintiffs") filed a
complaint against Conrail and its directors and against CSX (such
parties together, the "Defendants") in the United States District
Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.  Plaintiffs sought,
among other things, certain declaratory and injunctive relief and
alleged various breaches of fiduciary duty and violations of certain
federal securities laws.  The District Court set a November 12
hearing date-- two days prior to the date then set for a Special
Meeting at which Conrail stockholders were to be asked to approve an
amendment to the Articles of Incorporation that ultimately would be
necessary to permit CSX to acquire sufficient shares of Conrail
stock virtually to assure approval of that merger.
  PAGE 22

          On October 30, 1996, Plaintiffs amended the complaint.  In
addition to the allegations cited in the original complaint, the
amended complaint alleged, among other things, that provisions in
the merger agreement between Conrail and CSX, which prohibit the
Conrail Board from redeeming the rights issuable under a Conrail-
adopted rights plan (Conrail's "Poison Pill") and from amending or
otherwise taking further action with respect to the Conrail rights
plan, are ultra vires under Pennsylvania law and constitute a breach
of the Conrail directors' fiduciary duties of loyalty and care; that
the tender offer materials distributed by Conrail and CSX
misrepresented key terms of the Conrail rights plan necessary to an
understanding of the effects of that plan; that the provisions of
the merger agreement between Conrail and CSX which prohibit the
Conrail directors from withdrawing their recommendation that Conrail
stockholders accept and approve the proposed CSX transaction and
from terminating the merger agreement between Conrail and CSX for a
period of 180 days from the date of execution of that agreement are
ultra vires under Pennsylvania law and constitute a breach of the
Conrail directors' fiduciary duties of loyalty and care; and that
CSX has knowingly participated in the illegal conduct of Conrail and
its directors.  In the amended complaint, Plaintiffs sought certain
declaratory and injunctive relief in addition to that sought
pursuant to the original complaint.

          On November 1, Plaintiffs requested that the District
Court temporarily enjoin the Defendants from taking, or in certain
instances to require them to take, certain actions, including taking
the steps necessary to prevent a "Distribution Date" from occurring
under the Conrail rights plan.  At the hearing on November 4 to hear
arguments concerning Plaintiffs' motion, Conrail advised that its
directors earlier that day had adopted a resolution deferring the
"Distribution Date" under that plan.

          As a result of Conrail's announcement that its Special
Meeting had been rescheduled from November 14, the District Court
moved its hearing from November 12 to November 18.  At that hearing,
Plaintiffs also sought to enjoin, among other things, CSX from
acquiring shares pursuant to the CSX offer. On November 19, 1996,
the District Court denied Plaintiffs' motion for preliminary
injunctive relief.

          On December 5, 1996, Defendants filed an answer and
counterclaim alleging, among other things, tortious interference
with contractual relationships and requesting, among other things,
damages. NS believes that the counterclaim is without merit and on
December 20, 1996, filed a Motion to Dismiss the counterclaim for
failure to state a claim pursuant to Rule 12(b) of the Federal Rules
of Civil Procedure.
  PAGE 23

          On December 17, 1996, the District Court held a hearing to
consider Plaintiffs' Motion for a Preliminary Injunction as to
Plaintiffs' claims (i) that Defendants' stated intention not to
convene the special meeting of the Company's stockholders scheduled
for December 23, 1996, constituted a breach of fiduciary duty; and
(ii) that Defendants' stated intention successively to postpone the
vote of Company stockholders scheduled for December 23, 1996, until
such stockholders submit to Defendants' will constituted fraudulent
and fundamentally unfair conduct.  At the conclusion of the hearing,
the District Court issued an order enjoining Defendants from failing
to convene, and/or from postponing, and/or from adjourning the
Pennsylvania Special Meeting scheduled for Monday, December 23,
1996, by reason of the Company, or its nominees' not having received
sufficient proxies to assure approval of the proposal set forth in
the Company's "Notice of Special Meeting of Shareholders" and in the
Company's proxy materials to "opt-out" of Subchapter E.

          On January 2, 1997, Plaintiffs filed a Motion for
Preliminary Injunction and a Motion for Partial Summary Judgment in
the District Court.  In their Motion for Partial Summary Judgment,
Plaintiffs requested an order stating that consummation of the CSX
First Offer caused a "Control Transaction" with respect to the
Company to occur under the Pennsylvania Control Transaction Law and
created joint and several liability among the members of the Control
Transaction Group to pay at least $110 cash per Share to each
demanding Company stockholder.  In their Motion for Preliminary
Injunction, Plaintiffs requested that the District Court enjoin
Defendants, and all persons acting in concert with them, from
seeking to enforce or requiring compliance with, the No Negotiation
Provision, as extended, and to enjoin Defendants from convening the
Pennsylvania Special Meeting until ten business days after Company
stockholders receive notice of the District Court's ruling on
Plaintiffs' Motions for Preliminary Injunction and Partial Summary
Judgment.  On January 8, 1997, Plaintiffs filed a Supplemental
Motion for Preliminary Injunction requesting that Defendants be
enjoined from convening the Pennsylvania Special Meeting until ten
business days after Company stockholders received notice of the
District Court's final judgment on the Pennsylvania Control
Transaction Law issue.  Such motions were denied on January 9, 1997.

          On January 28, 1997, the Third Circuit issued an order
consolidating the pending appeals and setting a briefing schedule
and an oral argument for February 25, 1997; the decision of the
District Court was affirmed on March 7.
  PAGE 24

          Pursuant to an amendment to the merger agreement between 
CSX and Conrail announced on March 7, 1997, CSX has offered to purchase 
all shares of Conrail for $115 per Share in cash and CSX is permitted
to enter into negotiations with other parties, including NS,
concerning the acquisition of the securities or assets, or concessions
relating to the assets or operations, of Conrail.  NS and CSX are
negotiating a comprehensive resolution of the issues confronting the 
eastern railroads based on the proposal submitted by NS to both CSX 
and Conrail on February 24, 1997.  Such a resolution could involve a 
joint acquisition of shares of Conrail by NS and CSX.  However, unless 
and until such negotiations are successfully concluded, NS intends to 
continue in effect its tender offer for all shares of Conrail not owned 
by NS.

           The effect of these negotiations on the described legal
proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty.

          This matter has been reported previously by NS in Part II,
Item 1, of its Form 10-Q Report for the quarter ending September 30,
1996.


Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
- ------    ---------------------------------------------------

          There were no matters submitted to a vote of security
holders during the fourth quarter of 1996.
  PAGE 25

Executive Officers of the Registrant.
- -------------------------------------

          Norfolk Southern's officers are elected annually by the
Board of Directors at its first meeting held after the annual meeting
of stockholders, and they hold office until their successors are
elected.  There are no family relationships among the officers, nor
any arrangement or understanding between any officer and any other
person pursuant to which the officer was selected.  The following
table sets forth certain information, as of March 1, 1997, relating to
these officers:

                                        Business Experience during
Name, Age, Present Position                   past 5 Years
- ---------------------------        ------------------------------------

David R. Goode, 56,                Present position since September
  Chairman, President and           1992; prior thereto was
  Chief Executive Officer           President.

James C. Bishop, Jr., 60,          Present position since March 1,
  Executive Vice President-Law      1996; prior thereto was Vice
                                    President-Law.

R. Alan Brogan, 56, Executive      Present position since December
  Vice President-Transportation     1992; prior thereto was
  Logistics (and President-North    Vice President-Quality
  American Van Lines, Inc.)         Management.

L. I. Prillaman, 53, Executive     Present position since October
  Vice President-Marketing          1995.  Served as Vice President-
                                    Properties from December 1992 to
                                    October 1995, and prior thereto
                                    was Vice President and
                                    Controller.

Stephen C. Tobias, 52,             Present position since July 1994.
  Executive Vice President-         Served as Senior Vice President-
  Operations                        Operations from October 1993 to
                                    July 1994, Vice President-
                                    Strategic Planning from December
                                    1992 to October 1993, and prior
                                    thereto was Vice President-
                                    Transportation.

Henry C. Wolf, 54, Executive       Present position since June 1993;
  Vice President-Finance            prior thereto was Vice President-
                                    Taxation.

William B. Bales, 62, Senior       Present position since October
  Vice President-International      1995.  Served as Vice President-
                                    Coal Marketing from August 1993
                                    to October 1995, and prior
                                    thereto was Vice President-Coal
                                    and Ore Traffic.
  PAGE 26

                                        Business Experience during
Name, Age, Present Position                   past 5 Years
- ---------------------------        ------------------------------------

Paul N. Austin, 53, Vice           Present position since June 1994.
  President-Personnel               Served as Assistant Vice
                                    President-Personnel from
                                    February 1993 to June 1994, and
                                    prior thereto was Director
                                    Compensation.

John F. Corcoran, 56, Vice         Present position since March 1992.
  President-Public Affairs

David A. Cox, 60, Vice             Present position since December
  President-Properties              1995; prior thereto was
                                    Assistant Vice President-
                                    Industrial Development.

Thomas L. Finkbiner, 44,           Present position since August 1993.
  Vice President-Intermodal         Served as Senior Assistant Vice
                                    President-International and
                                    Intermodal from April to August
                                    1993, and prior thereto was
                                    Assistant Vice President-
                                    International and Intermodal.

Robert C. Fort, 52, Vice           Present position since December
  President-Public Relations        1996; prior thereto was
                                    Assistant Vice President-Public
                                    Relations.

John W. Fox, Jr., 49, Vice         Present position since October
  President-Coal Marketing          1995.  Served as Assistant Vice
                                    President-Coal Marketing from
                                    August 1993 to October 1995, and
                                    prior thereto was General
                                    Manager Eastern Region.

Thomas J. Golian, 63,              Present position since October
  Vice President                    1995.  Served as Executive
                                    Assistant to the Chairman,
                                    President and CEO from April
                                    1993 to October 1995, and prior
                                    thereto was Special Assistant to
                                    the President.

James L. Granum, 60, Vice          Present position since March 1992.
  President-Public Affairs

James A. Hixon, 43, Vice           Present position since June 1993;
  President-Taxation                prior thereto was Assistant Vice
                                    President-Tax Counsel.
  PAGE 27

                                        Business Experience during
Name, Age, Present Position                   past 5 Years
- ---------------------------        ------------------------------------

Jon L. Manetta, 58, Vice           Present position since December
  President-Transportation &        1995.  Served as Vice President-
  Mechanical                        Transportation from June 1994 to
                                    December 1995, Assistant Vice
                                    President-Transportation from
                                    October 1993 to June 1994,
                                    Assistant Vice President-
                                    Strategic Planning from January
                                    to October 1993, and prior
                                    thereto was Director Joint
                                    Facilities and Budget.

Harold C. Mauney, Jr., 58,         Present position since December
  Vice President-Operations         1996; prior thereto was Vice
  Planning and Budget               President-Quality Management.

Donald W. Mayberry, 53, Vice       Present position since December
  President-Research and Tests      1995; prior thereto was Vice
                                    President-Mechanical.

James W. McClellan, 57, Vice       Present position since October
  President-Strategic Planning      1993; prior thereto was
                                    Assistant Vice President-
                                    Corporate Planning.

Kathryn B. McQuade, 40,            Present position since December
  Vice President-Internal Audit     1992; prior thereto was Director-
                                    Income Tax Administration.

Charles W. Moorman, 45, Vice       Present position since October
  President-Information             1993.  Served as Vice President-
  Technology                        Employee Relations from December
                                    1992 to October 1993, and prior
                                    thereto was Vice President-
                                    Personnel and Labor Relations.

Phillip R. Ogden, 56, Vice         Present position since December
  President-Engineering             1992; prior thereto was
                                    Assistant Vice President-
                                    Maintenance.

John P. Rathbone, 45, Vice         Present position since December
  President and Controller          1992; prior thereto was
                                    Assistant Vice President-
                                    Internal Audit.

William J. Romig, 52, Vice         Present position since April 1992;
  President and Treasurer           prior thereto was Assistant Vice
                                    President-Finance.
  PAGE 28

                                        Business Experience during
Name, Age, Present Position                   past 5 Years
- ---------------------------        ------------------------------------

Donald W. Seale, 44, Vice          Present position since August 1993.
  President-Merchandise             Served as Assistant Vice
  Marketing                         President-Sales and Service from
                                    May 1992 to August 1993, and
                                    prior thereto was Director-
                                    Metals, Waste and Construction.

Robert S. Spenski, 62, Vice        Present position since June 1994;
  President-Labor Relations         prior thereto was Senior
                                    Assistant Vice President-Labor
                                    Relations.

Rashe W. Stephens, Jr., 55,        Present position since December
  Vice President-Quality            1996.  Served as Assistant Vice
  Management                        President-Public Affairs from
                                    February 1993 to December 1996,
                                    and prior thereto was Director,
                                    EEO and Manpower Planning.

William C. Wooldridge, 53,         Present position since March 1996;
  Vice President-Law                prior thereto was General
                                    Counsel-Corporate.

Dezora M. Martin, 49,              Present position since April 1995.
  Corporate Secretary               Served as Assistant Corporate
                                    Secretary-NS from October 1993
                                    to April 1995, and prior thereto
                                    was Assistant Corporate
                                    Secretary-Planning.
  PAGE 29

                                 PART II


Item 5.   Market for Registrant's Common Stock and Related
- -------   ------------------------------------------------
          Stockholder Matters.
          -------------------

  PAGE 30

Item 6.   Selected Financial Data.
- ------    -----------------------

  PAGE 31

Item 6.   Selected Financial Data. (continued)
- ------    -----------------------

  PAGE 32

Item 6.   Selected Financial Data. (continued)
- ------    -----------------------

  PAGE 33

Item 6.   Selected Financial Data. (continued)
- ------    -----------------------

  PAGE 34

Item 6.   Selected Financial Data. (continued)
- ------    -----------------------

  PAGE 35


Item 6.   Selected Financial Data. (continued)
- ------    -----------------------

  PAGE 36

Item 6.   Selected Financial Data. (continued)
- ------    -----------------------

  PAGE 37

Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- -------   -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations.
          -----------------------------------

              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  Management's Discussion and Analysis
            of Financial Condition and Results of Operations


The following discussion and analysis (which--with the exception of
"Proposed Acquisition of Conrail"--is identical to what is contained in
the Corporation's 1996 Annual Report to Stockholders) should be read in
conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes
beginning on page 56 and the Eleven-Year Financial Review beginning on
page 30.

SUMMARIZED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

1996 Compared with 1995
- -----------------------
     Net income in 1996 was a record $770.4 million, an increase of 8%.
However, results in 1995 were affected by a $33.6 million early
retirement charge, which reduced net income by $20.4 million.
     Absent the effects of that charge, 1996 net income was up 5%. The
improvement was due to increased operating income, reflecting higher
railway operating revenues, up 2%, and generally flat railway operating
expenses, up less than 1% (excluding the early retirement charge), which
more than compensated for decreased nonoperating income. Included in 1995
nonoperating income was a $30.5 million gain from the partial redemption
of a real estate partnership interest. Interest expense on debt was up
2%, a result of interest expense on $200 million of new debt issued in
September 1996 (see Note 6 on page 65).
     Record earnings per share of $6.09 for 1996 were up 12% (9%,
excluding the effects of the early retirement charge). The greater
improvement in earnings per share compared with net income was the result
of the stock purchase program, which was suspended on October 23, 1996
(see Note 13 on page 75).

1995 Compared with 1994
- -----------------------
     Net income in 1995 was $712.7 million, up 7%. Excluding the 1995
early retirement charge, net income rose 10%. Increases in both operating
income and nonoperating income were principally responsible for the
improvement. The increase in nonoperating income primarily resulted from
the $30.5 million partnership gain and a $24.3 million increase in gains
from sale of properties and investments (see Note 2 on page 62).
     Interest expense on debt was up 12%, largely a result of higher
rates of interest on commercial paper debt. Earnings per share of $5.44
for 1995 were up 11% (14%, excluding the effects of the early retirement
charge).


DETAILED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Railway Operating Revenues
- --------------------------
     Railway operating revenues were $4.1 billion in 1996, compared with
$4.0 billion in 1995 and $3.9 billion in 1994. The $89.2 million
improvement in 1996, compared with 1995, was the result of improvements
in all market groups except paper/forest and agriculture. The 
$93.7 million improvement in 1995, compared with 1994, was primarily
attributable to increases in the intermodal, automotive and
metals/construction market groups.
  PAGE 38

Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- -------   -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations. (continued)
          -----------------------------------

     In 1996, increases in coal, automotive, intermodal and chemicals
traffic offset decreases in the remaining market groups. For 1995
improvements in automotive, agriculture, metals/construction and
intermodal traffic offset declines in the other groups. The traffic
volume gains in both years accounted for most of the revenue improvement
as shown in the table below. Average revenue per unit rose in both 1996
and 1995 due to moderate rate increases.

  PAGE 39


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- -------   -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations. (continued)
          -----------------------------------

     Coal traffic volume increased 4%, and revenues increased 3% in 1996,
primarily due to increased utility and export coal tonnage. Coal revenues
represented almost 32% of total railway operating revenues in 1996, and
90% of coal shipments originated on NS' lines. Coal traffic volume
declined 1%, and revenues were down 2% in 1995, compared with 1994, as
coal tonnage by type remained relatively stable.

     Utility coal traffic increased 6% in 1996, compared with 1995.
Several utility customers in the NS service region shifted more
generation to coal-fired plants, as many nuclear power plants experienced
downtime. In addition, NS gained market share at several Southeastern
utilities.
     In 1995, utility coal traffic decreased slightly due to moderate
weather throughout much of the NS service region during the first half of
the year and to sustained periods of maximum generation from several
Southeastern nuclear power plants. Partially mitigating these declines
were increased shipments of both NS- and foreign-line-originated, low-
sulfur coal related to utilities' compliance with Phase I of the Clean
Air Act Amendments, which took effect on January 1, 1995.
     The near-term outlook for utility coal is positive, as a significant
number of the mines served by NS produce coals that satisfy both Phase I
and the more stringent Phase II requirements, which take effect on
January 1, 2000. However, adoption of tighter restrictions on nitrous
oxide particulate emissions, as proposed by the Environmental Protection
Agency, could impose added cost burdens on some coal-fired plants.
     Utilities in the Southeast, NS' largest steam coal market, are
expected to increase their demand for Central Appalachian coal. Utility
deregulation is likely to affect the structure and development of that
market. Specifically, it is widely anticipated that U.S. utilities will
have greater flexibility in selling electricity to, and buying it from,
other regional markets. At present, however, transmission line capacity
is somewhat strained on the lines leading to and from the Southeastern
U.S., and resistance by environmentalists and the high cost of adding new
line capacity could deter its development. Less certain is the outlook
for demand for Central Appalachian coal from utilities in the Midwest, as
the delivered cost of Western coal tends to be lower. However, NS expects
to participate in the movement of any Western coal that displaces
NS-originated deliveries.
     Export coal traffic increased 5% in 1996, compared with 1995, as NS
benefited from increased steam coal exports to Italy and greater
metallurgical shipments to Germany, a result of reduced subsidies to
German coal producers that enhanced the competitiveness of U.S. coal.
Increased exports of U.S. coal to Brazil also contributed to the
improvement.
  PAGE 40

Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- -------   -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations. (continued)
          -----------------------------------

     Export coal traffic increased 2% in 1995, benefiting from the
continued recovery of European steel production. Demand from other parts
of the world also improved. Brazil, Belgium, France, Romania and Japan
took increased amounts of NS coal. In addition, NS began handling
metallurgical coal for steel production in Mexico. Congestion and high
barge rates on the Mississippi River caused an increase in movements over
NS' coal piers in Norfolk, Va.
     Metallurgical coal exports are expected to experience slight to
modest growth through the year 2000, as continued reductions in European
government subsidies to coal producers should benefit NS-served
exporters. A gradual decline is projected in the long term, as new steel-
making technologies replace those requiring coking coal. Demand for
export steam coal is expected to increase, and NS is working to increase
its participation in this market.
     Steel coal domestic traffic was down 7%, as aggressive producer
pricing of higher volatile metallurgical coals not located on NS' lines
resulted in a loss of traffic. In 1995, traffic was up 2% due to
completion of extended coke oven work at one facility and continued
strong demand for domestic coke for making steel. Advanced technologies
that allow production of steel with little or no coke could cause this
market to decline slowly over the long term. However, NS could
participate in the movement of non-coking coal used by technologies such
as pulverized coal injection.
     Other coal traffic, primarily steam coal shipped to manufacturing
plants, increased 14% in 1996, compared with 1995, reflecting gains from
other modes of transportation and more seasonal weather conditions in
1996. Traffic volume declined 8% in 1995, compared with 1994, resulting
from lower demand for in-plant use of electricity due to mild weather. In
addition, some industries have switched to natural gas as a fuel source.
This market is expected to remain stable in coming years, as growth
through innovative packaged delivery services offsets losses from natural
gas conversions.

     MERCHANDISE traffic volume in 1996 decreased slightly, compared with
1995, as increases in automotive, intermodal and chemicals traffic were
more than offset by declines in the remaining commodity groups. However,
increased average revenues for most commodity groups resulted in a 2%
improvement in revenues. In 1995, merchandise traffic volume increased
5%, driven by increases in intermodal, automotive and agriculture
traffic. Merchandise revenues in 1995 increased 4%, compared with 1994.
     CHEMICALS traffic and revenues grew 3% and 4%, respectively, for
1996. Fertilizer and plastics markets strengthened during 1996, which
resulted in increased traffic and revenues for these two groups. In
addition, the harsh winter resulted in greater movements of liquid
petroleum gas, and industrial chemicals remained strong throughout the
year. These 1996 results compared favorably with relatively flat carloads
and revenues in 1995, as increases for general chemicals were
overshadowed by weakness in the plastics and fertilizer markets. The
chemicals market group is expected to continue to show moderate growth
through 1997, as NS expands its Thoroughbred Bulk Distribution facilities
and chemicals production nationwide is expected to increase.
  PAGE 41

Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- -------   -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations. (continued)
          -----------------------------------

     PAPER/FOREST traffic and revenues each declined 5% in 1996, due to
the overall downturn in the paper and forest products industry. Early in
1995, the paper industry enjoyed record price levels and associated
volumes, but growth slowed and inventories of paper products swelled in
late 1995 and into 1996. To correct the inventory problems, many large
paper producers operated mills well below capacity and shut down mills to
balance capacity with demand. This compares to a 1% decrease in volume
and a 3% increase in revenues for 1995. Paper and pulpwood products
traffic in 1995 was about even with 1994, while lumber traffic suffered
from weak housing starts. These markets are expected to begin a slight
turnaround by mid-1997.

     AUTOMOTIVE traffic rose 8%, and revenues increased 9%, both the
highest in this group's history. Auto parts provided the majority of the
growth as volume increased 21%, while vehicle traffic increased 3%. NS
opened two just-in-time (JIT) rail centers at Hagerstown, Md., and near
Buffalo, N.Y., in 1996 for distribution of vehicle parts for GM. Also, GM
awarded NS another JIT rail center to be constructed in 1997 near Dayton,
Ohio. These three centers are expected to handle over 23,000 carloads
annually by 1998. 1996 also marked the first time in several years that
all NS-served assembly plants were on-line. GM's Wentzville, Mo.,
assembly plant returned to production early in the year after a two-year
retooling, and GM's Doraville, Ga., plant returned midyear from a one-
year retooling. In 1996, BMW's new plant at Greer, S.C., reached full
production. In 1995, automotive traffic increased 4%, and revenues were
up 5%. Strong production at selected plants that produce popular cars and
trucks mitigated the effects of several plants' being shut down or
operated at reduced capacity.
     Good market growth is expected in 1997, supported by the new JIT
rail centers, full production levels at existing plants, the start of
production at the new Mercedes plant in Tuscaloosa, Ala., and the
expansion of Toyota's plant in Georgetown, Ky. Supporting long-term
growth, Ford awarded NS a 12-year contract in 1996 to handle
approximately 3 million new vehicles annually through four mixing centers
to be built in 1997. When operational in 1998, NS expects to increase its
motor vehicle business with Ford by 60%. In addition, Toyota's new
Princeton, Ind., truck plant may add to 1998-1999 traffic. For the
automotive industry as a whole, annual production increases are forecast
through 2002, as transplants bring production to North America, exports
continue to rise and the Mexican and Canadian economies improve.
  PAGE 42

Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- -------   -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations. (continued)
          -----------------------------------

     AGRICULTURE traffic declined 4% and revenues were flat in 1996.
Despite strong demand for feed grains in the Southeast, grain traffic
suffered, as poor crops and strong export demand left NS receivers
competing for limited supplies. Slight average revenue growth occurred,
resulting primarily from longer hauls, as receivers reached farther west
for grain supplies. In 1995, agriculture traffic rose 2%, and revenues
increased 4%, due to higher grain shipments from the Midwest to the
Southeast poultry industry.
     Moderate growth is expected in 1997, as 1996 crops should provide
abundant supplies throughout the year, and demand from the poultry market
for feed grain continues to grow. Also for 1997, a full year of new
business is expected from two feed mills which were ramping up production
in 1996, and from a new major grain elevator located on a line purchased
during 1996 from Conrail.

     METALS/CONSTRUCTION traffic declined 2%, but revenues were up 1% for
1996. Construction carloads fell behind in early 1996 due to inclement
weather and were flat the rest of the year; however, higher average
revenues more than offset the volume decline. In the metals market, NS'
shipments remained strong due to a healthy domestic steel market, which
has added capacity through improved efficiency at integrated mills and
new mini-mills. In 1995, metals/construction traffic was up slightly, and
revenues increased 6%, as increases in the steel and aluminum markets
were somewhat offset by reduced demand for construction products.
     Moderate growth is expected for 1997. New steel production
facilities in Decatur, Ala., and Memphis, Tenn., are expected to
contribute to growth in late 1997. Although construction starts are
expected to decrease in 1997 versus 1996, projects already begun, such as
at the Chesapeake Bay Bridge Tunnel, the opening of new cement terminals
and the expansion of various on-line plants, are expected to produce
moderate growth for construction in 1997 and beyond.
  PAGE 43

Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- -------   -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations. (continued)
          -----------------------------------

     INTERMODAL traffic volume increased 5% and revenues increased 3%,
both reaching record levels in 1996, driven by increased domestic
container and Triple Crown Services Company (TCSC) volume.
     EMP, the container equipment-sharing arrangement with Union Pacific
and Conrail, contributed significantly to domestic growth. International
container volume declined only slightly, despite an industry slowdown
that began in the spring and lasted until the fall. NS' overall market
share improved slightly due to new international business and the
continued domestic container and TCSC growth.
     Intermodal volume rose 12%, and revenues increased 11% in 1995.
Although intermodal traffic levels nationwide declined in 1995, NS
intermodal achieved record levels of volume, revenues and profitability,
led by container shipments in both domestic and international service.
     During 1995, a seven-year agreement with Hanjin Shipping Company was
signed under which NS will handle nearly all of Hanjin's international
container business in NS' territory east of the Mississippi River.
     EMP contributed significantly to domestic growth. Almost all the
increase in international container business was attributable to new
services, thereby increasing NS' market share. Domestic business also was
augmented by growth in the trucking segment, as both truckload and less-
than-truckload companies increased their use of NS intermodal.
Additionally, intermodal marketing companies increased their business 
on NS.
     NS' intermodal volume is expected to remain strong, resulting from
continued domestic container and TCSC volume growth and the recovery in
the international market. Higher wages in the trucking industry may
encourage shippers to use NS' intermodal and TCSC networks. In addition,
growth of steamship companies' use of Suez Canal services may have a
positive impact on international container shipments into and out of
Southeast ports.

  PAGE 44

Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- -------   -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations. (continued)
          -----------------------------------

Railway Operating Expenses
- --------------------------
     Railway operating expenses in 1996 decreased slightly; however,
1995's expenses included a $33.6 million charge for an early retirement
program (see Note 10 on page 69). Excluding that early retirement charge,
railway operating expenses increased 1%, despite a 2% increase in traffic
volume. Railway operating expenses in 1995 were up 3% (up 1%, excluding
the early retirement charge) on a 3% increase in traffic volume.
     As a result, the NS railway operating ratio, which measures the
percentage of railway revenues consumed by expenses, was a record 71.6 in
1996, compared with 73.5 (72.7 excluding the early retirement charge) in
1995 and 73.4 in 1994. NS' railway operating ratio continues to be the
best among the major railroads in the United States.

     COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS, which represents about half of total
railway operating expenses, decreased 5% in 1996 and increased 8% in
1995. Excluding the 1995 early retirement charge, compensation and
benefits expenses were down 3% in 1996 and up 5% in 1995.
     The 1996 decrease (excluding the effect of the 1995 early retirement
charge) was principally attributable to: (1) reduced employment resulting
from the 1995 early retirement program and productivity improvements due
to ongoing reductions in train crew sizes and train efficiencies and 
(2) lower costs for fringe benefits, principally medical costs for 
salaried employees. These decreases were somewhat offset by increases 
attributable to higher volume and increased wage rates resulting from 
new labor agreements.
     The 1995 increase was primarily a result of: (1) higher wages; 
(2) increased performance-based compensation accruals, particularly those
linked to the market price of NS stock, which rose nearly $19 per share
in 1995; and (3) higher health care costs for agreement employees.
     As of the end of 1996, NS had negotiated labor agreements with all
of its unions, except the American Train Dispatchers which represents
about 200 employees. The accords with the 12 other union organizations,
which include compensation settlements in line with other major
industries, will not be due for change until after January 1, 2000.
  PAGE 45

Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- -------   -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations. (continued)
          -----------------------------------

     MATERIALS, SERVICES AND RENTS includes items used for the
maintenance of the railroads' lines, structures and equipment; the costs
of services purchased from outside contractors, including the net costs
of operating joint (or leased) facilities with other railroads; and the
net cost of equipment rentals. This category of expenses increased 1% in
1996 and decreased 6% in 1995.
     The increase in 1996 resulted from higher intermodal expenses due to
increased volume, as well as higher equipment rent costs, that more than
offset lower locomotive and car repair costs.
     Equipment rents, which represent the cost to NS of using equipment
(mostly freight cars) owned by other railroads or private owners, less
the rent paid to NS for the use of its equipment, were up 10% in 1996.
This increase was due to a variety of factors, including increased
intermodal container traffic, lower receipts from short-term leases of
locomotives to various railroads and increased freight car leases to meet
customer requirements. These increased costs were somewhat offset by
lower net costs for multilevel equipment.
     Locomotive repair costs continued to be reduced as a result of the
replacement of older units with newer ones. NS expects to acquire 120 new
locomotives in 1997. Freight car repair costs continued to benefit from
the effects of initiatives launched in 1995 to improve asset utilization
that resulted in the re-engineering of maintenance practices,
facilitating the closure of two repair facilities in 1995 and the
disposition of 17,000 excess freight cars, which was substantially
completed in 1996.
     The decrease in "Materials, services and rents" in 1995 reflected
initial results from the initiatives to improve asset utilization, as
well as reduced locomotive repair costs and lower net equipment rental
expense. The reduction in equipment rents in 1995 was due to the short-
term leasing of certain older locomotives to other railroads and the
deregulation of car-hire rates among railroads, which began in 1994.
These favorable results were somewhat offset by increased expenses
related to the 12% growth in intermodal traffic.
     DEPRECIATION expense (see Note 1, "Properties," on page 60 for NS'
depreciation policy) was up 5% in 1996 and 4% in 1995. Both increases
were due to property additions, reflecting substantial levels of capital
spending over the last several years.
     DIESEL FUEL costs rose 23% in 1996, but were up less than 1% in
1995. The increase in 1996 was due to a 20% increase in the average price
per gallon, as prices reached levels unseen since 1991 during and
following the Persian Gulf Crisis. Consumption was up 3% on a similar
increase in carloadings. The 1995 increase was primarily due to a small
increase in the average price per gallon.
     CASUALTIES AND OTHER CLAIMS (including estimates of costs related to
personal injury, property damage and environmental matters) increased 2%
in 1996, but declined 10% in 1995. In 1996, higher accruals for
environmental remediation costs more than offset reduced accruals for
personal injury liabilities and the effects of a nonrecurring liability
insurance premium refund. The 1995 decrease was primarily attributable to
environmental costs in 1994 associated with a tankcar leak.
     The largest component of "Casualties and other claims" is personal
injury expense. NS continued to benefit from a reduction in the number of
reportable injuries in 1996; however, as in prior years, much of that
benefit was offset by an increase in the cost of third-party injury
claims and by the continuing costs associated with the handling of non-
accidental "occupational" claims. NS continues to work actively to reduce
the risk of all accidents.
     The rail industry remains uniquely susceptible to litigation
involving job-related accidental injury and occupational claims because
of an outmoded law, the Federal Employers' Liability Act (FELA),
originally passed in 1908 and applicable only to railroads. This law,
which covers employees' claims for on-the-job injuries, promotes an
adversarial claim settlement environment and produces results that are
unpredictable and inconsistent, at far greater cost to the rail industry
than the no-fault workers' compensation system to which non-rail 
  PAGE 46

Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- -------   -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations. (continued)
          -----------------------------------

competitors are universally subject. The railroads have been 
unsuccessful so far in efforts to persuade Congress to replace FELA 
with a no-fault workers' compensation system.
     OTHER expenses were down 2% in 1996, but were up 4% in 1995. The
1995 increase was due to higher sales, use and franchise taxes.
     NS expects to complete work to make its software year-2000 compliant
by the end of 1998. It is anticipated that the total cost of conversion
will not be material to NS' financial statements.

Motor Carrier Results
- ---------------------
     Motor carrier operating income was $32.1 million in 1996, compared
with $24.5 million in 1995 and $22.1 million in 1994. In 1996 and 1995,
because certain expenses were below original estimates, $4.1 million and
$3.9 million, respectively, of reserves related to a former division were
reversed. The on-going operations, comprising Relocation Services (RS)
and High Value Products (HVP), produced operating income of $28.0 million
in 1996, $20.6 million in 1995, and $22.1 million in 1994.

     RS' revenues depend on four primary segments of household goods
transportation: corporate, individual, military and international
shipments. RS' revenues decreased 2% in 1996 and 4% in 1995. In 1996,
domestic shipments declined 4% due to weakness in all segments, and
international shipments were down 1%. However, these decreases were
somewhat offset by a 3% gain in average revenue per shipment. The total
number of industrywide moves of domestic household goods increased about
2% in 1996; over the previous six years, it had declined about 1% per
year on average.
     In 1995, international business was up 6% and domestic corporate
account business was up 5%. However, these increases were more than
offset by lower volume in individual and military business. Average
revenue per shipment improved about 3%. There are six major van lines in
this market, and competition is likely to remain intense.
     HVP's main line of business is the distribution of office products,
sensitive equipment, and exhibits and displays. A Customized Logistics
Services (CLS) segment provides integrated logistics services. A
Blanketwrap segment provides specialized handling of uncartoned truckload
freight. Two international subsidiaries provide HVP and logistics
services in Europe. HVP's revenues increased 6% in 1996 and 2% in 1995.
Traditional HVP business, Blanketwrap, CLS and International, all
experienced growth with their major customers in 1996 and 1995. During
1996, CLS business grew by nearly 11%, due to new customer programs and
expansion of the emergency parts service business. In 1995, gains in the
major business segments were partially offset by a decrease in air
freight revenues due to the rationalization of certain service centers.
Continued growth in the CLS segment is possible, as more shippers look to
sophisticated logistics providers like NAVL to provide integrated supply
chain management to reduce overall shipping and handling costs.
  PAGE 47

Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- -------   -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations. (continued)
          -----------------------------------

     Motor carrier operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were
95.8%, 96.9% and 96.7% in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively, excluding
the reversals related to a former division. The improvement in 1996 was
partly due to a favorable appeals decision on certain aspects of a legal
claim that was reserved in 1992. Also, the CLS segment reduced its costs
as it moved out of the start-up phase of several of its logistics and
parts distribution programs. The increase in the 1995 operating ratio was
due, in large measure, to costs associated with closing operations in
Panama and discontinuing certain subsidiary operations in Canada. Both of
these moves were completed in order to streamline operations and reduce
costs over the long term. The costs of these programs offset other gains
in operating efficiency, primarily achieved in the HVP distribution
operations. Intense competition in the motor carrier industry is likely
to keep margins at a modest level and will require carriers to continue
to focus on cost reductions.
     
Income Taxes
- ------------
     Income tax expense in 1996 was $426.5 million for an effective rate
of 35.6%, compared with an effective rate of 36.1% in 1995 and 36.3% in
1994.
     The effective rates in 1996 and 1995 were below the statutory
federal and state rates as a result of investments in corporate-owned
life insurance and coal-seam gas properties and from favorable
adjustments upon filing the prior year tax returns. In addition, 1996
benefited from favorable adjustments resulting from settlement of federal
income tax years 1990-1992. The effective rate in 1994 also was below the
statutory federal and state rates due to favorable adjustments resulting
from settlement of federal income tax years 1988 and 1989, an adjustment
to the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets and a favorable
adjustment upon filing the 1993 tax return. Deferred tax expense was an
unusually high portion of total tax expense in 1994. A corresponding
reduction is reflected in 1994's current tax expense for the effects of
expenditures that affect book and tax accounts in different years,
primarily in the areas of compensation, motor carrier restructuring and
property.
     
Accounting Changes and New Accounting Pronouncements
- ----------------------------------------------------
     As discussed in Note 1 under "Required Accounting Changes" on page
60, effective January 1, 1996, NS adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-
Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed Of" (SFAS 121),
which had no material effect on NS' financial statements.
     On October 10, 1996, the AICPA issued Statement of Position 96-1,
"Environmental Remediation Liabilities" (SOP 96-1), which is effective
for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1996. SOP 96-1 provides
guidance with respect to recognition and measurement of environmental
remediation liabilities and disclosure of such liabilities in financial
statements. SOP 96-1 is not expected to have a material effect on NS'
financial statements.
  PAGE 48

Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- -------   -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations. (continued)
          -----------------------------------

FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     FINANCIAL CONDITION refers to the assets, liabilities and
stockholders' equity of an organization (see Consolidated Balance Sheets
on page 57). LIQUIDITY refers to the ability of an organization to
generate adequate amounts of cash, principally from operating results or
through borrowing power, to meet its short-term and long-term cash
requirements (see Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows on page 58).
CAPITAL RESOURCES refers to the ability of an organization to raise funds
through the sale of either debt or equity (stock) securities.

     CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES, NS' principal source of
liquidity, decreased $32.7 million, or 3%, in 1996 and increased
$93.1 million, or 8%, in 1995. Since the consolidation in 1982, cash
provided by operating activities has been sufficient to fund dividend
requirements, debt repayments and a significant portion of capital
spending. The decrease in 1996 was largely attributable to lump-sum wage
payments associated with labor contract settlements and higher income tax
payments related to the settlement of federal income tax years 1990-1992.
The improvement in 1995 was primarily a result of increased income from
operations (excluding the early retirement charge, a non-cash item) and
improved billing and collection of receivables.

  PAGE 49

Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- -------   -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations. (continued)
          -----------------------------------

     CASH USED FOR INVESTING ACTIVITIES decreased 6% in 1996, and was up
16% in 1995. Property additions account for most of the spending in this
category.



     Since 1988, NS has rebodied about 23,000 coal cars and plans to
continue that program, although at a slower rate, in 1997. This work,
performed at NS' Roanoke Car Shop, converts hopper cars into high-
capacity steel gondolas or hoppers. As a result, the remaining service
life of the freight car fleet is greater than may be inferred from the
increasing average age shown in the table above.
     Efforts to hold down capital spending while increasing business are
ongoing as NS seeks to maximize utilization of its assets. In this
connection, NS began an orderly disposition of approximately 17,000
freight cars in October 1994. This was substantially completed in 1996
with total proceeds of $92 million included in"Property sales and other
transactions" in the 1996 and 1995 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. 
  PAGE 50

Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- -------   -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations. (continued)
          -----------------------------------

In 1996 and 1995, this line item also reflected proceeds from large 
land sales (see Note 2 on page 62).
     For 1997, NS is planning $792 million of capital spending, of which
$781 million is for railway projects and $11 million is for motor carrier
property. Barring unforeseen events and excluding any capital spending
related to the proposed Conrail transaction (see "Proposed Acquisition of
Conrail"), total capital spending is expected to continue to be similar
to 1995 and 1996 levels.
     In 1994, large borrowings on corporate-owned life insurance,
reflected in "Investment sales and other transactions" in the
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, offset much of the use of cash for
property additions in that year.
     CASH USED FOR FINANCING ACTIVITIES declined 20% in 1996 and 3% in
1995. The reduction in 1996 resulted from amounts received in connection
with the issuance of $200 million principal amount of medium-term notes
(see Note 6 on page 65). The reduction in 1995 was primarily attributable
to lower debt repayments; 1994 had included the maturity of a large
mortgage.
     On January 22, 1997, NS filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 covering the
issuance of up to $1.25 billion principal amount of debt or equity
securities.
     Cash spent to purchase and retire stock was $389.4 million in 1996,
$338.2 million in 1995 and $344.8 million in 1994. On October 23, 1996,
NS announced that the share purchase program had been suspended (see also
Note 13 on page 75).

Hedging Activities
- ------------------
     As discussed under "Capital Leases" in Note 6 on page 65, NS has
made limited use of interest rate swaps in connection with certain
equipment financings.


PROPOSED ACQUISITION OF CONRAIL

     As discussed in Note 15 on page 76, NS commenced an all-cash tender
offer for all Shares of Conrail Inc. (Conrail), on October 24, 1996, in
response to the October 15, 1996, announcement that Conrail had entered
into a merger agreement with CSX.
     On February 11, 1997, NS acquired 8.2 million shares of Conrail
stock (approximately 9.9%), representing the approximate maximum number
of Shares NS can buy without triggering Conrail's current anti-takeover
defenses, at a cost of $115 per Share, or $943 million in the aggregate.
The purchase was financed with commercial paper backed by a portion of
the debt commitments secured for the transaction. These Shares have 
been placed in a voting trust and under certain circumstances might
have to be sold at a loss.
  PAGE 51

Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- -------   -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations. (continued)
          -----------------------------------

     On February 12, 1997, NS commenced a second tender offer for the
remaining Shares and has notified Conrail of its intention to
conduct a proxy contest in connection with Conrail's 1997 Annual Meeting
of shareholders, currently scheduled for December 19, 1997, seeking,
among other things, to remove certain of the current members of the
Conrail Board and to elect a new slate of nominees designated by NS.
     Pursuant to an amendment to the merger agreement between CSX 
and Conrail announced on March 7, 1997, CSX has offered to purchase 
all Shares for $115 per Share in cash and CSX is permitted to enter 
into negotiations with other parties, including NS, concerning the 
acquisition of the securities or assets, or concessions relating to 
the assets or operations, of Conrail.  NS and CSX are negotiating 
a comprehensive resolution of the issues confronting the eastern 
railroads based on the proposal submitted by NS to both CSX and 
Conrail on February 24, 1997.  Such a resolution could involve a 
joint acquisition of Shares by NS and CSX.  However, unless and 
until such negotiations are successfully concluded, NS intends to 
continue in effect its tender offer for all Shares not owned 
by NS.
     For additional information concerning NS' pending tender 
offer for Shares not owned by NS, reference is made to NS' Tender 
Offer Statement on Schedule 14D-1, together with the exhibits 
thereto, initially filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission 
on February 12, 1997, as amended.
     NS expects future cash flows of the combined entity would be
sufficient to service and retire the acquisition and related debt.
However, as a result of the proposed transaction and the related debt
commitments, NS has been placed on the credit watch list of two major
rating agencies. Furthermore, in connection with the acquisition of 
8.2 million Shares, some of NS' debt ratings have already been 
downgraded.


ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

     NS is subject to various jurisdictions' environmental laws and
regulations. It is NS' policy to record a liability where such liability
or loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated. Claims, if any,
against third parties for recovery of clean-up costs incurred by NS are
reflected as receivables in the balance sheet and are not netted against
the associated NS liability. Environmental engineers participate in
ongoing evaluations of all identified sites, and--after consulting with
counsel--any necessary adjustments to initial liability estimates are
made. NS also has established an Environmental Policy Council, composed
of senior managers, to oversee and interpret its environmental policy.
     Operating expenses for environmental protection totaled
approximately $25 million in 1996 and are anticipated to increase
somewhat in 1997. Capital expenditures for environmental projects
amounted to approximately $6 million in 1996 and are expected to be at
the same level in 1997. As of December 31, 1996, NS' balance sheet
included a reserve for environmental exposures in the amount of 
$53 million (of which $12 million is accounted for as a current 
liability), which is NS' estimate of the probable costs based on 
available information at 111 identified locations. On that date, 
nine sites accounted for $19 million of the reserve, and no individual 
site was considered to be material. NS anticipates that much of this 
liability will be paid out over five years; however, some costs will 
be paid out over a longer period.
  PAGE 52

Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- -------   -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations. (continued)
          -----------------------------------

     At many of the 111 locations, certain NS subsidiaries, usually in
conjunction with a number of other parties, have been identified as
potentially responsible parties by the Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) or similar state authorities under the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, or comparable state
statutes, which often impose joint and several liability for clean-up
costs.
     At one such site, the EPA alleged in 1995 that The Alabama Great
Southern Railroad Company (AGS), a subsidiary of NS' rail subsidiary, is
responsible, along with several other entities believed to be financially
solvent, for past and future clean-up and monitoring costs at the Bayou
Bonfouca NPL Superfund site located in Slidell, La. The EPA bases its
claim of NS' responsibility primarily on the alleged activities in the
1880s of a company not at the time owned or controlled by an NS rail
subsidiary, but acquired in 1916. Liability has been contested. Because
the amount of liability that the EPA may assert against NS or AGS is not
known, the materiality of such amount to NS' financial position, results
of operation or liquidity in a particular quarter or year cannot be
assessed at this time. The EPA has indicated that it has expended or
expects to expend a total of approximately $130 million at the site.
With respect to known environmental sites (whether identified by NS or by
the EPA or comparable state authorities), estimates of NS' ultimate
potential financial exposure for a given site or in the aggregate for all
such sites are necessarily imprecise because of the widely varying costs
of currently available clean-up techniques, the likely development of new
clean-up technologies, the difficulty of determining in advance the
nature and full extent of contamination and each potential participant's
share of any estimated loss (and that participant's ability to bear it)
and evolving statutory and regulatory standards governing liability.
     The risk of incurring environmental liability--for acts and
omissions, past, present and future--is inherent in the railroad
business. Some of the commodities, particularly those classified as
hazardous materials, in NS' traffic mix can pose special risks that NS
and its subsidiaries work diligently to minimize. In addition, several NS
subsidiaries own, or have owned in the past, land holdings used as
operating property, or which are leased or may have been leased and
operated by others, or held for sale. Because certain conditions may
exist on these properties related to environmental problems that are
latent or undisclosed, there can be no assurance that NS will not incur
liabilities or costs with respect to one or more of them, the amount and
materiality of which cannot be estimated reliably now. Moreover, lawsuits
and claims involving these and other now-unidentified environmental sites
and matters are likely to arise from time to time. The resulting
liabilities could have a significant effect on financial condition,
results of operations or liquidity in a particular year or quarter.
     However, based on its assessments of the facts and circumstances now
known and, after consulting with its legal counsel, Management believes
that it has recorded the probable costs based on available information
for those environmental matters of which the Corporation is aware.
Further, Management believes that it is unlikely that any identified
matters, either individually or in aggregate, will have a material
adverse effect on NS' financial position, results of operations or
liquidity.
  PAGE 53

Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- -------   -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations. (continued)
          -----------------------------------

INFLATION

     Generally accepted accounting principles require the use of
historical cost in preparing financial statements. This approach
disregards the effects of inflation on the replacement cost of property.
NS, a capital-intensive company, has approximately $14 billion invested
in such assets. The replacement cost of these assets, as well as the
related depreciation expense, would be substantially greater than the
amounts reported on the basis of historical cost.

TRENDS

- - Utility Deregulation--The potential deregulation of the electrical
  utility industry is expected to increase competition among electric
  power generators; deregulation in time would permit wholesalers and
  possibly retailers of electric power to sell or purchase increasing
  quantities of power to or from far-distant generators. The effects of
  deregulation on NS and on its patrons cannot be predicted with
  certainty; however, NS serves a number of efficient power producers
  and is working diligently to assure that its customers remain
  competitive in this evolving environment.

- - FELA--NS and the rail industry are continuing their efforts to replace
  the FELA with no-fault workers' compensation laws comparable to those
  covering employees in other industries.


FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

     This Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations and other sections of this Annual Report contain
forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations,
estimates and projections. These statements are not guarantees of future
performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are
difficult to predict. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ
materially from what is expressed in such forward-looking statements.
  PAGE 54

Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
- -------   -------------------------------------------

  PAGE 55

Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- -------   -------------------------------------------
                                    
                    Index to Financial Statements:              Page
                    -----------------------------               ----
          Consolidated Statements of Income
            Years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994          56

          Consolidated Balance Sheets
            As of December 31, 1996 and 1995                      57

          Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
            Years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994          58

          Consolidated Statements of Changes in
            Stockholders' Equity
            Years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994          59

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements              60

          Independent Auditors' Report                            79


      The Index to Consolidated Financial Statement Schedule appears
in Item 14 on page 81.
  PAGE 56


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- -------   -------------------------------------------

  PAGE 57


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- -------   -------------------------------------------

  PAGE 58

Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- -------   -------------------------------------------

  PAGE 59


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- -------   -------------------------------------------

  PAGE 60

Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- -------   -------------------------------------------
                                    
              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
               Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


The following notes (which--with the exception of Note 16--are identical
to those contained in the Corporation's 1996 Annual Report to
Stockholders) are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Description of Business
- -----------------------
     Norfolk Southern Corporation is a Virginia-based holding company
engaged principally in the transportation of freight by rail, primarily
in the Southeast and Midwest, and the operation of a motor carrier
providing household moving and specialized freight handling services in
the United States and Canada. The consolidated financial statements
include Norfolk Southern Corporation (Norfolk Southern) and its majority-
owned and controlled subsidiaries (collectively NS). The major
subsidiaries are Norfolk Southern Railway Company and North American Van
Lines, Inc. (NAVL). All significant intercompany balances and
transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
     Rail freight consists of raw materials, intermediate products and
finished goods classified in the following market groups: coal,
paper/forest, chemicals, automotive, agriculture, metals/construction and
intermodal. All groups are approximately equal in size based on revenues
except for coal, which accounts for almost one third of total railway
operating revenues. Ultimate destinations for some of the freight and a
portion of the coal shipped are outside the United States.

Use of Estimates
- ----------------
     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires Management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities,
the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the
financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those
estimates.

Cash Equivalents
- ----------------
     "Cash equivalents" are highly liquid investments purchased three
months or less from maturity.

Investments
- -----------
     Marketable equity and debt securities are reported at amortized cost
or fair value depending upon their classification as held-to-maturity,
trading or available-for-sale securities. At December 31, 1996 and 1995,
all "Short-term investments," consisting primarily of United States
government and federal agency securities, were designated as available
for sale. Accordingly, unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, are
recognized in "Stockholders' equity."

Materials and Supplies
- ----------------------
     "Materials and supplies," consisting mainly of fuel oil and items
for maintenance of property and equipment, are stated at average cost.
The cost of materials and supplies expected to be used in capital
additions or improvements is included in "Properties."
  PAGE 61

Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- -------   -------------------------------------------
                                    
1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)

Properties
- ----------
     "Properties" are stated principally at cost and are depreciated
using group depreciation. Rail is primarily depreciated on the basis of
use measured by gross ton miles. The effect of this method is to
depreciate these assets over 42 years on average. Other properties are
depreciated generally using the straight-line method over estimated
service lives at annual rates that range from 1% to 25%. In 1996, the
overall depreciation rate averaged 2.8% for roadway and 4.1% for
equipment. NS capitalizes interest on major capital projects during the
period of their construction. Maintenance expense is recognized when
repairs are performed. When properties, other than land and non-rail
assets, are sold or retired in the ordinary course of business, the cost
of the assets, net of sale proceeds or salvage, is charged to accumulated
depreciation rather than recognized through income. Gains and losses on
disposal of land and non-rail assets are included in other income (see
Note 2).

Revenue Recognition
- -------------------
     Revenue is recognized proportionally as a shipment moves from origin
to destination.

Earnings Per Share
- ------------------
     The number reported as "Earnings per share" in any period is
computed by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common
shares outstanding during that period. Decreases in the number of shares
outstanding are the result of stock purchase programs as described in
Note 13.

Required Accounting Changes
- ---------------------------
     1996 -- Effective January 1, 1996, NS adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-
Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed Of" (SFAS 121).
SFAS 121 establishes the accounting and reporting requirements for
recognizing and measuring impairment of long-lived assets either to be
held and used or to be held for disposal. SFAS 121 did not have a
material effect on NS' financial statements.
     In October 1995, the FASB issued Statement No. 123, "Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation" (SFAS 123). This standard, effective for fiscal
years beginning after December 15, 1995, defines a fair-value-based
method of accounting for stock-based compensation plans. However, the
standard also allows measurement of compensation cost using the intrinsic-
value-based method of accounting prescribed in Accounting Principles
Board Opinion No. 25 (APB 25). Companies that choose to retain APB 25 for
measurement purposes are required to provide certain additional footnote
disclosures. NS has elected to continue recording stock-based
compensation costs based on APB 25 and to provide additional disclosures.
  PAGE 62

Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- -------   -------------------------------------------


3. INCOME TAXES

  PAGE 63

Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- -------   -------------------------------------------

3. INCOME TAXES (continued)

Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Reviews
- --------------------------------------
     Consolidated federal income tax returns have been examined and
Revenue Agent Reports have been received for all years up to and
including 1992. The consolidated federal income tax returns for 1993 and
1994 are being audited by the IRS. Management believes that adequate
provision has been made for any additional taxes and interest thereon
that might arise as a result of these examinations.

Tax Benefit Leases
- ------------------
     In January 1995, the United States Tax Court issued a preliminary
decision that would disallow some of the tax benefits a subsidiary of NS
purchased from a third party pursuant to a safe harbor lease agreement in
1981. Management continues to believe that NS ultimately should incur no
loss from this decision, because the lease agreement provides for full
indemnification if any such disallowance is sustained.

Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities
- -----------------------------------
     Certain items are reported in different periods for financial
reporting and income tax purposes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
were recorded in recognition of these differences.
  PAGE 64

Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- -------   -------------------------------------------

3. INCOME TAXES (continued)

     Except for amounts for which a valuation allowance is provided,
Management believes the deferred tax assets will be realized. The net
change in the total valuation allowance was a $0.6 million increase for
1996, a $0.1 million increase for 1995 and a $9.5 million decrease for
1994.
  PAGE 65

Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- -------   -------------------------------------------


Capitalized Interest
- --------------------
     Total interest cost incurred on debt in 1996, 1995 and 1994 was
$127.6 million, $127.4 million and $119.4 million, respectively, of which
$11.9 million, $14.0 million and $17.8 million was capitalized.


6. DEBT

Commercial Paper Program
- ------------------------
     NS' commercial paper debt totaled $516.1 million and $518.0 million
as of December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively.
     Commercial paper debt is due within one year, but $500 million has
been classified as long-term because NS has the ability through a
revolving credit back-up facility to convert this obligation into longer
term debt. NS intends to refinance the commercial paper either by issuing
additional commercial paper or by replacing commercial paper notes with
long-term debt.
     The credit facility provides for interest on borrowings at
prevailing rates and contains customary financial covenants, including an
initial minimum net worth requirement of $4.0 billion.
     In connection with the tender offer to purchase up to 8.2 million
shares of Conrail stock, NS has arranged for additional commercial paper
debt (see Note 15).
  PAGE 66


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- -------   -------------------------------------------
                                    
6. DEBT (continued)


Capital Lease Obligations
- -------------------------
     During 1996 and 1995, an NS rail subsidiary entered into capital
leases covering new locomotives. The related capital lease obligations
totaling $107.8 million in 1996 and $104.5 million in 1995 were reflected
in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as debt and, because they were non-
cash transactions, were excluded from the Consolidated Statements of Cash
Flows. The lease obligations carry an average stated interest rate of
6.5% for those entered into in 1996 and 8.4% for those entered into in
1995. All were converted to variable rate obligations using interest rate
swap agreements. The interest rates on these obligations are based on the
six-month London Interbank Offered Rate and are reset every six months
with changes in interest rates accounted for as an adjustment of interest
expense over the terms of the leases. As a result, NS is exposed to the
market risk associated with fluctuations in interest rates. To date,
while such rate fluctuations have been nominal, their effects have been
favorable. Counterparties to the interest rate swap agreements are major
financial institutions believed by Management to be credit-worthy. NS'
use of interest rate swaps has been limited to those discussed above.
  PAGE 67

Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- -------   -------------------------------------------

6. DEBT (continued)

     A substantial portion of NS' properties and certain investments in
affiliated companies are pledged as collateral for much of the secured
debt.
  PAGE 68

Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- -------   -------------------------------------------


8. LEASE COMMITMENTS

  PAGE 69

Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- -------   -------------------------------------------

8. LEASE COMMITMENTS (continued)



10. PENSION PLANS

     Norfolk Southern and certain subsidiaries have defined benefit
pension plans that principally cover salaried employees. Pension benefits
are based primarily on years of creditable service with NS and
compensation rates near retirement. Contributions to the plans are made
on the basis of not less than the minimum funding standards set forth in
the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. Assets
in the plans consist mainly of common stocks.

  PAGE 70

Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- -------   -------------------------------------------

10. PENSION PLANS (continued)


Early Retirement Program in 1995
- --------------------------------
     During 1995, NS completed a voluntary early retirement program for
certain salaried employees. The principal benefit for those who
participated in this program was enhanced pension benefits, which are
reflected in the accumulated benefit obligation. The charge for the
272 employees who accepted the offer is included in
  PAGE 71

Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- -------   -------------------------------------------

10. PENSION PLANS (continued)

"Compensation and benefits" expense and totaled $33.6 million (including
$8.3 million related to postretirement benefits other than pensions).

401(k) Plans
- ------------
     Norfolk Southern and certain subsidiaries provide 401(k) savings
plans for employees. Under the plans, NS matches a portion of employee
contributions, subject to applicable limitations. NS' expenses under
these plans were $8.1 million, $7.0 million and $5.1 million in 1996,
1995 and 1994, respectively.

11. POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS OTHER THAN PENSIONS

     Norfolk Southern and certain subsidiaries provide specified health
care and death benefits to eligible retired employees and their
dependents. Under the present plans, which may be amended or terminated
at NS' option, a defined percentage of health care expenses is covered,
reduced by any deductibles, co-payments, Medicare payments and, in some
cases, coverage provided by other group insurance policies. The cost of
such health care coverage to a retiree may be determined, in part, by the
retiree's years of creditable service with NS prior to retirement. Death
benefits are determined based on various factors, including, in some
cases, salary at time of retirement.
     NS continues to fund benefit costs principally on a pay-as-you-go
basis. However, in 1991, NS established a Voluntary Employee Beneficiary
Association (VEBA) account to fund a portion of the cost of future health
care benefits for retirees. NS last made a corporate contribution of 
$10 million in 1994 to the VEBA.
     Effective January 1, 1994, NS amended the attribution period for
postretirement health care benefits. The amendment generally provides for
benefits to be determined ratably over a 10-year period based on
creditable service commencing at age 45, or from date of hire if
employment began after age 45. The amendment reduced the accumulated
postretirement health care benefit obligation by $90 million, which will
be amortized as a reduction in annual cost on a pro rata basis over a six-
year period.

  PAGE 72

Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- -------   -------------------------------------------

11. POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS OTHER THAN PENSIONS (continued)

     For measurement purposes, a 10.4% increase in the per capita cost of
covered health care benefits was assumed for 1997. The rate was assumed
to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 5.5% and remain at that
level for 2005 and thereafter. The health care cost trend rate has a
significant effect on the amounts reported in the financial statements.
To illustrate, increasing the assumed trend rates by one percentage point
in each year would increase the accumulated postretirement benefit
obligation as of December 31, 1996, by about $27 million and the
aggregate of the service and interest cost components of net
postretirement benefit cost for the year 1996 by about $4 million.
     The weighted-average discount rate used in determining the
accumulated postretirement benefit obligation, the salary increase
assumption and the long-term rate of return on plan assets are the same
as those used for the pension plans (see table of rate assumptions in
Note 10).
     The VEBA trust holding the plan assets is not expected to be subject
to federal income taxes, as the assets are invested entirely in trust-
owned life insurance.
     Under collective bargaining agreements, NS and certain subsidiaries
participate in a multi-employer benefit plan, which provides certain
postretirement health care and life insurance benefits to eligible union
employees. Premiums under this plan are expensed as incurred and amounted
to $3.6 million, $3.7 million and $4.8 million in 1996, 1995 and 1994,
respectively.
  PAGE 73

Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- -------   -------------------------------------------

12. LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN

     Under the stockholder-approved Long-Term Incentive Plan, a committee
of non-employee directors of the Board may grant stock options, stock
appreciation rights (SARs) and performance share units (PSUs), up to a
maximum 17,675,000 shares of Norfolk Southern common stock. Options may
be granted for a term not to exceed 10 years but may not be exercised
prior to the first anniversary of the date of grant. Options are
exercisable at the fair market value of Norfolk Southern Common Stock on
the date of grant.
     The plan also permits the payment--on a current or a deferred basis
and in cash or in stock--of dividend equivalents on shares of common
stock covered by options or PSUs granted after December 31, 1989, in an
amount commensurate with dividends paid on common stock. Tax absorption
payments, in an amount estimated to equal the federal and state income
taxes applicable to shares of common stock issued subject to a share
retention agreement, also are authorized.
     Plan participants surrendered, without cash or other consideration,
all outstanding SARs granted after 1988 because of regulations issued by
the Securities and Exchange Commission in 1991. Future grants of SARs are
not anticipated at this time. SARs outstanding as of each year end were:
32,648 in 1996; 46,562 in 1995; and 74,519 in 1994.

Accounting Method
- -----------------
     NS applies APB Opinion 25 and related interpretations in accounting
for awards made under the plan. Accordingly, SARs, PSUs, tax absorption
and dividend equivalents result in charges to earnings, while stock
options have no effect on earnings. Compensation costs were 
$35.4 million, $42.9 million and $14.3 million for 1996, 1995 and 1994,
respectively. Had compensation cost been determined based on SFAS 123
using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, net income would have been
reduced no more than $10 million in each year.
     Based on current and anticipated use of stock-based compensation, it
is not envisioned that the effect of SFAS 123's accounting provisions
would be material in any future period.
  PAGE 74

Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- -------   -------------------------------------------

12. LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN (continued)

     Except for those granted during the year, all outstanding options
were exercisable at December 31. The difference between the weighted
average exercise prices for all outstanding options and those exercisable
at December 31 was not significant.

Performance Share Units
- -----------------------
     PSUs were added to the Long-Term Incentive Plan as approved in 1989
and amended in 1995. PSUs entitle participants to earn shares of common
stock at the end of a three-year performance cycle based upon achievement
of certain predetermined corporate performance goals. PSU grants and
grant-date fair values were 200,400 and $78.06 in 1996; 252,500 and
$62.50 in 1995; and 163,000 and $72.94 in 1994, respectively. Shares
earned and issued may be subject to share retention agreements and held
by NS for up to five years.
  PAGE 75

Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- -------   -------------------------------------------
                                    
12. LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN (continued)


13. STOCK PURCHASE PROGRAMS

     Since 1987, the Board of Directors has authorized the purchase and
retirement of up to 95 million shares of common stock. Purchases under
the programs have been made with internally generated cash, and with
proceeds from the sale of commercial paper notes and from the issuance of
long-term debt.
     Since the first purchases in December 1987 and through October 22,
1996, NS had purchased and retired 68,545,000 shares of its common stock
under these programs at a cost of $3.2 billion.
     On October 23, 1996, NS announced that the stock purchase program
had been suspended (see also Note 15). Future purchase decisions are
dependent on the outcome of the proposed Conrail acquisition, the
economy, cash needs and alternative investment opportunities.


14. FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     The fair values of "Cash and cash equivalents," "Short-term
investments," "Accounts receivable," "Short-term debt" and "Accounts
payable" approximate carrying values because of the short maturity of
these financial instruments.
     The fair value of long-term "Investments" approximated $353 million
and $297 million at December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively (see Note 4
for carrying values of "Investments"). The fair value of corporate-owned
life insurance approximates carrying value. Quoted market prices were
used to determine the fair value of marketable equity securities which
are recorded at fair value. Marketable securities reflect $3.4 million
and $3.5 million of unrealized holding gains at December 31, 1996 and
1995, respectively. Underlying net assets were used to estimate the fair
value of other investments; however, if any such investment was sold
after the end of the year, its sale price determined its fair value for
these purposes.
     The fair value of "Long-term debt," including current maturities,
approximated $1.95 billion at December 31, 1996, and $1.77 billion at
December 31, 1995. The fair values of debt were estimated based on quoted
market prices or discounted cash flows using current interest rates for
debt with similar terms, company rating and remaining maturity (see 
Note 6 for carrying values of "Long-term debt"). The fair value of 
interest rate swaps is immaterial.
  PAGE 76

Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- -------   -------------------------------------------

15. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

Proposed Acquisition of Conrail
- -------------------------------
     On October 23, 1996, NS announced its intention to commence an all-
cash tender offer for all shares of Conrail Inc. (Conrail), a
Pennsylvania corporation. On October 24, 1996, Atlantic Acquisition
Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of
NS, offered to purchase all outstanding shares of Conrail's common stock
and Series A ESOP Convertible Junior Preferred Stock (collectively, the
Shares), including, in each case, the associated Common Stock Purchase
Rights, at a price of $100 per Share--approximately $9.1 billion in the
aggregate. Shares tendered in the offer or acquired in any subsequent
merger would be held in a voting trust pending regulatory approval by the
STB. The offer followed the October 15 announcement that Conrail had
entered into a merger agreement with CSX Corporation (CSX), whereby
Conrail stockholders would receive $92.50 in cash per Share for up to 
40 percent of their Shares and receive CSX common stock for the balance of
their Shares. On November 6, 1996, CSX and Conrail announced that CSX had
raised the cash portion of its offer to $110 per Share and left unchanged
the ratio pursuant to which certain Conrail stockholders would receive
shares of CSX common stock. On November 8, 1996, NS announced that it had
increased its all-cash offer to $110 per Share--approximately 
$10.0 billion in the aggregate. On December 19, 1996, CSX and Conrail 
announced that CSX was adding preferred stock (convertible into 
CSX common stock) to its offer--a feature said to be worth $16 per Share. 
On December 20, NS increased its all-cash offer to $115 per Share--
approximately $11 billion in the aggregate--and on January 13, 1997, 
NS announced that it would offer to purchase up to 8.2 million Shares 
(approximately 9.9%), the approximate maximum number of Shares NS can 
buy without triggering Conrail's current anti-takeover defenses, for 
$115 per Share, if Conrail stockholders disapproved at a special meeting 
certain management recommendations designed to facilitate the merger 
with CSX.
     At that special meeting on January 17, 1997, Conrail stockholders
did disapprove those recommendations. Accordingly, on January 22, 1997,
NS amended its pending all-cash tender offer by reducing the number of
Shares sought to 8.2 million; on February 11, 1997, it acquired 
8.2 million Shares for a total of $943 million, pursuant to that amended
offer. These Shares have been placed in a voting trust and under certain
circumstances might have to be sold at a loss. The Conrail board
repeatedly has affirmed its commitment to a merger with CSX.
     On February 12, 1997, NS commenced a second tender offer for the
remaining Shares. NS' second tender offer is conditioned upon, among 
other things, the valid tender of at least Shares sufficient, with
those already owned by NS, to constitute at least a majority of the
Shares on a fully diluted basis, Subchapter 25F of Pennsylvania's
Business Corporation Law not being applicable to the offer, Conrail's
Rights Agreement (or poison pill) having been redeemed or otherwise made
inapplicable to NS' tender offer, the merger agreement between CSX and
Conrail having been terminated in accordance with its terms or otherwise,
and other conditions. NS has received a favorable opinion from the STB
regarding the use of a voting trust and has obtained sufficient financing
commitments (see below).
     The STB has proposed a schedule for handling Conrail control
applications which could result in an STB decision in late 1997 or early
1998. If the STB does not approve NS' application or if NS deems any
conditions imposed by the STB too onerous, NS would have the right and
obligation to sell all Shares held in the voting trust. Such a 
disposition could result in a significant loss.
     Through December 31, 1996, NS had incurred $76 million of costs
associated with the proposed acquisition. These costs, most of which are
debt commitment fees, are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheet in
"Other assets" and, for the portion accrued, in "Other current
liabilities" (see Note 7).
     See also Note 16.
  PAGE 77

Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- -------   -------------------------------------------

15. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (continued)

Debt Commitments
- ----------------
     In connection with the proposed acquisition of Conrail, NS has
secured debt commitments sufficient for the tender offer and subsequent
merger. The commitments expire on August 1, 1997, except for a portion of
a revolving credit facility expiring on August 1, 1998. The total
commitment fees will approximate $200 million if the entire facility is
used. At December 31, 1996, $57 million of commitment fees had been
incurred.
     In connection with the purchase of the 8.2 million Shares, NS
arranged for additional commercial paper debt in an aggregate amount not
to exceed $1.0 billion. All or part of this amount could be refinanced
either by issuing additional commercial paper or through drawing on the
debt commitment that has been arranged in connection with the all-cash
$115 per share tender offer for all Shares.

Lawsuits
- --------
     Norfolk Southern and certain subsidiaries are defendants in numerous
lawsuits relating principally to railroad operations. While the final
outcome of these lawsuits cannot be predicted with certainty, it is the
opinion of Management, after consulting with its legal counsel, that the
amount of NS' ultimate liability will not materially affect NS'
consolidated financial position.

Environmental Matters
- ---------------------
     NS is subject to various jurisdictions' environmental laws and
regulations. It is NS' policy to record a liability where such liability
or loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated. Claims, if any,
against third parties for recovery of clean-up costs incurred by NS are
reflected as receivables in the balance sheet and are not netted against
the associated NS liability. Environmental engineers participate in
ongoing evaluations of all identified sites, and--after consulting with
counsel--any necessary adjustments to initial liability estimates are
made. NS also has established an Environmental Policy Council, composed
of senior managers, to oversee and interpret its environmental policy.
     As of December 31, 1996, NS' balance sheet included a reserve for
environmental exposures in the amount of $53 million (of which 
$12 million is accounted for as a current liability), which is NS' 
estimate of the probable costs at 111 identified locations based on 
available information. On that date, nine sites accounted for 
$19 million of the reserve, and no individual site was considered to 
be material. NS anticipates that the majority of this liability will 
be paid out over five years; however, some costs will be paid out over 
a longer period.
     At many of the 111 locations, certain NS subsidiaries, usually in
conjunction with a number of other parties, have been identified as
potentially responsible parties by the Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) or similar state authorities under the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, or comparable state
statutes, which often impose joint and several liability for clean-up
costs.
     With respect to known environmental sites (whether identified by NS
or by the EPA or comparable state authorities), estimates of NS' ultimate
potential financial exposure for a given site or in the aggregate for all
such sites are necessarily imprecise because of the widely varying costs
of currently available clean-up techniques, the likely development of new
clean-up technologies, the difficulty of determining in advance the
nature and full extent of contamination and each potential participant's
share of any estimated loss (and that participant's ability to bear it)
and evolving statutory and regulatory standards governing liability.
  PAGE 78

Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- -------   -------------------------------------------

15. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (continued)

     The risk of incurring environmental liability--for acts and
omissions, past, present and future--is inherent in the railroad
business. Some of the commodities, particularly those classified as
hazardous materials, in NS' traffic mix can pose special risks that NS
and its subsidiaries work diligently to minimize. In addition, several NS
subsidiaries own, or have owned in the past, land holdings used as
operating property, or which are leased or may have been leased and
operated by others, or held for sale. Because certain conditions may
exist on these properties related to environmental problems that are
latent or undisclosed, there can be no assurance that NS will not incur
liabilities or costs with respect to one or more of them, the amount and
materiality of which cannot be estimated reliably now. Moreover, lawsuits
and claims involving these and other now-unidentified environmental sites
and matters are likely to arise from time to time. The resulting
liabilities could have a significant effect on financial condition,
results of operations or liquidity in a particular year or quarter.
     However, based on its assessments of the facts and circumstances now
known and, after consulting with its legal counsel, Management believes
that it has recorded the probable costs based on available information
for those environmental matters of which the Corporation is aware.
Further, Management believes that it is unlikely that any identified
matters, either individually or in aggregate, will have a material
adverse effect on NS' financial position, results of operations or
liquidity.

Change-in-Control Arrangements
- ------------------------------
     Norfolk Southern has compensation agreements with officers and
certain key employees, which become operative only upon a change in
control of the Corporation, as defined in those agreements. The
agreements provide generally for payments based on compensation at the
time of a covered individual`s involuntary or other specified termination
and for certain other benefits.

Capital Expenditure Commitment
- ------------------------------
     In connection with a long-term transportation contract entered into
during 1996, NS has committed to construct and operate four motor vehicle
distribution centers. These facilities are scheduled for completion in
1998.

Debt Guarantees
- ---------------
     As of December 31, 1996, certain Norfolk Southern subsidiaries are
contingently liable as guarantors with respect to $50.7 million of
indebtedness of related entities.


16. EVENTS SUBSEQUENT TO THE DATE OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS'
    REPORT-CONRAIL DEVELOPMENTS (UNAUDITED)

     Pursuant to an amendment to the merger agreement between CSX 
and Conrail announced on March 7, 1997, CSX has offered to purchase 
all Shares for $115 per Share in cash and CSX is permitted to enter 
into negotiations with other parties, including NS, concerning the 
acquisition of the securities or assets, or concessions relating to 
the assets or operations, of Conrail.  NS and CSX are negotiating 
a comprehensive resolution of the issues confronting the eastern 
railroads based on the proposal submitted by NS to both CSX and 
Conrail on February 24, 1997.  Such a resolution could involve a 
joint acquisition of Shares by NS and CSX.  However, unless and 
until such negotiations are successfully concluded, NS intends to 
continue in effect its tender offer for all Shares not owned 
by NS.
  PAGE 79

                      INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT


The Stockholders and Board of Directors
Norfolk Southern Corporation:

We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Norfolk Southern
Corporation and subsidiaries as listed in the index in Item 8. In
connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we
also have audited the consolidated financial statement schedule listed in
Item 14(a)2. These consolidated financial statements and this
consolidated financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the
Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these consolidated financial statements and this consolidated financial
statement schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test
basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles
used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating
the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of
Norfolk Southern Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1996 and
1995, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each
of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 1996, in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our
opinion, the related consolidated financial statement schedule, when
considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements
taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein.






                                   /s/ KPMG Peat Marwick LLP






Norfolk, Virginia
January 28, 1997, except as to the second and third paragraphs of 
Note 15, which are as of February 12, 1997
  PAGE 80

Item 9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
- -------   -----------------------------------------------------------
          and Financial Disclosure.
          ------------------------

          None.


                                PART III


Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.
- -------   --------------------------------------------------

Item 11.  Executive Compensation.
- -------   ----------------------

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
- -------   -----------------------------------------------
          and Management.
          --------------

          and

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.
- -------   ----------------------------------------------

          In accordance with General Instruction G(3), the information
called for by Part III is incorporated herein by reference from
Norfolk Southern's definitive Proxy Statement, to be dated April
1, 1997, for the Norfolk Southern Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be
held on May 8, 1997, which definitive Proxy Statement will be filed
electronically with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A.  The
information regarding executive officers called for by Item 401 of
Regulation S-K is included in Part I hereof beginning on page 25 under
"Executive Officers of the Registrant."
  PAGE 81

                                 PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedule, and Reports on
- -------   ------------------------------------------------------
          Form 8-K.
          --------

(a)       The following documents are filed as part of this report:

     1.   Index to Consolidated Financial Statements:          Page
          ------------------------------------------           ----
          Consolidated Statements of Income
            Years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994         56

          Consolidated Balance Sheets
            As of December 31, 1996 and 1995                     57

          Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
            Years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994         58

          Consolidated Statements of Changes in
            Stockholders' Equity
            Years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994         59

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements             60

          Independent Auditors' Report                           79


     2.   Financial Statement Schedule:

          The following consolidated financial statement schedule
          should be read in connection with the consolidated financial
          statements:

          Index to Consolidated Financial Statement Schedule   Page
          --------------------------------------------------   ----
          Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts        88

          Schedules other than the one listed above are omitted
          either because they are not required or are inapplicable or
          because the information is included in the consolidated
          financial statements or related notes.
  PAGE 82

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedule, and Reports on
- -------   -------------------------------------------------------
          Form 8-K. (continued)
          --------

     3.   Exhibits

Exhibit
Number                       Description
- -------   --------------------------------------------------
  3       Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws -

  3(i)    The Restated Articles of Incorporation of Norfolk
          Southern Corporation are incorporated herein by
          reference from Exhibit 3(i) to Norfolk Southern's
          1995 Annual Report in Form 10-K.

  3(ii)   The Bylaws of Norfolk Southern Corporation, as
          amended July 23, 1996, are incorporated herein
          by reference from Norfolk Southern's Form 10-Q
          report for the quarter ended September 30, 1996.

  4       Instruments Defining the Rights of Security
          Holders, Including Indentures -

          In accordance with Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of
          Regulation S-K, copies of instruments of Norfolk
          Southern Corporation and its subsidiaries with respect
          to the rights of holders of long-term debt are not
          filed herewith, or incorporated by reference, but will
          be furnished to the Commission upon request.

 10       Material Contracts -

          (a)  The Supplementary Agreement, entered into as
          of January 1, 1987, between the Trustees of the
          Cincinnati Southern Railway and The Cincinnati,
          New Orleans and Texas Pacific Railway Company
          (the latter a wholly owned subsidiary of Norfolk
          Southern Railway) - extending and amending a Lease,
          dated as of October 11, 1881 (both the Lease and
          Supplementary Agreement, formerly incorporated by
          reference from Exhibit 10(b) to Southern's 1987
          Annual Report on Form 10-K) - is incorporated herein
          by reference from Exhibit 10(a) to Norfolk Southern's
          1994 Annual Report on Form 10-K.

          Management Compensation Plans
          -----------------------------
          (b)  The Norfolk Southern Corporation
          Management Incentive Plan, as amended effective
          January 1, 1996, is incorporated herein by reference from
          Exhibit 10(b) to Norfolk Southern's 1995 Annual Report
          on Form 10-K.
  PAGE 83

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedule, and Reports on
- -------   -------------------------------------------------------
          Form 8-K. (continued)
          --------

Exhibit
Number                       Description
- -------   --------------------------------------------------
          (c)  The Norfolk Southern Corporation
          Executive Management Incentive Plan, effective
          January 1, 1996, is incorporated herein by reference from
          Exhibit 10(c) to Norfolk Southern's 1995 Annual Report
          on Form 10-K.

          (d)  The Norfolk Southern Corporation
          Long-Term Incentive Plan as amended effective
          January 23, 1996, is incorporated herein by reference from
          Exhibit 10(d) to Norfolk Southern's 1995 Annual Report
          on Form 10-K.

          (e)  The Norfolk Southern Corporation Officers'
          Deferred Compensation Plan is incorporated
          herein by reference from Exhibit 10(g) to
          Norfolk Southern's 1993 Annual Report on Form 10-K.

          (f)  The Directors' Deferred Fee Plan of
          Norfolk Southern Corporation, as amended effective May 9,
          1996, is incorporated herein by reference from
          Exhibit 10(f) to Norfolk Southern's Form 10-Q Report
          for the quarter ended June 30, 1996.

          (g)  The Norfolk Southern Corporation Directors'
          Restricted Stock Plan effective January 1, 1994,
          is incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 99
          to Norfolk Southern's Form S-8 filed electronically
          on January 26, 1994.

          (h)  Form of Severance Agreement, dated as of
          June 1, 1996, between Norfolk Southern
          Corporation and certain executive officers
          (including those defined as "named executive
          officers" and identified in the Corporation's
          Proxy Statement for the 1997 Annual Meeting of
          Stockholders) is incorporated herein by reference
          from Exhibit 10 to Norfolk Southern's Form 10-Q
          Report for the quarter ended June 30, 1996.

          (i) Norfolk Southern Corporation Supplemental
          (formerly, Excess) Benefit Plan, as amended January 28,
          1997, with such amendment to be effective as of January 1,
          1996, subject to receipt of Internal Revenue Service
          approval of a coordinating provision in the Retirement
          Plan of Norfolk Southern Corporation and Participating
          Subsidiary Companies, is filed herewith.
  PAGE 84

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedule, and Reports on
- -------   -------------------------------------------------------
          Form 8-K. (continued)
          --------

Exhibit
Number                       Description
- -------   --------------------------------------------------

          (j) The Norfolk Southern Corporation Directors'
          Charitable Award Program, effective February 1, 1996,
          is incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10(j)
          to Norfolk Southern's Form 10-Q Report for the
          quarter ended June 30, 1996.

          (k) The Norfolk Southern Corporation Directors'
          Pension Plan, as amended effective June 1, 1996,
          is incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10(k)
          to Norfolk Southern's Form 10-Q Report for the
          quarter ended June 30, 1996.

          (l) The Norfolk Southern Corporation Directors'
          Deferred Stock Unit Program, effective May 9, 1996,
          is incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10(l)
          to Norfolk Southern's Form 10-Q Report for the
          quarter ended June 30, 1996.

          (m)  The Excess Long-Term Disability Plan of
          Norfolk Southern Corporation and Participating
          Subsidiary Companies, effective October 1, 1995,
          is incorporated herein by reference from
          Exhibit 10(m) to Norfolk Southern's Form 10-Q Report
          for the quarter ended June 30, 1996.

 11       Statement re:  Computation of Per Share Earnings.

 12       Statement re:  Computation of Ratio of Earnings to
          Fixed Charges.

 21       Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

 23       Consents of Experts and Counsel -

            Consent of Independent Auditors.

 27       Financial Data Schedule.

(b)       Reports on Form 8-K.

          No reports on Form 8-K were filed for the three
          months ended December 31, 1996.

(c)       Exhibits.

          The Exhibits required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K
          as listed in Item 14(a)3 are filed herewith or
          incorporated herein by reference.
  PAGE 85

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedule, and Reports on
- -------   -------------------------------------------------------
          Form 8-K. (continued)
          --------

Exhibit
Number                       Description
- -------   --------------------------------------------------

(d)       Financial Statement Schedules.

          Financial statement schedules and separate
          financial statements specified by this Item are
          included in Item 14(a)2 or are otherwise not
          required or are not applicable.
  PAGE 86

                            POWER OF ATTORNEY
                            -----------------
          Each person whose signature appears below under "SIGNATURES"
hereby authorizes Henry C. Wolf and James C. Bishop, Jr., or either of
them, to execute in the name of each such person, and to file, any
amendment to this report and hereby appoints Henry C. Wolf and
James C. Bishop, Jr., or either of them, as attorneys-in-fact to sign
on his or her behalf, individually and in each capacity stated below,
and to file, any and all amendments to this report.


                               SIGNATURES
                               ----------
          Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Norfolk Southern Corporation has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized, on this 25th day of March, 1997.


                                   NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION


                         By /s/ David R. Goode
                             -----------------------------------------
                             (David R. Goode, Chairman, President and
                                     Chief Executive Officer)

          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, this report has been signed below on this 25th day of March,
1997, by the following persons on behalf of Norfolk Southern
Corporation and in the capacities indicated.

        Signature                   Title
        ---------                   -----

/s/ David R. Goode
- ------------------------------     Chairman, President and Chief
   (David R. Goode)                Executive Officer and Director
                                   (Principal Executive Officer)

/s/ Henry C. Wolf
- ------------------------------     Executive Vice President-Finance
   (Henry C. Wolf)                 (Principal Financial Officer)


/s/ John P. Rathbone
- ------------------------------     Vice President and Controller
   (John P. Rathbone)              (Principal Accounting Officer)


/s/ Gerald L. Baliles
- ------------------------------               Director
   (Gerald L. Baliles)
  PAGE 87

        Signature                   Title
        ---------                   -----



/s/ Carroll A. Campbell, Jr.
- ------------------------------               Director
   (Carroll A. Campbell, Jr.)



- ------------------------------               Director
   (Gene R. Carter)


/s/ L. E. Coleman
- ------------------------------               Director
   (L. E. Coleman)


/s/ T. Marshall Hahn, Jr.
- ------------------------------               Director
   (T. Marshall Hahn, Jr.)


/s/ Landon Hilliard
- ------------------------------               Director
   (Landon Hilliard)


/s/ E. B. Leisenring, Jr.
- ------------------------------               Director
   (E. B. Leisenring, Jr.)


/s/ Arnold B. McKinnon
- ------------------------------               Director
   (Arnold B. McKinnon)


/s/ Jane Margaret O'Brien
- ------------------------------               Director
   (Jane Margaret O'Brien)


/s/ Harold W. Pote
- ------------------------------               Director
   (Harold W. Pote)
  PAGE 88

                                                       Schedule II
                                                       Page 1 of 2

  PAGE 89

                                                       Schedule II
                                                       Page 2 of 2

  PAGE 90


                              EXHIBIT INDEX
                              -------------

Electronic
Submission
Exhibit                                                        Page
Number                        Description                     Number
- ---------- -------------------------------------------------  ------

  10(i)    Norfolk Southern Corporation Supplemental
           (formerly, Excess) Benefit Plan.                    91-95

  11       Statement re:  Computation of Per Share Earnings.   96-97

  12       Statement re:  Computation of Ratio of Earnings
           to Fixed Charges.                                      98

  21       Subsidiaries of Norfolk Southern Corporation.      99-101

  23       Consent of Independent Auditors.                      102

  27       Financial Data Schedule (This exhibit is
           required to be submitted electronically
           pursuant to the rules and regulations of
           the Securities and Exchange Commission and
           shall not be deemed filed for purposes of
           Section 11 of the Securities Act of 1933
           or Section 18 of the Securities Exchange
           Act of 1934).                                         103





Exhibits 10(i) and 27 are not included in copies assembled for public
dissemination.  If you have a need for this type of information, we will be
pleased to send it to you.  Write to:

                      Office of Corporate Secretary
                      Norfolk Southern Corporation
                         Three Commercial Place
                      Norfolk, Virginia 23510-9211

