10-K


file001.htm

FORM 10-K

UNITED
STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D.C.

FORM
10-K

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION
13 OR 15(d) OF THE

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

FOR THE
FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,

OR

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT
TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF

001-32410

(Commission File
Number)

CELANESE
CORPORATION

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified
in its
Charter)

(972)
443-4000

(Registrant’s telephone number,
including area code)

Securities registered
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
Act

Securities registered pursuant
to Section 12(g) of the Act

None

Indicate by
check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as
defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes

No

Indicate by check mark if the registrant
is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
Section  15(d) of the Act. Yes

No

Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13
or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required
to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes

No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not
contained herein and will not be contained, to the best of the
Registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or
any amendment to this Form 10-K.

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a
large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated
filer. See definition of ‘‘accelerated filer and large
accelerated filer’’ in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act.

Large Accelerated Filer

Accelerated filer

Non-accelerated
filer

Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12-b2 of the
Act).

Yes

No

The
aggregate market value of the registrant’s common stock held by
non-affiliates as of June  30,  2005 (the last business day
of the registrants’ most recently completed second fiscal
quarter) was $926,908,697.

The number of
outstanding shares of the registrant’s Series A Common Stock,
$0.0001 par value, as of February 28, 2006 was 158,562,161.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY
REFERENCE

Certain portions of registrants’
Definitive Proxy Statement for 2006 are incorporated by reference into
Parts II and III.

CELANESE
CORPORATION

Form 10-K

For the Fiscal Year Ended December
31,  2005

TABLE OF
CONTENTS


Basis of
Presentation

In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the term
‘‘Celanese’’ refers to Celanese
Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and not its subsidiaries. The
terms the ‘‘Company,’’
‘‘we,’’ ‘‘our’’
and ‘‘us’’ refer to Celanese and its
subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. The term ‘‘BCP
Crystal’’ refers to our subsidiary, BCP Crystal US
Holdings Corp., a Delaware corporation, and not its subsidiaries. The
term ‘‘Purchaser’’ refers to our
subsidiary, Celanese Europe Holding GmbH & Co. KG, formerly known
as BCP Crystal Acquisition GmbH & Co. KG, a German limited
partnership (

Kommanditgesellschaft, KG

), and not its
subsidiaries, except where otherwise indicated. The term
‘‘Original Shareholders’’ refers,
collectively, to Blackstone Capital Partners (Cayman) Ltd. 1,
Blackstone Capital Partners (Cayman) Ltd. 2, Blackstone Capital
Partners (Cayman) Ltd. 3 and BA Capital Investors Sidecar Fund, L.P.
The terms ‘‘Sponsor’’ and
‘‘Advisor’’ refer to certain affiliates of
The Blackstone Group. For accounting purposes, Celanese and its
consolidated subsidiaries are referred to as the
‘‘Successor.’’

Celanese AG is
incorporated as a stock corporation (

Aktiengesellschaft

, AG)
organized under the laws of the Federal Republic of Germany. As used in
this document, the term ‘‘CAG’’ refers to
(i) prior to the Restructuring, Celanese AG and Celanese Americas
Corporation, their consolidated subsidiaries, their non-consolidated
subsidiaries, ventures and other investments, and (ii) following the
Restructuring, Celanese AG, its consolidated subsidiaries, its
non-consolidated subsidiaries, ventures and other investments, except
that with respect to shareholder and similar matters where the context
indicates, ‘‘CAG’’ refers to Celanese AG.
For accounting purposes, ‘‘Predecessor’’
refers to CAG and its subsidiaries.

In October  2004,
Celanese and certain of its subsidiaries completed an organizational
restructuring (the ‘‘Restructuring’’)
pursuant to which the Purchaser effected, by giving a corresponding
instruction under the Domination Agreement (as defined in
‘‘Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Basis of
Presentation—Impact of the Acquisition of Celanese
AG’’), the transfer of all of the shares of Celanese
Americas Corporation (‘‘CAC’’) from
Celanese Holding GmbH, a wholly owned subsidiary of CAG, to Celanese
Caylux Holdings Luxembourg, formerly BCP Caylux Holdings Luxembourg
S.C.A. (‘‘Celanese Caylux’’), which
resulted in Celanese Caylux owning 100% of the equity of CAC and
indirectly, all of its assets, including subsidiary stock. Thereafter,
Celanese Caylux transferred certain assets, including its equity
ownership interest in CAC to BCP Crystal.

As of the date of this
Annual Report, Celanese has two classes of common stock, Series A
common stock and Series B common stock, and convertible perpetual
preferred stock. In January  2005, Celanese completed an initial
public offering of 50,000,000 shares of Series A common stock. The
Series A common stock is currently held by public shareholders, the
Original Shareholders and certain directors, officers and employees of
the Company. None of the Series B common stock is issued and
outstanding. As used in this Annual Report, the term
‘‘common stock’’ means the Series A common
stock, and the term ‘‘preferred stock’’
means the convertible perpetual preferred stock, in each case unless
otherwise specified.

Pursuant to a voluntary tender offer
commenced in February  2004, the Purchaser, an indirect
wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, in April  2004 acquired
approximately 84% of the ordinary shares of Celanese AG (the
‘‘CAG Shares’’) outstanding. All references
in this document to the outstanding ordinary shares of CAG (as defined
below) exclude treasury shares, unless expressly stated otherwise.
Pursuant to a mandatory offer commenced in September  2004 and
continuing as of the date of this document, the Purchaser acquired
additional CAG shares. In August  2005, the Purchaser acquired
approximately 5.9  million, or approximately 12%, of the
outstanding CAG Shares from two shareholders. As a result of these
acquisitions, partially offset by the issuance of additional CAG shares
as a result of the exercise of options issued under the CAG stock
option plan, as of the date of this document, we own approximately
98% of the outstanding CAG shares. The mandatory offer will
remain open until two months following final resolution of the minority
shareholder award proceedings pending in German courts.

Following
the transfer of CAC to BCP Crystal, (1) BCP Crystal Holdings Ltd. 2
contributed substantially all of its assets and liabilities (including
all outstanding capital stock of Celanese Caylux) to BCP Crystal and
(2) BCP Crystal assumed certain obligations of Celanese Caylux,
including all rights and obligations of Celanese Caylux under the
senior credit facilities, the floating rate term loan and the notes.


BCP Crystal Holdings Ltd. 2 reorganized as a
Delaware limited liability company and changed its name to Celanese
Holdings LLC. Blackstone Crystal Holdings Capital Partners (Cayman) IV
Ltd. reorganized as a Delaware corporation and changed its name to
Celanese Corporation. BCP Crystal, at its discretion, may subsequently
cause the liquidation of Celanese Caylux.

As a result of these
transactions, BCP Crystal holds 100% of CAC’s equity and,
indirectly, all equity owned by CAC in its subsidiaries. In addition,
BCP Crystal holds, indirectly, all of the outstanding common stock of
CAG held by the Purchaser and all of the wholly owned subsidiaries of
Celanese that guarantee Celanese Caylux’s obligations under the
senior credit facilities and guarantee the senior subordinated notes
issued on June  8,  2004 and July  1,  2004 on
an unsecured senior subordinated basis.

The term
‘‘Concurrent Financings’’ refers,
collectively, to the offering of our Series A common stock, the
offering of our preferred stock, the entering into of our amended and
restated senior credit facilities and the use of proceeds therefrom in
each case. See ‘‘Market for the Registrant’s
Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Company Purchases of
Equity Securities—Use of Proceeds.’’ The term
‘‘Transactions’’ refers, collectively, to
the Tender Offer, the borrowing of the original $608  million
term loan and the $1,565  million senior subordinated bridge loan
facilities on April  6,  2004, the June and July
2004 repayment of the senior subordinated bridge loan facilities and
the borrowing of the $350  million floating rate term loan and
the $1,225  million and €200  million of
senior subordinated notes (such June and July  2004 repayment and
borrowings, the ‘‘Refinancing’’) and the
issuance in September  2004 of $853  million aggregate
principal amount at maturity (with $513  million in gross
proceeds) of senior discount notes. See
‘‘Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of
Operations—Liquidity’’.

The consolidated
financial statements of the Successor for the year ended
December  31,  2005 and for the nine months ended
December  31,  2004, and the consolidated financial
statements of the Predecessor for the three months ended March
31,  2004 and for the year ended December  31,  2003
contained in this annual report (collectively, the
‘‘Consolidated Financial Statements’’) were
prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States (‘‘U.S. GAAP’’) for all
periods presented. The Consolidated Financial Statements and other
financial information included in this document, unless otherwise
specified, have been presented to separately show the effects of
discontinued operations.

CAG is a foreign private issuer and
previously filed its consolidated financial statements as of
September  30,  2005 and 2004 in its Annual Report on Form
20-F. In accordance with German law, the reporting currency of the CAG
consolidated financial statements is the euro. As a result of the
Purchaser’s acquisition of voting control of CAG, the financial
statements of CAG contained in this document are reported in U.S.
dollars to be consistent with our reporting requirements. For
CAG’s reporting requirements, the euro continues to be the
reporting currency.

Market Industry and Data
Forecasts

This document includes industry data and forecasts
that Celanese has prepared based, in part, upon industry data and
forecasts obtained from industry publications and surveys and internal
company surveys. Third-party industry publications and surveys and
forecasts generally state that the information contained therein has
been obtained from sources believed to be reliable. In this document,
the terms ‘‘SRI Handbook,’’
‘‘CMAI Methanol Analysis,’’
‘‘Nexant Chem Study 2003,’’
‘‘Nexant Chem Study 2002’’ and
‘‘Tecnon Orbichem Survey’’ refer to the
SRI

International Chemical Economics Handbook

,

CMAI 2004
World Methanol Analysis

, Nexant Chem Systems

September
2003 PERP Acetic Acid Study

, Nexant Chem Systems

February
2002 Vinyl Acetate Study

and Tecnon Orbichem

Acetic Acid and
Vinyl Acetate World Survey

fourth quarter 2005 report,
respectively. The statements regarding Celanese’s market
position in this document are based on information derived from the SRI
Handbook, CMAI Methanol Analysis, Tecnon Orbichem Survey, Nexant Chem
Study 2002 and Nexant Chem Study 2003.

AO Plus™,
BuyTiconaDirect™, CelActiv

®

,
Celanex

®

, Celcon

®

,
Celstran

®

, Celvolit

®

,
Compel

®

, GUR

®

,
Hoecat

®

, Hostaform

®

,
Impet

®

, Impet-HI

®

,
Mowilith

®

, Nutrinova

®

DHA,
Riteflex

®

, Sunett

®

,
Topas

®

, Vandar

®

, VAntage™,
Vectra

®

, Vectran

®

,
Vinamul

®

, Elite

®

,
Duroset

®

and certain other products and services
named in this document are registered trademarks and service marks of
CAG. Acetex

®

is a registered trademark of Acetex
Corporation, a subsidiary of the Company. Fortron

®

is
a registered trademark of Fortron Industries, a venture of
Celanese.


Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking
Statements

Investors are cautioned that the forward-looking
statements contained in this Annual Report involve both risk and
uncertainty. Many important factors could cause actual results to
differ materially from those anticipated by these statements. Many of
these factors are macroeconomic in nature and are, therefore, beyond
our control. See ‘‘Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations—Forward-Looking Statements May Prove
Inaccurate.’’


Item
1.

Business

Celanese Corporation

We are an
integrated global producer of value-added industrial chemicals and have
the first or second market positions worldwide in products comprising
the majority of our sales. We are the world’s largest producer
of acetyl products, including acetic acid and vinyl acetate monomer
("VAM"), polyacetal products
("POM"), as well as a leading global producer
of high-performance engineered polymers used in consumer and industrial
products and designed to meet highly technical customer requirements.
Our operations are located in North America, Europe and Asia. In
addition, we have substantial ventures primarily in Asia. We believe we
are one of the lowest-cost producers of key building block chemicals in
the acetyls chain, such as acetic acid and VAM, due to our economies of
scale, operating efficiencies and proprietary production
technologies.

We have a large and diverse global customer base
consisting principally of major companies in a broad array of
industries. For the year ended December  31,  2005,
approximately 36% of our net sales were to customers located in
North America, approximately 40% to customers in Europe and
Africa and approximately 24% to customers in Asia, Australia,
and the rest of the world.

Segment Overview

We operate
principally through four business segments: Chemical Products,
Technical Polymers Ticona, Acetate Products and Performance Products.
The table below illustrates each segment’s net sales to external
customers for the year ended December  31,  2005, as well
as each segment’s major products and end use
markets.

(1)

Consolidated
net sales of $6,070  million for the year ended December
31,  2005, also include $144  million in net sales from
Other Activities, primarily attributable to our captive insurance
companies and our AT Plastics business. Net sales in 2005 of Chemical
Products excludes inter-segment sales of $136  million for the
year ended December  31,
2005.

(2)

In  2005, we exited the
acetate filament business and commenced consolidating our flake and tow
production to three sites, instead of
five.

Chemical Products

Our
Chemical Products segment produces and supplies acetyl products,
including acetic acid, acetate esters, VAM, polyvinyl alcohol and
emulsions. We are a leading global producer of acetic acid, the
world’s largest producer of VAM and the largest North American
producer of methanol, the major raw material used for the production of
acetic acid. We are also the largest polyvinyl alcohol producer in
North America. These products are generally used as building blocks for
value-added products or in intermediate chemicals used in the paints,
coatings, inks, adhesives, films, textiles and building products
industries. Other chemicals produced in this segment are organic
solvents and intermediates for pharmaceutical, agricultural and
chemical products. For the year ended December  31,  2005,
net sales to external customers of acetyls were $1,966  million,
acetyl derivatives and polyols were $1,003  million and all other
business lines combined were $1,231  million.


Technical Polymers
Ticona

Our Technical Polymers Ticona segment
(‘‘Ticona’’) develops, produces and
supplies a broad portfolio of high performance technical polymers for
application in automotive and electronics products and in other
consumer and industrial applications, often replacing metal or glass.
Together with our 45%-owned venture Polyplastics Co., Ltd.
("Polyplastics"), our 50%-owned
venture Korea Engineering Plastics Company Ltd., or KEPCO, and Fortron
Industries, our 50-50 venture with Kureha Chemicals Industry of Japan,
we are a leading participant in the global technical polymers business.
The primary products of Ticona are polyacetal products or POM, and GUR,
an ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene. POM is used in a broad
range of products including automotive components, electronics and
appliances. GUR is used in battery separators, conveyor belts,
filtration equipment, coatings and medical devices. For the year ended
December 31, 2005, sales to external customers in this segment
were $887  million.

Acetate
Products

Our Acetate Products segment primarily produces
and supplies acetate tow, which is used in the production of filter
products. We are one of the world’s leading producers of acetate
tow, including production by our ventures in China. In October
2004, we announced plans to consolidate our acetate flake and tow
manufacturing by early 2007 and to exit the acetate filament business,
which ceased production in April  2005. This restructuring is
being implemented to increase efficiency, reduce over-capacities in
certain manufacturing areas and to focus on products and markets that
provide long-term value. For the year ended December  31,
2005, sales to external customers in this segment were $659
million.

Performance Products

The
Performance Products segment operates under the trade name of Nutrinova
and produces and sells Sunett high intensity sweetener and food
protection ingredients, such as sorbates, for the food, beverage and
pharmaceuticals industries. For the year ended December
31,  2005, sales to external customers in this segment were
$180  million.

Competitive Strengths

We benefit
from a number of competitive strengths, including the
following:

Leading Market Positions

We
have the first or second market positions globally in products that
make up a majority of our sales. We are a leading global producer of
acetic acid and the world’s largest producer of VAM. Ticona and
our ventures, Polyplastics and KEPCO, are leading suppliers of POM and
other engineering resins in North America, Europe and the Asia/Pacific
region. Our leadership positions are based on our large share of global
production capacity, operating efficiencies, proprietary technology and
competitive cost structures in our major
products.

Proprietary Production Technology and
Operating Expertise

Our production of acetyl products
employs industry leading proprietary and licensed technologies,
including our proprietary AO Plus acid-optimization technology for the
production of acetic acid and VAntage vinyl acetate monomer technology.
AO Plus enables plant capacity to be increased with minimal investment,
while VAntage enables significant increases in production efficiencies,
lower operating costs and increases in capacity at ten to fifteen
percent of the cost of building a new plant.

Low
Cost Producer

Our competitive cost structures are based on
economies of scale, vertical integration, technical know-how and the
use of advanced technologies.


Global Reach

We
operate thirty-one production facilities throughout the world. The
ventures in which we participate operate ten additional facilities. We
have a strong and growing presence in Asia (particularly in China). Our
infrastructure of manufacturing plants, terminals, and sales offices
provides us with a competitive advantage in anticipating and meeting
the needs of our global and local customers in well-established and
growing markets, while our geographic diversity reduces the potential
impact of volatility in any individual country or
region.

International Strategic
Investments

Our strategic investments, including our
ventures, have enabled us to gain access, minimize costs and accelerate
growth in new markets, while also generating significant cash flow and
earnings. Our equity investments and cost investments represent an
important component of our growth strategy. During the year ended
December  31,  2005, we received $66  million and $89
million in dividends from our strategic equity and cost investments,
respectively. Also, for the year ended December 31, 2005, we recorded
$61  million of earnings from our equity investments in equity in
net earnings from affiliates. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements and "Investments" commencing on
page 18 of this Item 1 for additional information on our equity and
cost investments.

Diversified Products and End-Use
Markets

We offer our customers a broad range of products in
a wide variety of end-use markets. For example, Ticona offers customers
a broad range of high-quality engineering plastics to meet the needs of
customers in numerous end-use markets, such as automotive,
electrical/electronics, appliance and medical. Chemical Products has
leading market positions in an integrated chain of basic and
performance-based acetyl products, sold into diverse industrial
applications. This product diversity and market exposure help us to
reduce the potential impact of volatility in any individual market
segment.

Business Strategies

We are focused on increasing
operating cash flows, profitability, return on investment and
shareholder value, which we believe can be achieved through the
following business strategies:

Maintain Cost
Advantage and Productivity Leadership

We continually seek
to reduce our production and raw material costs. In July  2005 we
commenced purchasing most of our North American internal methanol
requirements from Southern Chemical Corporation under a multi-year
agreement at a lower cost than we could manufacture ourselves. Our
advanced process control ("APC") projects
generate savings in energy and raw materials while increasing yields in
production units. Most significantly, Six Sigma is a pervasive and
important tool in both operations and administration for achieving
greater productivity and growth. We continue to focus on opportunities
and process technology improvements focused on energy reduction. We
will continue using best practices to reduce costs and increase
equipment reliability in maintenance and project
engineering.

Focused Business
Investment

We intend to continue investing strategically in
growth areas, including new production capacity, to extend our global
market leadership position. Historically, our strong market position
has enabled us to initiate capacity growth to take advantage of
projected demand growth. For example, we are building a 600,000 metric
ton per year world-scale acetic acid plant in China, the world’s
fastest growing market for acetic acid and its derivatives. The plant
is scheduled for commercial sales in the first quarter of 2007. Our
plans include adding the right capacity at the right time, in the right
location, at the right cost.

Deliver Value-Added
Solutions

We continually develop new products and industry
leading production technologies that solve our customers’
problems. For example, Ticona has worked closely with fuel system
suppliers to develop an


acetal copolymer with the chemical and impact
resistance necessary to withstand exposure to hot diesel fuels. In our
emulsions business, we pioneered a technological solution that leads
the industry in product offerings for ecologically friendly emulsions
for solvent-free interior paints. We believe that our customers value
our expertise, and we will continue to work with them to enhance the
quality of their products.

Enhance Value of
Portfolio

We will continue to further optimize our business
portfolio through divestitures, acquisitions and strategic investments
that enable us to focus on businesses in which we can achieve market,
cost and technology leadership over the long term. In addition, we
intend to continue to expand our product mix into higher value-added
products. We acquired Vinamul, the North American and European emulsion
polymer business of National Starch and Chemical Company
("NSC"), a subsidiary of Imperial Chemical
Industries PLC ("Vinamul"), in
February  2005 and Acetex Corporation
("Acetex"), a producer of acetyl products and
specialty polymers and films in July  2005. We divested non-core
businesses, such as acrylates in 2004, as well as our interest in a
fuel cell venture, our omega-3 DHA performance product business, and
our cyclo-olefin copolymer business
(‘‘COC’’), in 2005.

Business
Segments

C

HEMICAL

P

RODUCTS

The Chemical Products segment consists of
six business lines: Acetyls, Acetyl Derivatives and Polyols, Polyvinyl
Alcohol, Emulsions, Specialties, and other chemical activities. All
business lines in this segment mainly conduct business using the
‘‘Celanese’’ trade name, except Polyvinyl
Alcohol, which uses the trademark Celvol, Emulsions, which uses the
trademarks Mowilith and Celvolit, Vinamul, Elite, Duroset, and Acetex.
The following table lists key products and their major end use
markets.

Business
Lines

Acetyls.

The acetyls business line
produces:

•

Acetic acid, used to manufacture
VAM and other acetyl derivatives. We manufacture acetic acid for our
own use, as well as for sale to third parties, including producers of
purified terephthalic acid, or PTA, and to other participants in the
acetyl derivatives business;


•

VAM, used in a
variety of adhesives, paints, films, coatings and textiles. We
manufacture VAM for our own use, as well as for sale to third
parties;

•

Methanol, principally sold to the
merchant market;

•

Acetic anhydride, a raw
material used in the production of cellulose acetate, detergents and
pharmaceuticals; and

•

Acetaldehyde, a major
feedstock for the production of polyols. Acetaldehyde is also used in
other organic compounds such as pyridines, which are used in
agricultural products.

Acetic acid, methanol, and VAM, like other
commodity products, are characterized by cyclicality in pricing. The
principal raw materials in these products are natural gas and ethylene,
which we purchase from numerous sources; carbon monoxide, which we both
manufacture and purchase under long-term contracts; methanol, which we
both manufacture and purchase under long-term and short-term contracts;
and butane, which we purchase from one supplier and can also obtain
from other sources. All these raw materials, except carbon monoxide,
are commodities and are available from a wide variety of
sources.

Our production of acetyl products employs leading
proprietary and licensed technologies, including our proprietary AO
Plus acid-optimization technology for the production of acetic acid and
VAntage vinyl acetate monomer technology. AO Plus enables plant
capacity to be increased with minimal investment, while VAntage enables
significant increases in production efficiencies, lower operating costs
and increases in capacity at 10 to 15% of the cost of building a
new plant.

Acetyl Derivatives and Polyols.

The
acetyl derivatives and polyols business line produces a variety of
solvents, polyols, formaldehyde and other chemicals, which in turn are
used in the manufacture of paints, coatings, adhesives, and other
products.

Many acetyl derivatives products are derived from our
production of acetic acid and oxo alcohols. Primary products
are:

•

Ethyl acetate, an acetate ester that
is a solvent used in coatings, inks and adhesives and in the
manufacture of photographic films and coated
papers;

•

Butyl acetate, an acetate ester
that is a solvent used in inks, pharmaceuticals and
perfume;

•

Propyl acetate, an acetate ester
that is a solvent used in inks, lacquers and
plastics;

•

Methyl ethyl ketone, a solvent
used in the production of printing inks and magnetic
tapes;

•

Butyric acid, an intermediate for
the production of esters used in artificial
flavors;

•

Propionic acid, an organic acid
used to protect and preserve grain;
and

•

Formic acid, an organic acid used in
textile dyeing and leather tanning.

Polyols and formaldehyde
products are derivatives of methanol and are made up of the following
products:

•

Formaldehyde, primarily used to
produce adhesive resins for plywood, particle board, POM engineering
resins and a compound used in making
polyurethane;

•

Polyol products such as
pentaerythritol, used in coatings and synthetic lubricants;
trimethylolpropane, used in synthetic lubricants; neopentyl glycol,
used in powder coatings; and 1,3-butylene glycol, used in flavorings
and plasticizers.

Oxo alcohols and intermediates are produced
from propylene and ethylene and
include:

•

Butanol, used as a solvent for
lacquers, dopes and thinners, and as an intermediate in the manufacture
of chemicals, such as butyl
acrylate;

•

Propanol, used as an
intermediate in the production of amines for agricultural chemicals,
and as a solvent for inks, resins, insecticides and waxes;
and

•

Synthesis gas, used as an intermediate
in the production of oxo alcohols and specialties.


Acetyl derivatives and polyols are
commodity products characterized by cyclicality in pricing. The
principal raw materials used in the acetyl derivatives business line
are acetic acid, various alcohols, methanol, acetaldehyde, propylene,
ethylene and synthesis gas. We manufacture many of these raw materials
for our own use as well as for sales to third parties, including our
competitors in the acetyl derivatives business. We purchase propylene
and ethylene from a variety of sources. We manufacture acetaldehyde for
our European production, but we purchase all acetaldehyde requirements
for our North American operations from third parties. Acetaldehyde is
also available from other sources.

Polyvinyl
Alcohol.

Polyvinyl alcohol, or PVOH, is sold under the
Celvol trademark and is a performance chemical engineered to satisfy
particular customer requirements. It is used in adhesives, building
products, paper coatings, films and textiles. The primary raw material
to produce PVOH is VAM, while acetic acid is produced as a by-product.
Prices vary depending on industry segment and end use application.
Products are sold on a global basis, and competition is from all
regions of the world. Therefore, regional economies and supply and
demand balances affect the level of competition in other regions.
According to industry sources on PVOH, we are the largest North
American producer of PVOH and the third largest producer in the
world.

Emulsions.

The products in Celanese’s
emulsions business include conventional emulsions and high-pressure
vinyl acetate ethylene emulsions. Emulsions are made from VAM, acrylate
esters and styrene. They are a key component of water-based quality
surface coatings, adhesives, non-woven textiles and other applications.
Emulsions are sold under the Mowilith and Celvolit brands, and, since
February  2005, the Vinamul, Elite and Duroset brands.

Specialties.

The specialties business line
produces:

•

Carboxylic acids such as
pelargonic acid, used in detergents and synthetic lubricants, and
heptanoic acid, used in plasticizers and synthetic
lubricants;

•

Amines such as methyl amines,
used in agrochemicals, monoisopropynol amines, used in herbicides, and
butyl amines, used in the treatment of rubber and in water treatment;
and

•

Oxo derivatives and special solvents,
such as crotonaldehyde, which is used by the Performance Products
segment for the production of sorbates, as well as raw materials for
the fragrance and food ingredients industry.

The prices for these
products are relatively stable due to long-term contracts with
customers whose industries are not generally subject to the cyclical
trends of commodity chemicals.

The primary raw materials for
these products are olefins and ammonia, which are purchased from world
market suppliers based on international prices.

We contributed
our commercial, technical and operational oxo business activities in
Oberhausen, Germany to European Oxo GmbH, Celanese’s European
oxo chemicals venture with Degussa AG
("Degussa"). The venture began operations in
October  2003.

Facilities

Chemical
Products has production sites in the United States, Canada, Mexico,
Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Slovenia, the United Kingdom, the
Netherlands, France and Germany. The emulsions business line also has
tolling arrangements in France. We also participate in a venture in
Saudi Arabia that produces methanol and Methyl Tertiary-Butyl Ether or
MTBE. Over the last few years, we have continued to shift our
production capacity to lower cost production facilities while expanding
in growth markets, such as China. As a result, we shut down our
formaldehyde unit in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada in mid-2004 and
announced in August  2005 that we intend to close this unit in
late 2006 or early 2007.

Capital
Expenditures

The Chemical Products segment’s capital
expenditures by the Successor for the year ended December
31,  2005 were $111 million and for the nine months ended
December  31,  2004 were $64  million. Chemical
Products capital expenditures by the Predecessor were $15
million for the three months ended


March  31,  2004 and $109
million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The capital expenditures
incurred during these periods related primarily to efficiency and
safety improvement-related items associated with the normal operations
of the business. Capital expenditures in 2003 also included the
integration of a company-wide SAP
system.

Markets

The following table
illustrates net sales by destination of the Chemical Products segment
by geographic region of the Successor for the year ended
December  31,  2005 and for the nine months ended
December  31,  2004, and of the Predecessor for the three
months ended March  31,  2004, and for the year ended
December  31,  2003.

Net Sales to External Customers
by Destination—Chemical
Products

Chemical
Products markets its products both directly to customers and through
distributors. It also utilizes a number of
‘‘e-channels’’, including its website at
www.chemvip.com, as well as system to system linking through its
industry portal, Elemica.

Acetic acid and VAM are global
businesses which have several large customers. Generally, we supply
these global customers under multi-year contracts. The customers of
acetic acid and VAM produce polymers used in water-based paints,
adhesives, paper coatings, film modifiers and textiles. We have
long-standing relationships with most of these customers.

PVOH is
sold to a diverse group of regional and multinational customers mainly
under single year contracts. The customers of the PVOH business line
are primarily engaged in the production of adhesives, paper, films,
building products, and textiles. Polyvinyl acetate and ethylene vinyl
alcohol, both of which we acquired in July  2005 in the Acetex
acquisition, are used in chewing gum and packaging materials,
respectively.

Emulsions are sold to a diverse group of regional
and multinational customers. Customers for emulsions are manufacturers
of water-based quality surface coatings, adhesives, and non-woven
textiles.

Acetyl derivatives and polyols are sold to a diverse
group of regional and multinational customers both under multi-year
contracts and on the basis of long-standing relationships. The
customers of acetyl derivatives are primarily engaged in the production
of paints, coatings and adhesives. In addition to our own demand for
acetyl derivatives to produce cellulose acetate, we sell acetyl
derivatives to other participants in the cellulose acetate industry. We
manufacture formaldehyde for our own use as well as for sale to a few
regional customers that include manufacturers in the wood products and
chemical derivatives industries. The sale of formaldehyde is based on
both long and short term agreements. Polyols are sold globally to a
wide variety of customers, primarily in the coatings and resins and the
specialty products industries. Oxo products are sold to a wide variety
of customers, primarily in the construction and automotive industries
and are used internally to produce acetyl derivatives. The oxo market
is characterized by oversupply and numerous competitors.

The
specialties business line primarily serves global markets in the
synthetic lubricant, agrochemical, rubber processing and other
specialty chemical areas. Much of the specialties business line
involves ‘‘one customer, one product’’
relationships, where the business develops customized products with the
customer, but the specialties business line also sells several
chemicals which are priced more like commodity
chemicals.


Competition

Our
principal competitors in the Chemical Products segment include Air
Products and Chemicals, Inc., Atofina S.A., BASF AG
("BASF"), Borden Chemical, Inc., BP p.l.c.
(‘‘BP’’), Chang Chun Petrochemical Co.,
Ltd., Daicel Chemical Industries Ltd.
("Daicel"), The Dow Chemical Company
("Dow"), Eastman Chemical Corporation
(‘‘Eastman’’), E. I. DuPont de Nemours and
Company (‘‘DuPont’’), Methanex Corporation,
Lyondell Chemical Company (‘‘Lyondell’’),
Nippon Gohsei, Perstorp Inc., Rohm & Haas Company
("Rohm and Haas"), Showa Denko K.K., and
Kuraray Co. Ltd.

T

ECHNICAL

P

OLYMERS

T

ICONA

The Technical Polymers Ticona
segment develops, produces and supplies a broad portfolio of high
performance technical polymers. The following table lists key Ticona
products, their trademarks, and their major end use
markets.

* Fortron is a
registered trademark of Fortron Industries.

Ticona technical
polymers have chemical and physical properties enabling them, among
other things, to withstand high temperatures, resist chemical reactions
with solvents and resist fracturing or stretching. These products are
used in a wide range of performance-demanding applications in the
automotive and electronics sectors and in other consumer and industrial
goods, often replacing metal or glass.

Ticona works in concert
with its customers to enable innovations and develop new or enhanced
products. Ticona focuses its efforts on developing new markets and
applications for its product lines, often developing custom
formulations to satisfy the technical and processing requirements of a
customer’s applications. For example, Ticona has worked closely
with fuel system suppliers to develop an acetal copolymer with the
chemical and impact resistance necessary to withstand exposure to hot
diesel fuels in the new generation of common rail diesel engines. The
product can also be used in automotive fuel sender units where it
remains stable at the high operating temperatures present in
direct-injection diesel engines.

Ticona’s customer base
consists primarily of a large number of plastic molders and component
suppliers, which are often the primary suppliers to original equipment
manufacturers, or OEMs. Ticona works with these molders and component
suppliers as well as directly with the OEMs to develop and improve
specialized applications and systems.

Prices for most of these
products, particularly specialized product grades for targeted
applications, generally reflect the value added in complex polymer
chemistry, precision formulation and compounding, and the extensive
application development services provided. The specialized product
lines are not particularly susceptible to cyclical swings in pricing.
POM pricing, mainly in standard grades, is, however, somewhat more
price competitive, with many minimum-service providers competing for
volume sales.


Business
Lines

POM are sold under the trademark Hostaform and Amcel
in all regions but North America, where we sell them under the
trademark Celcon. Polyplastics, in which we hold a 45% ownership
interest, and KEPCO, in which we hold a 50% ownership interest,
are leading suppliers of POM and other engineering resins in the
Asia/Pacific region. POM are used for mechanical parts, including door
locks and seat belt mechanisms, in automotive applications and in
electrical, consumer and medical applications such as drug delivery
systems and gears for appliances.

The primary raw material for
POM is formaldehyde, which is manufactured from methanol. Ticona
currently purchases formaldehyde in the United States from our Chemical
Products segment and, in Europe, manufactures formaldehyde from
purchased methanol.

GUR, an ultra high molecular weight
polyethylene or PE-UHMW, is an engineered material used in heavy-duty
automotive and industrial applications such as car battery separator
panels and industrial conveyor belts, as well as in specialty medical
and consumer applications, such as porous tips for marker pens, sports
equipment and prostheses. GUR micro powder grades are used for high
performance filters, membranes, diagnostic devices, coatings and
additives for thermoplastics & elastomers. PE-UHMW fibers are also
used in protective ballistic applications. The basic raw material for
GUR is ethylene.

Celstran and Compel are long fiber reinforced
thermoplastics, which impart extra strength and stiffness, making them
more suitable for larger parts than conventional
thermoplastics.

Polyesters such as Celanex polybutylene
terephthalate, or PBT, and Vandar, a series of PBT-polyester blends,
are used in a wide variety of automotive, electrical and consumer
applications, including ignition system parts, radiator grilles,
electrical switches, appliance housings, boat fittings and perfume
bottle caps. Raw materials for polyesters vary. Base monomers, such as
dimethyl terephthalate or DMT and PTA, are widely available with
pricing dependent on broader polyester fiber and packaging resins
market conditions. Smaller volume specialty co-monomers for these
products are typically supplied by a few companies.

Liquid
crystal polymers, or LCPs, such as Vectra, are used in electrical and
electronics applications and for precision parts with thin walls and
complex shapes.

Fortron, a polyphenylene sulfide, or PPS product,
is used in a wide variety of automotive and other applications,
especially those requiring heat and/or chemical resistance, including
fuel system parts, radiator pipes and halogen lamp housings, and often
replaces metal in these demanding applications. Fortron is manufactured
by Fortron Industries, Ticona’s 50-50 venture with Kureha
Chemicals Industry Co., Ltd. ("KCI") of
Japan.

In December  2004, we approved a plan to dispose of
Ticona’s COC business. The sale of the COC business was
completed in December
2005.

Facilities

Ticona has
polymerization, compounding and research and technology centers in
Germany, Brazil and the United States. Ticona’s Kelsterbach,
Germany production site is located in close proximity to one of the
sites being considered for a new runway under the Frankfurt
airport’s expansion plans. The construction of this particular
runway could have a negative effect on the plant’s current
production capacity and future development. While the state government
of Hesse and the owner of the airport promote the expansion of this
option, it is uncertain whether this option is in accordance with
applicable laws. Although the state government of Hesse expects the
plan approval for the airport expansion in 2007 and the start of
operations in 2009-2010, neither the final outcome of this matter nor
its timing can be predicted at this time.

Capital
Expenditures

Ticona’s capital expenditures by the
Successor for the year ended December  31,  2005 and the
nine months ended December  31,  2004 was $54 million and
$64  million, respectively. Ticona’s capital


expenditures by the Predecessor were
$20  million for the three months ended March  31,
2004 and $56  million for the year ended December 31, 2003.
Ticona had expenditures in each of these periods relating primarily to
efficiency and safety improvement associated with the normal operations
of the business. In 2004, Ticona completed its expansion of its
Oberhausen GUR PE-UHMW capacity by 10,000 metric tons per year, and
increased its North American POM capacity by 20% to 102,000
tons. The capital expenditures for 2003 also included construction of a
new administrative building in Florence, Kentucky and the integration
of a company-wide SAP system.

Markets

The
following table illustrates the destination of the net sales of the
Technical Polymers Ticona segment by geographic region of the Successor
for the year ended December  31,  2005 and the nine months
ended December  31,  2004, and of the Predecessor for the
three months ended March  31,  2004 and for the year ended
December  31,  2003.

Net Sales to External Customers
by Destination—Technical Polymers
Ticona

Ticona’s
sales in the Asian market are made mainly through its ventures,
Polyplastics, KEPCO and Fortron Industries, which are accounted for
under the equity method and therefore not included in Ticona’s
consolidated net sales. If Ticona’s portion of the sales made by
these ventures were included in the chart above, the percentage of
sales sold in Asia/Australia would be substantially higher. A number of
Ticona’s POM customers, particularly in the appliance,
electrical components, toys and certain sections of the
electronics/telecommunications fields, have moved tooling and molding
operations to Asia, particularly southern China. To meet the expected
increased demand in this region, we, along with Polyplastics,
Mitsubishi Gas Chemical Company Inc., and KEPCO agreed on a venture to
construct and operate a world-scale 60,000 metric ton POM facility in
China. We indirectly own an approximate 38% interest in this
venture. Work on the new facility commenced in July  2003, and
the new plant commenced operations in September
2005.

Ticona’s principal customers are suppliers to the
automotive industries as well as industrial suppliers. These customers
primarily produce engineered products, and Ticona works closely with
its customers to assist them to develop and improve specialized
applications and systems. Ticona has long-standing relationships with
most of its major customers, but it also uses distributors for most of
its major products, as well as a number of electronic channels, such as
its BuyTiconaDirect on-line ordering system, and other electronic
marketplaces to reach a larger customer base. For most of
Ticona’s product lines, contracts with customers typically have
a term of one to two years. A significant swing in the economic
conditions of the end markets of Ticona’s principal customers
could significantly affect the demand for Ticona’s
products.

Competition

Ticona’s
principal competitors include BASF, DuPont, General Electric Company
("GE") and Solvay S.A. Smaller regional
competitors include Asahi Kasei Corporation, DSM NV, Mitsubishi
Plastics, Inc., Chevron Phillips Chemical Company, L.P.
("Chevron"), Braskem S.A., Teijin and Toray
Industries Inc.


A

CETATE

P

RODUCTS

The Acetate Products segment
consists of acetate filter products or acetate tow, which uses the
‘‘Celanese’’ brand to market its products.
The acetate tow market continues to be characterized by stability and
slow growth. The segment’s acetate filament business line was
discontinued in the fourth quarter of 2005.

Business
Lines

Acetate filter products are used primarily in
cigarette filters. According to the 2002 Stanford Research Institute
International Chemical Economics Handbook, we are the world’s
leading producer of acetate tow, including production of our ventures
in Asia.

We produce acetate flake by processing wood pulp with
acetic anhydride. We purchase wood pulp that is made from reforested
trees from major suppliers and produce acetic anhydride internally. The
acetate flake is then further processed into acetate fiber in the form
of a tow band.

We have an approximately 30% interest in
three manufacturing ventures in China that produce cellulose acetate
flake and tow. Our partner in each of the ventures is a Chinese
state-owned tobacco entity. In addition, 17% of our 2005 acetate
tow sales were sold directly to China, the largest single market for
acetate tow in the world. Two of the ventures completed tow expansions
in January 2005, and the third venture completed its tow expansion in
June 2005. Flake expansion is expected to be completed in 2007.
Although our direct tow sales into China will decrease as a result of
the venture expansions, the future dividends that we expect to receive
from these ventures are projected to increase.

Acetate Products
is continuing its cost reduction and operations improvement efforts.
These efforts are directed toward reducing costs while achieving higher
productivity of employees and equipment. In addition to restructuring
activities previously undertaken, we outsourced the operation and
maintenance of our utility operations at the Narrows, Virginia and Rock
Hill, South Carolina plants in 2003. We also closed our Charlotte,
North Carolina administrative and research and development facility and
relocated the functions there to the Rock Hill and Narrows locations.
The relocation was substantially completed during the third quarter of
2004. In July  2005, we relocated our Rock Hill administrative
functions to our Dallas corporate headquarters. In December 2005 we
sold our Rock Hill and Charlotte
sites.

Facilities

Acetate Products has
production sites in the United States, Canada, Mexico and Belgium, and
participates in three manufacturing ventures in China. In
October  2004, we announced plans to close the Rock Hill, South
Carolina, production site, which occurred in April  2005, and to
shutdown production of acetate products at the Edmonton, Alberta,
Canada site by 2007. Additionally, filament production at Narrows and
Ocotlan was discontinued by mid-2005 and flake production at Ocotlan
was recommissioned in the first quarter of
2005.

Capital Expenditures

Acetate
Products capital expenditures by the Successor for the year ended
December  31,  2005 and the nine months ended
December  31,  2004 were $35 million and $32
million, respectively. The Acetate Products segment’s capital
expenditures by the Predecessor were $8  million for the three
months ended March  31,  2004 and $39  million for
the year ended December 31, 2003. The capital expenditures incurred
during these years related primarily to efficiency, environmental and
safety improvement-related items associated with the normal operations
of the business. Capital expenditures in 2003 also included the
integration of a company-wide SAP
system.

Markets

The following table
illustrates the destination of the net sales of Acetate Products by
geographic region of the Successor for the year ended December
31,  2005 and the nine months ended December  31,
2004, and of the Predecessor for the three months ended March
31,  2004 and for the year ended December  31,
2003.


Net Sales to External Customers by
Destination—Acetate
Products

Sales
in the acetate filter products industry were principally to the major
tobacco companies that account for a majority of worldwide cigarette
production. Our contracts with most of our customers, including our
largest customer, with whom we have a long-standing relationship, are
entered into on an annual basis. In recent years, the cigarette
industry has experienced
consolidation.

Competition

Principal
competitors in the Acetate Products segment include Acetate Products
Ltd. ("Acordis"), Daicel, Eastman and Rhodia
S.A.
(‘‘Rhodia’’).

P

ERFORMANCE

P

RODUCTS

The Performance Products segment
consists of the food ingredients business conducted by Nutrinova. This
business uses its own trade names to conduct business. The following
table lists key products of the Performance Products segment and their
major end use
markets.

Business
Lines

Nutrinova’s food ingredients business consists
of the production and sale of high intensity sweeteners and food
protection ingredients, such as sorbic acid and sorbates worldwide, as
well as the resale of other food ingredients mainly in Japan, Australia
and Mexico.

Acesulfame-K, a high intensity sweetener marketed
under the trademark Sunett, is used in a variety of beverages,
confections and dairy products throughout the world. The primary raw
materials for this product are diketene and sulfur trioxide. Sunett
pricing for targeted applications reflects the value added by
Nutrinova, such as technical services provided. Nutrinova’s
strategy is to be the most reliable and highest quality producer of
this product, to develop new applications for the product and to expand
into new markets. Nutrinova maintains a strict patent enforcement
strategy, which has resulted in favorable outcomes in a number of
patent infringement matters in Europe and the United States.
Nutrinova’s European and U.S. primary production patents for
making Sunett expired at the end of the first quarter of
2005.

Nutrinova’s food protection ingredients are mainly
used in foods, beverages and personal care products. The primary raw
materials for these products are ketene and crotonaldehyde. Sorbates
pricing is extremely sensitive to demand and industry capacity and is
not necessarily dependent on the prices of raw
materials.

Facilities

Nutrinova has
production facilities in Germany, as well as sales and distribution
facilities in all major world markets.


Capital
Expenditures

Performance Products capital expenditures by
the Successor were $3  million and $3 million, for the
year ended December  31,  2005 and the nine months ended
December  31,  2004, respectively. Capital expenditures by
the Predecessor were $0 million for the three months ended March
31,  2004 and $2  million for the year ended December 31,
2003, respectively. The capital expenditures incurred during these
years related to efficiency, debottlenecking, quality and safety
improvement items associated with the normal operation of the
business.

Markets

The following table
illustrates the destination of the net sales of Performance Products by
geographic region of the Successor for year ended December
31,  2005 and the nine months ended December  31,
2004, and of the Predecessor for the three months ended March
31,  2004 and for the year ended December  31,
2003.

Net Sales to External Customers by
Destination—Performance
Products

Nutrinova
directly markets Sunett primarily to a limited number of large
multinational and regional customers in the beverage and food industry
under long-term and annual contracts. Nutrinova markets food protection
ingredients primarily through regional distributors to small and medium
sized customers and directly through regional sales offices to large
multinational customers in the food
industry.

Competition

The principal
competitors for Nutrinova’s Sunett sweetener are Holland
Sweetener Company, The NutraSweet Company, Ajinomoto Co., Inc., Tate
& Lyle plc and several Chinese manufacturers. In sorbates,
Nutrinova competes with Nantong AA, Daicel, Yu Yao/Ningbo, Yancheng
AmeriPac and other Chinese manufacturers of
sorbates.

O

THER

A

CTIVITIES

Other Activities includes revenues
mainly from the captive insurance companies, Pemeas GmbH
("Pemeas") and, since July  2005, AT
Plastics. Pemeas, a venture with a consortium of investors led by
Conduit Ventures, a London based venture capital company, develops high
temperature membrane assemblies or MEA’s for fuel cells. We
contributed our MEA activity to Pemeas in April  2004. In
December  2005, we sold our common stock interest back to Pemeas
Corporation. The Company continues to hold a preferred stock interest
in Pemeas. Other Activities also includes corporate activities, several
service companies and other ancillary businesses, which do not have
significant sales.

Our two wholly-owned captive insurance
companies are a key component of our global risk management program, as
well as a form of self insurance for our property, liability and
workers compensation risks. The captive insurance companies issue
insurance policies to our subsidiaries to provide consistent coverage
amid fluctuating costs in the insurance market and to lower long-term
insurance costs by avoiding or reducing commercial carrier overhead and
regulatory fees. The captive insurance companies issue insurance
policies and coordinate claims handling services with third party
service providers. They retain risk at levels approved by the Celanese
board of directors and obtain reinsurance coverage from third parties
to limit the net risk retained. One of the captive insurance companies
also insures certain third party risks.


Investments

We have a significant
portfolio of strategic investments, including a number of ventures, in
Asia, North America and Europe. In aggregate, these strategic
investments enjoy significant sales, earnings and cash flow. We have
entered into these strategic investments in order to gain access to
local markets, minimize costs and accelerate growth in areas we believe
have significant future business potential. The table below sets forth
the earnings, cash flow contribution and depreciation and amortization
of our strategic
investments:

The
fiscal year end for all ventures is December  31. Depreciation
and amortization as presented in the table above represents the amounts
recorded by the ventures based on local generally accepted accounting
principles, computed in proportion to our ownership percentage. These
amounts are not included in the depreciation and amortization reported
by the Successor and the Predecessor.

The table below represents
our significant
ventures:

Major Equity
Investments

Polyplastics Co.,
Ltd.

Polyplastics is a leading supplier of engineering
plastics in the Asia-Pacific region. Established in 1964 and
headquartered in Japan, Polyplastics is a 45/55 venture between us and


Daicel. Polyplastics’ principal
production facilities are located in Japan, Taiwan, Malaysia and
together with KEPCO and Mitsubishi, China. We believe Polyplastics is
the largest producer and marketer of POM in the Asia-Pacific
region.

Korea Engineering Plastics Co. Ltd.

Founded
in 1987, KEPCO is the leading producer of polyacetal in South Korea. We
acquired our 50% interest in KEPCO in 1999 from the Hyosung
Corporation, a Korean conglomerate. Mitsubishi owns the remaining
50% of KEPCO, which operates a 55,000-ton annual capacity POM
plant in Ulsan, South Korea and participates in the facility in China
mentioned under Polyplastics above.

Fortron
Industries.

Fortron Industries is a 50/50 venture between us
and KCI for polyphenylene sulfide ("PPS").
Production facilities are located in Wilmington, North Carolina. We
believe Fortron has the leading technology in linear
polymer.

European Oxo GmbH.

European Oxo GmbH is
our 50/50 venture with Degussa for propylene-based oxo chemicals and
has production facilities in Oberhausen and Marl,
Germany.

InfraServs.

We hold ownership interests in
several InfraServ groups located in Germany. InfraServs own and develop
industrial parks and provide on-site general and administrative support
to tenants.

Major Cost
Investments

China Acetate Products
Ventures.

We hold approximately 30% ownership
interests (50% board representation) in three separate venture
acetate products production entities in China: the Nantong, Kunming,
and Zhuhai Cellulose Fiber Companies. In each instance, Chinese
state-owned entities control the remainder. The terms of these ventures
were recently extended through 2020. With an estimated 30% share
of the world’s cigarette production and consumption, China is
the world’s largest and fastest growing market for acetate tow
products. In combination, these ventures represent the market leader in
Chinese domestic acetate production and are well positioned to capture
future growth in the Chinese cigarette market. We and our partners
expanded the manufacturing facilities at all three ventures in China in
2005. Flake expansion is expected to be completed in 2007. The ventures
are funding the investments from operating cash
flows.

National Methanol Co. (Ibn Sina

).    With production facilities in Saudi
Arabia, National Methanol Co. represents 2% of the
world’s methanol production capacity and is the world’s
eighth largest producer of MTBE. Methanol and MTBE are key global
commodity chemical products. We indirectly own a 25% interest in
National Methanol Co., with the remainder held by the Saudi Basic
Industries Corporation (SABIC) (50%) and Texas Eastern Arabian
Corporation Ltd. (25%). SABIC has responsibility for all product
marketing.

These investments, where Celanese owns greater than a
20% ownership interest, are accounted for under the cost method
of accounting because Celanese cannot exercise significant
influence.

Acquisitions and
Divestitures

In the last three years, we acquired the
following businesses:

•

In July  2005,
we acquired Acetex Corporation, a producer of acetyl products and
specialty polymers and films.

•

In
February  2005, we acquired the Vinamul emulsions business of the
National Starch and Chemical Company, a subsidiary of ICI.

In the
last three years, we divested the following
businesses:

Successor

•

In
December  2005, we sold our COC business to a venture between
Daicel and Polyplastics.

•

In
December  2005, we sold our common stock interest in Pemeas GmbH
to Pemeas Corporation.

•

In December
2005, we sold our omega-3 DHA business.


•

In August
2005, we announced our intention to wind up Estech, our venture with
Hatco Corporation for neopolyol esters.

•

In
July  2005, we announced an agreement to sell our emulsion
powders business to National Starch and Chemical Company and to Elotex
AG, both subsidiaries of ICI. This transaction closed in
September  2005.

•

In May  2005,
we sold our polybenzamidazole fiber and polymer business to PBI
Performance Products, Inc., an affiliate of the Intertech
Group.

•

In April  2005, we sold our
Vectran polyarylate fiber business to Kuraray America Inc., a
subsidiary of Kuraray Co., Ltd. of
Japan.

Predecessor

•

In
February  2004, CAG sold its acrylates business to
Dow.

•

In December  2003, Ticona
completed the sale of its nylon business line to
BASF.

Raw Materials and Energy

We
purchase a variety of raw materials from sources in many countries for
use in our production processes. We have a policy of maintaining, when
available, multiple sources of supply for materials. However, some of
our individual plants may have single sources of supply for some of
their raw materials, such as carbon monoxide, steam and acetaldehyde.
Although we have been able to obtain sufficient supplies of raw
materials, there can be no assurance that unforeseen developments will
not affect our raw material supply. Even if we have multiple sources of
supply for a raw material, there can be no assurance that these sources
can make up for the loss of a major supplier. Nor can there be any
guarantee that profitability will not be affected should we be required
to qualify additional sources of supply in the event of the loss of a
sole supplier. In addition, the price of raw materials varies, often
substantially, from year to year.

A substantial portion of our
products and raw materials are commodities whose prices fluctuate as
market supply/demand fundamentals change. For example, the volatility
of prices for natural gas and ethylene (whose cost is in part linked to
natural gas prices) has increased in recent years. Our production
facilities rely largely on coal, fuel oil, natural gas and electricity
for energy. Most of the raw materials for our European operations are
centrally purchased by our subsidiary, which also buys raw materials on
behalf of third parties. We manage our exposure through the use of
derivative instruments and forward purchase contracts for commodity
price hedging, entering into long-term supply agreements, and
multi-year purchasing and sales agreements. Management’s policy
for the majority of its natural gas and butane requirements allows
entering into supply agreements and forward purchase or cash-settled
swap contracts. As of December  31,  2005  and 2004,
there were no derivative contracts outstanding. In 2003, there were
forward contracts covering approximately 35% of Chemical
Products North American requirements. Management regularly assesses its
practice of purchasing a portion of its commodity requirements forward
and the utilization of a variety of other raw material hedging
instruments, in addition to forward purchase contracts, in accordance
with changes in market conditions. Management capped its exposure on
approximately 20% of its U.S. natural gas requirements during
the months of August and September of 2004. The fixed price natural gas
forward contracts and any premium associated with the purchase of a
price cap are principally settled through actual delivery of the
physical commodity. The maturities of the cash-settled swap or cap
contracts correlate to the actual purchases of the commodity and have
the effect or securing or limiting predetermined prices for the
underlying commodity. Although these contracts were structured to limit
exposure to increases in commodity prices, certain swaps may also limit
the potential benefit the Company might have otherwise received from
decreases in commodity prices. These cash-settled swap or cap contracts
were accounted for as cash flow hedges.

We also lease supplies of
various precious metals, such as rhodium, used as catalysts for the
manufacture of Chemical Products. With growing demand for these
precious metals, most notably in the automotive industry, the cost to
purchase or lease these precious metals has increased, caused by a


shortage in supply. These circumstances are
expected to continue into the second half of 2006. For precious metals,
the leases are distributed between a minimum of three lessors per
product and are divided into several contracts. A reassessment of the
long term strategy regarding the lease or purchase of precious metals,
reflecting the changed market conditions for some metals, is under way.
Although we seek to offset increases in raw material prices with
corresponding increases in the prices of our products, we may not be
able to do so, and there may be periods when such product price
increases lag behind raw material cost increases.

Research and
Development

All of our businesses conduct research and
development activities to increase competitiveness. Ticona and
Performance Products, in particular, are innovation-oriented businesses
that conduct research and development activities to develop new, and
optimize existing, production technologies, as well as to develop
commercially viable new products and applications.

Chemical
Products has been focusing on improving core production technologies,
such as improving catalyst development, and supporting both
debottlenecking and cost reduction efforts. In the segment’s
Emulsions business line, research and development is focused on new
products, new applications and new technology platforms. In particular,
an emphasis is placed on continuously upgrading existing products,
particularly in the paints and coatings area.

Acetate Products
has been concentrating on developing new applications for acetate tow,
such as its use in disposable consumer materials.

Research in
Ticona is focused on the development of new formulations and
applications for its products, improved manufacturing processes and new
polymer materials with varying chemical and physical properties in
order to meet customer needs and to generate growth. This effort
involves the entire value chain from new or improved monomer
production, polymerization and compounding, to working closely with
end-users to identify new applications that can take advantage of these
high performance features. Ticona is continually improving compounding
recipes to extend product properties and grades, while offering grade
consistency on a global basis. In addition, Ticona is developing new
polymerization and manufacturing technology in order to meet economic
and ecological goals without sacrificing high quality
processing.

The research and development activities of
Performance Products are conducted at Nutrinova’s Frankfurt,
Germany location. They are directed towards expanding its existing
technologies and developing new applications for existing products in
close cooperation with its customers.

Intellectual
Property

We attach great importance to patents, trademarks,
copyrights and product designs in order to protect our investment in
research and development, manufacturing and marketing. Our policy is to
seek the widest possible protection for significant product and process
developments in our major markets. Patents may cover products,
processes, intermediate products and product uses. Protection for
individual products extends for varying periods in accordance with the
date of patent application filing and the legal life of patents in the
various countries. The protection afforded, which may also vary from
country to country, depends upon the type of patent and its scope of
coverage.

In most industrial countries, patent protection exists
for new substances and formulations, as well as for unique applications
and production processes. However, we do business in regions of the
world where intellectual property protection may be limited and
difficult to enforce. We maintain strict information security policies
and procedures wherever we do business. Such information security
policies and procedures include data encryption, controls over the
disclosure and safekeeping of confidential information, as well as
employee awareness training. Moreover, we monitor our competitors and
vigorously challenge patent and trademark infringement. For example,
Chemical Products maintains a strict patent enforcement strategy, which
has resulted in favorable outcomes in a number of patent infringement
matters in Europe, Asia and the United States. We are currently
pursuing a number of matters relating to the infringement of our acetic
acid patents. Some of our earlier acetic acid patents will expire in
2007; other patents covering acetic acid are presently
pending.


As patents expire, the products and
processes described and claimed in those patents become generally
available for use by the public. Our European and U.S. patents for
making Sunett, expired at the end of the first quarter of 2005, thereby
reducing our ability to realize revenues from making Sunett due to
increased competition and potential limitations and possibly causing
results of operations and cash flows relating to the product to be less
favorable than in the past. We believe that the loss of no other single
patent which may expire in the next several years will materially
adversely affect our business or financial results.

We also seek
to register trademarks extensively as a means of protecting the brand
names of our products, which brand names become more important once the
corresponding patents have expired. We protect our trademarks
vigorously against infringement and also seek to register design
protection where appropriate.

Environmental and Other
Regulation

Obtaining, producing and distributing many of our
products involves the use, storage, transportation and disposal of
toxic and hazardous materials. We are subject to extensive, evolving
and increasingly stringent national and local environmental laws and
regulations, which address, among other things, the
following:

•

Emissions to the
air;

•

Discharges to surface and subsurface
waters;

•

Other releases into the
environment;

•

Generation, handling,
storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste
materials;

•

Maintenance of safe conditions
in the workplace; and

•

Production,
handling, labeling or use of chemicals used or produced by us.

We
are subject to environmental laws and regulations that may require us
to remove or mitigate the effects of the disposal or release of
chemical substances at various sites. Under some of these laws and
regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of property may be
held liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous
substances on, under, or in its property, without regard to whether the
owner or operator knew of, or caused the presence of the contaminants,
and regardless of whether the practices that resulted in the
contamination were legal at the time they occurred. As many of our
production sites have an extended history of industrial use, it is
impossible to predict precisely what effect these laws and regulations
will have on us in the future. Soil and groundwater contamination has
occurred at some of our sites, and might occur or be discovered at
other sites. Our worldwide expenditures for the year ended
December  31,  2005, including those with respect to third
party and divested sites, and those for compliance with environmental
control regulations and internal company initiatives, totaled
$84  million, of which $8  million was for capital
projects. It is anticipated that stringent environmental regulations
will continue to be imposed on us and the industry in general. Although
we cannot predict with certainty future expenditures, due to new air
regulations in the U.S., management expects that there will be a
temporary increase in compliance costs that will total approximately
$35  million to $45  million through 2007. According to our
estimates, there may be an additional increase of approximately
$50  million in addition to the $35  million to $45
million during that time depending on the outcome of the pending court
challenge to the low risk alternative method of compliance allowed by
recent air regulations for Industrial/Commercial/Institutional Boilers
and Process Heaters, but thereafter management believes that the
current spending trends will continue. It is difficult to estimate the
future costs of environmental protection and remediation because of
many uncertainties, including uncertainties about the status of laws,
regulations, and information related to individual locations and sites.
Subject to the foregoing, but taking into consideration our experience
to date regarding environmental matters of a similar nature and facts
currently known, we believe that capital expenditures and remedial
actions to comply with existing laws governing environmental protection
will not have a material adverse effect on our business and financial
results.


Air Issues

In
December  1997, the Conference of the Parties of the United
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change drafted the Kyoto
Protocol, which would establish significant emission reduction targets
for six gases considered to have global warming potential (referred to
as greenhouse gases) and would drive mandatory reductions in developed
nations subject to the Protocol. With Russia’s ratification in
November  2004, the Protocol has been adopted by enough of the
larger, industrialized countries (defined in Annex I to the Protocol)
and came into effect in February  2005 in all nations that have
ratified it. The European Union or EU, including Germany and other
countries where the Company has interests, ratified the Kyoto Protocol
in 2002 and have formulated applicable regulations. Recent European
Union regulations required all EU member states to have implemented a
trading system covering carbon dioxide emissions by January
1,  2005. Accordingly, an emission trading system came into
effect at the start of 2005. The new regulation directly affects our
power plants at the Kelsterbach and Oberhausen sites in Germany and the
Lanaken site in Belgium, as well as the power plants being operated by
other InfraServ entities on sites at which we operate. Our power plants
and the InfraServ entities may be required to purchase carbon dioxide
credits, which could result in increased operating costs, or may be
required to develop additional cost-effective methods to reduce carbon
dioxide emissions further, which could result in increased capital
expenditures. The new regulation also indirectly affects our other
operations in the EU, which may experience higher energy costs from
third party providers. However, we have determined that the impact of
this legislation on future capital spending and operating costs will
not be material.

In 2002, President Bush announced new climate
change initiatives for the U.S. Among the policies to be pursued is a
voluntary commitment to reduce the ‘‘greenhouse gas
intensity’’ of the U.S. economy by 18% within the
next ten years. The Bush Administration is seeking to partner with
various industrial sectors, including the chemical industry, to reach
this goal. The American Chemistry Council, of which we are a member,
has committed to pursue additional reductions in greenhouse gas
intensity toward an overall target of 18% by 2012, using 1990
emissions intensity as the baseline. We currently emit carbon dioxide
and smaller amounts of methane and experience some losses of
polyfluorinated hydrocarbons used as refrigerants. We have invested and
continue to invest in improvements to our processes that increase
energy efficiency and decrease greenhouse gas intensity.

In some
cases, compliance with environmental health and safety requirements
involves our incurring capital expenditures. Due to new air regulations
in the United States, management expects that there will be a temporary
increase in compliance costs that will total approximately $35
million to $45  million through 2007. For example, the
Miscellaneous Organic National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air
Pollutants regulations, and various approaches to regulating boilers
and incinerators, including the National Emission Standards for
Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP) for
Industrial/Commercial/Institutional Boilers and Process Heaters, will
impose additional requirements on our operations. A significant portion
of the NESHAP for Industrial/Commercial/Industrial Boilers and Process
Heaters regulation that provides for a low risk alternative method of
compliance for hydrogen chloride emissions has been challenged in
federal court. We cannot predict the outcome of this challenge, which
could, if successful, increase our costs by, according to our
estimates, approximately $50  million in addition to the
$35  million to $45  million noted above through 2007 to
comply with this regulation.

Chemical Products
Issues

Other new or revised regulations may place
additional requirements on the production, handling, labeling or use of
some chemical products. Pursuant to a European Union regulation on Risk
Assessment of Existing Chemicals, the European Chemicals Bureau of the
European Commission has been conducting risk assessments on
approximately 140 major chemicals. Some of the chemicals initially
being evaluated include VAM, which CAG produces, as well as
competitors’ products, such as styrene and 1,3-butadiene. These
risk assessments entail a multi-stage process to determine whether and
to what extent the Commission should classify the chemical as a
carcinogen and, if so, whether this classification, and related
labeling requirements, should apply only to finished products that
contain specified threshold concentrations of a particular chemical. In
the case of VAM, we currently do not expect a final ruling until 2007.
We and other VAM producers are participating in this process with
detailed scientific analyses supporting the industry’s position
that VAM is not a probable human carcinogen and that labeling of end


products should not be required but that, if
it is, should only be at relatively high parts per million of residual
VAM levels in the end products. It is not possible for us to predict
the outcome or effect of any final ruling.

Several recent studies
have investigated possible links between formaldehyde exposure and
various medical conditions, including leukemia. The International
Agency for Research on Cancer or IARC recently reclassified
formaldehyde from Group 2A (probable human carcinogen) to Group 1
(known human carcinogen) based on studies linking formaldehyde exposure
to nasopharyngeal cancer, a rare cancer in humans. IARC also concluded
that there is insufficient evidence for a causal association between
leukemia and occupational exposure to formaldehyde, although it also
characterized evidence for such an association as strong. The results
of IARC’s review will be examined by government agencies with
responsibility for setting worker and environmental exposure standards
and labeling requirements.

We are a producer of formaldehyde and
plastics derived from formaldehyde. We, together with other producers
and users, are evaluating these findings. We cannot predict the final
effect of IARC’s reclassification.

Other recent
initiatives will potentially require toxicological testing and risk
assessments of a wide variety of chemicals, including chemicals used or
produced by us. These initiatives include the Voluntary
Children’s Chemical Evaluation Program and High Production
Volume Chemical Initiative in the United States, as well as various
European Commission programs, such as the new European Environment and
Health Strategy, commonly known as SCALE, and the proposal for the
Registration, Evaluation and Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals
or REACH. REACH, which was proposed by the European Commission in
October  2003, will establish a system to register and evaluate
chemicals manufactured or imported to the European Union. Depending on
the final ruling, additional testing, documentation and risk
assessments will occur for the chemical industry. This will affect
European producers of chemicals as well as all chemical companies
worldwide that export to member states of the European Union. The final
ruling has not yet been decided.

The above-mentioned assessments
in the United States and Europe may result in heightened concerns about
the chemicals involved, and in additional requirements being placed on
the production, handling, labeling or use of the subject chemicals.
Such concerns and additional requirements could increase the cost
incurred by our customers to use our chemical products and otherwise
limit the use of these products, which could adversely affect the
demand for these products.

Remediation
Issues

We are subject to claims brought by United States
federal or state regulatory agencies, regulatory agencies in other
jurisdictions or private individuals regarding the cleanup of sites
that we own or operate, owned or operated, or where waste or other
material from its operations was disposed, treated or recycled. In
particular, we have a potential liability under the United States
Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and
Liability Act of 1980, as amended, commonly known as Superfund, the
United States Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and related state
laws, or regulatory requirements in other jurisdictions, or through
obligations retained by contractual agreements for investigation and
cleanup costs. At many of these sites, numerous companies, including
us, or one of our predecessor companies, have been notified that the
Environmental Protection Agency or EPA, state governing body or private
individuals consider such companies to be potentially responsible
parties under Superfund or related laws. The proceedings relating to
these sites are in various stages. The cleanup process has not been
completed at most sites. We regularly review the liabilities for these
sites and accrue our best estimate of our ultimate liability for
investigation or cleanup costs, but, due to the many variables involved
in such estimation, the ultimate liability may vary from these
estimates.

Our wholly-owned subsidiary, InfraServ Verwaltungs
GmbH, is the general partner of the InfraServ companies that provide
on-site general and administrative services at German sites in
Frankfurt am Main-Hoechst, Gendorf, Huerth-Knapsack, Wiesbaden,
Oberhausen and Kelsterbach. Producers at the sites, including our
subsidiaries, are owners of limited partnership interests in the
respective InfraServ companies. The InfraServ companies are liable for
any residual contamination and other pollution because they own the
real estate on which the individual facilities operate. In addition,
Hoechst, as the


responsible party under German public law,
is liable to third parties for all environmental damage that occurred
while it was still the owner of the plants and real estate. However,
the InfraServ companies have agreed to indemnify Hoechst from any
environmental liability arising out of or in connection with
environmental pollution of any InfraServ site. The partnership
agreements provide that, as between the limited partners, each limited
partner is responsible for any contamination caused predominantly by
such partner. The limited partners have also undertaken to indemnify
Hoechst against such liabilities. Any liability that cannot be
attributed to an InfraServ partner and for which no third party is
responsible, is required to be borne by the InfraServ company in
question. In view of this potential obligation to eliminate residual
contamination, the InfraServ companies in which we have an interest,
have recorded provisions totaling approximately $69  million as
of December  31,  2005. If the InfraServ companies default
on their respective indemnification obligations to eliminate residual
contamination, the limited partners in the InfraServ companies have
agreed to fund such liabilities, subject to a number of limitations. To
the extent that any liabilities are not satisfied by either the
InfraServ companies or the limited partners, these liabilities are to
be borne by us in accordance with the demerger agreement.

As
between Hoechst and CAG, Hoechst has agreed to indemnify CAG for
two-thirds of these demerged residual liabilities. Likewise, in some
circumstances CAG could be responsible for the elimination of residual
contamination on a few sites that were not transferred to Infraserv
companies, in which case Hoechst must reimburse CAG for two-thirds of
any costs so incurred.

Some of our facilities in Germany are over
100 years old, and there may be significant contamination at these
facilities. Provisions are not recorded for potential soil or
groundwater contamination liability at facilities still under
operation, as German law does not currently require owners or operators
to investigate and remedy soil or groundwater contamination until the
facility is closed and dismantled, unless the authorities otherwise
direct. However, soil or groundwater contamination known to the owner
or operator must be remedied if such contamination is likely to have an
adverse effect on the public. If we were to terminate operations at one
of our facilities or if German law were changed to require such removal
or clean up, the cost could be material to us. We cannot accurately
determine the ultimate potential liability for investigation and clean
up at such sites. We adjust provisions as new remedial commitments are
made. See Notes 4 and 18 to the consolidated financial
statements.

Export Control Regulation

From time to time,
certain of our foreign subsidiaries have made sales of acetate,
sweeteners and polymer products to customers in countries that are or
have previously been subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the
U.S. government. These countries include Cuba, Iran, Sudan and Syria,
four countries currently identified by the U.S. State Department as
terrorist-sponsoring states and other countries that previously have
been identified by the U.S. State Department as terrorist-sponsoring
states, or countries to which sales have been regulated in connection
with other foreign policy concerns. In September 2005, we began an
investigation of these transactions and initially identified
approximately $10 million of sales by our foreign subsidiaries that may
be in violation of regulations of the United States Treasury
Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, or the
United States Department of Commerce's Bureau of Industry and
Security. We now believe that approximately $5 million of these sales
may actually be violations of U.S. law or regulation. The potential
violations uncovered by the investigation include approximately
$180,000 of sales of emulsions to Cuba by two of our foreign
subsidiaries. Sales to Cuba are violations of OFAC regulations. In
addition, we have recently discovered that our sales office in Turkey
sold polymer products to companies in Iran and Syria, including
indirectly selling product through other companies located in
non-embargoed locations. These transactions may have involved an
intentional violation of our policies and federal regulations by
employees of our office in Turkey. Our investigation of potentially
prohibited sales is ongoing and we can not yet be certain of the number
of these transactions, the sales amounts or the identity of every
individual who may have been involved. However, sales from our office
in Turkey to all customers are approximately $12 million
annually.

We have voluntarily disclosed these matters to the U.S.
Treasury Department and the U.S. Department of Commerce, and we are
currently engaged in discussions with them. We have also taken
corrective actions, including directives to senior business leaders
prohibiting such sales, as well as


modifications to our accounting systems that
are intended to prevent the initiation of sales to countries that are
subject to the U.S. Treasury Department or the U.S. Department of
Commerce restrictions.

If violations of the U.S. export control
laws are found we could be subject to civil penalties of up to $50,000
per violation, and criminal penalties could range up to the greater of
$1 million per violation, or five times the value of the goods sold. If
such violations occurred, the United States Government could deny us
export privileges. The ultimate resolution of this matter is subject to
completion of our investigation and a final ruling or settlement with
the government. Accordingly, we cannot estimate the potential sanctions
or fines relating to this matter. There can be no assurance that any
governmental investigation or our own investigation of these matters
will not conclude that violations of applicable laws have occurred or
that the results of these investigations will not have a material
adverse effect on our business and results of operations. See
‘‘Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our
Business—We are an international company and are exposed to
general, economic, political and regulatory conditions and risks in the
countries in which we have significant
operations.’’

Organizational
Structure

Significant Subsidiaries

We
operate our global businesses through subsidiaries in Europe, North
America and Asia, all of which are owned indirectly through a series of
holding companies. Our European and Asian subsidiaries, including
Celanese Chemicals Europe GmbH, Ticona GmbH, Nutrinova Nutrition
Specialties & Food Ingredients GmbH, and Celanese Singapore Pte.,
Ltd., are owned indirectly by CAG. In North America, many of the
businesses are consolidated under CAC which, through its wholly-owned
subsidiary, CNA Holdings, Inc., directly or indirectly owns the North
American operating companies. These include Celanese Ltd., Ticona
Polymers, Inc., Celanese Acetate LLC, and Grupo Celanese
S.A.

Employees

As of December  31,  2005, we
had approximately 9,300 employees worldwide from continuing operations,
compared to 9,100 as of December  31,  2004. This
represents an increase of approximately 1.5%. The following
table sets forth the approximate number of employees on a continuing
basis as of December  31,  2005, 2004, and
2003.

Many
of our employees are unionized, particularly in Germany, Canada,
Mexico, Brazil, Belgium and France. However, in the United States, less
than one quarter of our employees are unionized. Moreover, in Germany
and France, wages and general working conditions are often the subject
of centrally negotiated collective bargaining agreements. Within the
limits established by these agreements, our various subsidiaries
negotiate directly with the unions and other labor organizations, such
as workers’ councils, representing the employees. Collective
bargaining agreements between the German chemical employers
associations and unions relating to remuneration typically have a term
of one year, while in the United States a three year term for
collective bargaining agreements is typical. We offer comprehensive
benefit plans for employees and their families and believe our
relations with employees are
satisfactory.


Item 1A.

Risk
Factors

Many factors could have an effect on
Celanese’s financial condition, cash flows and results of
operations. We are subject to various risks resulting from changing
economic, environmental, political, industry, business and financial
conditions. The principal factors are described below.

Risks
Related to Our Business

We are an international company
and are exposed to general economic, political and regulatory
conditions and risks in the countries in which we have significant
operations.

We operate in the global market and have customers in
many countries. We have major facilities located in North America,
Europe and Asia, including facilities in Germany, China, Japan, Korea
and Saudi Arabia operated through ventures. Our principal customers are
similarly global in scope, and the prices of our most significant
products are typically world market prices. Consequently, our business
and financial results are affected directly and indirectly by world
economic, political and regulatory conditions.

Conditions such as
the uncertainties associated with war, terrorist activities, epidemics,
pandemics or political instability in any of the countries in which we
operate could affect us by causing delays or losses in the supply or
delivery of raw materials and products as well as increased security
costs, insurance premiums and other expenses. These conditions could
also result in or lengthen economic recession in the United States,
Europe, Asia or elsewhere. Moreover, changes in laws or regulations,
such as unexpected changes in regulatory requirements (including import
or export licensing requirements), or changes in the reporting
requirements of United States, German or European Union governmental
agencies, could increase the cost of doing business in these regions.
Any of these conditions may have an effect on our business and
financial results as a whole and may result in volatile current and
future prices for our securities, including our stock.

From time
to time, certain of our foreign subsidiaries have made sales of
acetate, sweeteners and polymer products to customers in countries that
are or have previously been subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed
by the U.S. government. These countries include Cuba, Iran, Sudan and
Syria, four countries currently identified by the U.S. State Department
as terrorist-sponsoring states and other countries that previously have
been identified by the U.S. State Department as terrorist-sponsoring
states, or countries to which sales have been regulated in connection
with other foreign policy concerns. In September 2005, we began an
investigation of these transactions and initially identified
approximately $10 million of sales by our foreign subsidiaries that may
be in violation of regulations of the United States Treasury
Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, or the
United States Department of Commerce's Bureau of Industry and
Security. We now believe that approximately $5 million of these sales
may actually be violations of U.S. law or regulation. The potential
violations uncovered by the investigation include approximately
$180,000 of sales of emulsions to Cuba by two of our foreign
subsidiaries. Sales to Cuba are violations of OFAC regulations. In
addition, we have recently discovered that our sales office in Turkey
sold polymer products to companies in Iran and Syria, including
indirectly selling product through other companies located in
non-embargoed locations. These transactions may have involved an
intentional violation of our policies and federal regulations by
employees of our office in Turkey. Our investigation of potentially
prohibited sales is ongoing and we can not yet be certain of the number
of these transactions, the sales amounts or the identity of every
individual who may have been involved. However, sales from our office
in Turkey to all customers are approximately $12 million
annually.

We have voluntarily disclosed these matters to the U.S.
Treasury Department and the U.S. Department of Commerce, and we are
currently engaged in discussions with them. We have also taken
corrective actions, including directives to senior business leaders
prohibiting such sales, as well as modifications to our accounting
systems that are intended to prevent the initiation of sales to
countries that are subject to the U.S. Treasury Department or the U.S.
Department of Commerce restrictions.

If violations of the U.S.
export control laws are found we could be subject to civil penalties of
up to $50,000 per violation, and criminal penalties could range up to
the greater of $1 million per violation, or five times the value of the
goods sold. If such violations occurred, the United States Government
could


deny us export privileges. The ultimate
resolution of this matter is subject to completion of our investigation
and a final ruling or settlement with the government. Accordingly, we
cannot estimate the potential sanctions or fines relating to this
matter. There can be no assurance that any governmental investigation
or our own investigation of these matters will not conclude that
violations of applicable laws have occurred or that the results of
these investigations will not have a material adverse effect on our
business and results of operations.

Cyclicality in the
industrial chemicals industry has in the past and may in the future
result in reduced operating margins or in operating
losses.

Consumption of the basic chemicals that we
manufacture, in particular those in acetyl products, such as methanol,
formaldehyde, acetic acid and vinyl acetate monomer, has increased
significantly over the past 30 years. Despite this growth in
consumption, producers have experienced alternating periods of
inadequate capacity and excess capacity for these products. Periods of
inadequate capacity, including some due to raw material shortages, have
usually resulted in increased selling prices and operating margins.
This has often been followed by periods of capacity additions, which
have resulted in declining capacity utilization rates, selling prices
and operating margins.

We expect that these cyclical
trends in selling prices and operating margins relating to capacity
shortfalls and additions will likely persist in the future, principally
due to the continuing combined impact of five
factors:

•

Significant capacity additions,
whether through plant expansion or construction, can take two to three
years to come on stream and are therefore necessarily based upon
estimates of future demand.

•

When demand
is rising, competition to build new capacity may be heightened because
new capacity tends to be more profitable, with a lower marginal cost of
production. This tends to amplify upswings in
capacity.

•

When demand is falling, the
high fixed cost structure of the capital-intensive chemicals industry
leads producers to compete aggressively on price in order to maximize
capacity utilization.

•

As competition in
these products is focused on price, being a low-cost producer is
critical to profitability. This favors the construction of larger
plants, which maximize economies of scale, but which also lead to major
increases in capacity that can outstrip current growth in
demand.

•

Cyclical trends in general
business and economic activity produce swings in demand for
chemicals.

The length and depth of product and industry
business cycles of our markets, particularly in the automotive,
electrical, construction and textile industries, may result in reduced
operating margins or in operating losses.

Some of the
markets in which our customers participate, such as the automotive,
electrical, construction and textile industries, are cyclical in
nature, thus posing a risk to us which is beyond our control. These
markets are highly competitive, to a large extent driven by end-use
markets, and may experience overcapacity, all of which may affect
demand for and pricing of our products.

We are subject to
risks associated with the increased volatility in raw materials prices
and the availability of key raw materials.

We purchase
significant amounts of natural gas, ethylene, butane, methanol and
propylene from third parties for use in our production of basic
chemicals in the Chemical Products segment, principally formaldehyde,
acetic acid, vinyl acetate monomer, as well as oxo products. We use a
portion of our output of these chemicals, in turn, as inputs in the
production of further products in all our segments. We also purchase
significant amounts of cellulose or wood pulp for use in our production
of cellulose acetate in the Acetate Products segment. We purchase
significant amounts of natural gas, electricity, coal and fuel oil to
supply the energy required in our production processes.


We also lease supplies of various precious
metals, such as rhodium, used as catalysts for the production of these
chemicals. With growing demand for these precious metals, most notably
in the automotive industry, the cost to purchase or lease these
precious metals has increased, caused by a shortage in supply. These
circumstances are expected to continue into the second half of
2006.

Prices of natural gas, oil and other hydrocarbons and
energy increased dramatically in 2005 and 2004. To the extent this
trend continues and we are unable to pass through these price increases
to our customers, our operating profit and results of operations may be
less favorable than expected.

We are exposed to any volatility in
the prices of our raw materials and energy. Although we have agreements
providing for the supply of natural gas, ethylene, propylene, wood
pulp, electricity, coal and fuel oil, the contractual prices for these
raw materials and energy vary with market conditions and may be highly
volatile. Factors which have caused volatility in our raw material
prices in the past and which may do so in the future
include:

•

Shortages of raw materials due
to increasing demand, e.g., from growing uses or new
uses;

•

Capacity constraints, e.g., due to
construction delays, strike action or involuntary
shutdowns;

•

The general level of business
and economic activity; and

•

The direct or
indirect effect of governmental regulation.

We strive to improve
profit margins of many of our products through price increases when
warranted and accepted by the market; however, our operating margins
may decrease if we cannot pass on increased raw material prices to
customers. Even in periods during which raw material prices decline, we
may suffer decreasing operating profit margins if raw material price
reductions occur at a slower rate than decreases in the selling prices
of our products.

A substantial portion of our products and raw
materials are commodities whose prices fluctuate as market
supply/demand fundamentals change. We manage our exposure through the
use of derivative instruments and forward purchase contracts for
commodity price hedging, entering into long-term supply agreements, and
multi-year purchasing and sales agreements. Our policy, for the
majority of our natural gas and butane requirements, allows entering
into supply agreements and forward purchase or cash-settled swap
contracts. As of December  31,  2005 and 2004, there were
no derivative contracts of this type outstanding. In 2003, there were
forward contracts covering approximately 35% of our Chemical
Products North American requirements. We regularly assess our practice
of purchasing a portion of our commodity requirements forward, and the
utilization of a variety of other raw material hedging instruments, in
addition to forward purchase contracts, in accordance with changes in
market conditions.

We capped our exposure on approximately
20% of our U.S. natural gas requirements during the months of
August and September of 2004. The fixed price natural gas forward
contracts and any premium associated with the purchase of a price cap
are principally settled through actual delivery of the physical
commodity. The maturities of the cash-settled swap or cap contracts
correlate to the actual purchases of the commodity and have the effect
of securing or limiting predetermined prices for the underlying
commodity. Although these contracts were structured to limit exposure
to increases in commodity prices, certain swaps may also limit the
potential benefit we might have otherwise received from decreases in
commodity prices. These cash-settled swap or cap contracts were
accounted for as cash flow hedges.

We have a policy of
maintaining, when available, multiple sources of supply for raw
materials. However, some of our individual plants may have single
sources of supply for some of their raw materials, such as carbon
monoxide and acetaldehyde. We may not be able to obtain sufficient raw
materials due to unforeseen developments that would cause an
interruption in supply. Even if we have multiple sources of supply for
a raw material, these sources may not make up for the loss of a major
supplier. Nor can there be any guarantee that profitability will not be
affected should we be required to qualify additional sources of supply
in the event of the loss of a sole or a major
supplier.

Failure to develop new products and production
technologies or to implement productivity and cost reduction
initiatives successfully may harm our competitive position.

Our
operating results, especially in our Performance Products and Ticona
segments, depend significantly on the development of commercially
viable new products, product grades and applications,


as well as production technologies. If we are
unsuccessful in developing new products, applications and production
processes in the future, our competitive position and operating results
will be negatively affected. Likewise, we have undertaken and are
continuing to undertake initiatives in all segments to improve
productivity and performance and to generate cost savings. These
initiatives may not be completed or beneficial or the estimated cost
savings from such activities may not be
realized.

Frankfurt airport expansion could require us to
reduce production capacity of, limit expansion potential of, or incur
relocation costs for our Kelsterbach plant which would lead to
significant additional costs.

The Frankfurt airport’s
expansion plans include the construction of an additional runway (the
northwest option), which would be located in close proximity to our
Kelsterbach production plant. The construction of this particular
runway could have a negative effect on the plant’s current
production capacity and future development. While the government of the
state of Hesse and the owner of the Frankfurt airport promote the
expansion of the northwest option, it is uncertain whether this option
is in accordance with applicable laws. Although the government of the
state of Hesse expects the plan approval for the airport expansion in
2007 and the start of operations in 2009-2010, neither the final
outcome of this matter nor its timing can be predicted at this
time.

Environmental regulations and other obligations
relating to environmental matters could subject us to liability for
fines, clean-ups and other damages, require us to incur significant
costs to modify our operations and increase our manufacturing and
delivery costs.

Costs related to our compliance with
environmental laws concerning, and potential obligations with respect
to, contaminated sites may have a significant negative impact on our
operating results. These include obligations related to sites currently
or formerly owned or operated by us, or where waste from our operations
was disposed. We also have obligations related to the indemnity
agreement contained in the demerger and transfer agreement between CAG
and Hoechst, also referred to as the demerger agreement, for
environmental matters arising out of certain divestitures that took
place prior to the demerger. See ‘‘Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and
Estimates—Environmental Liabilities,’’ Notes 18
and 25 to the consolidated financial statements.

Our operations
are subject to extensive international, national, state, local, and
other supranational laws and regulations that govern environmental and
health and safety matters. We incur substantial capital and other costs
to comply with these requirements. If we violate them, we can be held
liable for substantial fines and other sanctions, including limitations
on our operations as a result of changes to or revocations of
environmental permits involved. Stricter environmental, safety and
health laws, regulations and enforcement policies could result in
substantial costs and liabilities to us or limitations on our
operations and could subject our handling, manufacture, use, reuse or
disposal of substances or pollutants to more rigorous scrutiny than at
present. Consequently, compliance with these laws could result in
significant capital expenditures as well as other costs and liabilities
and our business and operating results may be less favorable than
expected. Due to new air regulations in the U.S., management expects
that there will be a temporary increase in compliance costs that will
total approximately $35  million to $45  million through
2007. For example, the Miscellaneous Organic National Emissions
Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP) regulations, and
various approaches to regulating boilers and incinerators, including
the NESHAPs for Industrial/ Commercial/Institutional Boilers and
Process Heaters, will impose additional requirements on our operations.
Although some of these rules have been finalized, a significant portion
of the NESHAPs for Industrial/Commercial/Institutional Boilers and
Process Heaters regulation that provides for a low risk alternative
method of compliance for hydrogen chloride emissions has been
challenged in federal court. We cannot predict the outcome of this
challenge, which could, if successful, increase our costs by, according
to our estimates, approximately $50  million in addition to the
$35  million to $45  million noted above through 2007 to
comply with this regulation.

We are also involved in several
claims, lawsuits and administrative proceedings relating to
environmental matters. An adverse outcome in any of them may negatively
affect our earnings and cash flows in a particular reporting
period.


Changes in environmental, health
and safety regulatory requirements could lead to a decrease in demand
for our products.

New or revised governmental regulations
relating to health, safety and the environment may also affect demand
for our products.

Pursuant to the European Union regulation on
Risk Assessment of Existing Chemicals, the European Chemicals Bureau of
the European Commission has been conducting risk assessments on
approximately 140 major chemicals. Some of the chemicals initially
being evaluated include VAM, which we produce. These risk assessments
entail a multi-stage process to determine to what extent the European
Commission should classify the chemical as a carcinogen and, if so,
whether this classification and related labeling requirements should
apply only to finished products that contain specified threshold
concentrations of a particular chemical. In the case of VAM, we
currently do not expect a final ruling until the end of 2007. We and
other VAM producers are participating in this process with detailed
scientific analyses supporting the industry’s position that VAM
is not a probable human carcinogen and that labeling of final products
should not be required. If labeling is required, then it should depend
on relatively high parts per million of residual VAM in these end
products. We cannot predict the outcome or effect of any final
ruling.

Several recent studies have investigated possible links
between formaldehyde exposure and various end points including
leukemia. The International Agency for Research on Cancer or IARC
recently reclassified formaldehyde from Group 2A (probable human
carcinogen) to Group 1 (known human carcinogen) based on studies
linking formaldehyde exposure to nasopharyngeal cancer, a rare cancer
in humans. IARC also concluded that there is insufficient evidence for
a causal association between leukemia and occupational exposure to
formaldehyde, although it also characterized evidence for such an
association as strong. The results of IARC’s review will be
examined by government agencies with responsibility for setting worker
and environmental exposure standards and labeling requirements. We are
a producer of formaldehyde and plastics derived from formaldehyde. We
are participating together with other producers and users in the
evaluations of these findings. We cannot predict the final effect of
IARC’s reclassification.

Other recent initiatives will
potentially require toxicological testing and risk assessments of a
wide variety of chemicals, including chemicals used or produced by us.
These initiatives include the Voluntary Children’s Chemical
Evaluation Program and High Production Volume Chemical Initiative in
the United States, as well as various European Commission programs,
such as the new European Environment and Health Strategy, commonly
known as SCALE, as well as the Proposal for the Registration,
Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals or REACH. REACH,
which the European Commission proposed in October  2003, will
establish a system to register and evaluate chemicals manufactured in,
or imported to, the European Union. Depending on the final ruling,
additional testing, documentation and risk assessments will occur for
the chemical industry. This will affect European producers of chemicals
as well as all chemical companies worldwide that export to member
states of the European Union. The final ruling has not yet been
decided.

The above-mentioned assessments in the United States and
Europe may result in heightened concerns about the chemicals involved
and in additional requirements being placed on the production,
handling, labeling or use of the subject chemicals. Such concerns and
additional requirements could increase the cost incurred by our
customers to use our chemical products and otherwise limit the use of
these products, which could lead to a decrease in demand for these
products.

Our production facilities handle the processing
of some volatile and hazardous materials that subject us to operating
risks that could have a negative effect on our operating
results.

Our operations are subject to operating risks associated
with chemical manufacturing, including the related storage and
transportation of raw materials, products and wastes. These hazards
include, among other things:

•

pipeline
and storage tank leaks and
ruptures;

•

explosions and fires;
and


•

discharges or
releases of toxic or hazardous substances.

These operating risks
can cause personal injury, property damage and environmental
contamination, and may result in the shutdown of affected facilities
and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. The occurrence of
any of these events may disrupt production and have a negative effect
on the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing
facility and our operating results and cash flows.

We maintain
property, business interruption and casualty insurance which we believe
is in accordance with customary industry practices, but we cannot
predict whether this insurance will be adequate to fully cover all
potential hazards incidental to our business. We have established two
captive insurance subsidiaries
(‘‘Captives’’) that provide a portion of
the total insurance coverage to us for certain of our lower tier
property and casualty risks. They additionally provide coverage to
third parties for their higher tier risk programs. If there were
concurrent claims made on all policies issued by the Captives,
sufficient capital may not be available for them to satisfy all claims
against all such policies.

Our significant non-U.S.
operations expose us to global exchange rate fluctuations that could
impact our profitability.

We are exposed to market risk through
commercial and financial operations. Our market risk consists
principally of exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange and
interest rates.

As we conduct a significant portion of our
operations outside the U.S., fluctuations in currencies of other
countries, especially the euro, may materially affect our operating
results. For example, changes in currency exchange rates may
affect:

•

The relative prices at which we
and our competitors sell products in the same market;
and

•

The cost of items required in our
operations.

We use financial instruments to hedge our exposure to
foreign currency fluctuations. The net notional amounts under such
foreign currency contracts outstanding at December 31, 2005 were
$564  million.

A substantial portion of our net sales is
denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In our
consolidated financial statements, we translate our local currency
financial results into U.S. dollars based on average exchange rates
prevailing during a reporting period or the exchange rate at the end of
that period. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, at a constant
level of business, our reported international sales, earnings, assets
and liabilities will be reduced because the local currency will
translate into fewer U.S. dollars.

In addition to currency
translation risks, we incur a currency transaction risk whenever one of
our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales
transaction using a currency different from the operating
subsidiary’s functional currency. Given the volatility of
exchange rates, we may not be able to manage our currency transaction
and/or translation risks effectively, or volatility in currency
exchange rates may expose our financial condition or results of
operations to a significant additional risk. Since a portion of our
indebtedness is and will be denominated in currencies other than U.S.
dollars, a weakening of the U.S. dollar could make it more difficult
for us to repay our indebtedness.

Significant changes in
pension fund investment performance or assumptions relating to pension
costs may have a material effect on the valuation of pension
obligations, the funded status of pension plans, and our pension
cost.

Our funding policy for pension plans is to accumulate plan
assets that, over the long run, will approximate the present value of
projected benefit obligations. Our pension cost is materially affected
by the discount rate used to measure pension obligations, the level of
plan assets available to fund those obligations at the measurement date
and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. Significant
changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of
invested assets can result in corresponding increases and decreases in
the valuation of plan assets, particularly equity securities, or in a
change of the expected rate of return on plan assets. A change in the
discount rate would result in a significant increase or decrease in the
valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported funded status
of our pension plans as well as the net periodic pension cost in the
following fiscal years. Similarly, changes in the expected return on
plan assets can result in significant changes in the net periodic
pension cost for subsequent fiscal years.


CAG may be required to make
payments to Hoechst.

Under its 1999 demerger agreement with
Hoechst, CAG agreed to indemnify Hoechst for environmental liabilities
that Hoechst may incur with respect to CAG’s German production
sites, which were transferred from Hoechst to CAG in connection with
the demerger. CAG also has an obligation to indemnify Hoechst against
liabilities for environmental damages or contamination arising under
certain divestiture agreements entered into by Hoechst prior to the
demerger. As the indemnification obligations depend on the occurrence
of unpredictable future events, the costs associated with them are not
yet determinable and may materially affect operating
results.

CAG’s obligation to indemnify Hoechst against
liabilities for environmental contamination in connection with the
divestiture agreements is subject to the following thresholds
(translated into U.S. dollars using the December  31,  2005
exchange rate):

•

CAG will indemnify
Hoechst for the total amount of these liabilities up to
€250  million (approximately $295
million);

•

Hoechst will bear the full
amount of those liabilities between €250  million
(approximately $295  million) and €750
million (approximately $885  million);
and

•

CAG will indemnify Hoechst for one
third of those liabilities for amounts exceeding
€750  million (approximately $885
million).

CAG has made total cumulative payments through
December 31, 2005 of $41  million for environmental
contamination liabilities in connection with the divestiture
agreements, and may be required to make additional payments in the
future. As of December 31, 2005, we have reserves of
approximately $33  million for this contingency, and may be
required to record additional reserves in the future.

Also, CAG
has undertaken in the demerger agreement to indemnify Hoechst to the
extent that Hoechst is required to discharge liabilities, including tax
liabilities, in relation to assets included in the demerger, where such
liabilities have not been demerged due to transfer or other
restrictions. CAG did not make any payments to Hoechst during the year
ended December 31, 2005, nor did it make any payments in 2004 or
2003 in connection with this indemnity.

Under the demerger
agreement, CAG will also be responsible, directly or indirectly, for
all of Hoechst’s obligations to past employees of businesses
that were demerged to CAG. Under the demerger agreement, Hoechst agreed
to indemnify CAG from liabilities (other than liabilities for
environmental contamination) stemming from the agreements governing the
divestiture of Hoechst’s polyester businesses, which were
demerged to CAG, insofar as such liabilities relate to the European
part of that business. Hoechst has also agreed to bear 80% of
the financial obligations arising in connection with the government
investigation and litigation associated with the sorbates industry for
price fixing described in ‘‘Legal
Proceedings—Sorbates Antitrust Actions’’ and Note
25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, and CAG has agreed to bear
the remaining 20%.

Our variable rate indebtedness
subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service
obligations to increase significantly and affect our operating
results.

Certain of our borrowings, primarily borrowings under
the amended and restated senior credit facilities, are at variable
rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest
rates increase, which we expect to occur, our debt service obligations
on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount
borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash available for
servicing our indebtedness would decrease. As of December 31,
2005, we had approximately $1.9  billion of variable rate debt,
of which $0.3  billion is hedged with an interest rate swap,
which leaves us approximately $1.6  billion of variable rate debt
subject to interest rate exposure. Accordingly, a 1% increase in
interest rates would increase annual interest expense by approximately
$16  million.

We may enter into interest rate swap
agreements to reduce the exposure of interest rate risk inherent in our
debt portfolio. We have, in the past, used swaps for hedging purposes
only.


We are a ‘‘controlled
company’’ within the meaning of the New York Stock
Exchange rules and, as a result, are exempt from certain corporate
governance requirements.

Affiliates of the Sponsor continue to
control a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock.
As a result, we are a ‘‘controlled
company’’ within the meaning of the New York Stock
Exchange corporate governance standards. Under the New York Stock
Exchange rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting
power is held by another company is a ‘‘controlled
company’’ and need not comply with certain requirements,
including (1) the requirement that a majority of the board of directors
consist of independent directors, (2) the requirement that the
nominating committee be composed entirely of independent directors with
a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and
responsibilities, (3) the requirement that the compensation committee
be composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter
addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities and (4)
the requirement for an annual performance evaluation of the
nominating/corporate governance and compensation committees. We intend
to utilize these exemptions. As a result, we will not have a majority
of independent directors nor will our nominating and compensation
committees consist entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, you
will not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of
companies that are subject to all of the New York Stock Exchange
corporate governance requirements.

Because our Sponsor
controls us, the influence of our public shareholders over significant
corporate actions will be limited, and conflicts of interest between
our Sponsor and us or you could arise in the future.

Our Sponsor
beneficially owns (or has a right to acquire) approximately
52.1% of our outstanding Series A common stock. Under the terms
of the stockholders’ agreement between us and the Original
Shareholders, certain of the Original Stockholders that are affiliates
of the Sponsor are also entitled to designate all nominees for election
to our board of directors for so long as they hold at least 25%
of the total voting power of our Series A common stock. Thereafter,
although our Sponsor will not have an explicit contractual right to do
so, it may still nominate directors in its capacity as a stockholder.
As a result, our Sponsor, through its control over the composition of
our board of directors and its control of the majority of the voting
power of our Series A common stock, will continue to have effective
control over our decisions to enter into any corporate transaction and
will have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the
approval of equityholders, regardless of whether or not other
equityholders believe that any such transaction is in their own best
interests. For example, our Sponsor effectively could cause us to make
acquisitions that increase our indebtedness or to sell
revenue-generating assets. Additionally, our Sponsor is in the business
of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire
and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly
with us. Our Sponsor may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may
be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition
opportunities may not be available to us. So long as our Sponsor
continues to own a significant amount of our equity, even if such
amount is less than 50%, it will continue to be able to
significantly influence or effectively control our decisions.

Our
second amended and restated certificate of incorporation renounces any
interest or expectancy that we have in, or right to be offered an
opportunity to participate in, specified business opportunities. The
second amended and restated certificate of incorporation further
provides that none of the Original Stockholders (including the Sponsor)
or their affiliates or any director who is not employed by Celanese
(including any non-employee director who serves as one of our officers
in both his director and officer capacities) or his or her affiliates
has any duty to refrain from (i) engaging in a corporate opportunity in
the same or similar lines of business in which we or our affiliates now
engage or propose to engage or (ii) otherwise competing with us.
In addition, in the event that any of the Original Stockholders
(including the Sponsor) or any non-employee director acquires knowledge
of a potential transaction or other business opportunity which may be a
corporate opportunity for itself or himself or its or his affiliates
and for Celanese or its affiliates, such Original Stockholder or
non-employee director has no duty to communicate or offer such
transaction or business opportunity to us and may take any such
opportunity for themselves or offer it to another person or
entity.


Our future success will depend in
part on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, and
our inability to enforce these rights could reduce our ability to
maintain our market position and our margins.

We attach great
importance to patents, trademarks, copyrights and product designs in
order to protect our investment in research and development,
manufacturing and marketing. Our policy is to seek the widest possible
protection for significant product and process developments in our
major markets. Patents may cover products, processes, intermediate
products and product uses. Protection for individual products extends
for varying periods in accordance with the date of patent application
filing and the legal life of patents in the various countries. The
protection afforded, which may also vary from country to country,
depends upon the type of patent and its scope of coverage. Our
continued growth strategy may bring us to regions of the world where
intellectual property protection may be limited and difficult to
enforce.

As patents expire, the products and processes described
and claimed in those patents become generally available for use by the
public. Our European and U.S. patents for making Sunett, an important
Performance Products product, expired at the end of the first quarter
of 2005, which reduces our ability to realize revenues from making
Sunett due to increased competition and potential limitations and will
result in our results of operations and cash flows relating to the
product being less favorable than today.

We also seek to register
trademarks extensively as a means of protecting the brand names of our
products, which brand names become more important once the
corresponding patents have expired. If we are not successful in
protecting our trademark rights, our revenues, results of operations
and cash flows may be adversely affected.

The market price
of our Series A common stock may be volatile, which could cause the
value of your investment to decline.

Securities markets worldwide
experience significant price and volume fluctuations. This market
volatility, as well as general economic, market or political
conditions, could reduce the market price of the Series A common stock
in spite of our operating performance. In addition, our operating
results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and
investors, and in response, the market price of our Series A common
stock could decrease significantly.

Provisions in our
second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as
well as any shareholders’ rights plan, may discourage a takeover
attempt.

Provisions contained in our second amended and
restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more
difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be
beneficial to our shareholders. Provisions of our second amended and
restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws impose various
procedural and other requirements, which could make it more difficult
for shareholders to effect certain corporate actions. For example, our
second amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our
board of directors to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and
restrictions of unissued series of preferred stock, without any vote or
action by our shareholders. Thus, our board of directors can authorize
and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights
that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of
our Series A common stock. These rights may have the effect of delaying
or deterring a change of control of our company. In addition, a change
of control of our company may be delayed or deterred as a result of our
having three classes of directors (each class elected for a three year
term) or as a result of any shareholders’ rights plan that our
board of directors may adopt. In addition, we would be required to
issue additional shares of our Series A common stock to holders of the
preferred stock who convert following a fundamental change. These
provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be
willing to pay in the future for shares of our Series A common
stock.

Risks Related to the Acquisition of CAG

If
the Domination Agreement ceases to be operative, the Company’s
managerial control over Celanese AG is limited.

We own
100% of the outstanding shares of CAC and approximately
98% of the outstanding shares of CAG. Our access to the cash
flows and our control of CAG is subject to the continuing effectiveness
of the Domination Agreement.


The Domination Agreement is subject to
legal challenges instituted by dissenting shareholders. Minority
shareholders have filed several actions against CAG in the Frankfurt
District Court (

Landgericht

), including actions that seek to set
aside the shareholder resolutions passed at the extraordinary general
meeting held on July  30 and 31, 2004. Although a number of these
lawsuits were settled in March 2006, if any of the remaining lawsuits
are successful, the Domination Agreement and the change in CAG’s
fiscal year could be declared void and CAG could be prohibited from
performing its obligations under the Domination Agreement. In addition,
public register proceedings instituted by two minority shareholders are
pending in the Königstein Local Court (

Amtsgericht

).
These proceedings were commenced with a view to have the registration
of the Domination Agreement in the Commercial Register deleted
(

Amtslöschungsverfahren

). See ‘‘Legal
Proceedings.’’

If the Domination Agreement ceases
to be operative, the Purchaser’s ability, and thus our ability
to control the board of management decisions of CAG, will be
significantly limited by German law. As a result, we may not be able to
ensure that our strategy for the operation of our business can be fully
implemented. In addition, our access to the operating cash flow of CAG
in order to fund payment requirements on our indebtedness will be
limited, which could have a material adverse effect on the value of our
stock.

If the Domination Agreement ceases to be operative,
certain actions taken under the Domination Agreement might have to be
reversed.

If the legal challenges to the Domination Agreement by
dissenting shareholders of CAG are successful, some or all actions
taken under the Domination Agreement may be required to be reversed and
the Purchaser may be required to compensate CAG for damages caused by
such actions. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on
our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and on the value of
our stock.

Minority shareholders may interfere with
CAG’s future actions, which may prevent us from causing CAG to
take actions which may have beneficial effects for our
shareholders.

The Purchaser currently owns approximately
98% of the CAG Shares. Shareholders unrelated to us hold the
remainder of the outstanding CAG Shares. German law provides certain
rights to minority shareholders, which could have the effect of
delaying, or interfering with, corporate actions (including those
requiring shareholder approval), such as a squeeze-out in accordance
with the provisions of the German Transformation Act
(

Umwandlungsgesetz, UmwG

). Minority shareholders may be able to
delay or prevent the implementation of CAG’s corporate actions
irrespective of the size of their shareholding. Any challenge by
minority shareholders to the validity of a corporate action may be
subject to judicial resolution that may substantially delay or hinder
the implementation of such action. Such delays of, or interferences
with, corporate actions as well as related litigation may limit our
access to CAG’s cash flows and make it difficult or impossible
for us to take or implement corporate actions which may be desirable in
view of our operating or financial requirements, including actions
which may have beneficial effects for our
shareholders.

CAG’s board of management may refuse
to comply with instructions given by the Purchaser pursuant to the
Domination Agreement, which may prevent us from causing CAG to take
actions which may have beneficial effects for our
shareholders.

Under the Domination Agreement, the Purchaser is
entitled to give instructions directly to the board of management of
CAG, including, but not limited to, instructions that are
disadvantageous to CAG, as long as such disadvantageous instructions
benefit the Purchaser or the companies affiliated with either the
Purchaser or CAG. CAG’s board of management is required to
comply with any such instruction, unless, at the time when such
instruction is given, (i) it is, in the opinion of the board of
management of CAG, obviously not in the interests of the Purchaser or
the companies affiliated with either the Purchaser or CAG, (ii) in the
event of a disadvantageous instruction, the negative consequences to
CAG are disproportionate to the benefits to the Purchaser or the
companies affiliated with either the Purchaser or CAG, (iii) compliance
with the instruction would violate legal or statutory restrictions,
(iv) compliance with the instruction would endanger the existence of
CAG or (v) it is doubtful whether the Purchaser will be able to fully
compensate CAG, as required by the Domination Agreement, for its annual
loss


(

Jahresfehlbetrag

) incurred during
the fiscal year in which such instruction is given. The board of
management of CAG remains ultimately responsible for making the
executive decisions for CAG and the Purchaser, despite the Domination
Agreement, is not entitled to act on behalf of, and has no power to
legally bind, CAG. The CAG board of management may delay the
implementation of, or refuse to implement, any of the
Purchaser’s instructions despite its general obligation to
follow such instructions (with the exceptions mentioned above). Such
delays of, or interferences with, compliance with the
Purchaser’s instructions by the board of management of CAG may
make it difficult or impossible for the Purchaser to implement
corporate actions which may be desirable in view of our operating or
financial requirements, including actions which may have beneficial
effects for our shareholders.

The Purchaser is required to
ensure that CAG pays a guaranteed fixed annual payment to the minority
shareholders of CAG, which may reduce the funds the Purchaser can
otherwise make available to us.

As long as the Purchaser does not
own 100% of the outstanding CAG Shares, the Domination Agreement
requires, among other things, the Purchaser to ensure that CAG makes a
gross guaranteed fixed annual payment (

Ausgleich

) to minority
shareholders of €3.27 per CAG share less certain corporate
taxes in lieu of any future dividend. Taking into account the
circumstances and the tax rates at the time of entering into of the
Domination Agreement, the net guaranteed fixed annual payment is
€2.89 per CAG share for a full fiscal year. As of
December  31, 2005, there were approximately 0.9  million
CAG Shares held by minority shareholders. The net guaranteed fixed
annual payment may, depending on applicable corporate tax rates, in the
future be higher, lower or the same as €2.89. The amount
of this guaranteed fixed annual payment was calculated in accordance
with applicable German law. The amount of the payment is currently
under review in special award proceedings (

Spruchverfahren

). See
‘‘Legal Proceedings.’’ Such guaranteed
fixed annual payments will be required regardless of whether the actual
distributable profits per share of CAG are higher, equal to, or lower
than the amount of the guaranteed fixed annual payment per share. The
guaranteed fixed annual payment will be payable for so long as there
are minority shareholders of CAG and the Domination Agreement remains
in place. No dividends for the period after the effectiveness of the
Domination Agreement, other than the guaranteed fixed annual payment
effectively paid by the Purchaser, have been or are expected to be paid
by CAG. These requirements may reduce the funds the Purchaser can make
available to the Company and its subsidiaries and, accordingly,
diminish our ability to make payments on our respective indebtedness.
See ‘‘Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of
Operations—Liquidity—Domination
Agreement’’.

The amounts of the fair cash
compensation and of the guaranteed fixed annual payment offered under
the Domination Agreement may be increased, which may further reduce the
funds the Purchaser can otherwise make available to us.

Several
minority shareholders of CAG have initiated special award proceedings
(

Spruchverfahren

) seeking the court’s review of the
amounts of the fair cash compensation (

Abfindung

) and of the
guaranteed fixed annual payment (

Ausgleich

) offered under the
Domination Agreement. On March  14,  2005, the Frankfurt
District Court (

Landgericht

) dismissed on grounds of
inadmissibility the motions of all minority shareholders regarding the
initiation of these special award proceedings. In January  2006,
the Frankfurt Higher District Court (

Oberlandesgericht

) ruled
that the appeals were admissible, and the proceedings will therefore
continue. As a result of these proceedings, the amounts of the fair
cash compensation (

Abfindung

) and of the guaranteed fixed annual
payment (

Ausgleich

) could be increased by the court, and the
Purchaser would be required to make such payments within two months
after the publication of the court’s ruling. Any such increase
may be substantial. All minority shareholders including those who have
already received the fair cash compensation would be entitled to claim
the respective higher amounts. This may reduce the funds the Purchaser
can make available to the Company and its subsidiaries and,
accordingly, diminish our ability to make payments on our indebtedness.
See ‘‘Legal Proceedings.’’

The
Purchaser may be required to compensate CAG for annual losses, which
may reduce the funds the Purchaser can otherwise make available to
Celanese.

Under the Domination Agreement, the Purchaser is
required, among other things, to compensate CAG for any annual loss
incurred, determined in accordance with German accounting requirements,
by


CAG at the end of the fiscal year in which
the loss was incurred. This obligation to compensate CAG for annual
losses will apply during the entire term of the Domination Agreement.
If CAG incurs losses during any period of the operative term of the
Domination Agreement and if such losses lead to an annual loss of CAG
at the end of any given fiscal year during the term of the Domination
Agreement, the Purchaser will be obligated to make a corresponding cash
payment to CAG to the extent that the respective annual loss is not
fully compensated for by the dissolution of profit reserves
(

Gewinnrücklagen

) accrued at the level of CAG during the
term of the Domination Agreement. The Purchaser may be able to reduce
or avoid cash payments to CAG by off-setting against such loss
compensation claims by CAG any valuable counterclaims against CAG that
the Purchaser may have. If the Purchaser is obligated to make cash
payments to CAG to cover an annual loss, we may not have sufficient
funds to make payments on our indebtedness when due and, unless the
Purchaser is able to obtain funds from a source other than annual
profits of CAG, the Purchaser may not be able to satisfy its obligation
to fund such shortfall. See ‘‘Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations—Liquidity —Domination
Agreement’’.

We and two of our subsidiaries
have taken on certain obligations with respect to the
Purchaser’s obligation under the Domination Agreement and
intercompany indebtedness to CAG, which may diminish our ability to
make payments on our indebtedness.

Our subsidiaries, Celanese
Caylux and BCP Crystal, have each agreed to provide the Purchaser with
financing so that the Purchaser is at all times in a position to
completely meet its obligations under, or in connection with, the
Domination Agreement. They have further guaranteed to all minority
shareholders of CAG that the Purchaser will meet the obligations to
make a guaranteed fixed annual payment to the outstanding minority
shareholders and to offer to acquire all outstanding CAG Shares from
the minority shareholders in return for payment of fair cash
consideration. In addition, Celanese has guaranteed (i)  that the
Purchaser will meet its obligation under the Domination Agreement to
compensate CAG for any annual loss incurred by CAG during the term of
the Domination Agreement; and (ii) the repayment of all existing
intercompany indebtedness of Celanese’s subsidiaries to CAG.
Further, under the terms of Celanese’s guarantee, in certain
limited circumstances CAG may be entitled to require the immediate
repayment of some or all of the intercompany indebtedness owed by
Celanese’s subsidiaries to CAG. If Celanese, Celanese Caylux
and/or BCP Crystal are obligated to make payments under their
obligations to the Purchaser or CAG, as the case may be, or if the
intercompany indebtedness owed to CAG is accelerated, we may not have
sufficient funds for payments on our indebtedness when due or other
expenditures.

Even if the minority shareholders’
challenges to the Domination Agreement are unsuccessful and the
Domination Agreement continues to be operative, we may not be able to
receive distributions from CAG sufficient to pay our
obligations.

Even if the minority shareholders’ challenges
to the Domination Agreement are unsuccessful and the Domination
Agreement continues to be operative, we are limited in the amount of
distributions we may receive in any year from CAG. Under German law,
the amount of distributions to the Purchaser will be determined based
on the amount of unappropriated earnings generated during the term of
the Domination Agreement as shown in the unconsolidated annual
financial statements of CAG, prepared in accordance with German
accounting principles and as adopted and approved by resolutions of the
CAG board of management and supervisory board, which financial
statements may be different from Celanese’s consolidated
financial statements under U.S. GAAP. Our share of these earnings, if
any, may not be sufficient to allow us to pay our indebtedness as it
becomes due which could have a material adverse effect on the value of
our stock.

We must rely on payments from our subsidiaries
to fund payments on our preferred stock, and certain of our
subsidiaries must rely on payments from their own subsidiaries to fund
payments on their indebtedness. Such funds may not be available in
certain circumstances.

We must rely on payments from our
subsidiaries to fund dividend, redemption and other payments on our
preferred stock. In addition, our subsidiaries Crystal US Holdings 3
L.L.C. (‘‘Crystal LLC’’) and BCP Crystal
are holding companies and all of their operations are conducted through
their subsidiaries. Therefore, they depend on the cash flow of their
subsidiaries, including CAG, to meet their obligations.


If the Domination Agreement ceases to be
operative, such subsidiaries may be unable to meet their obligations
under such indebtedness. Although the Domination Agreement became
operative on October  1,  2004, it is subject to legal
challenges instituted by dissenting shareholders. See
"Legal Proceedings".

The ability of
our subsidiaries to make distributions to us, BCP Crystal and Crystal
LLC by way of dividends, interest, return on investments, or other
payments (including loans) or distributions is subject to various
restrictions, including restrictions imposed by the amended and
restated senior credit facilities and indentures governing their
indebtedness, and the terms of future debt may also limit or prohibit
such payments. In addition, the ability of the subsidiaries to make
such payments may be limited by relevant provisions of German and other
applicable laws.

The Purchaser may be required to purchase
all of the remaining outstanding CAG Shares at a price yet to be
determined.

The Purchaser currently owns approximately 98%
of CAG’s shares. In November  2005, we requested the
Purchaser to require, as permitted under German law, the transfer of
the CAG shares owned by the then-outstanding minority shareholders of
CAG in exchange for fair cash compensation (the
‘‘Squeeze-Out’’). A Squeeze-Out is
permitted under German law once a shareholder acquires 95% or
more of CAG’s registered ordinary share capital (excluding
treasury shares). A shareholders’ resolution authorizing the
Squeeze-Out is scheduled to be brought before the annual general
meeting in May  2006. The amount of the fair cash compensation
per share under the Squeeze-Out has been set to €62.22 per
share. This price might even be increased if the amount of fair cash
compensation is challenged in court. See
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations — Basis of Presentation
— Squeeze-Out."

Risks Related to Internal
Controls

Our internal controls over financial reporting
may not be effective and our independent auditors may not be able to
certify as to their effectiveness, which could have a significant and
adverse effect on our business and reputation.

We are evaluating
our internal controls over financial reporting in order to allow
management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, our
internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules and regulations of the
Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC")
thereunder, which we refer to as Section 404. We are currently
performing the system and process evaluation and testing required (and
any necessary remediation) in an effort to comply with management
certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404. The
management certification and auditor attestation requirements of
Section 404 will initially apply to us as of December  31,
2006 and CAG as of September  30,  2007. In the course of
our ongoing Section 404 evaluation, we have identified areas of
internal controls that may need improvement, and are implementing
enhanced processes and controls to address these and any other issues
that might be identified through this review. However, as we are still
in the evaluation process, we may identify conditions that may result
in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in the future. In
2004, certain members of our accounting staff identified two
significant deficiencies. In 2005, we identified a significant
deficiency initiated from an SEC review of a registration statement
filed in the third quarter of 2005. Two material weaknesses, in
addition to, and separate from, our Section 404 evaluation process were
also identified in connection with the audit of our financial
statements as of and for the nine months ended December 31,
2004. Those deficiencies are discussed in detail in the immediately
subsequent risk factor.

We cannot be certain as to the timing of
completion of our evaluation, testing and any remediation actions or
the impact of the same on our operations. If we are not able to
implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with
adequate compliance, our internal controls would be considered
ineffective for purposes of Section 404, our independent auditors may
not be able to certify as to the effectiveness of our internal control
over financial reporting and we may be subject to sanctions or
investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. As a result,
there could be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a
loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. In
addition, we may be required to incur costs in improving our internal
control system and the hiring of additional personnel. Any such action
could negatively affect our results.


We and our independent auditors
have identified significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in our
internal controls that could affect our ability to ensure timely and
reliable financial reports.

In addition to, and separate from,
our evaluation of internal controls under Section 404 and any areas
requiring improvement that we identify as part of that process, we
previously identified two significant deficiencies and two material
weaknesses in our internal controls. The Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (‘‘PCAOB’’) defines a
significant deficiency as a control deficiency, or a combination of
control deficiencies, that adversely affects our ability to initiate,
authorize, record, process, or report external financial data reliably
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles such that
there is more than a remote likelihood that a misstatement of our
annual or interim financial statements that is more than
inconsequential will not be prevented or detected. The PCAOB defines a
material weakness as a single deficiency, or a combination of
deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a
material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements
will not be prevented or detected.

In 2004, we identified two
significant deficiencies in internal controls in the computation of
certain accounting adjustments. These deficiencies were discovered in
addition to, and separate from, the evaluation process we are
conducting in connection with Section 404. The first deficiency was
identified during the quarter ended June  30,  2004 by
members of our corporate financial reporting group and related to the
qualifications and ability of certain accounting managers to initially
calculate the change from the LIFO (last-in, first-out) method of
accounting for inventories to FIFO (first-in, first-out) and the
resulting failure of such employees to correctly make such
calculations. The second was identified during the quarter ended
June  30,  2004 by one of our financial accounting managers
and related to an omitted employee benefit accrual due to the failure
to provide the applicable employment contracts to the actuary prior to
the cut-off date for the December  31,  2003 pension
valuation. Corrective actions taken by us included an internal audit
review, the development of enhanced guidelines, the termination and
reassignment of responsible persons and an elevation of the issues to
the Supervisory Board of CAG. The significant deficiencies noted were
corrected in the quarter ended September  30,  2004 and
thus did not exist as of December  31,  2004 and
2005.

In September  2005 we identified a significant
deficiency in internal controls relating to sales to countries and
other parties that are or have previously been subject to sanctions and
embargoes imposed by the U. S. government. This significant deficiency
was identified as a result of an internal investigation that was
initiated in connection with the SEC review of a registration statement
filed in the third quarter of 2005. The Company has informed the U.S.
Treasury Department and the U.S. Department of Commerce of these
matters and is currently engaged in discussions with the Departments.
To the extent that the Company violated any regulations with respect to
the above or other transactions, the Company may be subject to fines or
other sanctions, including possible criminal penalties, which may
result in adverse business consequences. We have taken immediate
corrective actions which include a directive to senior business leaders
stating that they are prohibited from selling products into certain
countries subject to these trade restrictions, as well as making
accounting systems modifications that prevents the initiation of
purchase orders and shipment of products to these countries. Also, we
plan to enhance the business conduct policy training in the area of
export control. As a result, we believe that we have taken remediation
measures that, once fully implemented, will be effective in eliminating
this deficiency.

In connection with the audit of our financial
statements as of and for the nine months ended December 31,
2004, we identified a material weakness in our internal controls for
the same period. On March 30, 2005, we received a letter from
KPMG LLP ("KPMG"), our independent auditors,
who also identified the same material weakness and a second material
weakness in the course of their audit. The additional material weakness
identified by KPMG related to several deficiencies in the assessment of
hedge effectiveness and documentation. The required adjustments were
made in the proper accounting period, except for one immaterial hedging
transaction adjusted during the quarter ended June  30,
2005. The material weakness identified by KPMG and us related to
conditions preventing our ability to adequately research, document,
review and draw conclusions on accounting and reporting matters, which
had previously resulted in adjustments that had to be recorded to
prevent a material misstatement of our financial statements. The
conditions largely related to significant increases in the frequency of
and the limited number of personnel available to address, complex
accounting matters and transactions and as a result of the consummation
of simultaneous debt and equity offerings during the year-end closing
process.


We do not believe that the adjustments made
in connection with these material weaknesses had any material impact on
previously reported financial information. In response to the letter
from KPMG with respect to the first material weakness identified above,
we organized a team responsible for the identification and
documentation of potential derivative accounting transactions and
commenced and completed formal training for team members specifically
related to derivative accounting. With respect to the second material
weakness identified above, we hired additional qualified accounting
personnel which should ensure that we will be able to adequately
research, document, review and draw conclusions on accounting, and
reporting, matters. Both material weaknesses were identified during our
December 31, 2004 year-end closing process and we believe that we have
remediated these material weaknesses as of December 31,
2005.

During 2005, we have been implementing changes to
strengthen our internal controls. As a result of these changes, we
believe that as of December  31,  2005, our disclosure
controls and procedures are effective for gathering and analyzing and
disclosing on a timely basis the information required to be disclosed
under the rules and forms of the SEC. While we have taken actions to
address these deficiencies and weaknesses, additional measures may be
necessary and these measures along with other measures we expect to
take to improve our internal controls may not be sufficient to address
the issues identified by us or ensure that our internal controls are
effective. If we are unable to correct existing or future deficiencies
or weaknesses in internal controls in a timely manner, our ability to
record, process, summarize and report financial information within the
time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC will be
adversely affected. This failure could materially and adversely impact
our business, our financial condition and the market value of our
securities. In addition, there could be a negative reaction in the
financial markets due to a loss of confidence in reliability of future
financial statements and SEC filings.

Risks Related to Our
Indebtedness

Our high level of indebtedness could
diminish our ability to raise additional capital to fund our
operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or the
chemicals industry and prevent us from meeting obligations under our
indebtedness.

We are highly leveraged. Our total indebtedness
totals approximately $3.4  billion as of December 31, 2005
(excluding $175 million of future accretion on the senior discount
notes).

Our substantial debt could have important consequences,
including:

•

making it more difficult for
us to make payments on our
debt;

•

increasing vulnerability to
general economic and industry
conditions;

•

requiring a substantial
portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of
principal and interest on indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability
to use our cash flow to fund operations, capital expenditures and
future business opportunities;

•

exposing
us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our
borrowings, including the borrowings under the amended and restated
senior credit facilities, are at variable rates of
interest;

•

limiting our ability to obtain
additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product
development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general
corporate or other purposes;
and

•

limiting our ability to adjust to
changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage
compared to our competitors who have less debt.

Despite
our current high leverage, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur
substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks of our
high leverage.

We may be able to incur substantial additional
indebtedness in the future. The terms of our existing debt do not fully
prohibit us from doing so. If new debt, including amounts available
under our senior credit facilities, is added to our current debt
levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. See


‘‘Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations—Liquidity and Capital
Resources—Liquidity—Contractual
Obligations.’’

We may not be able to
generate sufficient cash to service our indebtedness, and may be forced
to take other actions to satisfy obligations under our indebtedness,
which may not be successful.

Our ability to satisfy our cash
needs depends on cash on hand, receipt of additional capital, including
possible additional borrowings, and receipt of cash from our
subsidiaries by way of distributions, advances or cash payments. See
‘‘Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and
Capital Resources—Liquidity—Contractual
Obligations.’’

Our ability to make scheduled
payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on the
financial condition and operating performance of our subsidiaries,
which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and
to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We
may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating
activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if
any, and interest on our indebtedness.

If our cash flows and
capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service
obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures,
sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our
indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may
not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the
absence of such operating results and resources, we could face
substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of
material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other
obligations. The amended and restated senior credit facilities and the
indentures governing our indebtedness restrict our ability to dispose
of assets and use the proceeds from the disposition. We may not be able
to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds which we
could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet
any debt service obligations then due.

Restrictive
covenants in our debt instruments may limit our ability to engage in
certain transactions and may diminish our ability to make payments on
our indebtedness.

The amended and restated senior credit
facilities and the indentures governing our indebtedness contain
various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types
of transactions. These covenants limit the ability of Crystal LLC, BCP
Crystal and their restricted subsidiaries to, among other things, incur
additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock, pay dividends on or
make other distributions on or repurchase their capital stock or make
other restricted payments, make investments, and sell certain
assets.

In addition, the amended and restated senior credit
facilities contain covenants that require Celanese Holdings to maintain
specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests.
Celanese Holdings’ ability to meet those financial ratios and
tests can be affected by events beyond its control, and it may not be
able to meet those tests at all. A breach of any of these covenants
could result in a default under the amended and restated senior credit
facilities. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the
amended and restated senior credit facilities, the lenders could elect
to declare all amounts outstanding under the amended and restated
senior credit facilities to be immediately due and payable and
terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If Celanese
Holdings were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the
amended and restated senior credit facilities could proceed against the
collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness.
Celanese’s subsidiaries have pledged a significant portion of
their assets as collateral under the amended and restated senior credit
facilities. If the lenders under the amended and restated senior credit
facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings, the Company and its
subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay the amended and
restated senior credit facilities as well as their other indebtedness,
which could have a material adverse effect on the value of our
stock.

The terms of our amended and restated senior credit
facilities limit the ability of BCP Crystal and its subsidiaries to pay
dividends or otherwise transfer their assets to us.

Our
operations are conducted through our subsidiaries and our ability to
pay dividends is dependent on the earnings and the distribution of
funds from our subsidiaries. However, the terms of our amended


and restated senior credit facilities limit
the ability of BCP Crystal and its subsidiaries to pay dividends or
otherwise transfer their assets to us. Accordingly, our ability to pay
dividends on our stock is similarly limited.

Item
1B.

Unresolved Staff
Comments

None


Item
2.

Properties

Description of Property

As
of December  31,  2005, we had numerous production and
manufacturing facilities throughout the world. We also own or lease
other properties, including office buildings, warehouses, pipelines,
research and development facilities and sales offices. We continuously
review and evaluate our facilities as a part of our strategy to
optimize our business portfolio. The following table sets forth a list
of our principal production and other facilities throughout the world
as of December  31,
2005.



(1)

In
May  2005, we announced our intention to close the Bedminster,
New Jersey administrative offices and relocate the functions there to
Dallas, Texas.

(2)

In August
2005, we announced the shutdown of the Edmonton methanol
unit.

(3)

Acquired in July 2005 in the
Acetex acquisition.

(4)

Flake
production at Ocotlan was recommissioned in the first quarter of
2005.

Polyplastics has its principal production facilities
in Japan, Taiwan and Malaysia. KEPCO has its principal production
facilities in South Korea. Our Chemical Products segment has ventures
with manufacturing facilities in Saudi Arabia and Germany and our
Acetate Products segment has three ventures with production facilities
in China.

We believe that our current facilities and those of our
consolidated subsidiaries are adequate to meet the requirements of our
present and foreseeable future operations. We continue to review our
capacity requirements as part of our strategy to maximize our global
manufacturing efficiency.

For information on environmental issues
associated with our properties, see
‘‘Business—Environmental and Other
Regulation’’ and ‘‘Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Environmental
Matters.’’ Additional information with respect to our
property, plant and equipment, and leases is contained in Notes 11 and
23 to the consolidated financial statements.


Item 3.

Legal
Proceedings

We are involved in a number of legal
proceedings, lawsuits and claims incidental to the normal conduct of
our business, relating to such matters as product liability,
anti-trust, past waste disposal practices and release of chemicals into
the environment. While it is impossible at this time to determine with
certainty the ultimate outcome of these proceedings, lawsuits and
claims, management believes, based on the advice of legal counsel, that
adequate provisions have been made and that the ultimate outcomes will
not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, but may
have a material adverse effect on the results of operations or cash
flows in any given accounting period. See also Note 25 to the
consolidated financial statements.

Plumbing
Actions

CNA Holdings, Inc. (‘‘CNA
Holdings’’), a U.S. subsidiary of Celanese Corporation,
which included the U.S. business now conducted by the Ticona segment,
along with Shell Oil Company (‘‘Shell’’),
DuPont and others, has been a defendant in a series of lawsuits,
including a number of class actions, alleging that plastics
manufactured by these companies that were utilized in the production of
plumbing systems for residential property were defective or caused such
plumbing systems to fail. Based on, among other things, the findings of
outside experts and the successful use of Ticona’s acetyl
copolymer in similar applications, CNA Holdings does not believe
Ticona’s acetyl copolymer was defective or caused the plumbing
systems to fail. In many cases CNA Holdings’ exposure may be
limited by invocation of the statute of limitations since CNA Holdings
ceased selling the resin for use in the plumbing systems in site built
homes during 1986 and in manufactured homes during 1990.

CNA
Holdings has been named a defendant in ten putative class actions,
further described below, as well as a defendant in other non-class
actions filed in ten states, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and Canada. In
these actions, the plaintiffs typically have sought recovery for
alleged property damages and, in some cases, additional damages under
the Texas Deceptive Trade Practices Act or similar type statutes.
Damage amounts have not been specified.

Developments under these
matters are as follows:

•

Dilday, et
al. v. Hoechst Celanese Corporation, et al.—Weakley County,
Tennessee 27th Judicial Chancery Court.

Class certification
of recreational vehicle owners was denied in July  2001, and
cases are proceeding on an individual
basis.

•

Shelter General Insurance Co.,
et al. v. Shell Oil Company, et al.—Weakley County, Tennessee
Chancery Court.

In April  2000, the U.S. District
Court for the District of New Jersey denied class certification for a
putative class action (of insurance companies with respect to
subrogation claims). The plaintiffs’ appeal to the Third Circuit
Court of Appeals was denied in July  2000, and the case was
subsequently dismissed. In September  2000, a similar putative
class action seeking certification of the same class that was denied in
the New Jersey matter was filed in Tennessee state court. The Tennessee
court denied certification in March  2002, and plaintiffs are
attempting an appeal. Cases are continuing on an individual
basis.

•

Tom Tranter v. Shell Oil
Company, et al.—Ontario Court, General Division; Gariepy, et al.
v. Shell Oil Company, et al.—Ontario Court, General
Division.

These matters, which the Court consolidated, were
denied class certification, and the plaintiffs’ appeal was also
denied. The lawsuits are now proceeding individually. Dupont and Shell
have each settled these matters, as well as the

Couture

and

Furlan

matters below. Their settlement agreements have been
approved by the Court. We are the only defendant remaining in this
lawsuit.

•

Richard Couture, et al. v.
Shell Oil Company, et al.—Superior Court, Providence of Quebec;
Furlan v. Shell Oil Company, et al.—British Columbia Supreme
Court, Vancouver Registry.

Dupont and Shell have each
settled these matters, as noted above. CNA Holdings is the only
defendant remaining in these lawsuits. They are ‘‘on
hold’’ pending the outcome of the appeal in the

Tranter

and

Gariepy

matters above, as in Canadian
practice, Ontario tends to be the ‘‘lead
jurisdiction’’ in such cases. Since the denial of the

Tranter

and

Gariepy

appeal, the

Couture

and

Furlan

matters may proceed.


•

Howard, et al.
v. Shell Oil Company, et al.—9th Judicial Circuit Court of Common
Pleas, Charleston County, South Carolina; Viera, et al. v. Hoechst
Celanese Corporation, et al.—11th Judicial Circuit Court, Dade
County, Florida; Fry, et al. v. Hoechst Celanese Chemical Group, Inc.,
et al.—5th Judicial Circuit Court, Marion County,
Florida.

Certification has been denied in these putative
class actions pending in South Carolina and Florida state courts. The
Plaintiff’s petition to appeal the

Howard

matter to the
United States Supreme Court was denied in late September  2004,
and CNA Holdings’ motion to dismiss has been granted. Although
plaintiffs in

Viera

and

Fry

subsequently sought to bring
actions individually, they were dismissed, and their appeal was
denied.

•

St. Croix Ltd., et al. v.
Shell Oil Company, et al.—Virgin Islands Territorial Court, St.
Croix Division.

The court in a putative class action denied
certification to a U.S. territories-wide class and dismissed CNA
Holdings on jurisdictional grounds. Plaintiffs are seeking
reconsideration of those rulings.

In order to reduce litigation
expenses and to provide relief to qualifying homeowners, in
November  1995, CNA Holdings, DuPont and Shell entered into
national class action settlements, which have been approved by the
courts. The settlements call for the replacement of plumbing systems of
claimants who have had qualifying leaks, as well as reimbursements for
certain leak damage. Furthermore, the three companies have agreed to
fund these replacements and reimbursements up to $950  million.
As of December  31,  2005, the aggregate funding is $1,073
million due to additional contributions and funding commitments made
primarily by other parties. There are additional pending lawsuits in
approximately ten jurisdictions not covered by this settlement;
however, these cases do not involve (either individually or in the
aggregate) a large number of homes, and management does not expect the
obligations arising from these lawsuits to have a material adverse
effect on the Company.

In 1995, CNA Holdings and Shell Oil
Company settled the claims relating to individuals in Texas owning a
total of 110,000 property units, who are represented by a Texas law
firm, for an amount that will not exceed $170  million. These
claimants are also eligible for a replumb of their homes in accordance
with terms similar to those of the national class action settlement.
CNA Holdings’ and Shell's contributions under this
settlement were subject to allocation as determined by binding
arbitration.

In addition, a lawsuit filed in November  1989
in Delaware Chancery Court, between CNA Holdings and various of its
insurance companies relating to all claims incurred and to be incurred
for the product liability exposure led to a partial declaratory
judgment in CNA Holdings’ favor. As a result, settlements have
been reached with a majority of CNA Holdings’ insurers
specifying their responsibility for these claims. In February
2005, CNA Holdings reached a settlement agreement through mediation
with another insurer, pursuant to which the insurer agreed to pay CNA
Holdings $44  million in exchange for the release of certain
claims against the policy with the insurer. This amount was recorded as
a reduction of goodwill as of December 31, 2004 and was received
during the year ended December 31, 2005.

Management believes that
the plumbing actions are adequately provided for in the consolidated
financial statements and that they will not have a material adverse
effect on our financial position. However, if we were to incur an
additional charge for this matter, such a charge would not be expected
to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, but may
have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash
flows in any given accounting period. No assurance can be given that
our litigation reserves will be adequate or that we will fully recover
claims under our insurance policies.

Sorbates Antitrust
Actions

In May  2002, the European Commission informed
Hoechst of its intent to investigate officially the sorbates industry.
In early January  2003, the European Commission served Hoechst,
Nutrinova and a number of competitors with a statement of objections
alleging unlawful, anticompetitive behavior affecting the European
sorbates market. In October  2003, the European Commission ruled
that Hoechst, Chisso Corporation, Daicel, The Nippon Synthetic Chemical
Industry Co. Ltd. and Ueno Fine Chemicals Industry Ltd. operated a
cartel in the European sorbates market between 1979 and 1996. The
European Commission imposed a total fine of €138.4
million (approximately $189  million), of which
€99  million (approximately $135  million) was
assessed against Hoechst. The case against Nutrinova was closed. The


fine against Hoechst is based on the European
Commission’s finding that Hoechst does not qualify under the
leniency policy, is a repeat violator and, together with Daicel, was a
co-conspirator. In Hoechst’s favor, the European Commission gave
a discount for cooperating in the investigation. Hoechst appealed the
European Commission’s decision in December  2003, and that
appeal is still pending.

In addition, several civil antitrust
actions by sorbates customers, seeking monetary damages and other
relief for alleged conduct involving the sorbates industry, have been
filed in U.S. state and federal courts naming Hoechst, Nutrinova, and
our other subsidiaries, as well as other sorbates manufacturers, as
defendants. Many of these actions have been settled and dismissed by
the court. One private action,

Kerr v. Eastman Chemical Co. et
al

., previously pending in the Superior Court of New Jersey, Law
Division, Gloucester County, was dismissed for failure to prosecute.
The plaintiff alleged violations of the New Jersey Antitrust Act and
the New Jersey Consumer Fraud Act and sought unspecified damages. The
only other private action that had still been pending,

Freeman v.
Daicel

, was dismissed. The plaintiffs lost their appeal to the
Supreme Court of Tennessee in August  2005 and have since filed a
motion for leave.

In July  2001, Hoechst and Nutrinova
entered into an agreement with the Attorneys General of 33 states,
pursuant to which the statutes of limitations were tolled pending the
states’ investigations. This agreement expired in July
2003. Since October  2002, the Attorneys General for several
states filed suit on behalf of indirect purchasers in their respective
states, all of which have been either settled or dismissed, except as
noted below. The Nevada action has been dismissed as to Hoechst,
Nutrinova and CAG, and a motion for reconsideration was denied. The New
York action,

New York v. Daicel Chemical Industries Ltd., et
al

., which was pending in the New York State Supreme Court, New
York County, was dismissed in August  2005; however, appeals are
pending.

In January  2005, Hoechst, Nutrinova, and other
subsidiaries, as well as other sorbates manufacturers entered into a
settlement agreement with the Attorneys General of Connecticut,
Florida, Hawaii, Maryland, South Carolina, Oregon and Washington before
those states filed suit. Pursuant to the terms of the settlement
agreement, the defendants agreed to refrain from engaging in
anticompetitive conduct with respect to the sale or distribution of
sorbates and to pay an immaterial amount to the states in satisfaction
of all released claims.

Although the outcome of the foregoing
proceedings and claims cannot be predicted with certainty, we believe
that any resulting liabilities, net of amounts recoverable from
Hoechst, will not, in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on
our financial position, but may have a material adverse effect on the
results of operations or cash flows in any given period. In the
demerger agreement, Hoechst agreed to pay 80% of liabilities
that may arise from the government investigation and the civil
antitrust actions related to the sorbates
industry.

Acetic Acid Patent Infringement
Matters

Celanese International Corporation v. China
Petrochemical Development Corporation—Taiwan Kaohsiung District
Court.

On February  7,  2001, Celanese
International Corporation filed a private criminal action for patent
infringement against China Petrochemical Development Corporation, or
CPDC, alleging that CPDC infringed Celanese International
Corporation’s patent covering the manufacture of acetic acid.
This criminal action was subsequently converted to a civil action
alleging damages against CPDC based on a period of infringement of five
years, 1996-2000, and based on CPDC’s own data and as reported
to the Taiwanese securities and exchange commission. Celanese
International Corporation’s patent was held valid by the
Taiwanese patent office. On August  31,  2005, a Taiwanese
court held that CPDC infringed Celanese International
Corporation’s acetic acid patent and awarded Celanese
International Corporation approximately $28  million for the
period of 1995 through 1999. This judgment has been appealed. The
Company will not record income associated with this favorable judgement
until cash is received.

Shareholder
Litigation

A number of minority shareholders of CAG have
filed lawsuits in the Frankfurt District Court (

Landgericht

)
that, among other things, request the court to set aside shareholder
resolutions passed at


the extraordinary general meeting held on
July 30 and 31, 2004, as well as the confirmatory resolutions passed at
the annual general meeting held on May 19 and 20, 2005. On March 6,
2006, the Purchaser and CAG signed a settlement agreement with eleven
minority shareholders who had filed such lawsuits (the
"Settlement Agreement"). Pursuant to the
Settlement Agreement, the plaintiffs agreed to withdraw the actions to
which they are a party and to recognize the validity of the Domination
Agreement in exchange for the Purchaser to offer at least
€51.00 per share as cash consideration to each shareholder
who will cease to be a shareholder in the context of the Squeeze-Out.
The Purchaser further agreed to make early payment of the guaranteed
annual payment (

Ausgleich

) pursuant to the Domination Agreement
for the financial year 2005/2006, ending on September 30, 2006. Such
guaranteed annual payment normally would have come due following the
annual general meeting in 2007; however, pursuant to the Settlement
Agreement, it will be made on the first banking day following
CAG's annual general meeting that commences on May 30, 2006. To
receive the early compensation payment, the respective minority
shareholder will have to declare that (i) their claim for payment of
compensation for the financial year 2005/2006 pursuant to the
Domination Agreement is settled by such early payment and that (ii) in
this respect, they indemnify the Purchaser against compensation claims
by any legal successors to their shares.

During August
2004, the following ten actions requesting the court to set aside
shareholder resolutions passed at the extraordinary general meeting
held on July 30 and 31, 2004 had been brought by minority shareholders
against CAG in the Frankfurt District Court (

Landgericht

), all
of which were consolidated in September
2004:

•

Mayer v. Celanese
AG

•

Knoesel v. Celanese
AG

•

Allerthal Werke AG v.
Celanese AG

•

Dipl.-Hdl.
Christa Götz v. Celanese
AG

•

Carthago Value Invest
AG v. Celanese AG

•

Prof.
Dr.  Ekkehard Wenger v. Celanese
AG

•

Jens-Uwe Penquitt &
Claus Deiniger Vermögensverwaltung GbR v. Celanese
AG

•

Dr.
Leonhard  Knoll v. Celanese
AG

•

B.E.M.
Börseninformations-und Effektenmanagement GmbH v. Celanese
AG

•

Protagon Capital GmbH
v. Celanese AG

Several minority shareholders joined these
proceedings via a third party intervention in support of the
plaintiffs. The Purchaser joined the proceedings via a third party
intervention in support of CAG. These ten actions will be withdrawn
pursuant to the Settlement Agreement.

Among other things, these
actions requested the court to set aside shareholder resolutions passed
at the extraordinary general meeting held on July  30 and 31,
2004 based on allegations that include the alleged violation of
procedural requirements and information rights of the shareholders.

Twenty-seven minority shareholders filed lawsuits (

Anfechtungs-
und Nichtigkeitsklagen

) in the Frankfurt District Court
(

Landgericht

) contesting the shareholder resolutions passed at
the annual general meeting of CAG held May  19-20,  2005,
which confirmed the resolutions passed at the July  30-31,
2004 extraordinary general meeting. Of these lawsuits, thirteen
minority shareholders also contested the resolutions regarding the
ratification (

Entlastung

) of the acts of the members of the
board of management and the supervisory board; two minority
shareholders also contested the resolutions regarding the election of
the statutory auditors for the 2005 fiscal year, as well as the
amendment of the articles of association; and eight minority
shareholders also contested the dismissal of the motion to hold a
special investigation (

Sonderprüfung

) and asked the court
to declare that the annual general meeting had in fact resolved in
favor of such an investigation (

positive
Beschlussfestellungsklage

). All of these actions are based, among
other things, on the alleged violation of procedure requirements and
information rights of the shareholders. In February 2006, the court
upheld only the challenge to the resolutions regarding the ratification

(Entlastung)

of the acts of the members of the board of
management


and the supervisory board. All other claims,
including those contesting the confirmatory resolutions, were
dismissed. This decision is still subject to appeal. Two of these
lawsuits were withdrawn in conjunction with the acquisition of 5.9
million of the additional CAG shares from two shareholders in August
2005, and another eleven will be withdrawn pursuant to the Settlement
Agreement.

Celanese is also a defendant in five actions filed in
the Frankfurt District Court (

Landgericht

) requesting that the
court declare some or all of the shareholder resolutions passed at the
extraordinary general meeting of CAG on July  30 and 31, 2004
null and void (

Nichtigkeitsklage

), based on allegations that
certain formal requirements necessary in connection with the invitation
to the extraordinary general meeting of Celanese had been violated. The
Frankfurt District Court (

Landgericht

) has suspended the
proceedings regarding the resolutions passed at the July 30-31, 2004
extraordinary general meeting of CAG described above so long as
lawsuits contesting the confirmatory resolution are pending.

On
August  2,  2004, two minority shareholders instituted
public register proceedings with the Königstein local court
(

Amtsgericht

) and the Frankfurt District Court
(

Landgericht

), both with a view to have the registration of the
Domination Agreement in the Commercial Register deleted
(

Amtslöschungsverfahren

). These actions are based on an
alleged violation of procedural requirements at the July 30-31, 2004
extraordinary general meeting, an alleged undercapitalization of the
Purchaser and its related entities as of the time of the Tender Offer
and an alleged misuse of discretion by the competent court with respect
to the registration of the Domination Agreement in the Commercial
Register. In April  2005, the court of appeals rejected the
demand by one shareholder for injunctive relief, and in June
2005 the Frankfurt District Court (

Landgericht

) ruled that it
does not have jurisdiction over this matter. One of the claims in the
Königstein Local Court (

Amtsgericht

) is still pending;
the other will be withdrawn pursuant to the Settlement
Agreement.

In February  2005, a minority shareholder of CAG
also brought a lawsuit against the Purchaser, as well as a former
member of CAG’s board of management and a former member of
CAG’s supervisory board, in the Frankfurt District Court
(

Landgericht

). Among other things, this action seeks to unwind
the tender of the plaintiff’s shares in the Tender Offer and
seeks compensation for damages suffered as a consequence of tendering
shares in the Tender Offer. The court ruled against the plaintiff in
this matter in June  2005. The plaintiff appealed this decision
with respect to the Purchaser and the former member of the CAG board of
management; however, the appeal will be withdrawn pursuant to the
Settlement Agreement.

Based upon the information as available,
the outcome of the foregoing proceedings cannot be predicted with
certainty.

The amounts of the fair cash compensation
(

Abfindung

) and of the guaranteed fixed annual payment
(

Ausgleich

) offered under the Domination Agreement may be
increased in special award proceedings (

Spruchverfahren

)
initiated by minority shareholders, which may further reduce the funds
the Purchaser can otherwise make available to us. As of the date of
this Annual Report, several minority shareholders of CAG had initiated
special award proceedings seeking court’s review of the amounts
of the fair cash compensation (

Abfindung

) and of the guaranteed
fixed annual payment (

Ausgleich

) offered under the Domination
Agreement. As a result of these proceedings, the amount of the fair
cash consideration and the guaranteed fixed annual payment offered
under the Domination Agreement could be increased by the court so that
all minority shareholders, including those who have already tendered
their shares into the mandatory offer and have received the fair cash
compensation, could claim the respective higher amounts. The court
dismissed all of these proceedings in March  2005 on the grounds
of inadmissibility. Thirty-three plaintiffs appealed the dismissal, and
in January  2006, twenty-three of these appeals were granted by
the court. They were remanded back to the court of first instance,
where the valuation will be further reviewed.

Other
Matters

As of December 31, 2005, Celanese Ltd. and/or CNA
Holdings, Inc., both our U.S. subsidiaries, are defendants in
approximately 630 asbestos cases. Because many of these cases involve
numerous plaintiffs, we are subject to claims significantly in excess
of the number of actual cases. We have reserves for defense costs
related to claims arising from these matters. We believe we do not have
any significant exposure in these matters.


Item 4.

Submission of Matters to
a Vote of Security Holders

No matters were submitted to a
vote of security holders during the fourth quarter of 2005.

PART
II

Item 5.

Market for the
Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

Market
Information

Our Series A common stock has traded on the New York
Stock Exchange under the symbol ‘‘CE’’
since January  21,  2005. The closing sale price of our
Series A common stock, as reported by the New York Stock Exchange, on
March 6,  2006 was $20.98. The following table sets forth the
high and low intraday sales prices per share of our common stock, as
reported by the New York Stock Exchange, for the periods
indicated.

Holders

No
shares of Celanese’s Series B common stock are issued and
outstanding. As of March 6,  2006, there were 51 holders of
record of our Series A common stock, and one holder of record of our
perpetual preferred stock. By including persons holding shares in
broker accounts under street names, however, we estimate our
shareholder base to be approximately 6,800 as of March 6,
2006.

Dividend Policy

In July  2005, our board of
directors adopted a policy of declaring, subject to legally available
funds, a quarterly cash dividend on each share of our common stock at
an annual rate initially equal to approximately 1% of the $16
price per share in the initial public offering of our Series A common
stock (or $0.16 per share) unless our board of directors, in its sole
discretion, determines otherwise, commencing the second quarter of
2005. Pursuant to this policy, the Company paid the quarterly dividends
of $0.04 per share on August  11,  2005, November 1, 2005
and February 1, 2006. Based on the number of outstanding shares of our
Series A common stock, the anticipated annual cash dividend is
approximately $25 million. However, there is no assurance that
sufficient cash will be available in the future to pay such dividend.
Further, such dividends payable to holders of our Series A common stock
cannot be declared or paid nor can any funds be set aside for the
payment thereof, unless we have paid or set aside funds for the payment
of all accumulated and unpaid dividends with respect to the shares of
our preferred stock, as described below.

Our board of directors
may, at any time, modify or revoke our dividend policy on our Series A
common stock.

We are required under the terms of the preferred
stock to pay scheduled quarterly dividends, subject to legally
available funds. For so long as the preferred stock remains
outstanding, (1) we will not declare, pay or set apart funds for the
payment of any dividend or other distribution with respect to any
junior stock or parity stock and (2) neither we, nor any of our
subsidiaries, will, subject to certain exceptions, redeem, purchase or
otherwise acquire for consideration junior stock or parity stock
through a sinking fund or otherwise, in each case unless we have paid
or set apart funds for the payment of all accumulated and unpaid
dividends with respect to the shares of preferred stock and any parity
stock for all preceding dividend periods. Pursuant to this policy, the
Company paid the quarterly dividends of $0.265625 on its 4.25%
convertible perpetual preferred stock on August  1,  2005,
November 1, 2005 and February 1, 2006. The anticipated annual cash
dividend is approximately $10 million.


The amount available to us to pay cash
dividends is restricted by our subsidiaries’ debt agreements.
The indentures governing the senior subordinated notes and the senior
discount notes also limit, but do not prohibit, the ability of BCP
Crystal, Crystal LLC and their respective subsidiaries to pay
dividends. Any decision to declare and pay dividends in the future will
be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on,
among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements,
financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors that
our board of directors may deem relevant.

Under the Domination
Agreement, any minority shareholder of Celanese AG who elects not to
sell its shares to the Purchaser will be entitled to remain a
shareholder of Celanese AG and to receive a gross guaranteed fixed
annual payment on their shares of €3.27 per Celanese Share
less certain corporate taxes to be paid by CAG in lieu of any future
dividend. See ‘‘The Transactions— Post-Tender
Offer Events—Domination and Profit and Loss Transfer
Agreement.’’

Under Delaware law, our board of
directors may declare dividends only to the extent of our
‘‘surplus’’ (which is defined as total
assets at fair market value minus total liabilities, minus statutory
capital), or if there is no surplus, out of our net profits for the
then current and/or immediately preceding fiscal years. The value of a
corporation’s assets can be measured in a number of ways and may
not necessarily equal their book value. The value of our capital may be
adjusted from time to time by our board of directors but in no event
will be less than the aggregate par value of our issued stock. Our
board of directors may base this determination on our financial
statements, a fair valuation of our assets or another reasonable
method. Our board of directors will seek to assure itself that the
statutory requirements will be met before actually declaring dividends.
In future periods, our board of directors may seek opinions from
outside valuation firms to the effect that our solvency or assets are
sufficient to allow payment of dividends, and such opinions may not be
forthcoming. If we sought and were not able to obtain such an opinion,
we likely would not be able to pay dividends. In addition, pursuant to
the terms of our preferred stock, we are prohibited from paying a
dividend on our Series A common stock unless all payments due and
payable under the preferred stock have been made.

Celanese
Purchases of its Equity
Securities

(1)

10,000
shares of Series A common stock were purchased on the open market in
December 2005 at $18.705 per share, approved by the Board of Directors
pursuant to the provisions of the 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, approved
by shareholders in December 2004, to be granted to two employees in
recognition of their contributions to the Company. No other purchases
are currently planned.

Equity Compensation Plans

The
information required to be included in this Item 5 with respect to our
equity compensation plans is incorporated by reference from the section
captioned "Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity
Compensation Plans" in the Company's definitive
proxy statement for the 2006 annual meeting of
stockholders.

Recent Sales of Unregistered
Securities

None.


Item 6.

Selected
Financial Data

The balance sheet data shown below as of
December  31,  2005 and 2004, and the statements of
operations and cash flow data for the year ended December
31,  2005, the nine months ended December  31,  2004,
the three months ended March  31,  2004, and the year ended
December  31,  2003, all of which are set forth below, are
derived from the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere
in this document and should be read in conjunction with those financial
statements and the notes thereto. The statement of operations data for
the years ended December  31,  2002 and 2001 and the
balance sheet data as of December  31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 (in
the case of the December  31, 2002 and 2001 only, unaudited), all
of which are set forth below, have been derived from, and translated
into U.S. dollars based on, CAG’s historical euro audited
financial statements and the underlying accounting records. This
document presents the financial information relating to the Predecessor
and the Successor.

As of the date of this Annual Report, Celanese
owns approximately 98% of the outstanding CAG shares.
Accordingly, financial and other information of CAG is presented in
this document for periods through March  31,  2004 and our
financial and other information is presented as of and for the year
ended December  31,  2005 and as of and for the nine months
ended December  31,  2004.



(1)

Special
(charges) gains include impairment charges, provisions for
restructuring, which include costs associated with employee termination
benefits and plant and office closures certain insurance recoveries,
and other expenses and income incurred outside the normal course of
ongoing operations (See Note 20 to the consolidated financial
statements).

(2)

Interest and other income, net,
includes interest income, dividends from cost basis investments and
other non-operating income (expense).

(3)

Successor
earnings (loss) per share is calculated by dividing net earnings (loss)
by the weighted average shares outstanding after giving effect to the
152.772947 for one stock split. Earnings (loss) per share for the
Predecessor periods has been calculated by dividing net earnings (loss)
by the historical weighted average shares outstanding of the
Predecessor. As the capital structure of the Predecessor and Successor
are different, the reported earnings (loss) per share are not
comparable.

(4)

Trade working capital is defined as
trade accounts receivable from third parties and affiliates net of
allowance for doubtful accounts, plus inventories, less trade accounts
payable to third parties and affiliates. Trade working capital is
calculated in the table below (2002 and 2001
unaudited):

(5)

In
the nine months ended December  31,  2004, CAG declared and
paid a dividend of €0.12 ($0.14) per share for the year
ended December  31,  2003. Dividends paid to Celanese and
its consolidated subsidiaries eliminate in
consolidation.

During 2005, we declared and paid
dividends to holders of our Series A common shares of $13 million, or
$0.04 per share per quarter.


Item
7.

Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the term
‘‘Celanese’’ refers to Celanese
Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and not its subsidiaries. The
terms the ‘‘Company,’’
‘‘we,’’
‘‘our,’’
‘‘us,’’ and Successor refer to Celanese and
its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. The term ‘‘BCP
Crystal’’ refers to our subsidiary, BCP Crystal US
Holdings Corp., a Delaware corporation, and not its subsidiaries. The
term ‘‘Purchaser’’ refers to our
subsidiary, Celanese Europe Holding GmbH & Co. KG, formerly known
as BCP Crystal Acquisition GmbH & Co. KG, a German limited
partnership (Kommanditgesellschaft, KG), and not its subsidiaries,
except where otherwise indicated. The term ‘‘Original
Shareholders’’ refers, collectively, to Blackstone
Capital Partners (Cayman) Ltd. 1, Blackstone Capital Partners (Cayman)
Ltd. 2, Blackstone Capital Partners (Cayman) Ltd. 3 and BA Capital
Investors Sidecar Fund, L.P. The terms
‘‘Sponsor’’ and
‘‘Advisor’’ refer to certain affiliates of
The Blackstone Group.

You should read the following
discussion and analysis of the financial condition and the results of
operations together with the consolidated financial statements and the
accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which were
prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.

The following
discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of
operations covers periods prior and subsequent to the acquisition of
CAG and its subsidiaries (collectively
‘‘CAG’’ or the
‘‘Predecessor’’). Accordingly, the
discussion and analysis of historical periods prior to the acquisition
do not reflect the significant impact that the acquisition of CAG has
had and will have on the Successor, including increased leverage and
liquidity requirements as well as purchase accounting adjustments.
Furthermore, the Successor and the Predecessor have different
accounting policies with respect to certain matters (see Note 4 to the
notes to consolidated financial statements). Investors are cautioned
that the forward-looking statements contained in this section involve
both risk and uncertainty. Several important factors could cause actual
results to differ materially from those anticipated by these
statements. Many of these statements are macroeconomic in nature and
are, therefore, beyond the control of management. See
‘‘Forward-Looking Information’’ located at
the end of this section.

The results for the nine months
ended December  31,  2005 and the three months ended
March  31,  2005 have not been audited; together with the
results of the nine months ended December  31,  2003 and
the three months ended March  31,  2003 and should not be
taken as an indication of the results of operations to be reported for
any subsequent period or for the full fiscal
year.

Reconciliation of Non-U.S. GAAP Measures: Management
believes that using non-U.S. GAAP financial measures to supplement U.S.
GAAP results is useful to investors because such use provides a more
complete understanding of the factors and trends affecting the business
other than disclosing U.S. GAAP results alone. In this regard, we
disclose net debt, which is a non-U.S. GAAP financial measure. Net debt
is defined as total debt less cash and cash equivalents. Management
uses net debt to evaluate the capital structure. Net debt is not a
substitute for any U.S. GAAP financial measure. In addition,
calculations of net debt contained in this report may not be consistent
with that of other companies. The most directly comparable financial
measure presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP in our financial
statements for net debt is total debt. For a reconciliation of net debt
and total debt, see ‘‘Financial
Highlights’’ below. For a reconciliation of trade working
capital to working capital, see "Selected Financial
Data."

Basis of
Presentation

Successor

Represents our
audited consolidated financial position as of December
31,  2005 and  2004 and our audited consolidated results of
operations and cash flows for the year ended December  31,
2005 and the nine months ended December  31,  2004. These
consolidated financial statements reflect the application of purchase
accounting, described below, relating to the original acquisition of
CAG and purchase price accounting adjustments relating to the
acquisitions of Vinamul, Acetex and additional CAG shares acquired
during the year ended December  31,
2005.

Predecessor

Represents
CAG’s audited consolidated results of operations and cash flows
for the year ended December  31,  2003, its audited interim
consolidated results of operations and cash flows for the three


months ended March  31,  2004,
and its unaudited interim consolidated results of operations and cash
flows for the three months ended March  31,  2003 and the
nine months ended December  31,  2003. These consolidated
financial statements relate to periods prior to the acquisition of CAG
and present CAG’s historical basis of accounting without the
application of purchase accounting.

The results of the Successor
are not comparable to the results of the Predecessor due to the
difference in the basis of presentation of purchase accounting as
compared to historical cost. Furthermore, the Successor and the
Predecessor have different accounting policies with respect to certain
matters.

Change in Ownership

Pursuant to a voluntary
tender offer commenced in February  2004, the Purchaser, an
indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Celanese Corporation, on
April  6,  2004 acquired approximately 84% of the
ordinary shares of CAG, excluding treasury shares, (the
‘‘CAG Shares’’) for a purchase price of
$1,693  million, including direct acquisition costs of $69
million (the ‘‘Acquisition’’). During the
year ended December  31,  2005 and the nine months ended
December  31,  2004, the Purchaser acquired additional CAG
shares for $473  million and $33  million, respectively,
including direct acquisition costs of $4 million and less than $1
million, respectively. The additional CAG shares were acquired pursuant
to either i) the mandatory offer which commenced in September
2004 and was extended such that it will expire on April
1,  2006, unless further extended or ii) the acquisition of
additional CAG shares as described below.

As part of the initial
acquisition of CAG, the Purchaser agreed to refinance certain existing
debt of CAG, pre-fund certain pension obligations of CAG, pre-fund
certain contingencies and certain obligations linked to the value of
CAG, such as the payment of fair cash compensation under a Domination
and Profit and Loss Transfer Agreement (‘‘Domination
Agreement’’) for the remaining outstanding CAG Shares and
payment obligations related to outstanding stock appreciation rights,
stock options and interest payments, provide additional funds for
working capital and other general corporate purposes, and pay related
fees and expenses.

The funds used in connection with the initial
acquisition of CAG were provided by equity investments of $641
million from the Blackstone Capital Partners (Cayman) Ltd. 1,
Blackstone Capital Partners (Cayman) Ltd. 2, and Blackstone Capital
Partners (Cayman) Ltd. 3 (collectively,
‘‘Blackstone’’) and BA Capital Investors
Sidecar Fund, L.P. (and together with Blackstone, the
‘‘Original Shareholders’’); term loans of
approximately $608  million, borrowings under senior subordinated
bridge loan facilities of $1,565  million as well as the issuance
of mandatorilly redeemable preferred stock totaling $200
million. The senior subordinated bridge loan facilities have since been
refinanced by the senior subordinated notes and the floating rate term
loan. As a result of the financing, our interest expense currently is,
and will continue to be, substantially higher than it was prior to the
Acquisition.

We accounted for the initial acquisition of CAG
using the purchase method of accounting and, accordingly, this resulted
in a new basis of accounting. The purchase price was allocated based on
the fair value of the underlying assets acquired and liabilities
assumed. The assets acquired and liabilities assumed were reflected at
fair value for the approximately 84% portion acquired and at CAG
historical basis for the remaining approximate 16%. The excess
of the total purchase price over the fair value of the net assets
acquired at closing was allocated to goodwill, and this indefinite
lived asset is subject to an annual impairment review. During the three
months ended March  31,  2005, we finalized the purchase
accounting adjustments for the original acquisition of CAG (See Notes 1
and 2 to the consolidated financial statements).

During the year
ended December  31,  2005, we decreased goodwill by
$26  million as a result of purchase accounting adjustments
related to the Acquisition and the acquisition of additional CAG
shares. Included in this adjustment is a $23  million increase to
goodwill, and a corresponding increase to our minority interest
liability primarily associated with the Restructuring that occurred in
October  2004 (See Note 1 to the consolidated financial
statements). We also increased goodwill by $5 million, net, for various
purchase accounting adjustments related to the acquisition of
additional CAG shares. As these represented immaterial adjustments,
individually and in the aggregate, prior periods have not been
restated. Also included in this adjustment is a $54  million
decrease to goodwill associated with the additional CAG shares
purchased based on the fair value of the assets and liabilities
acquired (See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements).


In connection with the Acquisition, at the
acquisition date, we implemented a plan to restructure certain
activities. We recorded liabilities of $60 million, primarily for
employee severance and related costs in connection with the preliminary
plan and have approved the continuation of all existing Predecessor
restructuring and exit plans (See Note 2 to the consolidated financial
statements).

Major Events In

•

In January  2005, we
completed an intial public offering of 50,000,000 shares of Series A
common stock. Concurrently, we issued 9,600,000 shares of convertible
perpetual preferred stock.

•

In
December  2005, we announced a plan to develop our Nanjing, China
site into an integrated chemical complex that will include a 600,000
metric ton acetic acid plant, a vinyl acetate unit and a vinyl acetate
emulsions unit. Startup is targeted for the first half of
2007.

•

Increased our ownership of CAG to
approximately 98% as of November  2,  2005 following
an agreement with major shareholders and ongoing tender offers. In
November  2005, our Board of Directors granted approval to effect
a Squeeze-Out of the remaining minority shareholders of
CAG.

•

In February  2005, we
completed the acquisition of Vinamul, the North American and European
emulsion polymer business of Imperial Chemical Industries PLC
(‘‘ICI’’) for $208
million.

•

In July  2005, we
completed the acquisition of Acetex Corporation for $270  million
and assumed Acetex's $247 million of debt, which is net of cash
acquired of $54 million. We also redeemed Acetex’s outstanding
10 7/8% senior notes primarily with available
cash of $280 million.

•

Completed the
transition to purchase our total requirements for Gulf Coast methanol
from Southern Chemical Corporation, a Trinidad-based
supplier.

•

Announced plans to construct a
world-scale plant for the manufacture of GUR

®

ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene in Asia. Production is
expected to begin in the second half of
2007.

•

Announced plans to implement our
next generation of vinyl acetate monomer technology, known as Vantage
Plus™. We expect to further improve production efficiency and
lower operating costs across our global manufacturing platform through
the use of this technology.

•

In
August  2005, our board adopted a dividend policy and we began to
pay common shareholders a dividend of $0.16 per share annually, or
1%, based on the initial public offering price of $16 per
share.

•

In December  2005, we
reached settlements with two insurer's of CNA Holdings'
pursuant to which CNA Holdings will be paid a total of $16
million in the next two years ($7  million in 2006 and $9
million in 2007) in exchange for the release of certain claims against
the policy of the insurer. We recorded approximately $30  million
in income to special (charges) gains for two plumbing action insurance
settlements in the fourth quarter of
2005.

•

In December  2005, we
resolved litigation pertaining to antitrust claims filed against
certain shipping companies. Pursuant to these agreements, we received
net proceeds of approximately $36  million which was recorded as
a reduction to cost of sales in the fourth quarter of
2005.

•

In October  2005, we
completed the sale of our acetate manufacturing facility in Rock Hill,
South Carolina to Greens of Rock Hill LLC. Production at the facility
was phased out earlier in 2005 as part of our previously announced
plans to consolidate our acetate flake manufacturing operations. We
recognized a gain on sale of approximately $23  million, which
includes the reversal of $12 million of asset retirement obligations
and $7  million of environmental reserves, as the purchaser
assumed these obligations.


•

In the fourth
quarter of 2005, we exited our filament business (See Note 6 to the
notes to consolidated financial statements).

•

In December  2005, we sold our
cyclo-olefine copolymer business, or COC, to a venture of Japan's
Daicel Chemical Industries Ltd.
(‘‘Daicel’’) and Polyplastics Co, Ltd.
(‘‘Polyplastics’’). Daicel holds a majority
stake in the venture with 55% interest and Polyplastics, which
itself is a venture between us and Daicel, owns the remaining
45%. The transaction resulted in a loss of approximately
$35  million.

•

In December
2005, we completed the sale of our common stock interest in the Pemeas
GmbH fuel cell venture and recognized a gain of less than $1
million.

•

In December  2005, we
announced that discussions regarding the venture project being
developed by Acetex and Tasnee Petrochemicals in the Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia have been temporarily suspended due to the current high demand
on contractors and vendors which have affected expected project
costs.

•

Continued to focus the product
portfolio by exiting non-strategic businesses, such as the high
performance polymer polybenzamidazole
(‘‘PBI’’), vectran polymer and emulsion
powders.

•

In December  2005, we
announced our intention to pursue strategic alternatives for our Pampa,
Texas plant. The facility, which produces a variety of products based
on butane, including 290,000 metric tons of acetic acid, faces
competitive pressures due to the technology utilized. If we elect to
exit the facility, an impairment charge may be recognized, which could
be material.

Initial Public Offering and Concurrent
Financings

In January  2005, we
completed an initial public offering of 50,000,000 shares of Series A
common stock and received net proceeds of $752  million after
deducting underwriters’ discounts and offering expenses of
$48  million. Concurrently, we received net proceeds of
$233  million from the offering of our convertible perpetual
preferred stock. A portion of the proceeds of the share offerings were
used to redeem $188  million of senior discount notes and
$521  million of senior subordinated notes, excluding early
redemption premiums of $19  million and $51  million,
respectively.

Subsequent to the closing of
the initial public offering, we borrowed an additional $1,135
million under the amended and restated senior credit facilities, a
portion of which was used to repay a $350  million floating rate
term loan, and $200  million of which was used as the primary
financing for the February  2005 acquisition of Vinamul.
Additionally, the amended and restated senior credit facilities
included a $242  million delayed draw term loan, which expired
unutilized in July  2005.

On
April  7,  2005, we used the remaining proceeds of the
initial public offering and concurrent financings to pay a special cash
dividend, declared on March  8,  2005, to holders of our
Series B common stock of $804  million. Upon payment of the
$804  million dividend, all of the outstanding shares of Series B
common stock converted automatically into shares of Series A common
stock. On March  9,  2005, we issued a 7,500,000 Series A
common stock dividend to the holders of our Series B common
stock.

Acquisition of Additional CAG
Shares

On August  24,  2005, we
acquired 5.9  million, or approximately 12%, of the
outstanding CAG shares from two shareholders for
€302  million ($369  million). We also paid to
such shareholders €12  million ($15  million)
in consideration for the settlement of certain claims and for such
shareholders agreeing to, among other things, (1) accept the
shareholders' resolutions passed at the extraordinary general
meeting of CAG held on July  30 and 31, 2004 and the annual
general meeting of CAG held on May  19 and 20, 2005, (2)
acknowledge the legal effectiveness of the domination and profit and
loss transfer agreement, (3) irrevocably withdraw and abandon all
actions, applications and appeals each brought or joined in legal
proceedings related to, among other things, challenging the
effectiveness of the domination and profit and loss transfer agreement
and amount of fair cash compensation offered by the Purchaser in the
mandatory offer required by Section 305(1) of the


German Stock Corporation Act, (4) refrain
from acquiring any CAG shares or any other investment in CAG, and (5)
refrain from taking any future legal action with respect to shareholder
resolutions or corporate actions of CAG. We paid the aggregate
consideration of €314  million ($384  million)
for the additional CAG shares using available cash.

We also made a limited offer to purchase from
all other shareholders any remaining outstanding CAG shares for
€51 per share (plus interest on €41.92 per
share) against waiver of the shareholders’ rights to participate
in an increase of the offer consideration as a result of the pending
award proceedings. In addition, all shareholders who tendered their
shares pursuant to the September  2004 mandatory offer of
€41.92 per share were entitled to claim the difference
between the increased offer and the mandatory offer. The limited offer
period ran from August  30,  2005 through September
29,  2005, inclusive. For shareholders who did not accept the
limited offer on or prior to the September  29,  2005
expiration date, the terms of the original mandatory offer continue to
apply. The mandatory offer will remain open for two months following
final resolution of the award proceedings (

Spruchverfahren)

by
the German courts.

As of December
31,  2005 and 2004, our ownership interest in CAG was
approximately 98% and 84%, respectively. On
November  3,  2005, our Board of Directors approved
commencement of the process for effecting a squeeze-out of the
remaining shareholders, as defined
below.

Squeeze-Out

Because
we own shares representing more than 95% of the registered
ordinary share capital (excluding treasury shares) of CAG, we have
decided to exercise our right, as permitted under German law, to the
transfer of the shares owned by the outstanding minority shareholders
of CAG in exchange for fair cash compensation (the
‘‘Squeeze-Out’’). The Squeeze-Out will
require the approval by the affirmative vote of the majority of the
votes cast at CAG’s annual general meeting in May  2006
and will become effective upon its registration in the commercial
register. If we are successful in effecting the Squeeze-Out, we must
pay the then remaining minority shareholders of CAG fair cash
compensation, in exchange for their shares. The amount of the fair cash
compensation per share has been set at €62.22. The amount
to be paid to the minority shareholders as fair cash compensation in
exchange for their CAG Shares in connection with the Squeeze-Out was
determined on the basis of the fair value of CAG, determined by us in
accordance with applicable German legal requirements, as of the date of
the applicable resolution of CAG’s shareholders’ meeting,
and examined by a duly qualified auditor chosen and appointed by the
Frankfurt District Court
(

Landgericht

).

The Squeeze-Out will
require approval by the shareholders of CAG. While it is expected that
we will have the requisite majority in such meeting to assure approval
of such measures, minority shareholders, irrespective of the size of
their shareholding, may, within one month from the date of any such
shareholder resolution, file an action with the court to have such
resolution set aside. While such action would only be successful if the
resolution were passed in violation of applicable laws and cannot be
based on the unfairness of the amount to be paid to the minority
shareholders, a shareholder action may substantially delay the
implementation of the challenged shareholder resolution pending final
resolution of the action. If such action proved to be successful, the
action could prevent the implementation of the Squeeze-Out.
Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Squeeze-Out can be
implemented timely or at all.

Impact of the
Acquisitions of Vinamul and Acetex

In
February  2005, we acquired Vinamul, the North American and
European emulsion polymer business of Imperial Chemical Industries PLC
(‘‘ICI’’) for $208  million. The
Vinamul product line includes vinyl acetate-ethylene copolymers, vinyl
acetate homopolymers and copolymers, and acrylic and vinyl acrylic
emulsions. Vinamul operates manufacturing facilities in the United
States, Canada, the United Kingdom, and The Netherlands. As part of the
agreement, ICI will continue to supply Vinamul with starch, dextrin and
other specialty ingredients following the acquisition. We will supply
ICI with vinyl acetate monomer and polyvinyl alcohols. The supply
agreements are for fifteen years,


and the pricing is based on market and other
negotiated terms. This acquisition was primarily financed through
borrowings of $200  million under the amended and restated senior
credit facilities. The net sales and operating profit (loss) of the
Vinamul business included in our results of operations were $343
million and $(15) million, respectively, for the year ended
December  31,  2005. Vinamul's results included
integration costs incurred in connection with the acquistion. See
Note  6 to the consolidated financial
statements.

In September  2005, in
connection with the Vinamul transaction, we sold our emulsion powders
business to ICI for $25  million. The transaction included a
supply agreement whereby we will supply product to ICI for a period of
up to fifteen years. The fair value of the supply contract was
$11  million and was recorded as deferred revenue to be amortized
over the fifteen year life of the contract. In connection with the
sale, we reduced goodwill related to the acquisition of Vinamul by
$6  million. Net sales and operating profit (loss) for the
emulsions powders business for the nine months ended September 30, 2005
were approximately $30  million and $1  million,
respectively.

In July  2005, we
acquired Acetex Corporation (‘‘Acetex’’)
for $270  million and assumed Acetex’s $247  million
of debt, which is net of cash acquired of $54  million.
Acetex’s operations include an acetyls business with plants in
Europe and a North-American specialty polymers and film business. We
acquired Acetex primarily using existing cash. We caused Acetex to
exercise its option to redeem its 10 7/8% senior
notes due 2009 totaling $265  million. The redemption was funded
primarily with cash on hand and occurred on August  19,
2005. The redemption price was $280  million, which represents
105.438% of the outstanding principal amount, plus accrued and
unpaid interest to August  19,  2005. On August
25,  2005, we repaid the remaining $36  million of assumed
debt with available cash. The net sales and operating profit (loss) of
the Acetex business included in our results of operations were
$247  million and $(4) million, respectively, for the year ended
December  31,  2005. Acetex's results included
integration costs and inventory purchase accounting adjustments
incurred in connection with the
acquisition.

In connection with the above
acquisitions, we allocated the purchase price on the basis of the fair
value of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. We expect to
finalize the purchase accounting for Acetex by March  31,
2006. Included in the liabilities assumed are certain obligations
related to the acquired pension and postretirement benefit plans. The
excess of the purchase price over the amounts allocated to assets and
liabilities is included in goodwill, and as of December
31,  2005, is approximately $44  million and $166
million for Vinamul and Acetex, respectively.

Major
Events In 2004

•

In response to greater
demand for Ticona’s technical polymers, two projects were
announced to expand manufacturing capacity. Ticona announced plans to
increase production of polyacetal in North America by about 20%,
raising total capacity to 102,000 tons per year at the Bishop, Texas
facility. This project was completed in October  2004.

•

In October  2004, we completed an
organizational restructuring (the
‘‘Restructuring’’). (See Note 1 to the
consolidated financial statements).

•

In
October  2004, we announced plans to implement a strategic
restructuring of our acetate business to increase efficiency, reduce
overcapacity in certain areas and to focus on products and markets that
provide long-term value. The restructuring resulted in $50
million of asset impairment charges recorded as a special charge and
$12  million in charges to depreciation for related asset
retirement obligations for the nine months ended December
31,  2004.

•

In November
2004, Blackstone Crystal Holdings Capital Partners (Cayman) IV Ltd.,
reorganized as a Delaware company and changed its name to Celanese
Corporation.

•

In December  2004, we
approved a stock incentive plan for executive officers, key employees
and directors, a deferred compensation plan for executive officers and
key employees, as well as other management incentive programs. We
recorded expense of $50  million related to these new
compensation plans during the nine months ended December
31,  2004.


Major Events In

In 2003, CAG took major steps to
enhance the value of its businesses, by investing in new production
capacity in growth areas, reducing costs and increasing
productivity.

Optimizing the
Portfolio

•

Agreed to sell our
acrylates business to The Dow Chemical Company
(‘‘Dow’’) as part of its strategy to focus
on core businesses; transaction completed in February
2004.

•

Completed the venture of its
European oxo businesses with Degussa AG
(‘‘Degussa’’).

•

Sold
our nylon business to BASF AG
(‘‘BASF’’).

Investing in
Growth Areas

•

Received governmental
approval and began preparations to build a world-scale acetic acid
plant in China, the world’s fastest growing market for acetic
acid and its derivatives.

•

Announced
agreement with China National Tobacco Corporation to double capacities
of three acetate tow plants in China, in which CAG owns a 30%
share.

•

Announced plans to expand its
GUR(

R

) ultra high molecular weight polyethylene plant in
Oberhausen, Germany, by 10,000 tons, increasing our total worldwide
capacity by 17% in the second half of
2004.

•

Broke ground with Asian partners
for a new investment in a polyacetal plant in China, the world’s
highest growth market for engineering
plastics.

Reducing Costs and Increasing
Productivity

•

Agreed to source
methanol from Southern Chemical Corporation in mid-2005 under a
multi-year contract expected to reduce significantly overall exposure
to U.S. Gulf Coast natural gas
volatility.

•

Initiated measures to
redesign Ticona’s organization, reduce costs and increase
productivity.

•

Achieved significant cost
savings from completion of Focus and Forward restructuring
programs.

•

Intensified use of Six Sigma
and other productivity tools throughout the organization to reduce
costs and generate additional
revenue.

•

Began implementation of a
company-wide SAP platform to reduce administrative costs by eliminating
complexity in information systems and to provide for ongoing
improvement in business processes and
service.

•

Completed a new, more efficient
plant for synthesis gas, a primary raw material used at the Oberhausen,
Germany site.


Financial
Highlights

(1)

Defined
as operating profit divided by net sales.


CELANESE CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF
OPERATIONS


Overview – Nine Months Ended
December  31,  2005 Compared with Nine Months Ended

December  31,  2004

Net sales in the nine months
ended December  31,  2005 increased 23% to
$4,592  million compared to the same period in 2004. The
improvement is primarily due to an 11% increase in net sales
from the Vinamul and Acetex businesses and 11% higher pricing,
mainly in Chemical Products, offset by slightly lower volumes. Net
sales from Vinamul and Acetex were approximately $280  million
and $247  million, respectively.

Our performance improved
over 2004 as increased pricing and cost savings initiatives more than
offset higher raw material and energy costs. As a result, our operating
profit margin increased to 8.8% for the nine months ended
December  31,  2005 from 1.9% in the same period in
2004. For the nine months ended December  31,  2005,
Vinamul and Acetex (including AT Plastics), had operating losses of
$15  million and $4  million, respectively, primarily
related to integration costs in connection with the acquisitions and
inventory purchase accounting adjustments for Acetex.

Earnings
from continuing operations before tax and minority interests for the
nine months ended December  31,  2005 increased to
$349  million compared to a net loss of $180  million in
the same period in 2004. This increase is primarily due to higher
operating profit, lower interest expense and higher dividend income.
Interest expense in 2004 included the expensing of deferred financing
costs of $89  million and a prepayment premium of $21
million associated with the refinancing of the mandatorily redeemable
preferred stock. This increase was partially offset by a $21
million increase in 2005 in interest expense due to higher debt levels
and higher interest rates. Earnings from continuing operations before
tax and minority interests for the nine months ended December
31,  2005 includes an $11  million net loss on disposition
of assets compared to a $3  million net gain on disposition of
assets in the same period in 2004. The net earnings for the nine months
ended December  31,  2005 includes a $35  million
loss on the disposal of Ticona’s COC business, offset by a
$23  million gain on the disposition of two Acetate Products
properties and $1  million in other gains, net.

Net
earnings (loss) for the nine months ended December  31,
2005 improved to net earnings of $287  million compared to a net
loss of $253  million for the same period in 2004.

Net debt
(total debt less cash and cash equivalents) rose to $3,047
million at December  31,  2005 from $2,549  million
at December  31,  2004, primarily due to a decrease in cash
and cash equivalents of $448  million. We largely used available
cash to finance the Vinamul and Acetex acquisitions, the redemption of
Acetex senior notes and the purchase of the additional CAG shares from
two minority shareholders.

In September  2005, we
announced a controlled shutdown of our plants in Clear Lake, Pasadena,
Bay City and Bishop, Texas in preparation for Hurricane Rita. We
subsequently announced that these plants sustained minimal damage from
this hurricane and production resumed at these plants in October
2005. We believe the hurricane had an aggregate negative impact on
earnings of approximately $15 million during the nine months ended
December  31,  2005.

Overview – Three Months
Ended March  31,  2005 Compared with Three Months Ended
March  31,  2004

In the three months ended
March  31,  2005, net sales rose 21% to
$1,478  million compared to $1,218  million, in the same
period in 2004, primarily due to higher pricing, higher volumes,
favorable currency movements and product composition changes, of which
$66  million was related to the Vinamul acquisition. Net earnings
(loss) declined to a net loss of $10  million compared to net
earnings of $78  million in the same period in 2004 largely due
to higher interest expense, which included $102  million in debt
refinancing related costs (comprised of early redemption premiums and
accelerated amortization of deferred financing costs of $74
million and $28  million, respectively), and higher special
charges, mainly due to $35  million in expenses for the
termination of sponsor monitoring services. The three months ended
March  31,  2005 benefited from higher pricing mainly in
Chemical Products, driven by strong demand and higher industry capacity
utilization. We also benefited from cost savings resulting from
restructuring and productivity improvement programs as well as lower
depreciation and amortization. These benefits were partially offset by
higher raw materials and energy costs.


Overview – Nine Months Ended
December  31,  2004 Compared with Nine Months Ended

December  31,  2003

All business segments
experienced volume growth in the nine months ended December
31,  2004 compared to the same period in 2003. The Chemical
Products segment benefited from stronger overall demand, while the
Ticona segment grew on new commercial applications and stronger demand
from the automotive, electrical/electronics, household goods, and
medical markets. The performance of Ticona’s affiliates also
reflected improved business conditions. The overall economic
environment, however, remained challenging due to higher raw material
and energy costs, as well as weaker pricing for some products in the
Ticona and Performance Products segments compared to the same period in
2003.

Net sales in the nine months ended December
31,  2004 rose 12% to $3,744  million compared to
net sales for the same period in 2003 mainly on higher volumes in all
business segments, stronger pricing in Chemical Products and favorable
currency effects, which were partially offset by lower pricing in the
remaining segments and changes in the composition of the Chemical
Products segment.

Operating profit increased to $72
million from $22  million in the same period in 2003. Operating
profit benefited from increased net sales, lower stock appreciation
rights expense of $76  million as well as cost savings. These
factors were partially offset by increased raw material and energy
costs, higher special charges of $78  million, expenses
associated with a new management compensation plan of $50
million, and higher professional and consulting fees. For the nine
months ended December  31,  2004, operating profit included
lower depreciation and amortization of $38  million resulting
primarily from purchase accounting adjustments and a non-cash charge of
$53  million in inventory-related purchase accounting
adjustments.

Earnings from continuing operations before tax and
minority interests decreased to a loss of $180  million from
earnings of $84  million in the same period in 2003 mainly due to
an increase in interest expense of $263  million, resulting from
the higher debt levels and the expensing of deferred financing costs of
$89  million, and the absence of $18  million in income
from the demutualization of an insurance provider, which was partially
offset by higher operating profit of $50  million.

Net
earnings (loss) decreased to a loss of $253  million compared to
earnings of $92  million for the same period a year
earlier.

Net debt (total debt less cash and cash equivalents)
rose to $2,549  million from $489  million as of
December  31,  2003, primarily to finance the acquisition
of CAG and to prefund benefit obligations.

Overview –
Three Months Ended March  31,  2004 Compared with Three
Months Ended March  31,  2003

In the three months
ended March  31,  2004, all of the Predecesor’s
businesses experienced strong volume growth compared to the same period
the previous year and benefited from increased activity in some of its
markets, such as electrical/electronics, new applications for technical
polymers and food ingredients, and tight supply conditions in the
acetyl products markets. Operating profit declined, however, due to
higher raw material and energy costs, special charges and the absence
of income from stock appreciation rights, which were partially offset
by favorable currency effects.

Net sales increased 7% to
$1,218  million due to volume increases and favorable currency
effects, resulting mainly from the stronger euro versus the U.S.
dollar. Volume increases were particularly strong in the Acetate
Products and Ticona segments. These factors were partially offset by
the effects of transfer of the European oxo business to a venture in
the fourth quarter of 2003.

Earnings from continuing operations
before tax and minority interests were $67  million compared to
$88  million in the comparable period in 2003. Net earnings
(loss) increased to $78  million from $56  million in the
same period in 2003.


Selected Data by
Business Segment—Nine Months Ended December  31,
2005 Compared with Nine Months Ended December  31,  2004
and Three Months Ended March  31,  2005 Compared with Three
Months Ended March 31,


Selected Data by Business
Segment—Nine Months Ended December  31,  2005
Compared with Nine Months Ended December  31,  2004 and
Three Months Ended March  31,  2005 Compared with Three
Months Ended March 31, 2004 (Continued)

Factors
Affecting Nine Months Ended December  31,  2005 Segment
Sales Compared to Nine Months Ended December  31,

Factors
Affecting Three Months Ended March  31,  2005 Segment Sales
Compared to Three Months Ended March  31,

Summary
by Business Segment—Nine Months Ended December  31,
2005 Compared with Nine Months Ended December  31,  2004
and Three Months Ended March  31,  2005 Compared with Three
Months Ended March  31,  2004

Chemical
Products

Nine
Months Ended December  31,  2005 Compared with Nine Months
Ended December  31,  2004

Chemical
Products’ net sales increased 28% to $3,292
million for the nine months ended December  31,  2005
compared to the same period in 2004. The increase is primarily due to
the inclusion of net sales from Vinamul and Acetex (excluding AT
Plastics) during 2005 of approximately $280  million and
$135  million, respectively. In addition, pricing increased for
most products, but primarily from acetic acid, vinyl acetate monomer
and acetyl derivatives. The price increase was driven by continued
strong demand, high industry utilization in base products and higher
raw material costs, particularly for ethylene and


natural gas. Overall, volumes declined
3% primarily from acetyl derivatives partially offset by
significantly improved volumes from vinyl acetate monomer. Volumes for
emulsions was flat. The increase in volumes from vinyl acetate monomer
is primarily driven by continued strong demand.

Special charges
increased by $21  million for the nine months ended
December  31,  2005 compared to the same period in 2004.
Included in 2005 is $12  million in charges for a change in the
environmental remediation strategy related to the closure of the
Edmonton methanol plant and $6  million for severance charges
related to the same closure.

Operating profit increased
60% to $396  million for the nine months ended
December  31,  2005 compared to the same period in 2004.
The increase is principally driven by higher pricing, which more than
offset higher raw material and energy costs. The segment also benefited
from a full quarter impact of its Southern Chemical methanol supply
contract. Basic products, such as acetic acid and vinyl acetate
monomer, had greater success in maintaining margins while downstream
products, such as polyvinyl alcohol and emulsions, continued to
experience margin compression due to raw material costs rising faster
than our pricing. Operating profit was also favorably impacted in this
period due to $36  million from the settlement of
transportation-related anti-trust matters, $14  million in lower
non-cash inventory-related purchase accounting adjustments and Acetex
(excluding AT Plastics) recording an operating profit of $11 million in
the nine months ended December  31,  2005. The increase in
operating profit was partially offset by Vinamul recording operating
losses of $15  million, which included integration costs in
connection with the acquisition. Additionally, depreciation and
amortization increased in 2005 compared to the same period in 2004
primarily related to purchase accounting adjustments in both
years.

Earnings from continuing operations before tax and
minority interests increased 74% to $462  million compared
to the same period in 2004 benefiting from increased operating profit
and dividends from our Saudi cost investment.

Three Months
Ended March  31,  2005 Compared with Three Months Ended
March  31,  2004

Chemical Products' net
sales increased 28% to $1,044  million compared to the
same period last year mainly on higher pricing, segment composition
changes, of which $66  million was related to Vinamul, and
favorable currency effects. Pricing increased for most products, driven
by continued strong demand and high utilization rates across the
chemical industry.

Earnings from continuing operations before tax
and minority interests increased to $193  million from $64
million in the same period in 2004 as higher pricing was partially
offset by higher raw material costs. Earnings also benefited from an
increase of $9  million in dividends from our Saudi cost
investment, which totaled $12  million in the quarter. The three
months ended March  31,  2005 included $1 million in
earnings from Vinamul, which included $1  million in non-cash
inventory related purchase accounting adjustments and integration costs
in connection with the acquisition.


Technical Polymers
Ticona

Nine
Months Ended December  31,  2005 Compared with Nine Months
Ended December  31,  2004

Ticona’s net
sales increased 2% to $648  million for the nine months
ended December  31,  2005 compared to the same period in
2004. The increase is primarily driven by the successful implementation
of price increases, introduction of new applications and increased
penetration into key markets. This increase is partially offset by
lower overall volumes and slightly unfavorable currency effects.
Improved volumes from most of Ticona’s product lines were more
than offset by a decline in polyacetal volumes attributable to a weak
European automotive market and reduced sales to lower-end
applications.

Ticona recorded income from special charges of
$9  million for the nine months ended December  31,
2005 compared to expense of $37  million for the same period in
2004. Included in 2005 is approximately $34  million associated
with plumbing insurance recoveries, which was partially offset by an
additional $25  million non-cash impairment charge associated
with the planned disposal of the COC business. The $37  million
in 2004 is primarily related to a non-cash impairment charge from the
COC business.

Operating profit increased to $21  million
for the nine months ended December  31,  2005 compared to
an operating loss of $12  million for the same period in 2004.
The successful implementation of price increases helped to offset
higher raw material and energy costs. Also contributing to the increase
are productivity improvements, cost savings from an organizational
redesign and lower depreciation and amortization expenses due to
changes in the useful lives of certain property, plant and equipment.
In addition, 2004 included a $20  million charge to cost of sales
for a non-cash inventory related purchase accounting adjustment.
Operating profit in the nine months ended December  31,
2005 includes approximately $35  million for the loss on disposal
of the COC business compared to an impairment charge of $32 million
taken in 2004.

Earnings from continuing operations before tax
and minority interests increased to $65  million for the nine
months ended December  31,  2005 compared to $26
million in the same period in 2004. This increase is primarily due to
the increase in operating profit, improved equity earnings from Asian
and U.S. affiliates due to increased sales volumes, a $46 million
reduction in special charges, and the absence of a 2004 purchase
accounting adjustment of $20 million in 2005.

Three Months
Ended March  31,  2005 Compared with Three Months Ended
March  31,  2004

Net sales for Ticona increased
by 5% to $239  million compared to the same period last
year due to favorable currency effects and slightly higher volumes.
Volumes increased for most product lines due to the successful
introduction of new applications, which outweighed declines in
polyacetal volumes


resulting from our focus on high-end business
and decreased sales to European automotive customers. Overall pricing
remained flat over the same periods as successfully implemented price
increases were offset by lower average pricing for certain products due
to the commercialization of lower cost grades for new
applications.

Earnings from continuing operations before tax and
minority interests increased 13% to $51  million as the
result of restructuring cost savings, the favorable effects of a
planned maintenance turnaround and slightly higher volumes. These
increases were partially offset by higher raw material and energy
costs.

Acetate
Products

Nine
Months Ended December  31,  2005 Compared with Nine Months
Ended December  31,  2004

Acetate
Products’ net sales for the nine months ended December
31,  2005 increased 12% to $494  million compared to
the same period in 2004. The improvement is due to a 5% increase
in pricing and a 7% increase in overall volumes. Higher flake
volumes from increased sales to our recently expanded China tow
ventures were partially offset by lower tow volumes due to the shutdown
of our Edmonton, Canada tow plant. Price increases partially offset
higher raw material and energy costs.

For the nine months ended
December  31,  2005, the Acetate Products’ segment
recorded special charges of $8  million compared to $41
million in the same period in 2004. Special (charges) gains in 2005
primarily related to a change in the environmental remediation strategy
related to the closure of the Edmonton methanol plant, while special
(charges) gains in the same period in 2004 primarily represented asset
impairments associated with the planned consolidation of tow and flake
production.

Operating profit increased to $57  million in
the nine months ended December  31,  2005 compared to an
operating loss of $17  million in the same period in 2004. The
increase is largely due to the decrease in special (charges) gains
described above and a $23  million gain on the sale of the Rock
Hill, S.C. plant and the Charlotte, N.C. research and development
center. In addition, depreciation and amortization expense decreased
primarily resulting from a lower depreciable assets base due to
previous asset impairments and an $8  million charge for asset
retirement obligations recorded in 2004 associated with the
restructuring of the business. Higher pricing and savings from
restructuring and productivity improvements more than offset increased
raw material and energy costs, as well as temporarily higher
manufacturing costs resulting from a realignment of inventory levels as
part of the restructuring strategy.

Earnings from continuing
operations before tax and minority interests increased to $61
million for the nine months ended December  31,  2005
compared to a $13  million loss from continuing operations in the
same period in 2004. This increase is primarily due to the increase in
operating profit which included $33 million in lower special charges
and the $23 million gain on disposition of assets.


Three Months Ended March
31,  2005 Compared with Three Months Ended March
31,  2004

Net sales for Acetate Products increased by
12% to $165  million compared to the same quarter last
year on higher volumes and pricing. Flake volumes increased due to
higher sales to our recently expanded China tow ventures. Pricing
increased to partially offset higher raw material and energy
costs.

Earnings from continuing operations before tax and
minority interests more than doubled from $4  million in first
quarter last year to $10  million this year due to increased
volumes, pricing and productivity improvements, which more than offset
higher raw material and energy costs. Earnings also benefited from
$2  million in lower depreciation and amortization expense
largely as a result of previous restructuring impairments, which was
partly offset by $3  million of expense for an asset retirement
obligation.

Performance
Products

Nine
Months Ended December  31,  2005 Compared with Nine Months
Ended December  31,  2004

Net sales for the
Performance Products segment increased 2% to $133  million
compared to $131  million in the same period in 2004. The
increase is primarily due to higher volumes for the Sunett

®

sweetener partially offset by lower pricing. The increased
volumes for Sunett reflects continuous growth from new and existing
applications mainly in the U.S. and European beverage and confectionary
markets. Pricing for Sunett declined on lower unit selling prices
associated with higher volumes to major customers which is consistent
with our positioning strategy for the product. The pricing decrease for
Sunett was also driven by the expiration of a primary European and U.S.
production patent for Sunett at the end of March 2005. Pricing for
Sorbates increased in 2005, although worldwide overcapacity still
prevailed in the industry.

Operating profit increased
111% from the same period in 2004. The increase is driven by
improved business conditions for Sorbates, as well as the results of
various ongoing cost savings initiatives. In addition, 2005 included a
$3  million gain on the sale of the omega-3 DHA business as part
of management’s strategy to sharpen its focus on the core
sweetener and food protection businesses. 2004 included a $12
million charge to cost of sales for a non-cash inventory-related
purchase accounting adjustment.

Earnings from continuing
operations before tax and minority interests increased 127%
primarily due to the increase in operating profit, which principally
resulted from the absence of the purchase accounting charge in 2005 and
the gain on the sale of the omega-3 DHA business.


Three Months Ended March
31,  2005 Compared with Three Months Ended March
31,  2004

Net sales for the Performance Products
segment increased by 7% to $47  million compared to the
same period last year mainly on higher volumes, which more than offset
lower pricing. Favorable currency movements also contributed to the
sales increase. Higher volumes for Sunett sweetener reflected strong
growth from new and existing applications in the U.S. and European
beverage and confectionary markets. Pricing for Sunett declined on
lower unit selling prices associated with higher volumes to major
customers. The pricing decrease for Sunett was also driven by the
expiration of a primary European and U.S. production patent for Sunett
at the end of March  2005. Pricing for sorbates continued to
recover, although worldwide overcapacity still prevailed in the
industry.

Earnings from continuing operations before tax and
minority interests increased to $12  million from $11
million in the same quarter last year. Strong volumes for Sunett, as
well as favorable currency movements and cost savings outpaced lower
pricing for the sweetener.

Other
Activities

Other Activities primarily consists of corporate
center costs, including financing and administrative activities, and
certain other operating entities, including the captive insurance
companies and the AT Plastics business. AT Plastics is a business
acquired in connection with the acquisition of Acetex in July
2005.

Nine Months Ended December  31,  2005
Compared with Nine Months Ended December  31,

Net sales for Other Activities increased to $132
million from $45  million in the same period in 2004. The
increase is primarily due to the addition of $112  million in net
sales from the AT Plastics business, which was partially offset by
$13  million in lower third party revenues from the captive
insurance companies and $7  million related to the divestitures
of the performance polymer polybenzamidazole and vectran polymer fiber
businesses in the second quarter of 2005.

The operating loss of
Other Activities decreased to $107  million for the nine months
ended December  31,  2005 compared to $165  million
for the same period in 2004. This decrease was primarily due to the
absence of $38  million in management incentive compensation
expenses, which were recorded in 2004, and lower IPO related consulting
and professional fees. The management incentive compensation expenses
included charges related to a new deferred compensation plan, a new
stock incentive plan and other executive bonuses. The decrease is
partially offset by operating losses from AT Plastics of $15
million in 2005.

Loss from continuing operations before tax and
minority interests improved to a loss of $273  million from a
loss of $473  million in the same period in 2004. The decrease is
primarily due to the decrease in operating losses discussed above and a
decrease in interest expense of $89  million. The decrease in
interest expense is due to expensing deferred financing costs of
$89  million and a prepayment premium of $21  million
associated with the refinancing of the mandatorily redeemable preferred
stock in 2004. The decrease was partially offset by a $21
million increase in interest expense due to higher debt levels and
interest rates in 2005.

Three Months Ended March
31,  2005 Compared with Three Months Ended March
31,  2004

Net sales for Other Activities increased
slightly to $12  million from $11  million in the same
quarter last year. Loss from continuing operations before tax and
minority interests increased to $253  million from a loss of
$57  million in the same period last year, largely due to
$169  million of higher interest expense related to refinancing
costs, increased debt levels, and higher interest rates in 2005. The
loss includes $45  million of expenses for sponsor monitoring and
related cancellation fees compared to special charges of $25
million in the same period in 2004 for advisory services related to the
acquisition of CAG.


Selected Data by
Business Segment—Nine Months Ended December  31,
2004 Compared with Nine Months Ended December  31,  2003
and Three Months Ended March  31,  2004 Compared with Three
Months Ended March  31,


Selected Data by Business
Segment—Nine Months Ended December  31,  2004
Compared with Nine Months Ended December  31,  2003 and
Three Months Ended March  31,  2004 Compared with Three
Months Ended March  31,

Factors
Affecting Nine Months Ended December  31,  2004 Segment
Sales Compared to Nine Months Ended December  31,

Factors
Affecting Three Months Ended March  31,  2004 Segment Sales
Compared to Three Months Ended March  31,


Summary by Business
Segment—Nine Months Ended December  31,  2004
Compared with Nine Months Ended December  31,  2003 and
Three Months Ended March  31,  2004 Compared with Three
Months Ended March  31,  2003

Chemical
Products

Nine
Months Ended December  31,  2004 Compared with Nine Months
Ended December  31,  2003

Chemical
Products’ net sales increased by 12% to $2,573
million for the nine months ended December  31,  2004 from
the comparable period last year as higher selling prices (+10%),
increased volumes (+4%) and favorable currency movements
(+4%) were partially offset by changes in the composition of the
segment (-6%).

Pricing increased for most products,
particularly vinyl acetate monomer, acetic acid, and acetyl derivative
products, driven by high industry utilization and higher costs for raw
materials. Volumes also increased, particularly for vinyl acetate
monomer, polyvinyl alcohol and emulsions due to strong overall
demand.

The changes in the composition of the segment result from
the transfer of the European oxo business to a venture in the fourth
quarter of 2003 (-2%) and a change in the structure of the
business under which certain acrylates products, which were formerly
sold into the merchant market, are now being sold under a contract
manufacturing agreement (-4%). Only the margin realized under
such contract manufacturing arrangement is now reported in net
sales.

Operating profit increased to $248  million for the
nine months ended December  31,  2004 from $86
million in the same period last year. Higher pricing, higher volumes,
as well as favorable currency effects, were partially offset by
increased raw material and energy costs. Operating profit was also
favorably impacted by lower stock appreciation rights expense of
$18  million and the absence of a $5 million loss from the
European oxo business, as well as a decrease in depreciation and
amortization expense of $30  million, largely as a result of
purchase accounting adjustments. Operating profit in the nine months
ended December  31,  2004 included a $17  million
non-cash charge for the manufacturing profit added to inventory under
purchase accounting which was charged to cost of sales as the inventory
was sold.

Earnings from continuing operations before tax and
minority interests increased to $265  million compared to
$115  million for the nine months ended December
31,  2003 as a result of higher operating profit which included
one time adjustments such as the significant decline in stock
appreciation rights expense and the absence of purchase accounting
adjustments in 2003. This was partially offset by lower dividend income
from cost investments and lower equity in net earnings of affiliates
due to restructuring charges in the European oxo
venture.


Three Months Ended March
31,  2004 Compared with Three Months Ended March
31,  2003

Chemical Products’ net sales
increased by 7% to $818  million in the three months ended
March  31,  2004 from the comparable period last year as
increased volumes (+5%), favorable currency movements
(+5%) and higher selling prices (+2%) were partially
offset by the effects of the transfer of the European oxo business into
a venture (-4%) as well as a change in the structure of the
business under which certain acrylates products, which were formerly
sold into the merchant market, are now being sold under a contract
manufacturing agreement (-1%). Only the margin realized under
such contract manufacturing arrangement is now reported in net
sales.

Volumes and pricing for most acetyl products, particularly
vinyl acetate monomer, increased in most regions, due to a temporary
competitor outage and stronger overall demand.

Operating profit
increased to $65  million in the three months ended March
31,  2004 from $52  million in the same period last year.
Higher volumes and selling prices, as well as favorable currency
effects, were partially offset by increased raw material costs and
spending associated with productivity initiatives, increased energy
costs, the transfer of the European oxo business, and the absence of
income from stock appreciation rights of $4
million.

Earnings from continuing operations before tax and
minority interests increased to $64  million compared to
$60  million in the three months ended March  31,
2004 primarily due to a higher operating profit partially offset by
lower dividend income from cost investments and our share of the loss
generated by our European oxo venture.

Technical Polymers
Ticona

Nine
Months Ended December  31,  2004 Compared with Nine Months
Ended December  31,  2003

Net sales for Ticona
increased by 12% to $636  million for the nine months
ended December  31,  2004 compared to the same period last
year. Strong volume increases (+11%) and favorable currency
effects (+5%) were partly offset by a decline in pricing
(-4%).

Volumes grew in all product lines, particularly in
core products. Polyacetal volumes grew on stronger sales in the
automotive and medical industries in North America while European sales
benefited from greater demand for uses in consumer products and the
commercialization of new applications. Volumes for Vectra liquid
crystal polymers rose in North America and Europe due to new commercial
applications, such as household goods, and stronger sales to the
electrical/electronics industry. GUR ultra high


molecular weight polyethylene grew as a
result of increased sales for new specialty applications and stronger
sales to Asia. Overall pricing declined due to changes in product mix
and ongoing competitive pressure from Asian exports of polyacetal into
North America and Europe.

Ticona recorded special charges of
$37  million for the nine months ended December  31,
2004 compared to income from special charges of $87  million for
the same period last year. The special charges in 2004 are mainly
related to a $32  million non-cash impairment charge associated
with a plan to dispose of the COC business. Income from special charges
in 2003 consisted of insurance recoveries related to the plumbing cases
of $107  million, which were partially offset by $20
million in organizational redesign costs.

Operating profit
decreased to a loss of $12  million for the nine months ended
December  31,  2004 from an operating profit of $103
million for the same period last year principally due to the impact of
changes in special charges mentioned above. Results for the nine months
ended December  31,  2004 benefited from higher volumes,
lower stock appreciation rights expense of $17  million and
productivity improvements. These factors were partly offset by higher
raw material and energy costs. Operating profit in the nine months
ended December  31,  2004 included a $20  million
non-cash charge for the manufacturing profit added to inventory under
purchase accounting, which was charged to cost of sales as the
inventory was sold.

Earnings from continuing operations before
tax and minority interests decreased to $26  million for the nine
months ended December  31,  2004 from $140  million
for the same period in 2003. This decrease resulted primarily from the
changes in operating profit and lower interest income related to
insurance recoveries, which was partly offset by improved equity
earnings from Asian and U.S. affiliates due to increased sales
volumes.

Three Months Ended March  31,  2004
Compared with Three Months Ended March  31,

Net sales for Ticona increased by 16% to
$227  million for the three months ended March  31,
2004 compared to the same period last year as higher volumes
(+13%) and favorable currency movements (+8%) was
partially offset by lower selling prices
(−5%).

Volumes increased in most business lines,
particularly in polyacetal and Vectra liquid crystal polymers.
Polyacetal volumes grew in North America and Europe on sales to new end
uses and higher sales to the North American automotive market. Volumes
for Vectra rose due to new commercial applications in North America and
Europe and stronger sales to the electrical/electronics industry.
Pricing declined as lower priced products constituted a higher
percentage of sales and competitive pressure continued from Asian
imports of polyacetal into North America.

Operating profit
increased to $31  million versus $19  million in the same
period last year due to higher volumes, lower average production costs
for Vectra, reduced spending partly resulting from the closure of the
Telford, UK production facility in 2003 and favorable currency
movements. These increases were partially offset by lower pricing as
well as the absence of $5  million of income from stock
appreciation rights.

Earnings from continuing operations before
tax and minority interests increased to $45  million compared to
$27  million in the same period in 2003. This increase resulted
from the higher operating profit and improved equity earnings from our
Polyplastics and Fortron Industries affiliates due to increased sales
volumes.


Acetate
Products

Nine
Months Ended December  31,  2004 Compared with Nine Months
Ended December  31,  2003

Acetate
Products’ net sales for the nine months ended December
31,  2004 increased by 12% to $441  million compared
to the same period last year due to higher volumes (+11%) and
prices (+1%). Volumes grew on higher tow demand in Asia.

Operating loss increased to a loss of $17  million in the nine
months ended December  31,  2004 from a loss of $13
million in the same period last year reflecting special charges of
$41  million for non-cash asset impairments associated with the
planned consolidation of tow production, as well as higher raw material
costs. These decreases were partly offset by lower depreciation and
amortization expense of $18  million, largely as a result of
purchase accounting adjustments, and a lower depreciable asset base, as
well as from productivity gains. Operating loss in the nine months
ended December  31,  2004 included a $4  million
non-cash charge for the manufacturing profit added to inventory under
purchase accounting, which was charged to cost of sales as the
inventory was sold.

Three Months Ended March
31,  2004 Compared with Three Months Ended March
31,  2003

Acetate Products’ net sales in the
first three months ended March  31,  2004 increased by
4% to $147  million compared to the same period in 2003
primarily due to higher volumes (+4%). Average pricing remained
unchanged. Volumes grew on higher sales of tow, particularly in
China.

Operating profit and earnings from continuing operations
before tax and minority interests rose to $4  million compared to
$2  million in the same period last year on higher volumes of tow
as well as productivity gains. These increases more than offset higher
raw material costs.


Performance
Products

Nine
Months Ended December  31,  2004 Compared with Nine Months
Ended December  31,  2003

Net sales for the
Performance Products segment, which consists of the Nutrinova food
ingredients and Sorbates businesses, increased by 2% to
$131  million compared to the same period last year as increased
volumes (+14%) and favorable currency effects (+4%) were
principally offset by price decreases (-16%).

Increased
volumes for Sunett sweetener reflected strong growth from new and
existing applications in the U.S. and European beverage and
confectionary markets. Consistent with our strategy, pricing for Sunett
declined on lower unit selling prices associated with higher volumes to
major customers and the anticipated expiration of the primary European
and U.S. production patents at the end of March  2005. Pricing
for sorbates, which had been under pressure from Asian producers, began
to stabilize, although worldwide overcapacity still prevailed in the
industry.

Operating profit increased to $18  million
compared to loss of $56  million in the same period last year,
which included special (charges) gains of $95  million related to
antitrust matters in the sorbates industry. Operating profit in the
nine months ended December  31,  2004 included a $12
million non-cash charge for the manufacturing profit added to inventory
under purchase accounting, which was charged to cost of sales as the
inventory was sold, and higher depreciation and amortization expense of
$5  million largely as a result of purchase accounting
adjustments.

Three Months Ended March  31,  2004
Compared with Three Months Ended March  31,

Net sales for the Performance Products segment
increased by 7% to $44  million primarily due to increased
volumes (+7%).

Pricing for Sunett sweetener declined on
lower unit selling prices associated with higher volumes to major
customers, an overall price decline in the high intensity sweetener
market, and the anticipated expiration of the European and U.S.
production patents at the end of March  2005. Increased Sunett
volumes reflected strong growth from new and existing applications in
the U.S. and European beverage and confectionary markets. In sorbates,
pricing and volume pressure from Asian producers continued due to
worldwide overcapacity.


Operating profit and earnings from
continuing operations before tax and minority interests declined to
$11  million compared to $12  million in the same period
last year, primarily due to lower pricing. Higher Sunett volumes and
currency movements partly offset this decline.

Other
Activities

Other Activities primarily consists of corporate
center costs, including financing and certain administrative
activities, and certain other operating entities, including the captive
insurance companies.

Nine Months Ended December
31,  2004 Compared with Nine Months Ended December
31,  2003

Net sales for Other Activities increased by
18% to $45  million for the nine months ended
December  31,  2004 compared to the same period last year.
This increase primarily reflects higher third party revenues by the
captive insurance companies.

The operating loss of Other
Activities increased to $165  million for the nine months ended
December  31,  2004 compared to $98  million for the
same period last year. This increase was primarily due to $38
million in new management incentive compensation expenses, which
includes charges related to a new a deferred compensation plan, a new
stock incentive plan and other executive bonuses, as well as higher
consulting and professional fees, which includes the advisor monitoring
fees of $10  million. The operating loss for the nine months
ended December  31,  2003 included income resulting from
the reversal of environmental reserves of $12  million, which was
offset by expense associated with stock appreciation rights of
$34  million.

Loss from continuing operations before tax
and minority interests increased to $473  million from a loss of
$106  million for the same period last year. This was largely due
to $259  million of higher interest expense due to increased debt
levels, an $89  million charge for the refinancing of debt, a
higher operating loss and the absence of income from the
demutualization of an insurance provider of $18
million.

Three Months Ended March  31,  2004
Compared with Three Months Ended March  31,

Net sales for Other Activities remained flat at
$11  million for the three months ended March  31,
2004 compared to the same period last year.

The operating loss of
Other Activities increased to $64  million for the three months
ended March  31,  2004 compared to $13  million for
the same period last year. This increase was primarily due to special
charges of $26  million mainly related to advisory services
associated with the acquisition of CAG. Also contributing to this
decline was the absence of income from stock appreciation rights of
$7  million.

Summary of Consolidated Results—Nine
Months Ended December  31,  2005 Compared with Nine
Months Ended December  31,  2004

Net
Sales

Net sales increased 23% to $4,592
million in the nine months ended December  31,  2005
compared to the same period in 2004. The improvement is primarily due
to an 11% increase in net sales from the Vinamul and Acetex
acquisitions and 11% higher pricing, mainly in the Chemical
Products segment. Net sales from Vinamul and Acetex (including AT
Plastics) were approximately $280  million and approximately
$247  million, respectively. These increases are partially offset
by a 1% decline in volumes primarily from the Chemical
Products’ acetyl derivatives business line and a decline in
Ticona’s polyacetal volumes, partially offset by improved
volumes from Acetate Products and Performance Products. For Chemical
Products, this is primarily due to weaker European market conditions.
The decline for Ticona is due to a weak European automotive market and
reduced sales to lower-end applications. Acetate Products volumes
improved 7% due to higher flake sales to our recently expanded
China tow ventures, which were partially offset by lower tow volumes
due to the shutdown of the Canadian tow plant. Volumes from Performance
Products improved primarily for the Sunett sweetener and sorbates due
to continued growth from new and existing applications mainly in the
U.S. and European beverage and confectionary markets.


Cost of Sales

Cost
of sales increased by $641  million to $3,667  million for
the nine months ended December  31,  2005 versus the same
period in 2004. The increase is primarily due to including $254
million and $225  million cost of sales from Vinamul and Acetex
(including AT Plastics), respectively. The increase is also due to
higher raw material and energy costs, mainly from natural gas and
ethylene. Cost of sales was favorably impacted by a $36  million
settlement of transportation-related antitrust matters in
December  2005 and $42  million in lower non-cash
inventory-related purchase accounting adjustments. As a percentage of
net sales, cost of sales was 79.9% in 2005 compared to
80.8% in 2004. Excluding the $36 million settlement and purchase
accounting adjustments, cost of sales would have been 80.4% in
2005 compared to 79.4% in 2004. The increase is primarily due to
higher raw material and energy costs.

Selling,
General and Administrative Expenses

Selling, general and
administrative expenses decreased $94  million to $403
million in the nine months ended December  31  2005
compared to the same period in 2004. This decrease is due to ongoing
cost savings initiatives, organizational redesign of the Ticona and
Acetate Products segments, and decreases in legal, audit and general
expenses associated with the acquisition of CAG and the IPO. In
addition, 2004 included approximately $50  million in new
management incentive compensation expenses, which includes charges for
a new deferred compensation plan, a new stock incentive plan and other
executive bonuses. These decreases are partially offset by the addition
of costs associated with Vinamul and Acetex of $23 million and
$22  million, respectively, which included integration costs
incurred in connection with the acquisitions.

Special
(Charges) Gains

Special (charges) gains include provisions
for restructuring and other expenses and income incurred outside the
normal ongoing course of operations. Restructuring provisions represent
costs related to severance and other benefit programs related to major
activities undertaken to fundamentally redesign the business
operations, as well as costs incurred in connection with decisions to
exit non-strategic businesses. These measures are based on formal
management decisions, establishment of agreements with
employees’ representatives or individual agreements with
affected employees, as well as the public announcement of the
restructuring plan. The related reserves reflect certain estimates,
including those pertaining to separation costs, settlements of
contractual obligations and other closure costs. We reassess the
reserve requirements to complete each individual plan under existing
restructuring programs at the end of each reporting period. Actual
experience may be different from these estimates.

The components
of special (charges) gains for the nine months ended December
31,  2005 and 2004 were as
follows:

Special
charges decreased to $35  million compared to $82  million
for the same period last year. The nine months ended December
31,  2005 primarily relates to charges for a change in the
environmental


remediation strategy related to the closure
of the Edmonton methanol plant, severance associated with the same
closure, severance related to the relocation of corporate offices and
asset impairments associated with the planned disposal of the COC
business of $12  million, $8  million, $10  million
and $25  million, respectively. In addition, 2005 includes
$34  million associated with plumbing insurance recoveries.
Special charges for the nine months ended December  31,
2004 of $82  million were largely related to restructing charges
of $43 million resulting from plans by the Acetate Products segment to
consolidate tow production at fewer sites and to discontinue production
of acetate filament and $32 million related to a decision to dispose of
the Ticona COC business.

Operating
Profit

Operating profit increased to $405  million in
the nine months ended December  31,  2005 compared to
$72  million in the same period in 2004, principally driven by
higher pricing and productivity improvements resulting in a $207
million increase in the gross profit margin, $94  million of
lower selling, general and administrative expenses and $47
million of lower special charges. Partially offsetting the increase is
an $11  million loss on disposition of assets compared to a
$3  million gain recorded in the same period in 2004 and higher
raw material and energy costs, mainly for ethylene and natural gas in
2005. Included in 2005 is a $23  million gain on the disposition
of two Acetate Products properties, a $3  million gain on the
sale of Performance Products’ omega-3 DHA business, offset by a
$35  million loss on the disposal of Ticona’s COC business
and $2  million of other losses. For the nine months ended
December  31,  2005, Vinamul and Acetex (including AT
Plastics), had operating losses of $15  million and $4
million, respectively, primarily related to integration costs in
connection with the acquisitions and inventory purchase accounting
adjustments for Acetex.

Equity in Net Earnings of
Affiliates

Equity in net earnings of affiliates increased
by $10  million to $46  million for the nine months ended
December  31,  2005. The increase is primarily due to
restructuring charges in our European oxo venture in 2004. During the
nine months ended December  31,  2005, we received cash
distributions from our equity affiliates of $29  million compared
to $22  million in the same period in
2004.

Interest Expense

Interest expense
decreased $89  million to $211  million for the nine months
ended December  31,  2005 compared to $300  million
in the same period in 2004. The decrease in interest expense is due to
expensing deferred financing costs of $89  million and a
prepayment premium of $21  million associated with the
refinancing of the mandatorily redeemable preferred stock in 2004. The
decrease was partially offset by a $21  million increase in
interest expense due to higher debt levels and interest rates in
2005.

Other Income (Expense), Net

Other
income (expense), net increased to income of $86  million for the
nine months ended December  31,  2005, compared to expense
of $12  million for the comparable period last year. This
increase is largely due to $42  million in higher dividend income
in 2005 primarily from our Saudi cost investment due to higher methanol
pricing. In addition, $36  million of the increase is related to
favorable exchange rate movements and $17  million is due to
favorable changes in cross currency swap valuations in 2005.

Income Taxes

Income taxes for the year ended
December 31, 2005 and the nine months ended December 31, 2004 are
recorded based on the annual effective tax rate. For the year ending
December 31, 2005, the annual effective tax rate is 16%, which
is less than the combination of the federal statutory rate and blended
state income tax rates in the U.S. The annual effective tax rate for
2005 reflects earnings in low tax jurisdictions, a valuation allowance
on the tax benefit associated with U.S. and other foreign losses (which
includes expenses associated with the early redemption of debt), tax
expense in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions and reversal of a $31 million
valuation allowance on certain German deferred tax assets, primarily
net of


operating loss carryforwards, principally as
a result of a tax sharing agreement. For the nine months ended December
31, 2005, we recorded tax expense of $49 million. For the nine months
ended December 31, 2004, we recorded tax expense of $70 million and the
effective tax rate was negative 39%. The effective tax rate in
2004 was unfavorably affected primarily by the application of full
valuation allowances against post-Acquisition net U.S. deferred tax
assets, Canadian deferred tax assets due to post-acquisition
restructuring, certain German deferred tax assets and the
non-recognition of tax benefits associated with acquisition related
expenses. These unfavorable effects were partially offset by
unrepatriated low taxed earnings primarily in Singapore.

Earnings (Loss) from Discontinued
Operations

In October  2004, we announced plans to
implement a strategic restructuring of our acetate business to increase
efficiency, reduce overcapacity in certain areas and to focus on
products and markets that provide long-term value. As part of this
restructuring we consolidated our acetate flake and tow operations at
three locations, instead of five and in the fourth quarter of 2005, we
discontinued Acetate Products’ filament operations. As a result,
the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses related to the filament
business line are reflected as a component of discontinued operations
in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with SFAS No.
144,

Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived
Assets

.

For details regarding the discontinued operations of
Chemical Products and Ticona, see the discussion in
‘‘Summary of Consolidated Results—Nine Months
Ended December  31, 2004 Compared with Nine Months Ended
December  31, 2003’’ under the
‘‘Earnings (Loss) from Discontinued
Operations’’
caption.

Net
Earnings (Loss)

As a result of the factors mentioned above,
our net earnings was $287  million in the nine months ended
December  31,  2005, compared to a net loss of $253
million in the same period in 2004.

Summary of Consolidated
Results—Three Months Ended March  31,  2005 Compared
with Three Months Ended March  31,

Net Sales

Net sales rose 21%
to $1,478  million in the first quarter compared to the same
period last year primarily on higher pricing of 15%, mainly in
the Chemical Products segment. Favorable currency movements, higher
volumes, and a composition change in the Chemical Products segment each
increased net sales by 2%.

The segment composition changes
consisted of the acquisition of Vinamul in February  2005, which
was partly offset by the effects of a contract manufacturing
arrangement under which certain acrylates products are now being sold.
Only the margin realized under the contract manufacturing arrangement
is included in net sales.


Cost of Sales

Cost
of sales increased by $123  million to $1,106  million for
the three months ended March  31,  2005 versus the same
period in 2004. As a percentage of net sales, cost of sales was
74.8% in 2005 compared to 80.7% in 2004, as higher
pricing, favorable currency movements and higher volumes contributed to
the improvement. The increase is primarily due to including cost of
sales from Vinamul and Acetex and higher raw material and energy costs,
mainly from natural gas and ethlene.

Selling, General
and Administrative Expenses

Selling, general and
administrative expense increased to $159  million compared to
$136  million for the same period last year. This increase is
primarily due to expenses for sponsor monitoring services of $10
million, higher amortization expense of identifiable intangible assets
acquired of $10  million as well as higher costs primarily
related to compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002.

Special (Charges) Gains

The
components of special (charges) gains for the three months ended
March  31,  2005 and 2004 were as
follows:

Operating
Profit

Operating profit increased to $156  million in
the quarter compared to $47  million in the same period last year
on gross margin expansion of $137  million, as significantly
higher pricing, primarily in Chemical Products, lower depreciation
expense and productivity improvements more than offset higher raw
material and energy costs. Operating profit also benefited from
increased volumes in Acetate Products, Performance Products and Ticona.
Depreciation and amortization expense declined by $9  million as
decreases in depreciation resulting from purchase accounting
adjustments, more than offset increased amortization expense for
acquired intangible assets.

Equity in Net Earnings of
Affiliates

Equity in net earnings of affiliates rose by
$3  million to $15  million for the three months ended
March  31,  2005, compared to the same period last year.
Cash distributions received from equity affiliates increased to
$36  million for the three months ended March  31,
2005, compared to $16  million in the same period of 2004. The
increase in cash distributions is mainly due to strong business
conditions in 2004 for Ticona's high performance product ventures
and Chemical Products' methanol venture and the timing of
dividend payments.

Interest
Expense

Interest expense increased to $176  million
for the three months ended March  31,  2005 from $6
million in the same period last year, primarily due to expenses of
$102  million including early redemption premiums and deferred
financing costs associated with the refinancing that occurred in the
first quarter of 2005. Higher debt levels resulting primarily from the
acquisition of CAG and higher interest rates also increased interest
expense.


Interest
Income

For the three months ended March  31,
2005, interest income increased by $10  million to $15
million compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to
higher average cash levels.

Other Income (Expense),
Net

Other income (expense), net decreased to $3
million of income for the three months ended March  31,
2005, compared to $9  million for the comparable period last
year. This decrease is primarily due to expenses associated with the
anticipated guaranteed payment to CAG minority shareholders and the
ineffective portion of a net investment hedge. These decreases were
partially offset by higher dividends from cost investments. Dividend
income accounted for under the cost method increased by $8
million to $14  million for the three months ended March
31,  2005, compared to the same period in 2004. The increase in
the first quarter of 2005 primarily resulted from the timing of receipt
of dividends.

Income Taxes

Income taxes
for the three months ended March  31,  2005 and 2004, are
recorded based on the annual effective tax rate. As of March
31,  2005, the annual effective tax rate for 2005 was 35%,
which was slightly less than the combination of the statutory rate and
state income tax rates in the U.S. The estimated annual effective tax
rate for 2005 reflects earnings in low tax jurisdictions, a valuation
allowance for the tax benefit associated with projected U.S. losses
(which includes expenses associated with the early redemption of debt),
and tax expense in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions. The Predecessor had
an effective tax rate of 24% for the three months ended
March  31,  2004, compared to the German statutory rate of
40%, which was primarily affected by earnings in low tax
jurisdictions.

Earnings from Discontinued
Operations

Earnings from discontinued operations was
$10  million for the three months ended March  31,
2005 compared to $26  million from the comparable period last
year. Included in 2005 were earnings from the discontinued operation of
the Acetate Products filament business line. Acetate filament net sales
for the three months ended March  31,  2005 was $31
million and operating profit was $10  million compared to net
sales of $25  million and operating profit of $5  million
for the same period in 2004. Earnings in 2004 also reflected a
$14  million gain and $12  million tax benefit associated
with the sale of the acrylates business. The tax benefit is mainly
attributable to the utilization of a capital loss carryover benefit
that had been previously subject to a valuation
allowance.

Net Earnings

As a result of the
factors mentioned above, net earnings decreased by $88  million
to a net loss of $10  million in the three months ended
March  31,  2005, compared to the same period last
year.

Summary of Consolidated Results—Nine Months Ended
December  31,  2004 Compared with Nine Months Ended
December  31,  2003

Net
Sales

For the nine months ended December  31,
2004, net sales increased by 12% to $3,744  million
compared to the same period in 2003. Volume increases in all segments,
higher pricing in the Chemical Products segment and favorable currency
effects resulting mainly from the stronger euro versus the U.S. dollar
were partially offset by lower pricing in the remaining segments and
the effects of reductions due to changes in the composition of Chemical
Products.

Cost of Sales

Cost of sales
increased by $166  million to $3,026  million for the nine
months ended December  31,  2004 versus the comparable
period last year. Higher raw material costs and unfavorable currency


effects were partially offset by decreases
due to changes in the composition of our Chemical Products segment and
cost savings. Cost of sales for the nine months ended December
31,  2004 also included a $53  million non-cash charge for
the manufacturing profit added to inventory under purchase accounting
which was charged to cost of sales as the inventory was sold offset by
lower depreciation expense, largely as a result of purchase accounting
adjustments. Excluding the $53 million purchase accounting adjustment,
cost of sales as a percentage of net sales was 79.4% in 2004
compared to 85.4% in 2003. The improvement is largely due to
higher net sales and cost savings during
2004.

Selling, General and Administrative
Expenses

Selling, general and administrative expense
increased by $101  million to $497  million for nine months
ended December  31,  2004 compared to the same period last
year. This increase was primarily due to new management compensation
expense of approximately $50  million, higher consulting and
professional fees, which includes advisor monitoring fees of $10
million, increased amortization expense of identifiable intangible
assets acquired, as unfavorable currency movements as well as the
absence of a favorable adjustment to our estimate of certain
environmental reserves during the nine months ended December
31,  2003 of $12  million, which were partially offset by
$69  million of lower stock appreciation rights
expense.

Special (Charges) Gains

The
components of special (charges) gains for the nine months ended
December  31,  2004 and 2003 were as
follows:

Special
charges for the nine months ended December  31,  2004 of
$82  million were largely related to non-cash impairment charges
of $41  million and $32  million resulting from plans by
the Acetate Products segment to consolidate tow production at fewer
sites and to discontinue production of acetate filament and a decision
to dispose of the Ticona COC business, respectively. Special charges
for the nine months ended December  31,  2003 of $4
million resulted mainly from expenses of $95  million associated
with antitrust matters in the sorbates industry and employee
termination benefits of $17  million, which were largely offset
by income of $107  million from insurance
recoveries.

Operating Profit

Operating
profit for the nine months ended December  31,  2004
increased to $72  million from $22  million in the same
period last year. Operating profit benefited from increased net sales
and $76  million of lower expense for stock appreciation rights
and lower depreciation and amortization expense of $40 million, which
were partially offset by increased raw material and energy costs,
higher special charges, new management compensation expense of
$50  million, inventory purchase accounting adjustments of
$53  million, and higher professional and consulting
fees.


Equity in Net Earnings of
Affiliates

Equity in net earnings of affiliates rose by
$11  million to $36  million in the nine months ended
December  31,  2004 compared to the same period last year.
This increase primarily represents improved equity earnings from Asian
and U.S. affiliates due to increased sales volumes, partially offset by
lower earnings due to restructuring charges in the European oxo
venture. Cash distributions received from equity affiliates were
$22  million in the nine months ended December  31,
2004 compared to $8  million in the same period of
2003.

Interest Expense

Interest expense
increased to $300  million for the nine months ended
December  31,  2004 from $37  million in the same
period last year. The higher interest expense resulted from increased
debt levels of $3,387  million as of December  31,
2004 versus $637  million as of December  31,  2003,
resulting from the acquisition of CAG as well as the expensing of
deferred financing costs of $89  million from the refinancing of
the senior subordinated bridge loan facilities and mandatorily
redeemable preferred stock.

Interest
Income

For the nine months ended December  31,
2004, interest income decreased by $14  million to $24
million compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to
significantly lower interest income associated with insurance
recoveries.

Other Income (Expense),
Net

Other income (expense), net decreased by $48
million to an expense of $12  million compared to the same period
last year. This decrease is primarily due to unfavorable foreign
currency exchange effects on cash and cash equivalents and the absence
of $18  million in income from the demutualization of an
insurance provider, as well as unfavorable changes in swap valuations.
Dividend income from investments in the nine months ended
December  31,  2004 accounted for under the cost method
decreased to $33  million compared to $46  million in the
same period in the prior year due to the timing of receipt of
dividends.

Income Taxes

Income tax expense
increased by $45  million to $70  million for the nine
months ended December  31,  2004 and the effective tax rate
for this period was negative 39%. The effective tax rate was
unfavorably affected primarily by the application of full valuation
allowances against post-acquisition net U.S. deferred tax assets,
Canadian deferred tax assets due to post-acquisition restructurings,
certain German deferred tax assets and the non-recognition of tax
benefits associated with acquisition related expenses. These
unfavorable effects were partially offset by unrepatriated low taxed
earnings primarily in Singapore. For the same period in 2003, income
tax expense of $25  million was recorded based on a annual
effective tax rate of 27%.

Minority
Interests

For the nine months ended December
31,  2004, minority interests increased to $8  million from
$0 million in the same period in the prior year. This increase
primarily relates to the minority interests in the earnings of
CAG.

Earnings (Loss) from Discontinued
Operations

In October  2004, we announced plans to
implement a strategic restructuring of our acetate business to increase
efficiency, reduce overcapacity in certain areas and to focus on
products and markets that provide long-term value. As part of this
restructuring, we planned to discontinue acetate filament production
before the end of 2005 and to consolidate our acetate flake and tow
operations at three locations, instead of five.


In September  2003, CAG and Dow
reached an agreement for Dow to purchase the acrylates business of CAG.
This transaction was completed in February  2004 and the sales
price was $149  million, resulting in a gain of approximately
$14  million. Dow acquired CAG’s acrylates business line,
including inventory, intellectual property and technology for crude
acrylic acid, glacial acrylic acid, ethyl acrylate, butyl acrylate,
methyl acrylate and 2-ethylhexyl acrylate, as well as acrylates
production assets at the Clear Lake, Texas facility. In related
agreements we will provide certain contract manufacturing services to
Dow, and Dow will supply to us acrylates for use in our emulsions
production. The acrylates business was part of Chemical Products. As a
result the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses related to the
acrylates product lines at the Clear Lake, Texas facility are reflected
as a component of discontinued operations in the consolidated financial
statements in accordance with SFAS

No. 144, Accounting for the
Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets

.

In
December  2003, the Ticona segment completed the sale of its
nylon business line to BASF. Ticona received cash proceeds of
$10  million and recorded a gain of $3
million.

Net
Earnings

As a result of the factors mentioned above, net
earnings decreased to a loss of $253  million in the nine months
ended December  31,  2004 from earnings of $92
million in the same period last year.

Summary of Consolidated
Results—Three Months Ended March  31,  2004 Compared
with Three Months Ended March  31,

Net Sales

For the three months ended
March  31,  2004, net sales increased by 7% to
$1,218  million compared to the same period in 2003. This
increase is primarily due to favorable currency effects relating mainly
to the stronger euro versus the U.S. dollar as well as volume increases
in all the segments. These factors were partially offset by the
transfer of the European oxo business to a venture in the fourth
quarter of 2003.

Cost of Sales

Cost of
sales increased to $983  million in the three months ended
March  31,  2004 from $935  million in the comparable
period last year, primarily reflecting higher raw materials costs,
increased volumes and the effects of currency movements. The absence of
the European oxo business partly offset these factors. Cost of sales as
a percentage of net sales was 80.7% in 2004 compared to
82.2% in 2003. The improvement is largely due to higher net
sales.

Selling, General and Administrative
Expenses

Selling, general and administrative expense
increased to $136  million compared to $108  million for
the same period last year. Unlike the three months ended March
31,  2003, the comparable period in 2004 did not benefit from
$16  million of income from stock appreciation rights.
Unfavorable currency movements also contributed to this
increase.


Special (Charges)
Gains

The components of special (charges) gains for the
three months ended March  31,  2004 and 2003 were as
follows:

The
$27  million increase in special charges for the three months
ended March  31,  2004 compared to the same period last
year is primarily due to expenses for advisory services related to the
acquisition of CAG.

Operating
Profit

Operating profit declined in the three months ended
March  31,  2004 to $47  million compared to
$72  million in the same period last year. The favorable effects
of higher volumes and favorable currency movements were offset by
higher raw material costs, special charges and the absence of income
from stock appreciation rights. Operating profit declined also due to
$10  million of spending associated with productivity
initiatives, primarily in the Chemical Products segment. Stock
appreciation rights had no effect on operating profit for the three
months ended March  31,  2004, as the share price remained
relatively flat whereas in the three months ended March
31,  2003, operating profit included $18  million of income
as a result of a decline in the share price.

Equity in
Net Earnings of Affiliates

Equity in net earnings of
affiliates rose by $2  million to $12  million for the
three months ended March  31,  2004 compared to the same
period last year. Cash distributions received from equity affiliates
increased to $16  million for the three months ended March
31,  2004 compared to $15  million the same period of
2003.

Interest Expense

Interest expense
decreased to $6  million for the three months ended March
31,  2004 from $12  million in the same period last year
primarily due to lower average debt levels.

Other
Income (Expense), Net

Other income (expense), net decreased
by $3  million to $9  million for the three months ended
March 31, 2004 compared to $12  million for the comparable
period last year. Dividend income accounted for under the cost method
decreased by $1 million to $6  million for the three months ended
March  31,  2004 compared to the same period in
2003.

Income Taxes

CAG recognized income
tax expense of $15  million based on an annual effective tax rate
of 24% in the three months ended March  31,  2004
compared to $20  million based on an annual effective tax rate of
27% for the same period in 2003. The decrease in the annual
effective tax rate is the result of higher earnings in lower taxed
jurisdictions.

Earnings (Loss) from Discontinued
Operations

Earnings (loss) from discontinued operations
increased by $37  million to earnings of $26  million for
the three months ended March  31,  2004 compared to a loss
of $11  million for the comparable period last


year, reflecting primarily a $14
million gain and a $12  million tax benefit associated with the
sale of the acrylates business in 2004. The tax benefit is mainly
attributable to the utilization of a capital loss carryover benefit
that had been previously subject to a valuation allowance.

The
following table summarizes the results of the discontinued operations
for the three months ended March  31,  2004 and
2003.

Net
Earnings

As a result of the factors mentioned above, net
earnings increased by $22  million to net earnings of $78
million in the three months ended March  31,  2004 compared
to the same period last year.


Liquidity and Capital
Resources

Cash Flows

Net
Cash Provided by/Used in Operating Activities

Cash flow from
operating activities increased to a cash inflow of $714  million
in 2005 compared to a cash outflow of $170  million for the same
period in 2004. This increase primarily resulted from a $452
million increase in net earnings from 2004, $429  million in
lower pension contributions and a $142  million increase in cash
received for trade receivables due to better receivables turnover.
These increases were partially offset by $72  million in less
cash from trade accounts  payable as trade accounts payable grew,
but at a slower rate than in 2004. In addition, we paid $77 million
more interest payments and $45  million in monitoring fees.

Cash flow from operating activities decreased to a cash outflow of
$170  million for 2004 compared to a cash inflow of $401
million for 2003. This decrease primarily resulted from $473
million of pension contributions, which are $343  million more
than 2003. Additionally, lower income from insurance recoveries, the
payment of a $95  million obligation to a third party, as well as
payments of $59  million associated with the exercising of stock
appreciation rights in 2004 also contributed to this decrease. These
outflows were partially offset by a decline in payments associated with
bonuses and income taxes, as well as lower cash consumed through
changes in trade receivables and trade payables. The hedging of foreign
currency net receivables, primarily intercompany, resulted in
$17  million cash inflow in 2004 compared to $180  million
inflow in 2003.

Net Cash Used in Investing
Activities

Net cash from investing activities improved to a cash
outflow of $920  million in 2005 compared to a cash outflow of
$1,714  million in 2004. The cash outflow in 2004 primarily
resulted from the CAG acquisition. The 2005 cash outflow included the
acquisitions of the Vinamul and Acetex businesses, the acquisition of
additional CAG shares and a decrease in net proceeds from disposal of
discontinued operations of $64  million. The net proceeds from
the disposal of discontinued operations represents cash received in
2005 from an early contractual settlement of receivables of $75
million related to the sale of Vinnolit Kunstoff GmbH and Vintron GmbH.
The net proceeds of $139  million in the same period last year
represented the net proceeds from the sale of the acrylates
business.

Net cash from investing activities decreased to a cash
outflow of $1,714  million in 2004 compared to a cash outflow of
$275  million in 2003. The increased cash outflow primarily
resulted from the acquisition of CAG. This increase was partially
offset by higher net proceeds received from disposals of discontinued
operations of $129  million and lower cash outflows related to
higher net purchases of marketable securities of $22
million.

Our capital expenditures were $212  million,
$210  million and $211 million for the calendar years 2005, 2004
and 2003, respectively. Capital expenditures were primarily related to
major replacements of equipment, capacity expansions, major investments
to reduce future operating costs, environmental, health and safety
initiatives and in 2004, the integration of a company-wide SAP
platform. Capital expenditures in 2005 included costs for the expansion
of our Nanjing, China site into an integrated chemical complex. Capital
expenditures in 2004 included expenditures related to a new Ticona
research and administrative facility in Florence, Kentucky and the
expansion of production facilities for polyacetal in Bishop, Texas and
GUR in Oberhausen, Germany. Capital expenditures in 2003 included costs
for the completion of a production facility for synthesis gas, which is
a primary raw material at the Oberhausen site in Germany. Capital
expenditures remained below depreciation levels as management continued
to make selective capital investments to enhance the market positions
of its products.


Net Cash Provided by/Used in
Financing Activities

Net cash from financing activities decreased
to a cash outflow of $144  million in 2005 compared to a cash
inflow of $2,643  million in the same period last year. The cash
inflow in 2004 primarily reflected higher net proceeds from borrowings
in connection with the acquisition of CAG. Major financing activities
for 2005 are as follows:

•

Borrowings
under the term loan facility of $1,135
million.

•

Distribution to Series B
shareholders of $804
million.

•

Redemption and related
premiums of the senior subordinated notes of $572  million and
senior discount notes of $207
million.

•

Proceeds from the
issuances of common stock, net of $752  million and preferred
stock, net of $233
million.

•

Repayment of floating rate
term loan, including related premium, of $354
million.

•

Exercise of
Acetex’s option to redeem its 10 7/8%
senior notes for approximately $280
million.

•

Payment of cash dividends
of $13 million on our Series A common stock and $8 million on our
convertible preferred stock.

Net cash from financing activities
increased to a cash inflow of $2,643  million in 2004 compared to
a cash outflow of $108  million in 2003. The increased cash
inflow primarily reflects higher net proceeds from borrowings in
connection with the acquisition of CAG and borrowings to prefund
benefit obligations. These increased cash inflows were partially offset
by a $500  million return of capital to the Original
Shareholders.

In addition, unfavorable currency effects on the
euro versus the U.S. dollar on cash and cash equivalents increased to
$98 million in 2005 from $24 million in 2004. Unfavorable foreign
currency effects on the euro versus the U.S. dollar on cash and cash
equivalents increased to $24  million in 2004 from $6 million in
2003.

Liquidity

The primary source of liquidity had
been cash generated from operations, which included cash inflows from
currency hedging activities. Historically, the primary liquidity
requirements were for capital expenditures, working capital, pension
contributions and investments. Our contractual obligations, commitments
and debt service requirements over the next several years are
significant and are substantially higher than historical amounts. Our
primary source of liquidity will continue to be cash generated from
operations as well as existing cash on hand. We have availability under
our amended and restated credit facilities to assist, if required, in
meeting our working capital needs and other contractual
obligations.

We believe we will have available resources to meet
both our short-term and long-term liquidity requirements, including
debt service. If our cash flow from operations is insufficient to fund
our debt service and other obligations, we may be forced to use other
means available to us such as to increase our borrowings under our
lines of credit, reduce or delay capital expenditures, seek additional
capital or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness.

In
January  2005, we completed an initial public offering of Series
A common stock and received net proceeds of approximately $752
million after deducting underwriters’ discounts and offering
expenses of $48  million. Concurrently, we received net proceeds
of $233  million from the offering of its convertible preferred
stock and borrowed an additional $1,135  million under the
amended and restated senior credit facilities. A portion of the
proceeds of the share offerings were used to redeem $188  million
of senior discount notes and $521  million of senior subordinated
notes, which excludes early redemption premiums of $19  million
and $51  million, respectively. We also used a portion of the
proceeds from additional borrowings under our senior credit facilities
to repay our $350  million floating rate term loan, which
excludes a $4  million early redemption premium and used
$200  million of the proceeds as the primary financing for the
acquisition of the Vinamul emulsion business.


On April  7,  2005, we used
the remaining proceeds to pay a special cash dividend to holders of our
Series B common stock of $804  million. Upon payment of the
$804  million dividend, all of the shares of Celanese Series B
common stock converted automatically to shares of Celanese Series A
common stock. In addition, we may use the available sources of
liquidity to purchase the remaining outstanding shares of CAG.

As
discussed above, in 2005 we issued $240  million aggregate
liquidation preference of outstanding preferred stock. Holders of the
preferred stock are entitled to receive, when, as and if, declared by
our board of directors, out of funds legally available therefor, cash
dividends at the rate of 4.25% per annum (or $1.06 per share) of
liquidation preference, payable quarterly in arrears, commencing on
May  1,  2005. Dividends on the preferred stock are
cumulative from the date of initial issuance. This dividend is expected
to result in an annual dividend payment of approximately $10
million. Accumulated but unpaid dividends accumulate at an annual rate
of 4.25%. The preferred stock is convertible, at the option of
the holder, at any time into shares of our Series A common stock at a
conversion rate of approximately 1.25 shares of our Series A common
stock per $25.00 liquidation preference of the preferred stock. As of
December  31,  2005, we paid $8 million in aggregate
dividends on our preferred stock. In addition, at December 31, 2005 we
had $2 million of accumulated but undeclared and unpaid dividends,
which were declared on January 5, 2006 and paid on February 1,
2006.

In July  2005, our board of directors adopted a
policy of declaring, subject to legally available funds, a quarterly
cash dividend on each share of our Series A common stock at an annual
rate initially equal to approximately 1.0% of the $16.00 initial
public offering price per share of our Series A common stock (or $0.16
per share) unless our board of directors in its sole discretion
determines otherwise. As of December  31,  2005, we paid
$13 million in aggregate dividends on our Series A common stock. Based
upon the number of outstanding shares as of December  31,
2005, the anticipated annual cash dividend payment is approximately
$25  million. However, there is no assurance that sufficient cash
or surplus will be available to pay such dividend.

As of
December  31,  2005, we had total debt of $3,437
million and cash and cash equivalents of $390  million. Net debt
(total debt less cash and cash equivalents) increased to $3,047
million from $2,549  million as of December  31,
2004 primarily due to a decrease in cash and cash equivalents of
$448  million. We largely used available cash to finance the
Acetex acquisition, the redemption of Acetex senior notes and the
purchase of the additional CAG shares from two minority
shareholders.

During the nine months ended December 31, 2004,
$409 million was contributed to the pension plans. In March 2005, we
contributed an additional $63 million to the non-qualified pension
plan's rabbi trusts.

We were initially capitalized by
equity contributions totaling $641  million from the Original
Shareholders. On a stand alone basis, Celanese Corporation and Crystal
US Holdings 3 LLC (‘‘Crystal LLC’’), the
issuer of the senior discount notes, have no material assets other than
the stock of their subsidiaries, and no independent external operations
of their own apart from the financing. As such, Celanese Corporation
and Crystal LLC generally will depend on the cash flow of their
subsidiaries to meet their obligations under the preferred stock, the
senior discount notes, the senior subordinated notes, the term loans
and any revolving credit borrowings and guarantees.

Domination
Agreement.

At the CAG annual shareholders’ meeting on
June  15,  2004, CAG shareholders approved payment of a
dividend on the CAG Shares for the fiscal year ended December
31,  2003 of €0.12 per share. For the nine month
fiscal year ended on September  30,  2004, CAG was not able
to pay a dividend to its shareholders due to losses incurred in the CAG
statutory accounts. Accordingly, in the near term, Celanese
Corporation, Crystal LLC and BCP Crystal US Holdings Corp
(‘‘BCP Crystal’’), which issued the senior
subordinated notes and term loans, will use existing cash and
borrowings from their subsidiaries, subject to various restrictions,
including restrictions imposed by the senior credit facilities and
indentures and by relevant provisions of German and other applicable
laws, to make interest payments. If the Domination Agreement ceases to
be operative, the ability of Celanese Corporation and BCP Crystal to
meet their obligations will be materially and adversely
affected.

The Domination Agreement was approved at the CAG
extraordinary shareholders’ meeting on July  31,
2004. The Domination Agreement between CAG and the Purchaser became
effective on


October  1,  2004. When the
Domination Agreement became effective, the Purchaser was obligated to
offer to acquire all outstanding CAG Shares from the minority
shareholders of CAG in return for payment of fair cash compensation.
This offer will continue until two months following the date on which
the decision on the last motion in award proceedings
(

Spruchverfahren

) as described in ‘‘Legal
Proceedings— Shareholder Litigation’’, has been
disposed of and has been published. These award proceedings were
dismissed in 2005; however, the dismissal is still subject to appeal.
The amount of this fair cash compensation has been determined to be
€41.92 per share, plus interest, in accordance with
applicable German law. Any minority shareholder who elects not to sell
their shares to the Purchaser will be entitled to remain a shareholder
of CAG and to receive from the Purchaser a gross guaranteed fixed
annual payment on their shares of €3.27 per CAG Share less
certain corporate taxes in lieu of any future dividend. Taking into
account the circumstances and the tax rates at the time of entering
into the Domination Agreement, the net guaranteed fixed annual payment
is €2.89 per share for a full fiscal year. Based upon the
number of CAG Shares held by the minority shareholders as of
December  31,  2005, a net guaranteed fixed annual payment
of $4  million is expected in 2006. In addition, pursuant to the
settlement agreement entered into on March 6, 2006 with eleven minority
shareholders who had filed lawsuits in the Frankfurt District Court

(Landgericht)

, the fixed annual payment for the 2005/2006 fiscal
year will also be paid on this date. This will amount to an additional
net aggregate amount of approximately $2 million. The net guaranteed
fixed annual payment may, depending on applicable corporate tax rates,
in the future be higher, lower or the same as
€2.89.

On March 10, 2006, the Purchaser set the cash
compensation in relation to the transfer of shares held by the minority
shareholders at €62.22 per share. The total amount of funds
necessary to purchase such outstanding shares under the current offer
of €62.22 per share is approximately €58
million. The Company is currently evaluating the financial impact of
this offer on its financial position, results of operations and cash
flows, but does not believe that the impact will be
material.

While the Domination Agreement is operative,
the Purchaser is required to compensate CAG for any statutory annual
loss incurred by CAG, the dominated entity at the end of its fiscal
year when the loss was incurred. If the Purchaser were obligated to
make cash payments to CAG to cover an annual loss, the Purchaser may
not have sufficient funds to pay interest when due and, unless the
Purchaser is able to obtain funds from a source other than annual
profits of CAG, the Purchaser may not be able to satisfy its obligation
to fund such shortfall. The Domination Agreement cannot be terminated
by the Purchaser in the ordinary course until September
30,  2009.

Our subsidiaries, BCP Caylux Holdings
Luxembourg S.C.A. and BCP Crystal, have each agreed to provide the
Purchaser with financing to strengthen the Purchaser’s ability
to fulfill its obligations under, or in connection with, the Domination
Agreement and to ensure that the Purchaser will perform all of its
obligations under, or in connection with, the Domination Agreement when
such obligations become due, including, without limitation, the
obligations to make a guaranteed fixed annual payment to the
outstanding minority shareholders, to offer to acquire all outstanding
CAG Shares from the minority shareholders in return for payment of fair
cash consideration and to compensate CAG for any statutory annual loss
incurred by CAG during the term of the Domination Agreement. If BCP
Caylux and/or BCP Crystal are obligated to make payments under such
guarantees or other security to the Purchaser and/or the minority
shareholders, we may not have sufficient funds for payments on our
indebtedness when due.

In the first quarter of 2005, we paid
$10  million to affiliates of the Blackstone Group related to an
advisor monitoring agreement. This agreement was terminated concurrent
with the initial public offering and resulted in an additional
$35  million payment.


Contractual Debt
Obligations.

The following table sets forth our fixed
contractual debt obligations as of December  31,  2005, on
a pro forma
basis.

(1)

Does
not include a $3  million
premium.

(2)

Reflects an additional
$175 million representing the accreted value of the notes at
maturity.

(3)

Does not include a
$2  million reduction due to purchase
accounting.

Senior Credit Facilities.

As
of December  31,  2005, the senior credit facilities of
$2,536  million consist of a term loan facility of $1,708
million, a revolving credit facility of $600 million and a
credit-linked revolving facility of $228 million.

Subsequent to
the consummation of the initial public offering in January  2005,
we entered into amended and restated senior credit facilities which
increased the term facility. The terms of the amended and restated
senior credit facilities are substantially similar to the terms of our
immediately previous senior credit facilities. As of December
31,  2005, the term loan facility had a balance of $1,708
million (including approximately €273  million of
euro denominated debt), which matures in 2011.

In addition, we
have a $228  million credit-linked facility, which matures in
2009 and includes borrowing capacity available for letters of credit.
As of December  31,  2005, there were $199  million
of letters of credit issued under the credit-linked revolving facility.
Substantially all of the assets of Celanese Holdings LLC
(‘‘Celanese Holdings’’), the direct parent
of BCP Crystal, and, subject to certain exceptions, substantially all
of its existing and future U.S. subsidiaries, referred to as U.S.
Guarantors, secure these facilities. The borrowings under the senior
credit facilities bear interest at a rate equal to an applicable margin
plus, at the borrower’s option, either a base rate or a LIBOR
rate. The applicable margin for borrowing under the base rate option is
1.50% and for the LIBOR option, 2.50% (in each case,
subject to a step-down based on a performance test).

In the first
quarter of 2005, the revolving credit facility was increased from
$380  million to $600  million under the amended and
restated senior credit facilities. As of December  31,
2005, there were no borrowings under the revolving credit facility and
$64  million of letters of credit had been issued under the
revolving credit facility leaving $536 million of
availability.

In November of 2005, we entered into an amendment
of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement decreasing the margin over
LIBOR on approximately $1,386  million of the U.S. dollar
denominated portion of the Term Loans from 2.25% to
2.00%. In addition, a further reduction of the interest rate to
LIBOR plus 1.75% is allowed if certain conditions are
met.

The senior credit facilities are subject to prepayment
requirements and contain covenants, defaults and other provisions. The
senior credit facilities require BCP Crystal to prepay outstanding term
loans, subject to certain exceptions, with:

— 75%
(such percentage will be reduced to 50% if BCP Crystal’s
leverage ratio is less than 3.00 to 1.00 for any fiscal year ending on
or after December  31,  2005) of BCP Crystal’s
excess cash flow;

— 100% of the net cash proceeds of
all non-ordinary course asset sales and casualty and condemnation
events, unless BCP Crystal reinvests or contracts to reinvest those
proceeds in assets to be used in BCP Crystal’s business or to
make certain other permitted investments within 12 months, subject to
certain limitations;


— 100% of the net cash
proceeds of any incurrence of debt other than debt permitted under the
senior credit facilities, subject to certain exceptions;
and

— 50% of the net cash proceeds of issuances of
equity of Celanese Holdings, subject to certain exceptions.

BCP
Crystal may voluntarily repay outstanding loans under the senior credit
facility at any time without premium or penalty, other than customary
‘‘breakage’’ costs with respect to LIBOR
loans.

In connection with the borrowing by BCP Crystal under the
term loan portion of the senior credit facilities, BCP Crystal and CAC
have entered into an intercompany loan agreement whereby BCP Crystal
has agreed to lend the proceeds from any borrowings under its term loan
facility to CAC. The intercompany loan agreement contains the same
amortization provisions as the senior credit facilities. The interest
rate with respect to the loans made under the intercompany loan
agreement is the same as the interest rate with respect to the loans
under BCP Crystal’s term loan facility plus three basis points.
BCP Crystal intends to service the indebtedness under its term loan
facility with the proceeds of payments made to it by CAC under the
intercompany loan agreement.

Senior Subordinated
Notes.

In February  2005, we used approximately
$521  million of the net proceeds of the offering of our Series A
common stock to redeem a portion of the senior subordinated notes and
$51  million to pay the premium associated with the redemption.
As of December  31,  2005, the senior subordinated notes,
excluding $3  million of premiums, consist of $797  million
of 9 5/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014 and $153 million
(€130  million) of 10 3/8% Senior Subordinated
Notes due 2014. All of BCP Crystal’s obligations under the
senior credit facilities guarantee the senior subordinated notes on an
unsecured senior subordinated basis.

Senior Discount
Notes.

In September  2004, Crystal LLC and Crystal US
Sub 3 Corp., a subsidiary of Crystal LLC, issued $853  million
aggregate principal amount at maturity of their senior discount notes
due 2014 consisting of $163  million principal amount at maturity
of their 10% Series A Senior Discount Notes due 2014 and
$690  million principal amount at maturity of their 10
1/2% Series B Senior Discount Notes due 2014 (collectively, the
‘‘senior discount notes’’). The gross
proceeds of the offering were $513  million. Approximately
$500  million of the proceeds were distributed to our Original
Shareholders, with the remaining proceeds used to pay fees associated
with the refinancing. Until October  1,  2009, interest on
the senior discount notes will accrue in the form of an increase in the
accreted value of such notes. Cash interest on the senior discount
notes will accrue commencing on October  1,  2009 and be
payable semiannually in arrears on April  1 and October  1.
In February  2005, we used approximately $37  million of
the net proceeds of the offering of our Series A common stock to redeem
a portion of the Series A senior discount notes and $151  million
to redeem a portion of the Series B senior discount notes and
$19  million to pay the premium associated with such redemption.
As of December  31,  2005, there were $554  million
aggregate principal amount at maturity outstanding, consisting of
$106  million principal amount at maturity of the 10%
Series A Senior Discount Notes due 2014 and $448  million
principal amount at maturity of the 101/2% Series B Senior
Discount Notes due 2014. At December 31, 2005, $306 million and $73
million were outstanding under the 10.5% and 10% Senior
Discount Notes, respectively.

Other Debt.

Other debt
of $399  million, which does not include a $2  million fair
value reduction due to purchase accounting, is primarily made up of
fixed rate pollution control and industrial revenue bonds, short-term
borrowings from affiliated companies and capital lease
obligations.

Covenants.

The indentures governing the
senior subordinated notes and the senior discount notes limit the
ability of the issuers of such notes and the ability of their
restricted subsidiaries to:

•

incur
additional indebtedness or issue preferred
stock;

•

pay dividends on or make
other distributions or repurchase the respective issuer’s
capital stock;

•

make certain
investments;

•

enter into certain
transactions with affiliates;

•

limit
dividends or other payments by BCP Crystal’s restricted
subsidiaries to it;

•

create liens or
other pari passu or subordinated indebtedness without securing the
respective notes;


•

designate
subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries;
and

•

sell certain assets or merge
with or into other companies.

Subject to certain exceptions, the
indentures governing the senior subordinated notes and the senior
discount notes permit the issuers of the notes and their restricted
subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness, including secured
indebtedness.

The senior credit facilities contain a number of
covenants that, among other things, restrict, subject to certain
exceptions, the ability of Celanese Holdings and its
subsidiaries’ ability,
to:

•

sell
assets;

•

incur additional
indebtedness or issue preferred
stock;

•

repay other indebtedness
(including the notes);

•

pay
dividends and distributions or repurchase their capital
stock;

•

create liens on
assets;

•

make investments, loans
guarantees or advances;

•

make
certain acquisitions;

•

engage in
mergers or consolidations;

•

enter
into sale and leaseback
transactions;

•

engage in certain
transactions with affiliates;

•

amend
certain material agreements governing BCP Crystal’s
indebtedness;

•

change the business
conducted by Celanese Holdings and its subsidiaries;
and

•

enter into hedging agreements
that restrict dividends from subsidiaries.

In addition, the
senior credit facilities require BCP Crystal to maintain the following
financial covenants: a maximum total leverage ratio, a maximum bank
debt leverage ratio, a minimum interest coverage ratio and maximum
capital expenditures limitation.

A breach of covenants of
the senior credit facilities as of December  31,  2005 that
are tied to ratios based on adjusted earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization (‘‘Adjusted
EBITDA,’’) as defined in our credit agreements, could
result in a default under the senior credit facilities and the lenders
could elect to declare all amounts borrowed due and payable. Any such
acceleration would also result in a default under the indentures
governing the senior subordinated notes and the senior discount notes.
Additionally, under the senior credit facilities, the floating rate
term loan and the indentures governing the senior subordinated notes
and the senior discount notes, our ability to engage in activities such
as incurring additional indebtedness, making investments and paying
dividends is also tied to ratios based on Adjusted EBITDA. As of
December  31,  2005, we were in compliance with these
covenants. The maximum consolidated net bank debt to Adjusted EBITDA
ratio, previously required under the senior credit facilities, was
eliminated when we amended the facilities in January
2005.


Covenant levels and ratios for
the four quarters ended December  31,  2005 are as
follows:

(1)

The
senior credit facilities require BCP Crystal to maintain an Adjusted
EBITDA to cash interest ratio starting at a minimum of 1.7x for the
period April  1,  2004 to December  31,  2005,
1.8x for the period January  1,  2006 to December
31,  2006, 1.85x for the period January  1,  2007 to
December  31,  2007 and 2.0x thereafter. Failure to satisfy
these ratio requirements would constitute a default under the senior
credit facilities. If lenders under the senior credit facilities failed
to waive any such default, repayment obligations under the senior
credit facilities could be accelerated, which would also constitute a
default under the indenture.

(2)

BCP
Crystal’s ability to incur additional debt and make certain
restricted payments under the senior subordinated note indenture,
subject to specified exceptions, is tied to an Adjusted EBITDA to fixed
charge ratio of at least 2.0 to
1.

(3)

Crystal LLC’s ability to
incur additional debt and make certain restricted payments under the
senior discount notes indenture, subject to specified exceptions, is
tied to an Adjusted EBITDA to fixed charge ratio of at least 2.0 to
1.

Contractual Obligations.

The following table
sets forth our fixed contractual cash obligations as of December
31,
2005.

(1)

Includes
$2  million purchase accounting adjustment to other
debt.

In the first quarter of 2005, we paid $10
million to affiliates of the Blackstone Group related to an advisor
monitoring agreement. This agreement was terminated concurrent with the
initial public offering and resulted in an additional $35
million termination payment. Based upon the number of CAG Shares held
by the minority shareholders as of December  31,  2005, a
net guaranteed fixed annual payment of $4  million is expected in
2006. In addition, pursuant to the settlement agreement entered into on
March 6, 2006 with eleven minority shareholders who had filed lawsuits
in the Frankfurt District Court

(Landgericht)

, the fixed annual
payment for the 2005/2006 fiscal year will also be paid on this date.
This will amount to an additional net aggregate amount of approximately
$2 million. These amounts are excluded from the above
table.


Unconditional Purchase Obligations
primarily include take or pay contracts. We do not expect to incur any
material losses under these contractual arrangements. In addition,
these contracts may include variable price components.

Other
Contractual Obligations primarily includes committed capital spending
and fines associated with the U.S. antitrust settlement described in
Note 25 to the consolidated financial statements. Included in Other
Contractual Obligations is a €99  million
($117  million) fine from the European Commission related to
antitrust matters in the sorbates industry, which is pending an appeal.
We are indemnified by a third party for 80% of the expenses
relating to these matters, which is not reflected in the amount
above.

At December  31,  2005, we have contractual
guarantees and commitments as
follows:

We
are secondarily liable under a lease agreement pursuant to which we
have assigned a direct obligation to a third party. The lease assumed
by the third party expires on April  30,  2012. The lease
liability for the period from January  1,  2006 to
April  30,  2012 is estimated to be approximately $49
million.

Standby letters of credit of $263  million at
December  31,  2005 are irrevocable obligations of an
issuing bank that ensure payment to third parties in the event that
certain Successor subsidiaries fail to perform in accordance with
specified contractual obligations. The likelihood is remote that
material payments will be required under these agreements. The stand-by
letters of credit include $199  million issued under the
credit-linked revolving facility of which approximately $25
million relates to obligations associated with the sorbates antitrust
matters as described in the ‘‘Other Contractual
Obligations’’ above.

For additional commitments and
contingencies, see Note 25 to the consolidated financial
statements.

Other Obligations

We expect to
continue to incur costs for the following significant obligations.
Although, we cannot predict with certainty the annual spending for
these matters, such matters will affect our future cash
flows.

Environmental
Matters

For the year ended December  31,  2005 and
the nine months ended December  31,  2004, the
Successor’s worldwide expenditures, including expenditures for
legal compliance, internal environmental initiatives and remediation of
active, orphan, divested and U.S. Superfund sites were $84
million and $66  million, respectively. The Predecessor’s
worldwide expenditures for the three months ended March
31,  2004 and the year ended December  31,  2003 were
$22  million and $80  million, respectively. The
Successor’s capital project related environmental expenditures
for the year ended December  31,  2005, the nine months
ended December  31,  2004, and the Predecessor’s for
the three months ended March  31,  2004 and the year ended
December  31,  2003, included in worldwide expenditures,
were $8  million, $6  million, $2  million and
$10  million, respectively. Environmental reserves for
remediation matters were $124  million and $143  million as
of December  31,  2005 and  2004, respectively, which
represents our best estimate. (See Note 18 to the consolidated
financial statements)


It is anticipated that stringent
environmental regulations will continue to be imposed on the chemical
industry in general. Management cannot predict with certainty future
environmental expenditures, especially expenditures beyond 2006. Due to
new air regulations in the U.S., management expects that there will be
a temporary increase in compliance costs that will total approximately
$35 million to $45 million through 2007. Accordingly, Emission Trading
Systems will directly affect the power plants at the Kelsterbach and
Oberhausen sites in Germany and the Lanaken site in Belgium, as well as
power plants operated by InfraServ entities on sites at which we
operate. The Company and the InfraServ entities may be required to
purchase carbon dioxide credits, which could result in increased
operating costs, or may be required to develop additional
cost-effective methods to reduce carbon dioxide emissions further,
which could result in increased capital expenditures. Additionally, the
new regulation indirectly affects our other operations in the European
Union, which may experience higher energy costs from third party
providers. We have not yet determined the impact of this legislation on
our operating costs.

Due to our industrial history, we have the
obligation to remediate specific areas on our active sites as well as
on divested, orphan or U.S. Superfund sites. In addition, as part of
the demerger agreement with Hoechst, a specified proportion of the
responsibility for environmental liabilities from a number of
pre-demerger divestitures was transferred to us. Management has
provided for such obligations when the event of loss is probable and
reasonably estimable. Management believes that the environmental costs
will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, but
they may have a material adverse effect on the results of operations or
cash flows in any given accounting period. (See Notes 18 and 25 to the
consolidated financial statements)

Pension and Other
Benefits

The funding policy for pension plans is to accumulate
plan assets that, over the long run, will approximate the present value
of projected benefit obligations. For the year ended December
31,  2005, the nine months ended December  31,  2004
and the three months ended March  31,  2004, pension
contributions to the U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan
amounted to $0 million, $300  million and $33  million,
respectively. Contributions to the German pension plans for the year
ended December  31,  2005 and the nine months ended
December  31,  2004 were $5  million and $105
million, respectively. Also for the year ended December
31,  2005, the nine months ended December  31,  2004
and the three months ended March  31,  2004, payments to
other non-qualified plans (including Rest of the World) totaled
$39  million, $29  million and $6  million,
respectively.

Our spending associated with other benefit plans,
primarily retiree medical, defined contribution and long-term
disability, amounted to $67  million, $53  million and
$9  million for the year ended December  31,  2005,
the nine months ended December  31,  2004 and the three
months ended March  31,  2004, respectively. (See Note 17
to the consolidated financial statements).

In 2004, Celanese
amended its long-term disability plan to align the benefit levels with
the retiree medical plan. As a result of this change, the employee
contribution for the long-term disability medical coverage increased
substantially for current participants in the disability plan.
Subsequent to the adoption of the change, enrollment in the plan has
been trending downward, with 20% of the participants declining
coverage. Accordingly, the Company reduced the disability accrual by $9
million at December 31, 2005 as a result of the lower enrollment
experience. In addition, medical claims assumptions were lowered to
reflect actual plan experience and the percentage of long-term
disability medical payments paid for by Medicare. This change lowered
the long-term disability accrual by an additional $9 million.

Other Matters

Plumbing Actions and Sorbates
Litigation

We are involved in a number of legal proceedings and
claims incidental to the normal conduct of our business. In
February  2005, we settled with an insurance carrier and received
cash proceeds of $44  million in March  2005 and in
December  2005, we received $30  million in additional
settlements. For the nine months ended December  31,  2004
there were no net cash inflows in connection with the plumbing actions
and sorbates litigation. For the three months ended March
31,  2004 and for the year ended December  31,  2003,
there were net cash inflows of approximately $0 million and $110
million in connection with the plumbing actions and sorbates
litigation. As of December  31,  2005 and 2004, there were
reserves of


$197  million and $218
million, respectively, for these matters. In addition, we have
receivables from insurance companies and Hoechst in connection with the
plumbing and sorbates matters of $125  million and $191
million as of December  31,  2005 and 2004,
respectively.

Although it is impossible at this time to determine
with certainty the ultimate outcome of these matters, management
believes, based on the advice of legal counsel, that adequate
provisions have been made and that the ultimate outcome will not have a
material adverse effect on our financial position, but could have a
material adverse effect on the results of operations or cash flows in
any given accounting period. (See Note 25 to the consolidated financial
statements).

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We have
not entered into any material off-balance arrangements.

Market Risks

Please see ‘‘Quantitative
and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk’’ under Item
7A of this Form 10-K for additional information about our Market
Risks.

Critical Accounting Policies and
Estimates

Our consolidated financial statements are based on the
selection and application of significant accounting policies. The
preparation of these financial statements and application of these
policies requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the
financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and
expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from
those estimates. However, we are not currently aware of any reasonably
likely events or circumstances that would result in materially
different results.

We believe the following accounting polices
and estimates are critical to understanding the financial reporting
risks present in the current economic environment. These matters, and
the judgments and uncertainties affecting them, are also essential to
understanding our reported and future operating results. See Note 4 to
the consolidated financial statements for a more comprehensive
discussion of the significant accounting
policies.

Recoverability of Long-Lived Assets

Our
business is capital intensive and has required, and will continue to
require, significant investments in property, plant and equipment. At
December  31,  2005 and 2004, the carrying amount of
property, plant and equipment was $2,040  million and
$1,702  million, respectively. As discussed in Note 4 to the
consolidated financial statements, we assess the recoverability of
property, plant and equipment to be held and used by a comparison of
the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets to the future net
undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the asset or group
of assets. If such assets are considered impaired, the impairment
recognized is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of
the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets.

In
December  2004, we approved a plan to dispose of the COC business
included within the Ticona segment. This decision resulted in
$25  million and $32  million of asset impairment charges
recorded as a special charge related to the COC business in the year
ended December  31,  2005 and the nine months ended
December  31,  2004, respectively.

As a result of the
planned consolidation of tow production and the termination of filament
production, the Acetate Products segment recorded impairment charges of
$50  million associated with plant and equipment in the nine
months ended December  31,  2004.

We assess the
recoverability of the carrying value of our goodwill and other
intangible assets with indefinite useful lives at least annually or
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
amount of the asset may not be fully recoverable. Recoverability of
goodwill is measured at the reporting unit level based on a two-step
approach. First, the carrying amount of the reporting unit is compared
to the fair value as estimated by the future net discounted cash flows
expected to be generated by the reporting unit. To the extent, that the
carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value


of the reporting unit, a second step is
performed, wherein the reporting unit’s assets and liabilities
are fair valued. The implied fair value of goodwill is calculated as
the fair value of the reporting unit in excess of the fair value of all
non-goodwill assets and liabilities allocated to the reporting unit. To
the extent that the reporting unit’s carrying value of goodwill
exceeds its implied fair value, impairment exists and must be
recognized. As of December  31,  2005 and 2004, we had
$1,430  million and $1,147  million, respectively, of
goodwill and other intangible assets, net.

As of December
31,  2005, no significant changes in the underlying business
assumptions or circumstances that drive the impairment analysis led
management to believe goodwill might have been impaired. We will
continue to evaluate the need for impairment if changes in
circumstances or available information indicate that impairment may
have occurred. We perform the required impairment tests at least
annually during the third quarter of our fiscal year using June
30 balances unless circumstances dictate more frequent testing. During
2005, we performed the impairment test and determined that there was no
impairment of goodwill.

A prolonged general economic downturn
and, specifically, a continued downturn in the chemical industry as
well as other market factors could intensify competitive pricing
pressure, create an imbalance of industry supply and demand, or
otherwise diminish volumes or profits. Such events, combined with
changes in interest rates, could adversely affect our estimates of
future net cash flows to be generated by our long-lived assets.
Consequently, it is possible that our future operating results could be
materially and adversely affected by additional impairment charges
related to the recoverability of our long-lived
assets.

Restructuring and Special (Charges)
Gains

Special (charges) gains include provisions for
restructuring and other expenses and income incurred outside the normal
ongoing course of operations. Restructuring provisions represent costs
related to severance and other benefit programs related to major
activities undertaken to fundamentally redesign our operations as well
as costs incurred in connection with a decision to exit non-strategic
businesses. These measures are based on formal management decisions,
establishment of agreements with the employees’ representatives
or individual agreements with the affected employees as well as the
public announcement of the restructuring plan. The related reserves
reflect certain estimates, including those pertaining to separation
costs, settlements of contractual obligations and other closure costs.
We reassess the reserve requirements to complete each individual plan
under our restructuring program at the end of each reporting period.
Actual experience has been and may continue to be different from these
estimates. (See Note 20 to the consolidated financial
statements).

Environmental Liabilities

We
manufacture and sell a diverse line of chemical products throughout the
world. Accordingly, the businesses’ operations are subject to
various hazards incidental to the production of industrial chemicals
including the use, handling, processing, storage and transportation of
hazardous materials. We recognize losses and accrue liabilities
relating to environmental matters if available information indicates
that it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount
of loss is reasonably estimated. If the event of loss is neither
probable nor reasonably estimable, but is reasonably possible, we
provide appropriate disclosure in the notes to the consolidated
financial statements.

Total reserves for environmental
liabilities were $124  million and $143  million at
December  31,  2005 and 2004, respectively. Measurement of
environmental reserves is based on the evaluation of currently
available information with respect to each individual site and
considers factors such as existing technology, presently enacted laws
and regulations and prior experience in remediation of contaminated
sites. An environmental reserve related to cleanup of a contaminated
site might include, for example, provision for one or more of the
following types of costs: site investigation and testing costs, cleanup
costs, costs related to soil and water contamination resulting from
tank ruptures and post-remediation monitoring costs. These reserves do
not take into account any claims or recoveries from insurance. The
measurement of environmental liabilities is based on a range of
management’s periodic estimate of what it will cost to perform
each of the elements of the remediation effort. We use our best
estimate within the range to establish our environmental reserves. We
utilize third parties to assist in the management and the


development of our cost estimates for our
sites. Changes to environmental regulations or other factors affecting
environmental liabilities are reflected in the consolidated financial
statements in the period in which they occur. We accrue for legal fees
related to litigation matters when the costs associated with defense
can be reasonably estimated and are probable to occur. All other fees
are expensed as incurred. (See Note 18 to the consolidated financial
statements).

Asset Retirement
Obligations

Total reserves for asset retirement obligations were
$54  million and $52  million at December  31,
2005 and 2004, respectively. SFAS No. 143 requires that the fair value
of a liability for an asset retirement obligation be recognized in the
period in which it is incurred and Interpretation No. 47,

Accounting
for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations—an interpretation of
FASB Statement No. 143 ("FIN No. 47")

provides guidelines as to when a company is required to record a
conditional asset retirement obligation. The liability is measured at
the discounted fair value and is adjusted to its present value in
subsequent periods as accretion expense is recorded. The corresponding
asset retirement costs are capitalized as part of the carrying amount
of the related long-lived asset and depreciated over the asset’s
remaining useful life. Management has identified but not recognized
asset retirement obligations related to substantially all its existing
operating facilities. Examples of these types of obligations include
demolition, decommissioning, disposal and restoration activities. Legal
obligations exist in connection with the retirement of these assets
upon closure of the facilities or abandonment of the existing
operations. However, operations at these facilities are expected to
continue indefinitely and therefore a reasonable estimate of fair value
cannot be determined at this time. In the future, we will assess
strategies of the businesses acquired and may support decisions that
differ from past decisions of management regarding the continuing
operations of existing facilities. Asset retirement obligations will be
recorded if these strategies are changed and probabilities of closure
are assigned to existing facilities. If certain operating facilities
were to close, the related asset retirement obligations could
significantly affect our results of operations and cash flows.

As
a result of a worldwide assessment of our Acetate production capacity,
the Acetate Products segment recorded a charge to depreciation expense
of $8  million in 2003 related to potential asset retirement
obligations. The assessment concluded that there was a probability that
certain facilities would be closed in the latter half of the decade. In
October  2004 we announced plans to consolidate flake and tow
production by early 2007 and to discontinue production of filament
before the end of 2005. In the fourth quarter of 2005, the operations
of filament were discontinued and we disposed of two Acetate
properties. As a result of the sales, we recorded a gain of $23
million primarily resulting from the reversal of liabilities assumed by
the purchaser. For the nine months ended December  31,
2004, we recorded a charge of $12  million included within
depreciation expense, of which $8  million was recorded by
Acetate Products and $4  million by Chemical Products.

Realization of Deferred Tax Assets

Management regularly reviews its deferred tax assets for
recoverability and establishes a valuation allowance based on
historical taxable income, projected future taxable income, applicable
tax strategies, and the expected timing of the reversals of existing
temporary differences. A valuation allowance is provided when it is
more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax
assets will not be realized. Such evaluations require significant
management judgments. Valuation allowances have been established
primarily for U.S. federal and state net operating losses
carryforwards, Mexican net operating loss carryforwards and Canadian
deferred tax assets. (See Note 21 to the consolidated financial
statements).

Tax Contingencies

The
Company has accruals for taxes and associated interest that may become
payable in future years as a result of audits by tax authorities. The
Company accrues for tax contingencies when it is probable that a
liability to a taxing authority has been incurred and the amount of the
contingency can be reasonably estimated. Although the Company believes
that the positions taken on previously filed tax returns are
reasonable, it nevertheless has established tax and interest reserves
in recognition that various taxing


authorities may challenge the positions
taken by the Company resulting in additional liabilities for taxes and
interest. These amounts are reviewed as circumstances warrant and
adjusted as events occur that affect the Company's potential
liability for additional taxes, such as lapsing of applicable statutes
of limitations, conclusion of tax audits, additional exposure based on
current calculations, identification of new issues, release of
administrative guidance, or rendering of a court decision affecting a
particular tax issue.

Benefit Obligations

Pension and other postretirement benefit plans covering
substantially all employees who meet eligibility requirements. CAC
sponsors pension and other postretirement benefit plans. With respect
to its U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan, minimum funding
requirements are determined by the Employee Retirement Income Security
Act. For the periods presented, the Predecessor or the Company had not
been required to contribute under these minimum funding requirements.
However, the Predecessor chose to contribute to the U.S. defined
benefit pension plan $33  million and $130  million for the
three months ended March  31,  2004 and for the year ended
December  31,  2003, respectively. The Successor chose to
contribute to the U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan $0
million and $300  million for the year ended December
31,  2005 and the nine months ended December  31,
2004, respectively. Contributions to the German pension plans for the
year ended December  31,  2005 and the nine months ended
December  31,  2004 were $5  million and $105
million, respectively. Benefits are generally based on years of service
and/or compensation. Various assumptions are used in the calculation of
the actuarial valuation of the employee benefit plans. These
assumptions include the weighted average discount rate, rates of
increase in compensation levels, expected long-term rates of return on
plan assets and increases or trends in health care costs. In addition
to the above mentioned assumptions, actuarial consultants use
subjective factors such as withdrawal and mortality rates to estimate
the projected benefit obligation. The actuarial assumptions used may
differ materially from actual results due to changing market and
economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates or longer or
shorter life spans of participants. These differences may result in a
significant impact to the amount of pension expense recorded in future
periods.

The amounts recognized in the consolidated financial
statements related to pension and other postretirement benefits are
determined on an actuarial basis. A significant assumption used in
determining our pension expense is the expected long-term rate of
return on plan assets. At December  31,  2005 and 2004, we
assumed an expected long-term rate of return on plan assets of
8.5% for the U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan, which
represents greater than 85% and 75% of pension plan
assets and liabilities, respectively. On average, the actual return on
plan assets over the long-term (15 to 20 years) has exceeded
9.0%. For the year ended December  31,  2005, the
U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan assets actual return was 50
basis points less than the expected long-term rate of return of plan
assets. However, for the year ended December 31, 2004, the actual
return was 400 basis points higher than the long-term return on plan
assets. Based on our investment strategy, we believe that 8.5%
is a reasonable long-term rate of return.

We estimate a 25 basis
point decline in the expected long-term rate of return for the U.S.
qualified defined benefit pension plan to increase pension expense by
an estimated $5.5  million in 2005. Another estimate that affects
our pension and other postretirement benefit expense is the discount
rate used in the annual actuarial valuations of pension and other
postretirement benefit plan obligations. At the end of each year, we
determine the appropriate discount rate, which represents the interest
rate that should be used to determine the present value of future cash
flows currently expected to be required to settle the pension and other
postretirement benefit obligations. The discount rate is generally
based on the yield on high-quality corporate fixed-income securities.
At December  31,  2005, we lowered the discount rate to
5.63% from 5.88% at December  31,  2004 for
the U.S. plans. We estimate that a 50 basis point decline in the
discount rate for the U.S. pension and postretirement medical plans
will increase pension and other postretirement benefit annual expenses
by an estimated $10  million and less than $1 million,
respectively, and our benefit obligations by approximately $173
million and approximately $12  million,
respectively.

Over the past two
years, we have experienced significant increases (in excess of
$300  million) in unrecognized net actuarial pension losses. The
losses were mainly due to the decline in the discount rate utilized to
reflect current market conditions.


Other postretirement benefit plans plans
provide medical and life insurance benefits to retirees who meet
minimum age and service requirements. The postretirement benefit cost
for the year ended December  31,  2005, the nine months
ended December  31,  2004 and the three months ended
March  31,  2004, includes $25  million, $21
million and $8  million, respectively, and the accrued
post-retirement liability was $408  million and $406
million as of December  31,  2005 and 2004, respectively,
in other noncurrent liabilities. The key determinants of the
accumulated postretirement benefit obligation
(‘‘APBO’’) are the discount rate and the
healthcare cost trend rate. The healthcare cost trend rate has a
significant effect on the reported amounts of APBO and related expense.
For example, increasing the healthcare cost trend rate by one
percentage point in each year would increase the APBO at
December  31,  2005, and the 2005 postretirement benefit
cost by approximately $5  million and less than $1
million, respectively, and decreasing the healthcare cost trend rate by
one percentage point in each year would decrease the APBO at
December  31,  2005 and the 2005 postretirement benefit
cost by approximately $5  million and less than $1
million, respectively. (See Note 17 to the consolidated financial
statements).

Accounting for Commitments and
Contingencies

We are subject to a number of legal proceedings,
lawsuits, claims, and investigations, incidental to the normal conduct
of our business, relating to and including product liability, patent
and intellectual property, commercial, contract, antitrust, past waste
disposal practices, release of chemicals into the environment and
employment matters, which are handled and defended in the ordinary
course of business. Management routinely assesses the likelihood of any
adverse judgments or outcomes to these matters as well as ranges of
probable and reasonably estimable losses. Reasonable estimates involve
judgments made by management after considering a broad range of
information including: notifications, demands, settlements which have
been received from a regulatory authority or private party, estimates
performed by independent consultants and outside counsel, available
facts, identification of other potentially responsible parties and
their ability to contribute, as well as prior experience. A
determination of the amount of loss contingency required, if any, is
assessed in accordance with SFAS No. 5 ‘‘

Contingencies
and Commitments

’’ and recorded if probable and
estimable after careful analysis of each individual matter. The
required reserves may change in the future due to new developments in
each matter and as additional information becomes available. (See Note
25 to the consolidated financial statements).

CNA Holdings, which
included the U.S. business now conducted by the Ticona segment, along
with Shell Oil Company (‘‘Shell’’) and E.
I. du Pont de Nemours and Company
(‘‘DuPont’’) and others, has been a
defendant in a series of lawsuits, including a number of class actions,
alleging that plastics manufactured by these companies that were
utilized in the production of plumbing systems for residential property
were defective or caused such plumbing systems to fail. CNA Holdings
has accrued its best estimate of its share of the plumbing actions. At
December  31,  2005 and 2004, accruals were $68
million and $73  million, respectively, for this matter, of which
$6  million and $11  million, respectively, are included in
current liabilities. Management believes that the plumbing actions are
adequately provided for in the consolidated financial statements.
However, if we were to incur an additional charge for this matter, such
a charge would not be expected to have a material adverse effect on the
financial position, but may have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations or cash flows in any given accounting period. The
Predecessor’s receivables relating to the anticipated recoveries
from third party insurance carriers for this product liability matter
are based on the probability of collection on the settlement agreements
reached with a majority of the insurance carriers whose coverage level
exceeds the receivables and based on the status of current discussions
with other insurance carriers. As of December  31,  2005
and 2004, insurance claims receivables were $22  million and
$75  million, respectively. Collectibility could vary depending
on the financial status of the insurance carriers.

Nutrinova
Inc., a U.S. subsidiary of Nutrinova Nutrition Specialties & Food
Ingredients GmbH, a wholly-owned subsidiary of ours and the
Predecessor, is party to various legal proceedings in the United
States, Canada and Europe alleging Nutrinova Inc. engaged in unlawful
anticompetitive behavior which affected the sorbates markets while it
was a wholly-owned subsidiary of Hoechst. In accordance with the
demerger agreement between Hoechst and CAG, which became effective
October  1999, CAG, the successor to Hoechst’s sorbates
business, was assigned the obligation related to these matters.
However, Hoechst agreed to indemnify CAG for 80% of payments for
such obligations. Expenses related to this


matter are recorded gross of any such
recoveries from Hoechst while the recoveries from Hoechst, which
represents 80% of such expenses, are recorded directly to
shareholders’ equity, net of tax, as a contribution of
capital.

Based on the advice of external counsel and a review of
the existing facts and circumstances relating to the sorbates matter,
including the status of government investigations, as well as civil
claims filed and settled, we and the Predecessor has remaining accruals
of $129  million and $145  million at December
31,  2005 and 2004, respectively, for the estimated loss relative
to this matter. This amount is included in current liabilities at
December  31,  2005. Although the outcome of this matter
cannot be predicted with certainty, management’s best estimate
of the range of possible additional future losses and fines, including
any that may result from governmental proceedings, as of
December  31,  2005 is between $0 million and $9
million. The estimated range of such possible future losses is
management’s best estimate based on advice of external counsel
taking into consideration potential fines and claims, both civil and
criminal, that may be imposed or made in other jurisdictions. At
December  31,  2005 and 2004, we had receivables, recorded
within current assets, relating to the sorbates indemnification from
Hoechst of $103  million and $116  million,
respectively.

On February  7,  2001, Celanese
International Corporation (‘‘CIC) filed a private
criminal action for patent infringement against China Petrochemical
Development Corporation, or CPDC, alleging that CPDC infringed
CIC's patent covering the manufacture of acetic acid. CIC also
filed a supplementary civil brief which, in view of changes in
Taiwanese patent laws, was subsequently converted to a civil action
alleging damages against CPDC based on a period of infringement of ten
years, 1991-2000, and based on CPDC's own data and as reported to
the Taiwanese securities and exchange commission. CIC's patent
was held valid by the Taiwanese patent office. On August
31,  2005 a Taiwanese court held that CPDC infringed CIC’s
acetic acid patent and awarded CIC approximately $28  million for
the period of 1995 through 1999. The judgment has been appealed. We
will not record income associated with this favorable judgment until
cash is received.

CAG, the Purchaser, as well as a former member
of CAG’s board of management, are defendants in various lawsuits
in Germany instituted by minority shareholders relating to the
Purchaser’s acquisition of the CAG Shares. While many of these
lawsuits request to set aside shareholders’ resolutions in
connection with the Domination Agreement, several minority shareholders
had initiated special award proceedings (

Spruchverfahren

) to
increase the amounts of the fair cash compensation (

Abfindung

)
and of the guaranteed fixed annual payment (

Ausgleich

) offered
under the Domination Agreement. As a result of these proceedings, the
amount of the fair cash consideration and the guaranteed fixed annual
payment offered under the Domination Agreement could be increased by
the court so that all minority shareholders, including those who have
already tendered their shares into the mandatory offer and have
received the fair cash compensation, could claim the respective higher
amounts. Although the court dismissed all of these proceedings in
March  2005 on the grounds of inadmissibility, the dismissal has
been appealed.

Based upon the information available as of the
date of this annual report, the outcome of the foregoing proceedings
cannot be predicted with certainty. A determination of the amount of
loss contingency required, if any, is assessed in accordance with SFAS
No. 5 ‘‘

Contingencies and
Commitments

’’ and recorded if probable and estimable
after careful analysis of each individual matter. The required reserves
may change in the future due to new developments in each matter and as
additional information becomes
available.

Business Combinations

Upon
closing an acquisition, we estimate the fair values of assets and
liabilities acquired as soon as practicable. Given the time it takes to
obtain pertinent information to finalize the acquired company’s
balance sheet (frequently with implications for the purchase price of
the acquisition), then to adjust the acquired company’s
accounting policies, procedures, books and records to our standards, it
is often several quarters before we are able to finalize those initial
fair value estimates. Accordingly, it is not uncommon for the initial
estimates to be subsequently revised. The judgements made in
determining the estimated fair value assigned to each class of assets
acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as asset lives, can
materially impact Net earnings (loss). (See Notes 1 and 2 to the
consolidated financial
statements).


Captive Insurance
Companies

We consolidate two wholly owned insurance companies
(the ‘‘Captives’’). The Captives are a key
component of our global risk management program as well as a form of
self-insurance for property, liability and workers compensation risks.
The Captives issue insurance policies to our subsidiaries to provide
consistent coverage amid fluctuating costs in the insurance market and
to lower long-term insurance costs by avoiding or reducing commercial
carrier overhead and regulatory fees. The Captives issue insurance
policies and coordinate claims handling services with third party
service providers. They retain risk at levels approved by management
and obtain reinsurance coverage from third parties to limit the net
risk retained. One of the Captives also insures certain third party
risks.

The assets of the Captives consist primarily of marketable
securities and reinsurance receivables. Marketable securities values
are based on quoted market prices or dealer quotes. The carrying value
of the amounts recoverable under the reinsurance agreements approximate
fair value due to the short-term nature of these items.

The
liabilities recorded by the Captives relate to the estimated risk of
loss recorded by the Captives, which is based on management estimates
and actuarial valuations, and unearned premiums, which represent the
portion of the premiums written applicable to the terms of the policies
in force. The establishment of the provision for outstanding losses is
based upon known facts and interpretation of circumstances influenced
by a variety of factors. In establishing a provision, management
considers facts currently known and the current state of laws and
litigation where applicable. Liabilities are recognized for known
claims when sufficient information has been developed to indicate
involvement of a specific policy and management can reasonably estimate
their liability. In addition, liabilities have been established to
cover additional exposure on both known and unasserted claims.
Estimates of the liabilities are reviewed and updated regularly. It is
possible that actual results could differ significantly from the
recorded liabilities.

The Captives use reinsurance arrangements
to reduce their risk of loss. Reinsurance arrangements however do not
relieve the Captives from their obligations to policyholders. Failure
of the reinsurers to honor their obligations could result in losses to
the Captives. The Captives evaluate the financial condition of their
reinsurers and monitor concentrations of credit risk to minimize their
exposure to significant losses from reinsurer insolvencies and
establish allowances for amounts deemed non-collectable.

Forward-Looking Statements May Prove
Inaccurate

This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking
statements and information relating to us that are based on the beliefs
of our management as well as assumptions made by, and information
currently available to, us. These statements include, but are not
limited to, statements about our strategies, plans, objectives,
expectations, intentions, expenditures, and assumptions and other
statements contained in this prospectus that are not historical facts.
When used in this document, words such as
‘‘anticipate,’’
‘‘believe,’’
‘‘estimate,’’
‘‘expect,’’
‘‘intend,’’
‘‘plan’’ and
‘‘project’’ and similar expressions, as
they relate to us are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
These statements reflect our current views with respect to future
events, are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and
uncertainties that are difficult to predict. Further, certain
forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions as to future
events that may not prove to be accurate.

Many factors could
cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially
different from any future results, performance or achievements that may
be expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. These
factors include, among other
things:

•

changes in general
economic, business, political and regulatory conditions in the
countries or regions in which we
operate;

•

the length and depth of
product and industry business cycles particularly in the automotive,
electrical, electronics and construction
industries;

•

changes in the price
and availability of raw materials, particularly changes in the demand
for, supply of, and market prices of fuel oil, natural gas, coal,
electricity and petrochemicals such as ethylene, propylene and butane,
including changes in production quotas in OPEC countries and the
deregulation of the natural gas transmission industry in
Europe;


•

the
ability to pass increases in raw material prices on to customers or
otherwise improve margins through price
increases;

•

the ability to maintain
plant utilization rates and to implement planned capacity additions and
expansions;

•

the ability to reduce
production costs and improve productivity by implementing technological
improvements to existing
plants;

•

the existence of temporary
industry surplus production capacity resulting from the integration and
start-up of new world-scale
plants;

•

increased price competition
and the introduction of competing products by other
companies;

•

the ability to develop,
introduce and market innovative products, product grades and
applications, particularly in the Ticona and Performance Products
segments of our business;

•

changes
in the degree of patent and other legal protection afforded to our
products;

•

compliance costs and
potential disruption or interruption of production due to accidents or
other unforeseen events or delays in construction of
facilities;

•

potential liability for
remedial actions under existing or future environmental
regulations;

•

potential liability
resulting from pending or future litigation, or from changes in the
laws, regulations or policies of governments or other governmental
activities in the countries in which we
operate;

•

changes in currency
exchange rates and interest
rates;

•

changes in the composition
or restructuring of us or our subsidiaries and the successful
completion of acquisitions, divestitures and venture
activities;

•

inability to
successfully integrate current and future
acquisitions;

•

pending or future
challenges to the Domination Agreement;
and

•

various other factors, both
referenced and not referenced in this document.

Many of these
factors are macroeconomic in nature and are, therefore, beyond our
control. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties
materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, our
actual results, performance or achievements may vary materially from
those described in this Annual Report as anticipated, believed,
estimated, expected, intended, planned or projected. We neither intend
nor assume any obligation to update these forward-looking statements,
which speak only as of their dates.

Item
7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market
Risk

Market Risks

We are exposed to market
risk through commercial and financial operations. Our market risk
consists principally of exposure to currency exchange rates, interest
rates and commodity prices. We have in place policies of hedging
against changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates and
commodity prices as described below. Contracts to hedge exposures are
accounted for under SFAS No. 133,

Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities

amended by SFAS No. 138,

Accounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging
Activities

and SFAS No. 148,

Amendment of Statement 133 on
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

. (See Note 24 to the
consolidated financial statements).

Foreign Exchange Risk
Management

We and the Predecessor have receivables and payables
denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the
various subsidiaries, which create foreign exchange risk. For the
purposes of this document, the Predecessor’s reporting currency
is the U.S. dollar, and the functional reporting currency of CAG
continues to be the euro. The U.S. dollar, the euro, Mexican peso,
Japanese yen, British pound sterling, and Canadian dollar are the most
significant sources of currency risk. Accordingly, we


enter into foreign currency forwards and
swaps to minimize our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. The
foreign currency contracts are designated for recognized assets and
liabilities and forecasted transactions. The terms of these contracts
are generally under one year. Our centralized hedging strategy states
that foreign currency denominated receivables or liabilities recorded
by the operating entities will be internally hedged, only the remaining
net foreign exchange position will then be hedged externally with
banks. As a result, foreign currency forward contracts relating to this
centralized strategy did not meet the criteria of SFAS No. 133 to
qualify for hedge accounting. Net foreign currency transaction gains or
losses are recognized on the underlying transactions, which are offset
by losses and gains related to foreign currency forward
contracts.

On June  16,  2004, as part of our
currency risk management, we entered into a currency swap with certain
financial institutions. Under the terms of the swap arrangement, we
will pay approximately €13  million in interest and
receive approximately $16  million in interest on each
June  15 and December  15 (with interest for the first
period prorated). Upon maturity of the swap agreement on June
16,  2008, we will pay approximately €276
million and receive approximately $333  million. We designated
the swap, part of its senior euro term loan and a euro note as a net
investment hedge (for accounting purposes) in the fourth quarter of
2004. At December 31, 2005 and  2004, the effects of the
swap resulted in an increase in total liabilities of $4  million
and $57  million, respectively. The loss related to the swap was
$18  million and $21  million for the year ended
December  31,  2005 and the nine months ended
December  31,  2004, of which $3  million in 2005 and
$14  million in 2004 is related to the ineffectiveness of the net
investment hedge.

Contracts with notional amounts totaling
approximately $564  million and $288  million at
December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, are predominantly in
Euros, British pound sterling, Japanese yen, and Canadian dollars. Most
of the our foreign currency forward contracts did not meet the criteria
of SFAS No. 133 to qualify for hedge accounting. We recognize net
foreign currency transaction gains or losses, which were offset by
losses and gains related to foreign currency forward contracts. At
December 31, 2005 our foreign currency forward contracts
resulted in an decrease in total assets of $4  million and a
decrease in total liabilities of $4  million. For the year ended
December  31,  2004, our foreign currency forward contracts
resulted in a decrease in total assets and an increase in total
liabilities of $42  million and $2  million, respectively.
As of December 31, 2005 and  2004, these contracts, in
addition to natural hedges, hedged approximately 100% of our net
receivables held in currencies other than the entities’
functional currency for our European operations. Related to the
unhedged portion during the period, a net gain (loss) of approximately
$20  million, ($2) million and $4  million from foreign
exchange gains or losses was recorded to other income (expense), net
for the six months ended December 31, 2005, for the nine months
ended December  31,  2004 and the three months ended
March  31,  2004, respectively. During 2003, the
Predecessor’s foreign currency forward contracts resulted in a
decrease in total assets and of $8  million and an increase in
total liabilities of $1  million. As of December
31,  2003, these contracts hedged a portion (approximately
85%) of the Predecessor’s U.S. dollar denominated
intercompany net receivables held by euro denominated entities. Related
to the unhedged portion, a net loss of approximately $14  million
from foreign exchange gains or losses was recorded to other income
(expense), net in 2003.

A substantial portion of our assets,
liabilities, revenues and expenses is denominated in currencies other
than U.S. dollar, principally the euro. Fluctuations in the value of
these currencies against the U.S. dollar, particularly the value of the
euro, can have, and in the past have had, a direct and material impact
on the business and financial results. For example, a decline in the
value of the euro versus the U.S. dollar, results in a decline in the
U.S. dollar value of our sales denominated in euros and earnings due to
translation effects. Likewise, an increase in the value of the euro
versus the U.S. dollar would result in an opposite effect. We estimate
that the translation effects of changes in the value of other
currencies against the U.S. dollar increased net sales by approximately
0% and decreased total assets by approximately 6% for the
year ended December 31, 2005, increased net sales by
approximately 3% and increased total assets by approximately
3% for the nine months ended December  31,  2004.
Net sales increased by approximately 7% for the year ended
December 31, 2003. The Predecessor estimated that the translation
effects of changes in the value of other currencies against the U.S.
dollar increased net sales by approximately 6% for the three
months ended March  31,  2004 and by approximately
7% for the year ended December  31,  2003. The
Predecessor also estimated that the translation effects of changes in
the value of other


currencies against the U.S. dollar
decreased total assets by approximately 1% for the three months
ended March  31,  2004 and increased total assets by
approximately 5% in 2003. Exposure to transactional effects is
further reduced by a high degree of overlap between the currencies in
which sales are denominated and the currencies in which the raw
material and other costs of goods sold are denominated.

As of
December 31, 2005, we had total debt of $3,437  million,
of which $614  million (€520 million) is euro
denominated debt. A 1% increase in foreign exchange rates would
increase the euro denominated debt by $6  million. As of
December 31, 2005, we had total cash of $390  million, of
which approximately $79 million (€67 million) is euro
denominated cash. A 1% decrease in foreign exchange rates would
decrease the euro denominated cash by $1 million. For the year ended
December 31, 2005, the euro denominated cash was reduced
substantially by the purchase of the additional CAG shares from two
shareholders, including other considerations, as well as the
acquisition of Vinamul and Acetex and the redemption of Acetex’s
debt.

Interest Rate Risk Management

We may enter
into interest rate swap agreements to reduce the exposure of interest
rate risk inherent in our outstanding debt by locking in borrowing
rates to achieve a desired level of fixed/floating rate debt depending
on market conditions. At December  31,  2005, the Successor
had an interest rate swap with a notional amount of $300
million. At December  31,  2004, the Successor had no
interest rate swap agreements in place. The Predecessor had open
interest rate swaps with a notional amount of $200  million at
December  31,  2003. In the second quarter of 2004, the
Successor recorded a loss of less than $1  million in Other
income (expense), net associated with the early termination of its
$200  million interest rate swap. During 2003, the Predecessor
recorded a loss of $7  million in Other income (expense), net,
associated with the early termination of one of its interest rate
swaps. The Successor recognized net interest expense from hedging
activities relating to interest rate swaps of $3  million and
$1  million for the year ended December  31,  2005
and the nine months ended December  31,  2004,
respectively. The Predecessor recognized net interest expense from
hedging activities relating to interest rate swaps of $2  million
and $11  million for the three months ended March
31,  2004 and the year ended December  31,  2003,
respectively. The Predecessor recorded a net gain (loss) of less than
($1) million and $2  million in Other income (expense), net of
the ineffective portion of the interest rate swaps, during the three
months ended March  31,  2004 and the year ended
December  31,  2003, respectively.

On a pro forma
basis as of December  31,  2005, we had approximately
$1,900  million of variable rate debt. A 1% increase in
interest rates would increase annual interest expense by approximately
$19  million.

Commodity Risk Management

Our
policy for the majority of our natural gas and butane requirements
allows entering into supply agreements and forward purchase or
cash-settled swap contracts. Fixed price natural gas forward contracts
are principally settled through actual delivery of the physical
commodity. The maturities of the cash-settled swap contracts correlate
to the actual purchases of the commodity and have the effect of
securing predetermined prices for the underlying commodity. Although
these contracts are structured to limit our exposure to increases in
commodity prices, they can also limit the potential benefit we might
have otherwise received from decreases in commodity prices. These
cash-settled swap contracts are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
Realized gains and losses on these contracts are included in the cost
of the commodity upon settlement of the contract. The Successor
recognized losses of less than $1  million from natural gas swaps
and butane contracts for the year ended December  31,  2005
and the nine months ended December  31,  2004. The
Predecessor recognized losses of $1  million and $3
million from natural gas swaps and butane contracts for the three
months ended March  31,  2004 and the year ended
December  31,  2003, respectively. There was no material
impact on the balance sheet at December  31,  2005 and
 2004. There were no unrealized gains and losses associated with
the cash-settled swap contracts as of December  31,  2005
and  2004. We did not have any open commodity swaps as of
December  31,  2005 and
2004.


Item
8.    Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data

The Company’s consolidated
financial statements and supplementary data are included in pages F-2
through F-93 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. See accompanying
‘‘Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement
Schedules" and Index to the consolidated financial
statements on page F-1.


Quarterly Financial
Information

CELANESE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF
OPERATIONS


CELANESE CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF
OPERATIONS


Item 9.

Changes
in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure

None.

Item 9A.

Controls
and Procedures

In connection with the audit of our
financial statements as of and for the nine months ended
December 31, 2004, we identified a material weakness in our
internal controls for the same period. On March 30, 2005, we
received a letter from KPMG, our independent auditors, who also
identified the same material weakness and a second material weakness in
the course of their audit. The additional material weakness identified
by KPMG related to several deficiencies in the assessment of hedge
effectiveness and documentation. The required adjustments were made in
the proper accounting period, except for one immaterial hedging
transaction adjusted during the quarter ended June 30, 2005. The
material weakness identified by KPMG and the Company related to
conditions preventing its ability to adequately research, document,
review and draw conclusions on accounting and reporting matters, which
had previously resulted in adjustments that had to be recorded to
prevent our financial statements from being materially misstated. The
conditions largely related to significant increases in the frequency
of, and the limited number of personnel available to address, complex
accounting matters and transactions and as a result of the consummation
of simultaneous debts and equity offerings during the year-end closing
process. We do not believe that the adjustments made in connection with
these material weaknesses had any material impact on previously
reported financial information. In response to the letter from KPMG
with respect to the first material weakness identified above, we
organized a team responsible for the identification and documentation
of potential derivative accounting transactions and commenced and
concluded formal training for team members specifically related to
derivative accounting. With respect to the second material weakness
identified above, we hired certain qualified accounting personnel which
should ensure that we will be able to adequately research, document,
review and conclude on accounting and reporting matters. Both material
weaknesses were identified during our December  31,  2004
year-end closing process and we believe that we have remediated these
material weaknesses as of December 31, 2005.

In
September  2005 we identified a significant deficiency in
internal controls relating to sales to countries and other parties that
are or have previously been subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed
by the U.S. government. This significant deficiency was identified as a
result of an internal investigation that was intiated in connection
with the SEC review of a registration statement. We have taken
immediate corrective actions which include a directive to senior
business leaders stating that they are prohibited from selling products
into certain countries subject to these trade restrictions, as well as
making accounting systems modifications that prevent the initiation of
purchase orders and shipment of products to these countries. Also, we
plan to enhance the business conduct policy training in the area of
export control. Although as of December 31, 2005 this significant
deficiency has not been fully remediated, we believe that we have taken
remediation measures that, once fully implemented, will be effective in
eliminating this deficiency.

Celanese Corporation
("Celanese"), under the supervision and with
the participation of Celanese’s management, including the chief
executive officer (CEO) and chief financial officer (CFO), performed an
evaluation of the effectiveness of Celanese’s
‘‘disclosure controls and procedures’’ (as
defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended (the ‘‘34 Act’’)) as of
December 31, 2005. Disclosure controls and procedures are
defined as controls and other procedures of an issuer that are designed
to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the issuer in
the reports that it files or submits under the 34 Act is
recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods
specified in the rules and forms of the Securities and Exchange
Commission. Based on this evaluation, and as a result of the
remediation of the material weaknesses completed during the period
covered by this Annual Report, Celanese’s CEO and CFO concluded
that, as of December  31,  2005, the end of the period
covered by this Annual Report, Celanese’s disclosure controls
and procedures were effective for gathering, analyzing and disclosing
the material information Celanese is required to disclose in the
reports it files under the 34 Act, within the time periods
specified in the rules and forms of the Securities and Exchange
Commssion. Except as discussed above, there have been no significant
changes in Celanese’s ‘‘internal controls over
financial reporting’’ (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under
the 34 Act, as amended)


during the period covered by this Annual
Report that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to
materially affect, internal controls over financial reporting.

We
are in the process of implementing changes to strengthen our internal
controls. In addition, while we have taken actions to address these
deficiencies and weaknesses, additional measures may be necessary and
these measures along with other measures we expect to take to improve
our internal controls may not be sufficient to address the issues
identified by us or ensure that our internal controls are effective. If
we are unable to correct existing or future deficiencies or weaknesses
in internal controls in a timely manner, our ability to record,
process, summarize and report financial information within the time
periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC will be adversely
affected. This failure could materially and adversely impact our
business, our financial condition and the market value of our
securities. In addition, there could be a negative reaction in the
financial markets due to a loss of confidence in reliability of future
financial statements and SEC filings.

Beginning with the fiscal
year ending December  31,  2006, Section 404 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act will require us to include an internal control
report of management with our Annual Report on Form 10-K. The internal
control report must contain (1) a statement of management’s
responsibility for establishing and maintaining adequate internal
control over financial reporting for us, (2) a statement identifying
the framework used by management to conduct the required evaluation of
the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, (3)
management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal
control over financial reporting as of the end of our most recent
fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal
control over financial reporting is effective, and (4) a statement that
our independent auditors have issued an attestation report on
management’s assessment of our internal control over financial
reporting.

In connection therewith, we are currently performing
the system and process evaluation and testing required (and any
necessary remediation) in an effort to comply with the management
certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404. In
the course of our ongoing Section 404 evaluation, we have identified
areas of internal controls that may need improvement, and plan to
design enhanced processes and controls to address these and any other
issues that might be identified through this review. As we are still in
the evaluation process, we may identify other conditions that may
result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in the
future.

We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of
our evaluation, testing and any remediation actions or the impact of
the same on our operations. If we are not able to implement the
requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate
compliance or our independent auditors are not able to certify as to
the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, we
may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities,
such as the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a result, there
could be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of
confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. In addition,
we may be required to incur costs in improving our internal control
system and the hiring of additional personnel. Any such action could
negatively affect our results.


Item
9B.

Other Information

On
March 30, 2006, Celanese Corporation entered into Amendment No. 2 to
the Third Amended and Restated Shareholders' Agreement, dated as
of October 31, 2005, as amended (the
"Agreement"), by and among Celanese
Corporation, Blackstone Capital Partners (Cayman) Ltd. 1
("BCP 1"), Blackstone Capital Partners
(Cayman) Ltd. 2 ("BCP 2"), Blackstone Capital
Partners (Cayman) Ltd. 3 ("BCP 3" and,
together with BCP 1 and BCP 2 and their respective successors and
permitted assigns, the "Blackstone Entities")
and BA Capital Investors Sidecar Fund, L.P., a Cayman Islands limited
partnership ("BACI") pursuant to which, among
other things, the parties agreed to remove BACI as a party to such
agreement and to terminate the proxy previously granted by BACI to BCP
1 to vote the shares of Series A Common Stock owned by BACI in all
matters to be acted upon by stockholders of Celanese Corporation and
requirement for notice regarding changes in ownership obligation.
Accordingly, BCP 1 no longer has any right to vote the shares of Series
A Common Stock owned by BACI. To the knowledge of Celanese Corporation,
the number of shares of Series A Common Stock held by the Blackstone
Entities and BACI has not changed since the filing of the most recent
amendment to the Schedule 13D or as a result of entering into the
Agreement. The Agreement is filed as an exhibit to this
report.


PART III

Item
10.

Directors and Executive Officers
of the Registrant

The information required by this Item 10
is incorporated herein by reference from the section captioned
‘‘Corporate Governance’’, "Our
Management Team," and ‘‘Section 16(a)
Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance’’ of the
Company’s definitive proxy statement for the 2006 annual meeting
of stockholders to be filed not later than April 30, 2006 with the
Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ‘‘2006
Proxy Statement’’).

Item
11.

Executive
Compensation

The information required by this Item 11 is
incorporated by reference from the section captioned
‘‘Executive Compensation’’ of the 2006
Proxy Statement.

Item
12.

Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters

The information required by this Item 12 is
incorporated by reference from the section captioned
‘‘Stock Ownership Information’’ of the 2006
Proxy Statement.

Item
13.

Certain Relationships and
Related Transactions

The information required by this Item
13 is incorporated by reference from the section captioned
‘‘Certain Relationships and Related Party
Transactions’’ of the 2006 Proxy Statement.

Item
14.

Principal Accounting Fees and
Services

The information required by this Item 14 is
incorporated by reference from the section captioned
‘‘Ratification of Independent Auditors—Audit and
Related Fees’’ of the 2006 Proxy
Statement.


PART IV

Item
15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement
Schedules

1.

Financial
Statements

.    The reports of our
independent registered public accounting firm and our consolidated
financial statements are listed below and begin on page F-1 of this
Annual Report on  Form
10-K.

2.

Financial
Statement Schedules.

The financial
statement schedules required by this item are included as an Exhibit to
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

3.

Exhibit
List.

See Index to Exhibits
following our consolidated financial statements contained in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.

PLEASE NOTE: It is inappropriate for
readers to assume the accuracy of, or rely upon any covenants,
representations or warranties that may be contained in agreements or
other documents filed as Exhibits to, or incorporated by reference in,
this Annual Report. Any such covenants, representations or warranties
may have been qualified or superseded by disclosures contained in
separate schedules or exhibits not filed with or incorporated by
reference in this Annual Report, may reflect the parties’
negotiated risk allocation in the particular transaction, may be
qualified by materiality standards that differ from those applicable
for securities law purposes, and may not be true as of the date of this
Annual Report or any other date and may be subject to waivers by any or
all of the parties. Where exhibits and schedules to agreements filed or
incorporated by reference as Exhibits hereto are not included in these
exhibits, such exhibits and schedules to agreements are not included or
incorporated by reference herein.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused the report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized.

Pursuant to the requirements of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed by the
following persons in the capacities and on the dates
indicated.


INDEX TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

F-1

Report of Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm

To the Board of Directors and
Shareholders

Celanese Corporation:

We have audited the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Celanese Corporation and
subsidiaries (‘‘Successor’’) as of
December  31,  2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated
statements of operations, shareholders’ equity (deficit), and
cash flows for the year ended December  31,  2005 and the
nine-month period ended December  31,  2004. These
consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our
audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test
basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles
used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe
that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial
statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects,
the financial position of Celanese Corporation and subsidiaries as of
December  31,  2005 and 2004, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for the year ended December
31,  2005 and the nine-month period ended December
31,  2004, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles.

As discussed in Notes 1 and 2 to the
consolidated financial statements, effective April  1,
2004 (a convenience date for the April  6,  2004
acquisition date), a subsidiary of Celanese Corporation acquired
84.3% of the outstanding stock of Celanese AG in a business
combination. As a result of the acquisition, the consolidated financial
information for the periods after the acquisition is presented on a
different cost basis than that for the periods before the acquisition
and, therefore, is not comparable.

/s/   KPMG
LLP

Short Hills, New Jersey

March 30,

F-2

Report of Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm

To the Supervisory
Board

Celanese AG:

We have audited the accompanying
consolidated statements of operations, shareholders’ equity, and
cash flows of Celanese AG and subsidiaries
(‘‘Predecessor’’) for the three-month
period ended March  31,  2004 and the year ended
December  31,  2003 (‘‘Predecessor
periods’’). These consolidated financial statements are
the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit
includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts
and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made
by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for
our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial
statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects,
the results of operations and cash flows of Celanese AG and
subsidiaries for the Predecessor periods, in conformity with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles.

As discussed in
Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, Celanese AG and
subsidiaries changed from using the last-in, first-out or LIFO method
of determining cost of inventories at certain locations to the
first-in, first-out or FIFO method.

As discussed in Note 5
to the consolidated financial statements, Celanese AG and subsidiaries
adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46
(Revised), ‘‘Consolidation of Variable Interest
Entities—an interpretation of ARB No. 51’’,
effective December  31,  2003.

We also have
reported separately on the consolidated financial statements of
Celanese AG and subsidiaries for the year ended December
31,  2003. Those financial statements were presented using the
euro as the reporting currency.

/s/   KPMG
Deutsche Treuhand-Gesellschaft Aktiengesellschaft
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft

Frankfurt am Main,
Germany

March 30, 2005, except as to Notes 4 (cash flows from
discontinued operation (revised)) and 6 (acetate filament discontinued
operations), which are as of March 31,

F-3

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF
OPERATIONS

See
the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial
statements.

F-4

CELANESE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE
SHEETS

See
the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial
statements.

F-5

CELANESE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
(DEFICIT)

(1)

Net
of tax (benefit) expense of $2  million in 2003, $2
million for the three months ended March  31,  2004, $0
million for the nine months ended December  31,  2004 and
$0 million in 2005.

(2)

Net of tax
(benefit) expense of $4  million in 2003, $1  million for
the nine months ended December  31,  2004 and $(2) million
in 2005.

(3)

Net of tax (benefit)
expense of $5  million in 2003, $(3) million for the nine months
ended December  31,  2004 and $(19) million in
2005.

(4)

Net of tax expense of
$33  million in 2003.

See the
accompanying notes to the consolidated financial
statements.

F-6

CELANESE CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH
FLOWS

See
the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial
statements.

F-7

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

1.

Description
of the Company

Description of the Company

Celanese
Corporation and its subsidiaries (collectively the
‘‘Company’’ or the
‘‘Successor’’) is a global industrial
chemicals company, representing the former business of Celanese AG and
its subsidiaries (‘‘CAG’’ or the
‘‘Predecessor’’). The Company's
business involves processing chemical raw materials, such as ethylene
and propylene, and natural products, including natural gas and wood
pulp, into value-added chemicals and chemical-based products.

On
November  3,  2004, Blackstone Crystal Holdings Capital
Partners (Cayman) IV Ltd., reorganized as a Delaware corporation and
changed its name to Celanese Corporation. Additionally, BCP Crystal
Holdings Ltd. 2, a subsidiary of Celanese Corporation, was reorganized
as a Delaware limited liability company and changed its name to
Celanese Holdings LLC.

Basis of Presentation

The
financial position, results of operations and cash flows and related
disclosures for periods prior to April  1,  2004 (a
convenience date for the April  6,  2004 acquisition date),
the effective date of the acquisition of Celanese AG (the
‘‘Effective Date’’), are presented as the
results of the Predecessor. The financial position, results of
operations and cash flows subsequent to the Effective Date, are
presented as those of the Successor.

The consolidated financial
statements of the Successor as of and for the year ended
December  31,  2005 and as of and for the nine months ended
December  31,  2004 reflect the acquisition of CAG under
the purchase method of accounting in accordance with Financial
Accounting Standards Board (‘‘FASB’’)
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(‘‘SFAS’’) No. 141,

Business
Combinations

.

The results of the Successor are not comparable
to the results of the Predecessor due to the difference in the basis of
presentation of purchase accounting as compared to historical cost.
Furthermore, the Successor and the Predecessor have different
accounting policies with respect to certain matters (See Note 4). The
consolidated financial statements for the three months ended
March  31,  2004 and the year ended December
31,  2003 have been prepared in accordance with CAG’s
accounting policies (See Note 4) and the requirements for interim
financial reporting in accordance with Accounting Principles Board
(‘‘APB’’) No. 28,

Interim Financial
Reporting

.

Change in Ownership

Pursuant to a
voluntary tender offer commenced in February  2004, Celanese
Europe Holding GmbH & Co. KG, formerly known as BCP Crystal
Acquisition GmbH & Co. KG (the
‘‘Purchaser’’), an indirect wholly owned
subsidiary of Celanese Corporation, on April  6,  2004
acquired approximately 84% of the ordinary shares of Celanese
AG, excluding treasury shares, (the ‘‘CAG
Shares’’) for a purchase price of $1,693  million,
including direct acquisition costs of $69  million (the
‘‘Acquisition’’). During the year ended
December  31,  2005 and the nine months ended
December  31,  2004, the Purchaser acquired additional CAG
shares for $473  million and $33  million, respectively,
including direct acquisition costs of $4 million and less than $1
million, respectively. The additional CAG shares were acquired pursuant
to either i) the mandatory offer (See Note 2) which commenced in
September  2004 and has been extended such that it will expire on
April  1,  2006, unless further extended or ii) the
acquisition of additional CAG shares as described
below.

F-8

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

Domination Agreement

On
October  1,  2004, a domination and profit and loss
transfer agreement (the ‘‘Domination
Agreement’’) between CAG and the Purchaser became
operative. When the Domination Agreement became operative, the
Purchaser became obligated to offer to acquire all outstanding CAG
shares from the minority shareholders of CAG in return for payment of
fair cash compensation. The amount of this fair cash compensation was
determined to be €41.92 per share, plus interest, in
accordance with applicable German law. The Purchaser may elect, or be
required, to pay a purchase price in excess of €41.92 to
acquire the remaining outstanding CAG shares. Any minority shareholder
who elects not to sell its shares to the Purchaser will be entitled to
remain a shareholder of CAG and to receive from the Purchaser a gross
guaranteed fixed annual payment on its shares of €3.27 per
CAG share less certain corporate taxes in lieu of any future dividend.
Taking into account the circumstances and the tax rates at the time of
entering into the Domination Agreement, the net guaranteed fixed annual
payment is €2.89 per share for a full fiscal year. The net
guaranteed fixed annual payment may, depending on applicable corporate
tax rates, in the future be higher, lower or the same as
€2.89 per share. For the year ended December
31,  2005 and the nine months ended December  31,
2004, a charge of €19  million ($22 million) and
€6 million ($8  million), respectively, was recorded
in Other income (expense), net for the anticipated guaranteed payment.
As a result of the acquisition of CAG shares during 2005, the remaining
liability at December  31,  2005 to be paid in 2006 for
CAG's 2005 fiscal year is €3  million ($4
million).

Beginning October  1,  2004, under the
terms of the Domination Agreement, the Purchaser, as the dominating
entity, among other things, is required to compensate CAG for any
statutory annual loss incurred by CAG, the dominated entity, on a
non-consolidated basis, at the end of the fiscal year when the loss was
incurred. This obligation to compensate CAG for annual losses will
apply during the entire term of the Domination Agreement.

There
is no assurance that the Domination Agreement will remain operative in
its current form. If the Domination Agreement ceases to be operative,
the Company will not be able to directly give instructions to the CAG
board of management. The Domination Agreement cannot be terminated by
the Purchaser in the ordinary course until September  30,
2009. However, irrespective of whether a domination agreement is in
place between the Company and CAG, under German law CAG is effectively
controlled by the Company because of the Company's more than
95% ownership of the outstanding CAG shares. The Company does
have the ability, through a variety of means, to utilize its
controlling rights to, among other things, (1) cause a domination
agreement to become operative; (2) use its ability, through its more
than 95% voting power at any shareholders' meetings of
CAG, to elect the shareholder representatives on the supervisory board
and to thereby effectively control the appointment and removal of the
members of the CAG board of management; and (3) effect all decisions
that a majority shareholder who owns more than 95% is permitted
to make under German law. The controlling rights of the Company
constitute a controlling financial interest for accounting purposes and
result in the Company being required to consolidate CAG as of the date
of acquisition. In addition as long as the Domination Agreement remains
effective, the Company is entitled to give instructions directly to the
management board of CAG, including, but not limited to, instructions
that are disadvantageous to CAG, as long as such disadvantageous
instructions benefit the Company or the companies affiliated with
either the Company or CAG.

The Domination Agreement is subject
to legal challenges instituted by dissenting shareholders. During
August  2004, nine actions were brought by minority shareholders
against CAG in the Frankfurt District Court (

Landgericht

), all
of which were consolidated in September  2004. Several minority
shareholders joined these proceedings via a third party intervention in
support of the plaintiffs. The Company joined the proceedings via a
third party intervention in support of CAG. Among other things, these
actions request the court to set aside shareholder resolutions passed
at the extraordinary general meeting held on July  30 and 31,
2004 based on allegations that include the alleged violation of
procedural requirements and information rights of the
shareholders.

Twenty-seven minority shareholders filed lawsuits
in May and June of 2005 in the Frankfurt District Court
(

Landgericht

) contesting the shareholder resolutions passed at
the annual general meeting held

F-9

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

May  19-20,  2005, which
confirmed the resolutions passed at the July  30-31,  2004
extraordinary general meeting approving the Domination Agreement and a
change in CAG’s fiscal year. In conjunction with the acquisition
of 5.9  million ordinary shares of CAG from two shareholders in
August  2005, two of those lawsuits were withdrawn.

If
legal challenges of the Domination Agreement by dissenting shareholders
of CAG are successful, some or all actions taken under the Domination
Agreement, including the transfer of Celanese Americas Corporation
(‘‘CAC’’), an indirect subsidiary of CAG,
(see

Organizational Restructuring

below for discussion regarding
CAC's transfer) may be required to be reversed and the Company
may be required to compensate CAG for damages caused by such actions,
which could have a material impact on the Company’s financial
position, results of operations and cash flows.

Acquisition of
Additional CAG Shares

On August  24,  2005, the
Company acquired 5.9  million, or approximately 12%, of
the outstanding CAG shares from two shareholders for
€302  million ($369  million). The Company
also paid to such shareholders €12  million
($15  million) in consideration for the settlement of certain
claims and for such shareholders agreeing to, among other things, (1)
accept the shareholders' resolutions passed at the extraordinary
general meeting of CAG held on July  30 and 31, 2004 and the
annual general meeting of CAG held on May  19 and 20, 2005, (2)
acknowledge the legal effectiveness of the domination and profit and
loss transfer agreement, (3) irrevocably withdraw and abandon all
actions, applications and appeals each brought or joined in legal
proceedings related to, among other things, challenging the
effectiveness of the domination and profit and loss transfer agreement
and amount of fair cash compensation offered by the Purchaser in the
mandatory offer required by Section 305(1) of the German Stock
Corporation Act, (4) refrain from acquiring any CAG shares or any other
investment in CAG, and (5) refrain from taking any future legal action
with respect to shareholder resolutions or corporate actions of CAG.
The Company paid the aggregate consideration of
€314  million ($384  million) for the
additional CAG shares using available cash.

The Company also
made a limited offer to purchase from all other shareholders any
remaining outstanding CAG shares for €51 per share (plus
interest on €41.92 per share) against waiver of the
shareholders’ rights to participate in an increase of the offer
consideration as a result of the pending award proceedings. In
addition, all shareholders who tendered their shares pursuant to the
September  2004 mandatory offer of €41.92 per share,
were entitled to claim the difference between the increased offer and
the mandatory offer. The limited offer period ran from August
30,  2005 through September  29,  2005, inclusive.
For shareholders who did not accept the limited offer on or prior to
the September  29,  2005 expiration date, the terms of the
original mandatory offer continue to apply. The mandatory offer will
remain open for two months following final resolution of the award
proceedings (

Spruchverfahren)

by the German courts.

As of
December  31,  2005 and 2004, the Company's ownership
interest in CAG was approximately 98% and 84%,
respectively. On November  3,  2005, the Company’s
Board of Directors approved commencement of the process for effecting a
squeeze-out of the remaining shareholders, as defined below.

Squeeze-Out

Because the Company owns shares representing
more than 95% of the registered ordinary share capital
(excluding treasury shares) of CAG, the Company has decided to exercise
its right, as permitted under German law, to the transfer of the shares
owned by the outstanding minority shareholders of CAG in exchange for
fair cash compensation (the
‘‘Squeeze-Out’’). The Squeeze-Out will
require the approval by the affirmative vote of the majority of the
votes cast at CAG’s annual general meeting in May  2006
and will become effective upon its registration in the commercial
register. If the Company is successful in effecting the Squeeze-Out,
the Company must pay the then remaining minority shareholders of CAG
fair

F-10

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

cash compensation, in exchange for their
shares. The amount of the fair cash compensation per share may be equal
to, higher or lower than the tender offer price or the fair cash
compensation offered pursuant to the Domination Agreement. The amount
to be paid to the minority shareholders as fair cash compensation in
exchange for their CAG shares in connection with the Squeeze-Out will
be determined on the basis of the fair value of CAG, determined by the
Company in accordance with applicable German legal requirements, as of
the date of the applicable resolution of CAG's
shareholders’ meeting, and examined by a duly qualified auditor
chosen and appointed by the Frankfurt District Court
(

Landgericht

).

The Squeeze-Out would require approval by
the shareholders of CAG. While it is expected that the Company will
have the requisite majority in such meeting to assure shareholder
approval of such measures, minority shareholders, irrespective of the
size of their shareholding, may, within one month from the date of any
such shareholder resolution, file an action with the court to have such
resolution set aside. While such action would only be successful if the
resolution were passed in violation of applicable laws and cannot be
based on the unfairness of the amount to be paid to the minority
shareholders, a shareholder action may substantially delay the
implementation of the challenged shareholder resolution pending final
resolution of the action. If such action proved to be successful, the
action could prevent the implementation of the Squeeze-Out.
Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Squeeze-Out can be
implemented timely or at all.

Organizational
Restructuring

In October  2004, Celanese Corporation
and certain of its subsidiaries completed an organizational
restructuring (the ‘‘Organizational
Restructuring’’) pursuant to which the Purchaser
effected, by giving a corresponding instruction under the Domination
Agreement, the transfer of all of the shares of CAC from Celanese
Holding GmbH, a wholly owned subsidiary of CAG, to BCP Caylux Holdings
Luxembourg S.C.A (‘‘BCP Caylux’’), which
resulted in BCP Caylux owning 100% of the equity of CAC and,
indirectly, all of its assets, including subsidiary stock. This
transfer was affected by CAG selling all outstanding shares in CAC for
a €291  million note. This note eliminates in
consolidation.

Following the transfer of CAC to BCP Caylux, (1)
Celanese Holdings contributed substantially all of its assets and
liabilities (including all outstanding capital stock of BCP Caylux) to
BCP Crystal US Holdings Corp. (‘‘BCP
Crystal’’) in exchange for all outstanding capital stock
of BCP Crystal and (2) BCP Crystal assumed certain obligations of BCP
Caylux, including all rights and obligations of BCP Caylux under the
senior credit facilities, the floating rate term loan and the senior
subordinated notes. BCP Crystal, at its discretion, may subsequently
cause the liquidation of BCP Caylux.

As a result of these
transactions, BCP Crystal holds 100% of CAC's equity and,
indirectly, all equity owned by CAC in its subsidiaries. In addition,
BCP Crystal holds, indirectly, all of the CAG shares held by the
Purchaser and all of the wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company that
guarantee BCP Caylux's obligations under the senior credit
facilities to guarantee the senior subordinated notes issued on
June  8,  2004 and July  1,  2004 (See Note 16)
on an unsecured senior subordinated
basis.

2.

Acquisition of CAG

Original
Acquisition of CAG

As described further in Note 1, in
April  2004, the Purchaser, a consolidated subsidiary of the
Company, acquired financial control of CAG. The Company has allocated
the purchase price on the basis of its current estimate of the fair
value of the underlying assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The
assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the Effective Date were
reflected at fair value for the approximate 84% portion acquired
and at historical basis for the remaining minority interest of
approximately 16%. Upon completion of the Organizational
Restructuring, the assets acquired and liabilities assumed of
CAC

F-11

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

are reflected at fair value for the
100% portion acquired. The excess of the purchase price over the
amounts allocated to specific assets and liabilities is included in
goodwill. The purchase price allocation was as follows:

Cash
and cash equivalents, receivables, other current assets, accounts
payable and accrued liabilities and other current liabilities were
stated at their historical carrying values, which approximates fair
value, given the short term nature of these assets and
liabilities.

The estimated fair value of inventory, as of the
Effective Date, was calculated based on management's
computations. The consolidated statement of operations for the nine
months ended December  31,  2004 includes $53
million in cost of sales representing the capitalized manufacturing
profit in inventory on hand as of the Effective Date. The capitalized
manufacturing profit was recorded in purchase accounting and the
inventory was subsequently sold during the nine months ended
December  31,  2004.

Deferred income taxes were
provided in the consolidated balance sheet based on the Company's
estimate of the tax versus book basis of the assets acquired and
liabilities assumed. Valuation allowances were established against
those assets for which realization is not likely, primarily in the U.S.
(See Note 21).

The Company's estimate of pension and other
postretirement benefit obligations were reflected in the allocation of
purchase price at the projected benefit obligation less plan assets at
fair market value.

The Company's estimates of the fair
values of property, plant and equipment, customer and vendor contracts,
other intangible assets, debt, cost and equity method investments and
other assets and liabilities were reflected in the Company's
financial statements as of the Effective Date. The estimated remaining
useful lives of the CAG property, plant and equipment and intangible
assets acquired are as follows:

F-12

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

In connection with
the Acquisition, at the acquisition date, the Company began
implementing plans to exit or restructure certain activities. The
Company has recorded liabilities of $60 million, primarily for employee
severance and related costs in connection with the plan, as well as
approving the continuation of all existing Predecessor restructuring
and exit plans.

The primary reasons for the Acquisition and the
primary factors that contributed to a purchase price that resulted in
recognition of goodwill include:

•

leading
market position as a global producer of acetic acid and the
world's largest producer of vinyl acetate
monomer.

•

competitive cost structures,
which are based on economies of scale, vertical integration, technical
know-how and the use of advanced
technologies.

•

global reach, with major
operations in North America, Europe and Asia and its extensive network
of ventures, is a competitive advantage in anticipating and meeting the
needs of its global and local customers in well-established and growing
markets, while its geographic diversity mitigates the potential impact
of volatility in any individual country or
region.

•

broad range of products into a
variety of different end-use markets, which helps to mitigate the
potential impact of volatility in any individual end-use
market.

Other considerations affecting the value of goodwill
included:

•

the potential to reduce
production and raw material costs further through advanced process
control projects that will help to generate significant savings in
energy and raw materials while increasing yields in production
units.

•

the potential to increase the
Company’s cash flow further through increasing productivity,
managing trade working capital, receiving cash dividends from its
ventures and continuing to pursue cost reduction
efforts.

•

the ability of the assembled
workforce to continue to deliver value-added solutions and develop new
products and industry leading production technologies that solve
customer problems.

•

the potential to
optimize the value of the Company’s portfolio through
divestitures, acquisitions and strategic investments that enable the
Company to extend its global market leadership position and focus on
businesses in which it can achieve market, cost and technology
leadership over the long term.

•

the
application of purchase accounting, particularly for items such as
pension and other postretirement benefits and restructuring activities
for which significant reserve balances were
recorded.

Acquisition of Additional CAG Shares

Upon the
acquisition of the additional CAG shares during the second half of 2005
(See Note 1), the assets and liabilities of CAG were adjusted in the
consolidated financial statements to fair value for the additional
14% acquired. The primary amounts allocated to assets and
liabilities related to the additional ownership percentage acquired
resulted in an increase in inventory of $8  million, which was
subsequently charged to cost of goods sold, an increase in property,
plant and equipment of $15  million, an increase in

F-13

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

intangible assets of $65  million and a
decrease in goodwill of $54  million, attributable to the
carrying value of the minority interest acquired being greater than the
price paid.

Pro Forma Information

The following pro
forma information for the years ended December  31,  2005,
2004 and 2003 was prepared as if the Acquisition and the subsequent
acquisition of additional CAG shares during 2005 had occurred as of the
beginning of such
period:

Pro
forma adjustments include adjustments for (1) purchase accounting,
including (i) the application of purchase accounting to pension and
other postretirement obligations (ii) the application of purchase
accounting to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, (2)
adjustments for items directly related to the transaction, including
(i) the impact of the additional pension contribution, (ii) the Advisor
monitoring fee (See Note 28), (iii) fees incurred by the Company
related to the Acquisition, and (iv) adjustments to interest expense to
reflect the Company's capital structure as a result of the
Acquisition including the reversal of $89  million of accelerated
amortization expense of deferred financing costs recorded in the year
ended December  31,  2004, and (3) corresponding
adjustments to income tax expense.

The pro forma information is
not necessarily indicative of the results that would have occurred had
the Acquisition occurred as of the beginning of the periods presented,
nor is it necessarily indicative of future
results.

3.

Initial Public Offering and Concurrent
Financings

In January  2005, the Company completed an
initial public offering of 50,000,000 shares of Series A common stock
and received net proceeds of $752  million after deducting
underwriters’ discounts and offering expenses of $48
million. Concurrently, the Company received net proceeds of $233
million from the offering of its convertible perpetual preferred stock.
A portion of the proceeds of the share offerings were used to redeem
$188  million of senior discount notes and $521  million of
senior subordinated notes, excluding early redemption premiums of
$19  million and $51  million,
respectively.

Subsequent to the closing of the initial public
offering, the Company borrowed an additional $1,135  million
under the amended and restated senior credit facilities, a portion of
which was used to repay a $350  million floating rate term loan,
which excludes a $4  million early redemption premium, and
$200  million of which was used as the primary financing for the
February  2005 acquisition of Vinamul (See Notes 6 and 16).
Additionally, the amended and restated senior credit facilities
included a $242  million delayed draw term loan, which expired
unutilized in July  2005.

On March  9,  2005,
the Company issued a 7,500,000 Series A common stock dividend to the
Original Shareholders (See Note 19) of its Series B common
stock.

On April  7,  2005, the Company used the
remaining proceeds of the initial public offering and concurrent
financings to pay a special cash dividend declared on March
8,  2005 to holders of the Company’s Series B common stock
of $804  million. Upon payment of the $804  million
dividend, all of the outstanding shares of Series B common stock
converted automatically to shares of Series A common stock.

4.

Summary of Accounting
Policies

•

Consolidation
principles

F-14

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

The consolidated financial statements have
been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States (‘‘U.S.
GAAP’’) for all periods presented and include the
accounts of the Company and its majority owned subsidiaries over which
the Company exercises control as well as variable interest entities
where the Company is deemed the primary beneficiary (See Note 5). All
significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated
in consolidation.

•

Business
combinations

Upon closing an acquisition, the Company
estimates the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired and
consolidate the acquisition as soon as practicable. Given the time it
takes to obtain pertinent information to finalize the acquired
company’s balance sheet (frequently with implications for the
purchase price of the acquisition), then to adjust the acquired
company’s accounting policies, procedures, books and records to
the Company’s standards, it is often several quarters before the
Company is able to finalize those initial fair value estimates.
Accordingly, it is not uncommon for the initial estimates to be
subsequently revised and finalized within twelve months of an
acquisition.

•

Estimates and
assumptions

The preparation of consolidated financial
statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets
and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the
date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts
of revenues, expenses and allocated charges during the reporting
period. The more significant estimates pertain to purchase price
allocations, impairments of intangible assets and other long-lived
assets, restructuring costs and other special (charges) gains, income
taxes, pension and other postretirement benefits, asset retirement
obligations, environmental liabilities, and loss contingencies. Actual
results could differ from those
estimates.

•

Cash and cash
equivalents

All highly liquid investments with original
maturities of three months or less are considered cash
equivalents.

•

Inventories

Inventories
are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined using the
first-in, first-out or FIFO method. Cost includes raw materials, direct
labor and manufacturing overhead. Stores and supplies are valued at
cost or market, whichever is lower. Cost is generally determined by the
average cost method.

Upon Acquisition, the Predecessor changed
its inventory valuation method of accounting for its U.S. subsidiaries
from the last-in, first-out or LIFO method to the first-in, first-out
method or FIFO method to be consistent with the Successor's
accounting policy. This change will more closely represent the physical
flow of goods resulting in ending inventory which will better represent
the current cost of the inventory and the costs in income will more
closely match the flow of goods. The financial statements of the
Predecessor have been adjusted for all periods presented to reflect
this change. The impact of this change on the Predecessor's
reported net earnings and earnings per share for the three months ended
March  31,  2004 and the year ended December
31,  2003 is as follows:

F-15

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

(1)

Per-share
data are based on weighted average shares outstanding in each
period.

•

Investments in
marketable securities

The Company has classified its
investments in debt and equity securities as
‘‘available-for-sale’’ and has reported
those investments at their fair or market values in the balance sheet
as Other assets. Unrealized gains or losses, net of the related tax
effect on available-for-sale securities, are excluded from earnings and
are reported as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss) until realized. The cost of securities sold is determined by
using the specific identification method.

A decline in the market
value of any available-for-sale security below cost that is deemed to
be other than temporary results in a reduction in the carrying amount
to fair value. The impairment is charged to earnings and a new cost
basis for the security is established. To determine whether an
impairment is other-than-temporary, the Company considers whether it
has the ability and intent to hold the investment until a market price
recovery and evidence indicating the cost of the investment is
recoverable outweighs evidence to the contrary. Evidence considered in
this assessment includes the reasons for the impairment, the severity
and duration of the impairment, changes in value subsequent to
year-end, and forecasted performance of the
investee.

•

Investments and equity in
net earnings of affiliates

Accounting Principles Board
(‘‘APB’’) Opinion No. 18,

The Equity
Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock

, stipulates
that the equity method should be used to account for investments
whereby an investor has ‘‘the ability to exercise
significant influence over operating and financial policies of an
investee’’, but does not exercise control. APB Opinion
No. 18 generally considers an investor to have the ability to exercise
significant influence when it owns 20% or more of the voting
stock of an investee. FASB Interpretation No. 35,

Criteria for
Applying the Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common
Stock

, which was issued to clarify the criteria for applying the
equity method of accounting to 50% or less owned companies,
lists circumstances under which, despite 20% ownership, an
investor may not be able to exercise significant influence. Certain
investments where the Company owns greater than a 20% ownership
and can not exercise significant influence or control are accounted for
under the cost method (See Note 10).

In accordance with SFAS No.
142, the excess of cost over underlying equity in net assets acquired
is no longer amortized.

F-16

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

The Company assesses the recoverability
of the carrying value of its investments whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate a loss in value that is other than a temporary
decline. See ‘‘Impairment of property, plant and
equipment’’ for explanation of the methodology
utilized.

•

Property, plant and
equipment

Property, plant and equipment are capitalized at
cost. Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis, generally
over the following estimated useful lives of the
assets.

Assets acquired in business combinations are
recorded at their fair values and depreciated over the assets’
remaining useful lives or the Company’s policy lives, whichever
is shorter. Effective January  1,  2005, the Company
revised the estimated useful lives of certain machinery and equipment
purchased subsequent to that date. The asset depreciation lives of
machinery and equipment that were previously ten years were increased
to twenty years and the useful lives of buildings and building
improvements increased from ten to thirty years.

Leasehold
improvements are amortized over ten years or the remaining life of the
respective lease considering renewals that are reasonably assured,
whichever is shorter.

Repair and maintenance costs, including
costs for planned maintenance turnarounds, that do not extend the
useful life of the asset are charged against earnings as incurred.
Major replacements, renewals and significant improvements are
capitalized.

Interest costs incurred during the construction
period of assets are applied to the average value of constructed assets
using the estimated weighted average interest rate incurred on
borrowings outstanding during the construction period. The interest
capitalized is amortized over the life of the
asset.

Impairment of property, plant and
equipment

– the Company assesses the
recoverability of the carrying value of its property, plant and
equipment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying amount of the asset may not be fully recoverable.
Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a
comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to the future net
undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If
assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized
is measured by the amount by which the carrying value of the assets
exceeds the fair value of the assets. The estimate of fair value may be
determined as the amount at which the asset could be bought or sold in
a current transaction between willing parties. If this information is
not available, fair value is determined based on the best information
available in the circumstances. This frequently involves the use of a
valuation technique including the present value of expected future cash
flows, discounted at a rate commensurate with the risk involved, or
other acceptable valuation techniques. Impairment of property, plant
and equipment to be disposed of is determined in a similar manner,
except that fair value is reduced by the costs to dispose of the assets
(See Note 11).

•

Goodwill and other
intangible assets

Patents, customer related intangible
assets and other intangibles with finite lives are amortized on a
straight-line basis over their estimated economic lives. The weighted
average amortization period is 8.5 years. The excess of the purchase
price over fair value of net identifiable assets and liabilities of an
acquired business (‘‘goodwill’’) and other
intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized, but
rather tested for impairment, at least annually. The Company tests for
impairment during the third quarter of its fiscal year using June 30
balances.

Impairment of goodwill and other intangible
assets

– the Company assesses the
recoverability of the carrying value of its goodwill and other
intangible assets with indefinite useful lives annually or whenever
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of
the asset may not be fully

F-17

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

recoverable. Recoverability of goodwill is
measured at the reporting unit level based on a two-step approach.
First, the carrying amount of the reporting unit is compared to the
fair value as estimated by the future net discounted cash flows
expected to be generated by the reporting unit. To the extent that the
carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the
reporting unit, a second step is performed, wherein the reporting
unit's assets and liabilities are fair valued. To the extent that
the reporting unit's carrying value of goodwill exceeds its
implied fair value of goodwill, impairment exists and must be
recognized. The implied fair value of goodwill is calculated as the
fair value of the reporting unit in excess of the fair value of all
non-goodwill assets and liabilities allocated to the reporting unit.
The estimate of fair value may be determined as the amount at which the
asset could be bought or sold in a current transaction between willing
parties. If this information is not available, fair value is determined
based on the best information available in the circumstances. This
frequently involves the use of a valuation technique including the
present value of expected future cash flows, discounted at a rate
commensurate with the risk involved, or other acceptable valuation
techniques.

Recoverability of other intangible assets with
indefinite useful lives is measured by a comparison of the carrying
amount of the intangible assets to the fair value of the respective
intangible assets. Any excess of the carrying value of the intangible
assets over the fair value of the intangible assets is recognized as an
impairment loss. The estimate of fair value is determined similar to
that for goodwill outlined above.

The Company assesses the
recoverability of intangible assets with finite lives in the same
manner as for property, plant and equipment. See
‘‘Impairment of property, plant and
equipment’’.

•

Financial
instruments

The Company addresses certain financial
exposures through a controlled program of risk management that includes
the use of derivative financial instruments (See Note 24). As a matter
of principle, the Company does not use derivative financial instruments
for trading purposes. The Company has been party to interest rate swaps
as well as foreign currency forward contracts in the management of its
interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate exposures. The Company
generally utilizes interest rate derivative contracts in order to fix
or limit the interest paid on existing variable rate debt. The Company
utilizes foreign currency derivative financial instruments to eliminate
or reduce the exposure of its foreign currency denominated receivables
and payables, which includes the Company's exposure on its dollar
denominated intercompany net receivables and payables held by euro
denominated entities. Additionally, the Company has utilized derivative
instruments to reduce the exposure of its commodity prices and stock
compensation expense.

The Company also uses derivative and
non-derivative financial instruments that may give rise to foreign
currency transaction gains or losses, to hedge the foreign currency
exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation. The effective
portion of the gain or loss on the derivative and the foreign currency
gain or loss on the non-derivative financial instrument is recorded as
a currency translation adjustment in Accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss).

Differences between amounts paid or received on
interest rate swap agreements are recognized as adjustments to interest
expense over the life of each swap, thereby adjusting the effective
interest rate on the hedged obligation. Gains and losses on instruments
not meeting the criteria for cash flow hedge accounting treatment, or
that cease to meet hedge accounting criteria, are included as income or
expense.

If a swap is terminated prior to its maturity, the gain
or loss is recorded to Other income (expense), net and recognized over
the remaining original life of the swap if the item hedged remains
outstanding, or immediately, if the item hedged does not remain
outstanding. If the swap is not terminated prior to maturity, but the
underlying hedged item is no longer outstanding, the interest rate swap
is marked to market and any unrealized gain or loss is recognized
immediately.

Gains and losses on derivative instruments as well
as the offsetting losses and gains on the hedged items are reported in
earnings in the same accounting period. Gains and losses relating to
the ineffective portion of hedges are recorded in Other income
(expense), net. Foreign exchange contracts designated as

F-18

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

hedges for anticipated exposures are
accounted for as cash flow hedges. The effective portion of unrealized
gains and losses associated with the contracts are deferred as a
component of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until the
underlying hedged transactions affect earnings. Derivative instruments
that are not designated as hedges are marked-to-market at the end of
each accounting period with the results included in earnings.

The
Company's risk management policy for the majority of its natural
gas and butane requirements allows entering into supply agreements and
forward purchase or cash-settled swap contracts. As of December
31,  2005 and 2004, there were no derivative contracts
outstanding related to raw materials. In 2003, there were forward
contracts covering approximately 35% of the Predecessor’s
Chemical Products segment North American requirements. Management
regularly assesses its practice of purchasing a portion of its
commodity requirements forward and the utilization of a variety of
other raw material hedging instruments, in addition to forward purchase
contracts, in accordance with changes in market conditions. The fixed
price natural gas forward contracts and any premium associated with the
purchase of a price cap are principally settled through actual delivery
of the physical commodity. The maturities of the cash-settled swap or
cap contracts correlate to the actual purchases of the commodity and
have the effect of securing or limiting predetermined prices for the
underlying commodity. Although these contracts were structured to limit
exposure to increases in commodity prices, certain swaps may also limit
the potential benefit the Company might have otherwise received from
decreases in commodity prices. These cash-settled swap contracts were
accounted for as cash flow hedges. Realized gains and losses on these
contracts are included in the cost of the commodity upon settlement of
the contract. The effective portion of unrealized gains and losses
associated with the cash-settled swap contracts are deferred as a
component of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until the
underlying hedged transactions affect earnings.

The Predecessor
selectively used call options to offset some of the exposure to
variability in expected future cash flows attributable to changes in
its stock price related to its stock appreciation rights plans. The
options are designated as cash flow hedging instruments. The
Predecessor excluded the time value component from the assessment of
hedge effectiveness. The change in the call option's time value
was reported each period in interest expense. The intrinsic value of
the option contracts was deferred as a component of Accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss) until the compensation expense associated
with the underlying hedged transactions affected
earnings.

Financial instruments which could potentially subject
the Company to concentrations of credit risk are primarily receivables
concentrated in various geographic locations and cash equivalents. The
Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers'
financial condition. Generally, collateral is not required from
customers. Allowances are provided for specific risks inherent in
receivables.

•

Deferred financing
costs

The Company capitalizes direct costs incurred to
obtain debt financings and amortizes these costs using the
straight-line method over the terms of the related debt. Upon the
extinguishment of the related debt, any unamortized capitalized debt
financing costs are immediately expensed. For the year ended
December  31,  2005 and the nine months ended
December  31,  2004, the Successor recorded amortization of
deferred financing costs, which is classified in Interest expense, of
$41  million and $98  million, respectively, of which
$28  million and $89  million, respectively, related to
accelerated amortization of deferred financing costs. As of
December  31,  2005 the Company has $73  million of
net deferred financing costs included within long term other assets. As
of December  31,  2004, the Company had $105  million
of net deferred financing costs included within long term other
assets.

•

Environmental
liabilities

The Company manufactures and sells a diverse
line of chemical products throughout the world. Accordingly, the
Company’s operations are subject to various hazards incidental
to the production of industrial chemicals including the use, handling,
processing, storage and transportation of hazardous

F-19

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

materials. The Company recognizes losses and
accrues liabilities relating to environmental matters if available
information indicates that it is probable that a liability has been
incurred and the amount of loss is reasonably estimated. All other fees
are expensed as incurred. If the event of loss is neither probable nor
reasonably estimable, but is reasonably possible, the Company provides
appropriate disclosure in the notes to the consolidated financial
statements if the contingency is considered material. The Company
estimates environmental liabilities on a case-by-case basis using the
most current status of available facts, existing technology, presently
enacted laws and regulations and prior experience in remediation of
contaminated sites. Environmental liabilities for which the remediation
period is fixed and associated costs are readily determinable are
recorded at their net present value. Recoveries of environmental costs
from other parties are recorded as assets when their receipt is deemed
probable.

An environmental reserve related to cleanup of a
contaminated site might include, for example, a provision for one or
more of the following types of costs: site investigation and testing
costs, cleanup costs, costs related to soil and water contamination
resulting from tank ruptures and post-remediation monitoring costs.
These reserves do not take into account any claims or recoveries from
insurance. There are no pending insurance claims for any environmental
liability that are expected to be material. The measurement of
environmental liabilities is based on a range of management’s
periodic estimate of what it will cost to perform each of the elements
of the remediation effort. The Company uses its best estimate within
the range to establish its environmental reserves. The Company utilizes
third parties to assist in the management and development of cost
estimates for its sites. Changes to environmental regulations or other
factors affecting environmental liabilities are reflected in the
consolidated financial statements in the period in which they occur.
See Note 18 to the consolidated financial
statements.

•

Legal
Fees

The Company accrues for legal fees related to
litigation matters when the costs associated with defending these
matters can be reasonably estimated and are probable of occurring. All
other legal fees are expensed as
incurred.

•

Revenue
recognition

The Company recognizes revenue when title and
risk of loss have been transferred to the customer, generally at the
time of shipment of products, and provided that four basic criterion
are met: (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (2) delivery
has occurred or services have been rendered; (3) the fee is fixed or
determinable; and (4) collectibility is reasonably assured. Should
changes in conditions cause management to determine revenue recognition
criteria are not met for certain transactions, revenue recognition
would be delayed until such time that the transactions become
realizable and fully earned. Payments received in advance of revenue
recognition are recorded as deferred
revenue.

•

Stock-based
compensation

As permitted by SFAS No. 123,

Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation

(‘‘SFAS No.
123’’), the Successor accounts for employee stock-based
compensation in accordance with APB Opinion No. 25,

Accounting for
Stock Issued to Employees

(‘‘APB No.
25’’), using an intrinsic value approach to measure
compensation expense, if any.

For the three months ended
March  31,  2004, and the year ended December
31,  2003, the Predecessor accounted for stock options and
similar equity instruments under the fair value method, which requires
compensation cost to be measured at the grant date based on the value
of the award. The fair value of stock options is determined using the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model that takes into account the stock
price at the grant date, the exercise price, the expected life of the
option, the volatility and the expected dividends of the underlying
stock, and the risk-free interest rate over the expected life of the
option. Compensation expense based on the fair value of stock options
is recorded over the vesting period of the options and has been
recognized in the Predecessor's consolidated financial
statements. The CAG stock options did not contain changes in control
provisions, which would have resulted in accelerated vesting, as a
result of the Acquisition (See Note 22).

F-20

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

Compensation expense for stock
appreciation rights, either partially or fully vested, is recorded
based on the difference between the base unit price at the date of
grant and the quoted market price of CAG's common stock on the
Frankfurt Stock Exchange at the end of the period proportionally
recognized over the vesting period and adjusted for previously
recognized expense (See Note 22).

The following table illustrates
the effect on net earnings (loss) and related per share amounts if the
Successor had applied the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No.
123 to stock-based employee
compensation:

The
weighted-average fair value of the options granted during the year
ended December  31,  2005 was estimated to be $5.28 per
option, respectively, on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model with the following
assumptions:

See Note 5 for
additional information.

•

Research and
development

The costs of research and development are
charged as an expense in the period in which they are
incurred.

•

Insurance loss
reserves

The Company has two wholly owned insurance
companies (the ‘‘Captives’’) that are used
as a form of self insurance for property, liability and workers
compensation risks. One of the Captives also insures certain third
party risks. The liabilities recorded by the Captives relate to the
estimated risk of loss which is based on management estimates and
actuarial valuations, and unearned premiums , which represent the
portion of the third party premiums written applicable to the unexpired
terms of the policies in-force. Liabilities are recognized for known
claims when sufficient information has been developed to indicate
involvement of a specific policy and management can reasonably estimate
its liability. In addition, liabilities have been established to cover
additional exposure on both known and unasserted claims. Estimates of
the liabilities are reviewed and updated regularly. It is possible that
actual results could differ significantly from the recorded
liabilities. Premiums written are recognized as revenue based on the
terms of the policies. Capitalization of the Captives is determined by
regulatory guidelines. Total assets and liabilities for the Captives
after elimination of all intercompany activity was $386 million and
$238 million,

F-21

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

respectively, as of December 31, 2005 and
$496 million and $271 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2004.
Included in total liabilities are third party reserves of $31 million
and $63 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Third
party premiums were $23 million, $29 million, $6 million and $25
million for the year ended December 31, 2005, the nine months ended
December 31, 2004, the three months ended March 31, 2004 and the year
ended December 31, 2003, respectively.

•

Reinsurance receivables

The
Captives enter into reinsurance arrangements to reduce their risk of
loss. The reinsurance arrangements do not relieve the Captives from its
obligation to policyholders. Failure of the reinsurers to honor their
obligations could result in losses to the Captives. The Captives
evaluate the financial condition of its reinsurers and monitor
concentrations of credit risk to minimize their exposure to significant
losses from reinsurer insolvencies and to establish allowances for
amounts deemed
non-collectible.

•

Income
taxes

The provision for income taxes has been determined
using the asset and liability approach of accounting for income taxes.
Under this approach, deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects
of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and
liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for
income tax purposes and net operating loss and tax credit carry
forwards. The amount of deferred taxes on these temporary differences
is determined using the tax rates that are expected to apply to the
period when the asset is realized or the liability is settled, as
applicable, based on tax rates and laws in the respective tax
jurisdiction enacted as of the balance sheet date.

The Company
reviews its deferred tax assets for recoverability and establishes a
valuation allowance based on historical taxable income, projected
future taxable income, applicable tax strategies, and the expected
timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences. A valuation
allowance is provided when it is more likely than not that some portion
or all of the deferred tax assets will not be
realized.

•

Minority
interests

Minority interests in the equity and results of
operations of the entities consolidated by the Company are shown as a
separate line item in the consolidated financial statements. The
entities included in the consolidated financial statements that have
minority interests are as
follows:

The
Company has a 60% voting interest and the right to appoint a
majority of the board of management of Synthesegasanlage Ruhr GmbH,
which results in the Company controlling this entity and, accordingly,
the Predecessor and Successor are consolidating this entity in their
consolidated financial statements.

In December  2005, the
Company sold the majority of its interests in its cyclo-olefin
copolymer ("COC") business, which includes
Dacron GmbH, as well as its common share interest in Pemeas GmbH. As
such, these entities are no longer consolidated as of December
31,  2005. (See Note 6).

F-22

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

•

Earnings per
share

Basic earnings per share is based on the net earnings
divided by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding
during the period. Diluted earnings per shares is based on the net
earnings divided by the weighted average number of common shares
outstanding during the period adjusted to give effect to common stock
equivalents, if dilutive.

•

Accounting
for Sorbates Matters

On October  22,  1999, CAG
was demerged from Hoechst AG (‘‘Hoechst’’).
In accordance with the demerger agreement between Hoechst and CAG, CAG
was assigned the obligation related to the Sorbates matters. However,
Hoechst agreed to indemnify CAG for 80% of payments for such
obligations. Expenses related to this matter are recorded gross of any
such recoveries from Hoechst, and its legal successors, in the
consolidated statement of operations. Recoveries from Hoechst, and its
legal successors, which represent 80% of such expenses, are
recorded directly to Shareholders' equity (deficit), net of tax,
as a contribution of capital in the consolidated balance
sheet.

•

Accounting for purchasing
agent agreements

CPO Celanese Aktiengesell Schaft & Co.
Procurment Olefin KG, Frankfurt Am Main
(‘‘CPO’’), a subsidiary of the Company,
acts as a purchasing agent on behalf of the Company, as well as third
parties. CPO arranges sale and purchase agreements for raw materials on
a commission basis. Accordingly, the commissions earned on these third
party sales are classified as a reduction to Selling, general and
administrative expense. Commissions amounted to $9  million,
$6  million, $2  million and $8  million for the year
ended December  31,  2005, the nine months ended
December  31,  2004, the three months ended March
31,  2004 and the year ended December  31,  2003,
respectively. The raw material sales volume commissioned by CPO for
third parties amounted to $880  million, $512  million,
$149  million and $560  million for the year ended
December  31,  2005, the nine months ended December
31,  2004, the three months ended March  31,  2004
and the year ended December  31,  2003,
respectively.

•

Functional and
reporting currencies

For the Company's international
operations where the functional currency is other than the U.S. dollar,
assets and liabilities are translated using period-end exchange rates,
while the statement of operations amounts are translated using the
average exchange rates for the respective period. Differences arising
from the translation of assets and liabilities in comparison with the
translation of the previous periods or from initial recognition during
the period are included as a separate component of Accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss).

As a result of the Purchaser's
acquisition of voting control of CAG, the Predecessor financial
statements are reported in U.S. dollars to be consistent with
Successor's reporting requirements. For CAG reporting
requirements, the euro continues to be the reporting
currency.

•

Reclassifications

The
Company has reclassified certain prior period amounts to conform to
current year’s presentation. The reclassifications had no effect
on the consolidated statements of operations or Shareholders’
equity as previously reported.

•

Cash
flows from discontinued operations (revised)

The Company
has revised its presentation of cash flows related to discontinued
operations. The cash flows of continuing operations and discontinued
operations are presented together, with separate captions for the
operating, investing and financing activities of discontinued
operations. In prior periods, the Company presented the cash flows of
discontinued operations within certain captions of operating, investing
and financing cash flows together with those of continuing operations.
Accordingly, the category totals for operating, investing and financing
activities have not changed.

F-23

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

5.

Accounting
changes and recent accounting pronouncements

During 2004,
the Predecessor changed its inventory valuation method of accounting
for its U.S. subsidiaries from the LIFO method to the FIFO method to
conform with the Successor's accounting policy. The
Predecessor’s financial statements have been restated for all
periods presented to reflect this change (See Note 4).

In
January  2003, and subsequently revised in December  2003,
the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 46,

Consolidation of
Variable Interest Entities

and FIN No. 46 Revised (collectively
‘‘FIN No. 46’’). FIN No. 46 clarifies the
application of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51,
‘‘

Consolidation of Financial
Statements

’’ requiring the consolidation of certain
variable interest entities (‘‘VIEs’’) which
are defined as entities having equity that is not sufficient to permit
such entity to finance its activities without additional subordinate
financial support or whose equity holders lack certain characteristics
of a controlling financial interest. The company deemed to be the
primary beneficiary is required to consolidate the VIE. FIN No. 46
required VIEs that met the definition of a special purpose entity to be
consolidated by the primary beneficiary as of December
31,  2003. For pre-existing VIEs that did not meet the definition
of a special purpose entity, consolidation was not required until
March  31,  2004. At December 31, 2003, upon adoption of
FIN No. 46, the Predecessor did not identify any VIEs other than the
VIE disclosed below. As of December  31,  2005, the
Successor did not have any significant VIEs.

The Company had a
lease agreement for its COC plant with Dacron GmbH. This entity was
created primarily for the purpose of constructing and subsequently
leasing the COC plant to the Company. This arrangement qualified as a
VIE. Based upon the terms of the lease agreement and the residual value
guarantee the Company provided to the lessors, the Company was deemed
the primary beneficiary of the VIE. During the period the Company
adopted FIN No. 46, the consolidation of this entity did not have a
material impact on the Company's financial position, results of
operations and cash flows. In December  2005, the Company sold
the majority of its interest in COC.

On December  8,
2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act
of 2003 (the ‘‘Medicare Act’’) was signed
into law. The Medicare Act introduces a prescription drug benefit under
Medicare (‘‘Medicare Part D’’) as well as a
federal subsidy to sponsors of retiree health care benefit plans that
provide a benefit that is at least actuarially equivalent to Medicare
Part D. As of March  31,  2004, as permitted by FASB Staff
Position (‘‘FSP’’) 106-1,

Accounting and
Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug,
Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003

, the Company deferred
accounting for the effects of the Act in the measurement of its
Accumulated Postretirement Benefit Obligation
("APBO") and the effect to net periodic
postretirement benefit costs. Specific guidance with respect to
accounting for the effects of the Act was recently issued in FSP No.
106-2,

Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the
Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003,

and the Company has adopted the provisions of FSP No. 106-2 as of
the Effective Date. The adoption of FSP No. 106-2 did not have a
material impact on the Company’s financial position, results of
operations and cash flows.

In November  2004, the FASB
issued SFAS No. 151,

Inventory Costs, amendment to ARB No. 43
Chapter 4

, which clarifies the accounting for abnormal amounts of
idle facility expense, freight, handling costs and wasted material and
requires that such items be recognized as current-period charges
regardless of whether they meet the ‘‘so
abnormal’’ criterion outlined in ARB
No. 43. SFAS No. 151 also introduces the concept
of ‘‘normal capacity’’ and requires the
allocation of fixed production overheads to inventory based on the
normal capacity of the production facilities. Unallocated
overheads must be recognized as an expense in the period
incurred. SFAS No. 151 is effective for inventory costs
incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15,
2005. The Company is currently implementing SFAS No. 151
and does not believe that it will have a material impact on its
financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

In
December  2004, the FASB revised SFAS No. 123,

Accounting for
Stock Based Compensation

, which requires that the cost from all
share-based payment transactions be recognized in the financial
statements. SFAS No. 123 (R),

Share Based Payment

,
(‘‘SFAS No. 123 (R)’’) requires companies
to

F-24

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

measure all employee stock-based
compensation awards using a fair-value method and record such expense
in their consolidated financial statements. The adoption of SFAS
No. 123 (R) will require additional accounting related to the income
tax effects and additional disclosure regarding the cash flow effects
resulting from share-based payment arrangements. The Company is allowed
to select either of two alternative transition methods. Under the first
method, the Modified Prospective Application method, SFAS 123 (R)
applies to new awards and modified awards after the effective date, and
to any unvested awards as service is rendered on or after the effective
date. Under the second method, the Modified Retrospective Application
method, SFAS No. 123 (R) applies to either all prior years for which
SFAS No. 123 was effective or only to prior interim periods in
the year of adoption. The Company plans to adopt SFAS No. 123 (R) using
the Modified Prospective Application method. SFAS No. 123 (R) is
effective beginning in the first quarter of 2006, and SFAS 123
(R) will apply to all outstanding and unvested option awards at
adoption date. The Company has completed a preliminary evaluation of
the effect of adoption of SFAS 123 (R). The adoption of SFAS 123
(R) is expected to increase Selling, general and administrative
expenses by approximately $11  million in 2006 based upon options
outstanding as of December  31,  2005.

In
December  2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 153,

Exchanges of
Nonmonetary Assets, an amendment of APB Opinion No. 29, Accounting for
Nonmonetary Transactions

. The amendments made by SFAS No. 153 are
based on the principle that exchanges of nonmonetary assets should be
measured based on the fair value of the assets exchanged. Further, the
amendments eliminate the narrow exception for nonmonetary exchanges of
similar productive assets and replace it with a broader exception for
exchanges of nonmonetary assets that do not have commercial substance.
The statement is effective for nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in
fiscal periods beginning after June  15,  2005. Earlier
application is permitted for nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in
fiscal periods beginning after the date of issuance. The provisions of
this statement shall be applied prospectively. The Company is currently
evaluating the potential impact of this statement and does not believe
that it will have a material impact on its financial position, results
of operations or cash flows.

In March  2005, the FASB
issued Interpretation No. 47,

Accounting for Conditional Asset
Retirement Obligations—an interpretation of FASB Statement No.

(‘‘FIN No. 47’’). FIN No. 47
provides guidelines as to when a company is required to record a
conditional asset retirement obligation. In general, an entity is
required to recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional
asset retirement obligation if the fair value of the liability can be
reasonably estimated. The fair value of a liability for the conditional
asset retirement obligation should be recognized when
incurred—generally upon acquisition, construction, or
development and (or) through the normal operation of the asset. FIN No.
47 is effective no later than the end of fiscal years ending after
December  15,  2005. The adoption of FIN No. 47 did not
have a material impact on the Company’s financial position,
results of operations and cash
flows.

6.

Acquisitions, divestitures and
ventures

Acquisitions:

•

On
April  6,  2004, the Company acquired 84% of CAG.
During 2005, the Company acquired an additional 14% of CAG (See
Notes 1 and 2).

•

In February
2005, the Company acquired Vinamul, the North American and European
emulsion polymer business of Imperial Chemical Industries PLC
(‘‘ICI’’) for $208  million, in
addition to direct acquisition costs of $9 million. Vinamul operates
manufacturing facilities in the United States, Canada, the United
Kingdom, and the Netherlands. As part of the agreement, ICI will
continue to supply Vinamul with starch, dextrin and other specialty
ingredients following the acquisition. The Company will supply ICI with
vinyl acetate monomer and polyvinyl alcohols. The supply agreements are
for fifteen years, and the pricing is based on market and other
negotiated terms. The fair value of the supply contract was
approximately $11  million and was

F-25

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

recorded as deferred revenue to be amortized
over the fifteen year life of the agreement. The Company primarily
financed this acquisition through borrowings of $200  million
under the amended and restated senior credit facilities (See Note 16).
Pro forma financial information has not been provided as the
acquisition did not have a material impact on the Company’s
results of operations. The net sales and operating profit (loss) of the
Vinamul business included in the Company’s results of operations
were $343  million and $(15) million, respectively, for the year
ended December  31,
2005.

•

In July  2005, the
Company acquired Acetex Corporation
(‘‘Acetex’’) for $270  million, in
addition to direct acquisition costs of $16 million and assumed
Acetex’s $247  million of debt, which is net of cash
acquired of $54  million. Acetex has two primary
businesses—its Acetyls business and its Specialty Polymers and
Films business. The Acetyls business is operated in Europe and the
Polymers and Film businesses are operated in North America. The Company
acquired Acetex using existing cash. Pro forma financial information
has not been provided as the acquisition did not have a material impact
on the Company’s results of operations. The net sales and
operating profit (loss) of the Acetex business included in the
Company’s results of operations were $247  million and
$(4) million, respectively, for the year ended December
31,  2005.

The following table presents the allocation of
Vinamul and Acetex acquisition costs, to the assets acquired and
liabilities assumed, based on their fair
values:

(1)

Acetex
purchase price allocation is preliminary. The Company expects to
finalize the purchase price allocation by March 31,
2006.

Ventures:

•

In
August  2005, the Company and Hatco Corporation agreed to wind up
Estech GmbH, its venture for neopropyl esters. The Company recorded an
impairment charge of $10  million, included in Equity in net
earnings of affiliates, related to this matter in the year ended
December  31,  2005.

•

In
April  2004, the Company and a group of investors led by Conduit
Ventures Ltd. entered into a venture, which was named Pemeas GmbH. This
venture was formed in order to advance the commercialization of the
Company's fuel cell technology. Pemeas GmbH was considered a
variable interest entity as defined under FIN No. 46. The Company was
deemed the primary beneficiary of this variable interest entity and,
accordingly, consolidated this entity in its consolidated financial
statements. In the period the Company adopted FIN No. 46, the
consolidation of this entity did not have a material impact on the
Company's financial position or results of operations and cash
flows. In December  2005, the Company sold its common stock
interest in Pemeas GmbH, which resulted in the Company no longer being
the primary beneficiary. The Company recognized a gain of less than $1
million related to this sale.

F-26

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

•

On
October  1,  2003, Celanese AG and Degussa AG
(‘‘Degussa’’) completed the combination of
their European oxo businesses. The venture, European Oxo GmbH, consists
of both companies' propylene-based oxo chemical activities.
Celanese AG contributed net assets with a carrying value of $12
million for a 50% interest in the venture. Celanese AG retained
substantially all the accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued
liabilities of its contributed business existing on September
30,  2003. In addition, Celanese AG and Degussa each have
committed to fund the venture equally. Under a multi-year agreement,
Degussa has the option to sell its share in European Oxo GmbH to the
Company at fair value beginning in January  2008. The Company has
the option to purchase Degussa's share in the business at fair
value beginning in January  2009. The Company's European
oxo business is part of the Company 's Chemical Products segment.
The Company reports its investment in European Oxo GmbH using the
equity method of accounting.

Divestitures:

The
following tables summarize the results of the discontinued operations
for the year ended December  31,  2005, the nine months
ended December  31,  2004, the three months ended
March  31,  2004 and the year ended December
31,
2003:


•

In
October  2004, the Company announced plans to implement a
strategic restructuring of its acetate business to increase efficiency,
reduce overcapacity in certain areas and to focus on products and
markets that provide long-term value. As part of this restructuring,
the Company announced its plans to discontinue its Acetate
Products’ filament operations prior to December
31,  2005 and to consolidate its acetate flake and tow
manufacturing operations. During the fourth quarter of 2005, the
Company discontinued its filament operations. As a result of this
action, the assets, liabilities,

F-27

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

revenues and expenses related to the
filament operations are reflected as a component of discontinued
operations in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with
SFAS No. 144,

Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of
Long-Lived Assets (‘‘

SFAS No.
144’’).

•

In July  2005,
in connection with the Vinamul transaction, the Company agreed to sell
its emulsion powders business to ICI for approximately $25
million. This transaction includes a supply agreement whereby the
Company will supply product to ICI for a period of up to fifteen years.
In connection with the sale, the Company reduced goodwill related to
the acquisition of Vinamul by $6  million. Closing of the
transaction occurred in September  2005. Net sales for the
emulsion powders business for the nine months ended September 30, 2005
was $30 million and net earnings for the same period was $1
million.

•

In October  2005, the
Company sold its Rock Hill, SC manufacturing facility for $4
million in cash. As a result the Company derecognized $12 million of
asset retirement obligations and $7 million of environmental
liabililties which were legally tranferred to the buyer, and recorded a
gain of $23  million.

•

In
December 2005, the Company sold its COC business to a venture of
Japan's Daicel Chemical Industries Ltd.
("Daicel") and Polyplastics Co. Ltd.
("Polyplastics"). Daicel holds a majority
stake in the venture with 55% interest and Polyplastics, which
itself is a venture between the Company and Daicel, owns the remaining
45%. The transaction resulted in a loss of approximately $35
million.


•

In
September  2003, the Predecessor and The Dow Chemical Company
(‘‘Dow’’) reached an agreement for Dow to
purchase the acrylates business of the Predecessor. This transaction
was completed in February  2004 for a sales price of
approximately $149  million, which resulted in a pre-tax gain of
approximately $14  million in the three months ended March
31,  2004. Dow acquired the Predecessor's acrylates
business line, including inventory, intellectual property and
technology for crude acrylic acid, glacial acrylic acid, ethyl
acrylate, butyl acrylate, methyl acrylate and 2-ethylhexyl acrylate, as
well as acrylates production assets at the Clear Lake, Texas facility.
In related agreements, the Company provides certain contract
manufacturing services to Dow, and Dow supplies acrylates to the
Company for use in its emulsions production. Simultaneous with the
sale, the Predecessor repaid an unrelated obligation of $95
million to Dow. The acrylates business was part of the
Predecessor's Chemical business. As a result of this transaction,
the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses related to the acrylates
product lines at the Clear Lake, Texas facility as well as the gain
recorded on the sale are reflected as a component of discontinued
operations in the consolidated financial
statements.

•

In December  2003, the
Predecessor completed the sale of its nylon business line to BASF. The
Predecessor received cash proceeds of $10  million and recorded a
gain of $3  million. The transaction is reflected as a component
of discontinued operations in the consolidated financial statements in
accordance with SFAS No. 144.

F-28

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

7.

Securities Available for Sale

At
December  31,  2005 and 2004, the Company had $280
million and $303  million, respectively, of securities available
for sale, which were included as a component of long-term and current
Other assets. The Company's captive insurance companies and
pension related trusts hold these securities for capitalization and
funding requirements, respectively. The Successor recorded a net
realized gain(loss) of $(2) million and $7  million for the year
ended December  31,  2005 and the nine months ended
December  31,  2004, respectively. The Predecessor recorded
a net realized gain of $0 million and $3  million for the three
months ended March  31,  2004 and the year ended
December  31,  2003, respectively. The amortized cost,
gross unrealized gain, gross unrealized loss and fair values for
available-for-sale securities by major security type at December
31,  2005 and 2004, were as
follows:

Fixed
maturities at December  31,  2005 by contractual maturity
are shown below. Actual maturities could differ from contractual
maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay
obligations, with or without call or prepayment
penalties.

F-29

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

(1)

Proceeds
received from fixed maturities that mature within one year are expected
to be reinvested into additional securities upon such
maturity.

During 2005, the Company contributed $54
million to the pension related trusts as part of the Acquisition of
Celanese and $9  million related to the demutualization of an
insurance company. In addition, the Captives liquidated $75
million in debt securities to cash.

8.

Receivables,
net

As
of December  31,  2005 and 2004, the Company had no
significant concentrations of credit risk since the Company's
customer base is dispersed across many different industries and
geographies.

9.

Inventories

As
a result of the acquisition of Vinamul (See Note 6), the Company
acquired inventory with a fair value of $24  million, which
included $1  million in capitalized manufacturing profit in
inventory. The inventory was sold prior to December  31,
2005.

As a result of the acquisition of Acetex (See Note 6), the
Company acquired inventory with a fair value of $79  million,
which included $4  million in capitalized manufacturing profit in
inventory. The inventory was sold prior to December  31,
2005.

F-30

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

10.

Investments

Equity
Method

The Company’s equity investments and ownership
interests are as
follows:

F-31

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

The
Company accounts for its 10% ownership interest in Sherbrooke
Capital Health and Wellness, L.P. under the equity method of accounting
because the Company is able to exercise significant
influence.

Cost Investments

The Company's
investments accounted for under the cost method of accounting as of
December  31,  2005 and 2004, respectively, are as
follows:

The
Successor recognized $89  million and $33  million of
dividend income from investments accounted for under the cost method
for the year ended December  31,  2005 and the nine months
ended December  31,  2004, respectively. The Predecessor
recognized dividend income from investments accounted for under the
cost method of $6  million and $53  million for the three
months ended March  31,  2004 and for the year ended
December  31,  2003, respectively. The amounts are included
within Other income (expense), net on the consolidated statement of
operations.

F-32

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

11.

Property,
Plant and
Equipment

Depreciation
totaled $218  million, $140  million, $67  million
and $271  million for the year ended December  31,
2005, the nine months ended December  31,  2004, the three
months ended March  31,  2004 and year ended
December  31,  2003, respectively.

Assets under
capital leases, net of accumulated amortization, amounted to
approximately $18  million and $5  million at
December  31,  2005 and 2004, respectively.

Interest
costs capitalized were $4  million, $4  million, $3
million and $3  million for the year ended December
31,  2005, the nine months ended December  31,  2004,
the three months ended March  31,  2004 and the year ended
December  31,  2003, respectively.

As a result of the
acquisitions of Vinamul and Acetex (See Note 6) the Company acquired
property, plant and equipment with fair values of $152  million
and $285  million, respectively. Additionally, property, plant
and equipment increased by $15  million as a result of purchase
accounting allocation related to the additional CAG shares purchased
during 2005 (See Note 2).

In the first quarter of 2004, as part
of the acrylates divestiture, the Predecessor entered into a site
agreement with Dow to allow Dow to use certain property, plant, and
equipment. As the agreement met the stipulations of a capital lease
under EITF Issue No. 01-8,

Determining Whether an Arrangement
Contains a Lease

, the Company reclassified $11  million
related to property, plant and equipment into other long-term
receivables.

F-33

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

12.

Goodwill

Successor

As
a result of the Acquisition and the Organizational Restructuring, the
Company performed purchase price allocations and recorded goodwill of
$747  million. (See Notes 1 and 2).

In connection with the
acquisition of Vinamul (See Note 6), the Company has allocated the
purchase price to assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on the
estimate of their fair value. The excess of the purchase price over the
amounts allocated to assets and liabilities is included in Goodwill,
and was $44  million at December  31,  2005.

In connection with the acquisition of Acetex (See Note 6), the
Company has preliminarily allocated the purchase price to assets
acquired and liabilities assumed primarily based on the preliminary
fair value of the business acquired. The excess of the purchase price
over the amounts allocated to assets and liabilities is included in
Goodwill, and is preliminarily estimated to be $166  million at
December  31,  2005. The Company is in the process of
finalizing the fair value of all assets acquired and liabilities
assumed. The Company expects to finalize the purchase accounting for
this transaction as soon as practical, but no later than March
31,  2006.

In connection with the acquisition of Acetex, at
the acquisition date, the Company began formulating a plan to exit or
restructure certain activities. The Company has not completed this
analysis, and as of December  31,  2005, has not recorded
any liabilities associated with these activities. As the Company
finalizes any plans to exit or restructure activities, it may record
additional liabilities, for among other things, severance and severance
related costs, and such amounts could be material.

During the
year ended December  31,  2005, the Company decreased
Goodwill by $26  million as a result of purchase accounting
adjustments related to the Acquisition and the acquisition of
additional

F-34

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

CAG shares. Included in this adjustment is a
$23  million increase to goodwill, and a corresponding increase
to the Company’s minority interest liability primarily
associated with the Organizational Restructuring that occurred in
October  2004 (See Note 1). The Company also increased Goodwill
by $5 million, net, for various purchase accounting adjustments related
to the original acquisition of CAG shares. As these represented
immaterial adjustments, individually and in the aggregate, prior
periods have not been restated. Also included in this adjustment is a
$54  million decrease to goodwill associated with the additional
CAG shares purchased based on the fair value of the assets and
liabilities acquired (See Note  2).

13.

Intangible
Assets

Aggregate
amortization expense charged against earnings for intangible assets
with finite lives is as follows:

Estimated
amortization expense for the succeeding five fiscal years is
approximately $67  million in 2006, $65  million in 2007,
$64  million in 2008, $61  million in 2009 and $52
million in 2010. The Company’s trademarks and tradenames have an
indefinite life. Accordingly, no amortization is recorded on these
intangible assets.

In connection with the acquisition of Vinamul
and Acetex, the Company has identified intangible assets with an
estimated value of $84  million, which were comprised primarily
of customer related intangible assets. As the Company has not finalized
Acetex’s purchase price allocation, this amount could change
based on final valuations. In addition, other intangible assets may be
identified. Additionally, Intangible assets increased by $65
million as a result of purchase accounting allocations related to the
additional CAG shares purchased during 2005 (See Note 2).

In
connection with the acquisition of Vinamul, the Company entered into a
five-year non-compete agreement with ICI. The Company has assigned a
fair value of $10  million to this agreement.

F-35

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

14.

Other
Current Liabilities

15.

Other
Liabilities

As
of December  31,  2005 and 2004, estimated liabilities for
asset retirement obligations were $54  million and $52
million, respectively, of which $52  million in 2005 and
$46  million in 2004 is included as a component of other
long-term liabilities included in the Other caption above. This amount
primarily represents the Company's estimated future liability for
site demolition and for various landfill closures and the associated
monitoring costs at these operating sites.

Changes in asset
retirement obligations are reconciled as follows:

(1)

Relates
to sale of the Rock Hill plant (See Note 6).

In accordance
with FIN No. 47, the Company recognized conditional asset retirement
obligations related to demolition and remediation activities at certain
of its manufacturing sites. The affect of adopting FIN No. 47 was
immaterial and is included within additions in the table
above.

F-36

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

The Company has identified but not
recognized asset retirement obligations related to substantially all of
its existing operating facilities. Examples of these types of
obligations include demolition, decommissioning, disposal and
restoration activities. Legal obligations exist in connection with the
retirement of these assets upon closure of the facilities or
abandonment of the existing operations. However, the Company currently
plans on continuing operations at these facilities indefinitely and
therefore a reasonable estimate of fair value cannot be determined at
this time. In the event the Company considers plans to abandon or cease
operations at these sites, an asset retirement obligation will be
reassessed at that time. If certain operating facilities were to close,
the related asset retirement obligations could significantly affect the
Company’s results of operations and cash
flows.

16.

Debt

F-37

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

Interest Expense

Senior
Credit Facilities.

As of December  31,  2005,
the senior credit facilities consist of a term loan facility, a
revolving credit facility and a credit-linked revolving facility. The
term loan facility consists of commitments of $1,386  million and
€273  million, both maturing in 2011.

The
revolving credit facility, through a syndication of banks, provides for
borrowings of up to $600  million, including the availability of
letters of credit in U.S. dollars and euros and for borrowings on
same-day notice.

In January  2005, the Company amended and
restated its senior credit facilities and increased the term loan
facility from $624  million to $1,750  million (including
€275  million) and increased the revolving credit
facility from $380  million to $600  million. As of
December  31,  2005, $64  million of letters of
credit have been issued under the revolving credit facility and
$536  million remained available for borrowing.

In
addition, the Company has a $228  million credit-linked revolving
facility, which matures in 2009. The credit-linked revolving facility
includes borrowing capacity available for letters of credit. As of
December  31,  2005, there were $199  million of
letters of credit issued under the credit-linked revolving facility and
$29  million remained available for
borrowing.

Substantially all of the assets of Celanese Holdings
LLC (‘‘Celanese Holdings’’), the direct
parent of BCP Crystal US Holdings Corp. (‘‘BCP
Crystal’’), and, subject to certain exceptions,
substantially all of its existing and future U.S. subsidiaries,
referred to as U.S. Guarantors, secure these facilities. The borrowings
under the revolving senior credit facility bear interest at a rate
equal to an applicable margin plus, at the borrower's option,
either a base rate or a LIBOR rate. The applicable margin for a
revolving facility borrowing under the base rate option is 1.50%
and for the LIBOR option, 2.50% (in each case, subject to a
step-down based on a performance test, as defined). In November
2005, the Company amended its senior credit facilities which lowered
the margin over LIBOR on the U.S. dollar denominated portion of the
term loan facility from 2.25% to 2.00%. In addition, a
further reduction of the interest rate to LIBOR plus 1.75% is
allowed if certain conditions are met.

BCP Crystal may
voluntarily repay outstanding loans under the senior credit facility at
any time without premium or penalty, other than customary
‘‘breakage’’ costs with respect to LIBOR
loans.

Senior Subordinated Notes.

During June and
July  2004, the Company issued $1,225  million and
€200  million in senior subordinated notes for
proceeds of $1,475  million, which included $4  million in
premiums. All of BCP Crystal’s U.S. domestic, wholly owned
subsidiaries that guarantee BCP Crystal’s obligations under the
senior credit facilities guarantee the senior subordinated notes on an
unsecured senior subordinated basis. In February  2005,
$521  million of the net proceeds of the offering of the
Company's Series A common stock were used to redeem a portion of
the senior subordinated notes and $51  million was used to pay
the premium associated with the redemption.

F-38

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

Senior Discount Notes.

In
September  2004, Crystal LLC and Crystal US Sub 3 Corp., a
subsidiary of Crystal LLC, issued $853  million aggregate
principal amount at maturity of the Company’s senior discount
notes due 2014 consisting of $163  million principal amount at
maturity of the Company’s 10% Series A senior discount
notes due 2014 and $690  million principal amount at maturity of
the Company’s 10½% Series B Senior
Discount Notes due 2014 (collectively, the ‘‘senior
discount notes’’). The gross proceeds of the offering
were $513  million. Approximately $500  million of the
proceeds were distributed to the Company’s Original Shareholders
(See Note 19), with the remaining proceeds used to pay fees associated
with the refinancing. Until October  1,  2009, interest on
the senior discount notes will accrue in the form of an increase in the
accreted value of such notes. Cash interest on the senior discount
notes will accrue commencing on October  1,  2009 and be
payable semiannually in arrears on April  1 and October  1.
In February  2005, the Company used $37  million of the net
proceeds of the offering of its Series A common stock to redeem a
portion of the Series A senior discount notes, $151  million to
redeem a portion of the Series B senior discount notes and $19
million to pay the premium associated with such redemption.

Mandatorily Redeemable Exchangeable Preferred
Stock.

In April  2004, the Company issued 200,000
shares of Series A Cumulative Exchangeable Preferred Shares due 2016
for gross proceeds of $200  million, exclusive of $18
million of fees. The non-voting shares of preferred stock had an
initial liquidation preference of $1,000 per share and a dividend rate
of 13%. As these shares of preferred stock were mandatorily
redeemable, they were recorded as a liability on the consolidated
balance sheet, and the Company recorded associated interest expense of
$6  million for the nine months ended December  31,
2004. These shares of preferred stock were redeemed on July
1,  2004 for $227  million, which included $6
million in accrued interest and a redemption premium of $21
million. Accordingly, the Company expensed $18  million of
unamortized deferred financing costs and the redemption premium of
$21  million, both of which are included within interest expense
in the nine months ended December  31,
2004.

Other Financial Arrangements.

In April
2004, the Company also borrowed $1,565  million under senior
subordinated bridge loan facilities and issued mandatorily redeemable
preferred stock totaling $200  million, and used the proceeds
from such bridge loan and the aforementioned preferred stock, along
with equity contributions of $641  million (See Note 19), to fund
the Acquisition. In June  2004, the Company used the proceeds
from its initial offering of $1,000  million and
€200  million (approximately $244  million) of
senior subordinated notes, together with available cash and borrowings
under a $350  million senior secured floating rate term loan to
repay the senior subordinated bridge loan facilities, plus accrued
interest, and to pay related fees and expenses. In addition, the
Company borrowed $608  million under its senior credit facilities
during 2004. These proceeds were used primarily to prepay acquired CAG
debt of $235  million, which was scheduled to mature between 2005
and 2009, as well as to contribute, along with available cash,
$409  million to the Company’s pension plans.

In the
first quarter 2005, the Company borrowed an additional $1,135
million under the amended and restated senior credit facilities. A
portion of these proceeds, coupled with the proceeds from the initial
public offering, were used to repay the senior subordinated notes and
senior discount notes, as previously described, and the $350
million floating rate term loan and related early redemption premiums
of $4  million, $19  million and $51  million,
respectively. In addition, $200  million was used to finance the
February  2005 acquisition of the Vinamul business (See Note
6).

As detailed in Note 6, in July  2005, the Company
acquired Acetex for $270  million and assumed Acetex’s
$247  million of net debt, which is net of cash acquired of
$54  million. The Company caused Acetex to exercise its option to
redeem its 10 7/8% senior notes due 2009
totaling $265  million. The redemption was funded primarily with
cash on hand. The redemption price was $280  million, which
represents 105.438% of the outstanding principal amount, plus
accrued and unpaid interest to August  19,  2005. On
August  25,  2005, the Company repaid the remaining
$36  million of assumed debt with available
cash.

F-39

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

Covenants.

The senior
credit facilities are subject to prepayment requirements and contain
covenants, defaults and other provisions. The senior credit facilities
require BCP Crystal to prepay outstanding term loans, subject to
certain exceptions, with:

– 75% (such percentage
will be reduced to 50% if BCP Crystal's leverage ratio is
less than 3.00 to 1.00 for any fiscal year ending on or after
December  31,  2005) of BCP Crystal's excess cash
flow;

– 100% of the net cash proceeds of all
non-ordinary course asset sales and casualty and condemnation events,
unless BCP Crystal reinvests or contracts to reinvest those proceeds in
assets to be used in BCP Crystal's business or to make certain
other permitted investments within 12 months, subject to certain
limitations;

– 100% of the net cash proceeds of any
incurrence of debt other than debt permitted under the senior credit
facilities, subject to certain exceptions; and

– 50%
of the net cash proceeds of issuances of equity of Celanese Holdings,
subject to certain exceptions.

The indentures governing the
senior subordinated notes and the senior discount notes limit the
ability of the issuers of such notes and the ability of their
restricted subsidiaries to:

•

incur
additional indebtedness or issue preferred
stock;

•

pay dividends on or make other
distributions or repurchase the respective issuer’s capital
stock;

•

make
investments;

•

enter into certain
transactions with affiliates;

•

limit
dividends or other payments by BCP Crystal’s restricted
subsidiaries to it;

•

create liens or
other pari passu on subordinated indebtedness without securing the
respective notes;

•

designate subsidiaries
as unrestricted subsidiaries; and

•

sell
certain assets or merge with or into other companies.

Subject to
certain exceptions, the indentures governing the senior subordinated
notes and the senior discount notes permit the issuers of the notes and
their restricted subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness,
including secured indebtedness.

The senior credit facilities
contain a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict,
subject to certain exceptions, the ability of the Company
to:

•

sell
assets;

•

incur additional indebtedness or
issue preferred stock;

•

repay other
indebtedness (including the notes);

•

pay
dividends and distributions or repurchase their capital
stock;

•

create liens on
assets;

•

make investments, loans
guarantees or advances;

•

make certain
acquisitions;

•

engage in mergers or
consolidations;

•

enter into sale and
leaseback transactions;

•

engage in
certain transactions with affiliates;

F-40

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

•

amend certain
material agreements governing BCP Crystal’s
indebtedness;

•

change the business
conducted by Celanese Holdings and its subsidiaries;
and

•

enter into hedging agreements that
restrict dividends from subsidiaries.

In addition, the senior
credit facilities require BCP Crystal to maintain the following
financial covenants: a maximum total leverage ratio, a maximum bank
debt leverage ratio, a minimum interest coverage ratio and maximum
capital expenditures limitation. The maximum consolidated net bank debt
to Adjusted EBITDA ratio, as defined, previously required under the
senior credit facilities, was eliminated when the Company amended the
facilities in January  2005.

As of December
31,  2005, the Company was in compliance with all of the
financial covenants related to its debt agreements.

The
maturation of the Company’s debt, including short term
borrowings, is as
follows:

(1)

Includes
$2  million purchase accounting adjustment to assumed
debt.

17.

Benefit
Obligations

Pension obligations.

Pension
obligations are established for benefits payable in the form of
retirement, disability and surviving dependent pensions. The benefits
offered vary according to the legal, fiscal and economic conditions of
each country. The commitments result from participation in defined
contribution and defined benefit plans, primarily in the U.S. Benefits
are dependent on years of service and the employee's
compensation. Supplemental retirement benefits provided to certain
employees are non-qualified for U.S. tax purposes. Separate trusts have
been established for some non-qualified plans.

Defined benefit
pension plans exist at certain locations in North America and Europe.
As of December  31,  2005, the Company's U.S.
qualified pension plan represented greater than 85% and
75% of Celanese's pension plan assets and liabilities,
respectively. Independent trusts or insurance companies administer the
majority of these plans. Actuarial valuations for these plans are
prepared annually.

The Company sponsors various defined
contribution plans in Europe and North America covering certain
employees. Employees may contribute to these plans and the Company will
match these contributions in varying amounts. Contributions to the
defined contribution plans are based on specified percentages of
employee contributions and they aggregated $12  million for the
year ended December  31,  2005, $8  million for the
nine months ended December  31,  2004, $3  million
for the three months ended March  31,  2004 and $11
million for the year ended December  31,  2003.

In
connection with the acquisition of CAG, the Purchaser agreed to
pre-fund $463  million of certain pension obligations. During the
nine months ended December  31,  2004, $409  million
was pre-funded to the Company's pension plans. The Company
contributed an additional $54  million to the non-qualified
pension plan’s rabbi trusts in February  2005.

In
connection with the Company's acquisition of Vinamul and Acetex,
the Company assumed certain assets and obligations related to the
acquired pension plans. The Company recorded liabilities of $128
million for these pension plans. Total pension assets acquired amounted
to $85  million.

F-41

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

As part of a restructuring program
announced in October  2004, the Company closed certain plants
related to its acetate filament production and has consolidated its
acetate flake and tow operations from five locations to three. This
resulted in the reduction of nearly 600 U.S. employees triggering a
plan curtailment. The curtailment resulted in an increase in the
projected benefit obligation ("PBO") and a
corresponding curtailment loss of $1  million for the U.S.
pension plan during the year ended December  31,
2005.

Other postretirement obligations.

Certain
retired employees receive postretirement medical benefits under plans
sponsored by the Company, which has the right to modify or terminate
these plans at any time. Company employees in the U.S. who were 50
years of age as of January  1,  2001, are eligible to
receive postretirement medical benefits, both pre-65 coverage and
continued secondary coverage at age 65, provided that upon termination
they are at least age 55 and have a minimum of 10 years of service. On
January  1,  2001, the Predecessor eliminated continued
postretirement medical coverage at age 65 for employees who were not
age 50 on January  1,  2001 or were hired on or after
January  1,  2001. This group of employees continues to be
eligible for pre-65 postretirement medical coverage provided that upon
termination they are at least age 55 and have a minimum of 10 years of
service. Generally, the cost for coverage is shared between the Company
and the employee, and is determined based upon completed years of
service. Employees hired on or after January 1, 2006 are not eligible
for any company subsidized postretirement medical coverage.

In
connection with the Company's acquisition of Vinamul and Acetex,
the Company assumed certain assets and obligations related to the
acquired entities’ postretirement benefit plans. The Company
recorded liabilities of $24  million for these postretirement
benefit plans.

In 2003, the U.S. postretirement medical plan was
amended to introduce defined dollar caps for pre-1993 retirees. These
changes were approved in June  2003 and resulted in a reduction
in the APBO which was set up as a $67  million negative prior
service cost base as these changes become effective July
1,  2004.

In December  2003, the Medicare Act
established a prescription drug benefit under Medicare known as
‘‘Medicare Part D.’’ As a result of this
new federally funded benefit, the Company expects a reduction to the
post-65 medical per capita claims cost in its postretirement plan.
Accordingly, the Company treated the resulting $6  million
reduction in APBO at July  1,  2004 as an actuarial gain.
The introduction of the federal benefit reduced the Company's
SFAS No. 106 net periodic benefit cost for the fiscal year ended
December  31, 2004 by less than $1  million, due to lower
service cost and interest cost, as well as amortization of the
unrecognized net gain.

F-42

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

(1)

Primarily
relates to change in discount rates.

F-43

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

(1)

Amount
shown net of tax in the consolidated statements of shareholders'
equity (deficit). See Note  21 and the related tax associated
with the additional minimum pension
liability.

F-44

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

F-45

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

The projected benefit obligation,
accumulated benefit obligation, and fair value of plan assets for all
defined benefit pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in
excess of plan assets at the end of 2005 and 2004 were as
follows:

The accumulated
benefit obligation for all defined benefit pension plans was
$3,235  million and $2,964  million at December
31,  2005 and 2004, respectively.

The Company uses a
measurement date of December  31 for its pension and other
postretirement benefit plans.

In 2003, the Predecessor changed
the actuarial valuation measurement date for its Canadian pension and
other postretirement benefit plans from September  30 to
December  31. The net effect of this change was not
material.

F-46

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

On
January  1,  2004, the Company’s health care cost
trend assumption for U.S. postretirement medical plan's net
periodic benefit cost was 11% per year grading down 1%
per year to an ultimate rate of 5%. On January  1,
2005, the health care trend rate was 10% per year grading down
1% per year to an ultimate rate of 5%.

F-47

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

Included in the pension obligations above
are accrued liabilities relating to supplemental retirement plans for
certain employees amounting to $235  million and $238
million as of December  31,  2005 and 2004, respectively.
Pension expense relating to these plans included in net periodic
benefit cost totaled $15  million, $11  million, $5
million and $18  million for the year ended December
31,  2005, the nine months ended December  31,  2004,
the three months ended March  31,  2004 and for the year
ended December  31,  2003, respectively. To fund these
obligations, non-qualified trusts were established, included within
other non-current assets, which held marketable securities valued at
$181  million and $127  million at December
31,  2005 and 2004, respectively, and recognized income (loss),
excluding appreciation of insurance contracts, of $6  million,
$6  million, $(1) million and $3  million for the year
ended December  31,  2005, the nine months ended
December  31,  2004, the three months ended March
31,  2004 and the year ended December  31,  2003,
respectively. In addition to holding marketable securities, the
non-qualified trust holds investments in insurance contracts of
$68  million as of December  31,  2005 and 2004,
respectively. In 2005, the Successor contributed $9  million to
these trusts from proceeds received from the demutualization of an
insurance company. In 2003, the Predecessor contributed $18
million to these trusts from proceeds received from the demutualization
of an insurance company. The gain associated with these proceeds was
included within Other income (expense), net, in the consolidated
statement of operations.

The asset allocation for the qualified
U.S. defined benefit pension plan as of December  31,  2005
and 2004, respectively, and the target allocation ranges for 2006 by
asset category is presented below. The fair value of plan assets for
this plan was $2,222  million and $2,199  million as of
December  31,  2005 and 2004, respectively. These asset
amounts represent approximately 85% of the total pension assets
at December  31,  2005 and 88% at December
31,  2004. The expected long-term rate of return on these assets
was 8.5% at December  31,  2005 and 2004,
respectively.

Plan assets did not include any investment in
Celanese Corporation common shares during the periods
presented.

The
asset allocation for the Canadian defined benefit pension plans as of
December  31,  2005 and 2004, respectively, and the target
allocation ranges for 2006 by asset category are presented below. The
fair value of plan assets for these plans was $198  million and
$146  million as of December  31,  2005 and 2004,
respectively.

The
Company's postretirement benefit plans are unfunded.

The
financial objectives of the qualified U.S. and Canadian pension plans
are established in conjunction with a comprehensive review of each
plan's liability structure. The Company’s asset allocation
policy is based on a detailed asset/liability analysis. In developing
investment policy and financial goals,

F-48

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

consideration is given to the plan's
demographics, the returns and risks associated with alternative
investment strategies, and the current and projected cash, expense and
funding ratios of the plan. A formal asset/liability mix study of the
plan is undertaken every 3 to 5 years or whenever there has been a
material change in plan demographics, benefit structure or funding
status and investment market. The Company has adopted a long-term
investment horizon such that the risk and duration of investment losses
are weighed against the long-term potential for appreciation of assets.
Although there cannot be complete assurance that these objectives will
be realized, it is believed that the likelihood for their realization
is reasonably high, based upon the asset allocation chosen and the
historical and expected performance of the asset classes utilized by
the plans. The intent is for investments to be broadly diversified
across asset classes, investment styles, investment managers, developed
and emerging markets, business sectors and securities in order to
moderate portfolio volatility and risk. Investments may be in separate
accounts, commingled trusts, mutual funds and other pooled asset
portfolios provided they all conform to fiduciary
standards.

External investment managers are hired to manage the
pension assets. An investment consultant assists with the screening
process for each new manager hired. Over the long-term, the investment
portfolio is expected to earn returns that exceed a composite of market
indices that are weighted to match each plan's target asset
allocation. Long-term is considered 3 to 5 years; however, incidences
of underperformance are analyzed. The portfolio return should also
(over the long-term) meet or exceed the return used for actuarial
calculations in order to minimize future pension contributions and
escalation in pension expense.

The expected rate of return
assumptions for plan assets are based mainly on historical performance
achieved over a long period of time (15 to 20 years) encompassing many
business and economic cycles. Adjustments, upward and downward, may be
made to those historical returns to reflect future capital market
expectations; these expectations are typically derived from expert
advice from the investment community and surveys of peer company
assumptions.

As a result of the $105  million contribution
made to the German plans for the year ended December  31,
2004, the four largest German plans, for the first time, have pension
plan assets. The asset allocation for the German defined benefit
pension plans as of December  31,  2005, and the target
allocation ranges for 2006 by asset category are presented below. The
fair value of plan assets for these plans was $113  million and
$118  million as of December  31,  2005 and 2004,
respectively.

Plan
assets did not include any investment in Celanese Corporation’s
common shares during the periods presented.

External investment
managers have been hired to manage the German pension assets. For the
equity securities portion, the goal is to approximate the development
of the Euro Stoxx 50 Total Return performance using a passive equity
mandate. For the debt security portion, a benchmark oriented active
fixed income mandate that is oriented towards the Lehman Euro Aggregate
Bond Index is used.

To limit the market price risk of the
invested funds it was decided to invest the majority of the funds into
fixed income instruments. The remaining portion of the funds were
invested into equity instruments to benefit from a potentially higher
equity performance compared with the current performance of fixed
income instruments.

F-49

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

Beginning October  1,  2004,
two different fund managers, one for equity and one for fixed income,
began investing in the equity and fixed income fund. By the end of
October  2004 both funds were completely invested.

The
funds are designated and managed in a way that the assets invested
provide a euro based performance to meet the pension requirements of
German entities which are predominantly in euro. This ensures that
additional risks from currency fluctuations are kept at a low
level.

The expected rate of return assumptions for plan assets
are based mainly on historical performance achieved over a long period
of time (15 to 20 years) encompassing many business and economic
cycles. Adjustments, upward and downward, may be made to those
historical returns to reflect future capital market expectations; these
expectations are typically derived from expert advice from the
investment community and surveys of peer company assumptions.

The
table below reflects the pension benefits expected to be paid from the
plan or from the Company's assets. The postretirement benefits
represent the Company's share of the benefit cost. Expected
contributions reflect amounts expected to be contributed to funded
plans or expected to be paid out as benefit payments for the unfunded
plans.

Assumed
health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts
reported for the health care plans. A one-percentage-point change in
assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following
effects:

The effect of a one percent
increase or decrease in the assumed health care cost trend rate would
have less than a $1  million impact on service and interest
cost.

The following table represents additional benefit
liabilities and other similar obligations:

In
2004, Celanese amended its long-term disability plan to align the
benefit levels with the retiree medical plan. As a result of this
change, the employee contribution for the long-term disability medical
coverage increased substantially for current participants in the
disability plan. Subsequent to the adoption

F-50

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

of the change, enrollment in the plan has
been trending downward, with 20% of the participants declining
coverage. Accordingly, the Company reduced the disability accrual by $9
million at December 31, 2005 as a result of the lower enrollment
experience. In addition, medical claims assumptions were lowered to
reflect actual plan experience and the percentage of long-term
disability medical payments paid for by Medicare. This change lowered
the long-term disability accrual by an additional $9 million.

18.

Environmental

General

– The
Company is subject to environmental laws and regulations worldwide
which impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the air
and water and establish standards for the treatment, storage and
disposal of solid and hazardous wastes. The Company believes that it is
in substantial compliance with all applicable environmental laws and
regulations. The Company is also subject to retained environmental
obligations specified in various contractual agreements arising from
divestiture of certain businesses by the Company or one of its
predecessor companies.

For the year ended December
31,  2005 and for the nine months ended December
31,  2004, the Successor's worldwide expenditures,
including expenditures for legal compliance, internal environmental
initiatives and remediation of active, orphan, divested and U.S.
Superfund sites were $84  million and $66  million,
respectively. The Predecessor's worldwide expenditures for the
three months ended March  31,  2004 and the year ended
December  31,  2003 were $22  million and $80
million, respectively. The Successor's capital project related
environmental expenditures for the year ended December
31,  2005 and the nine months ended December  31,
2004, and the Predecessor's for the three months ended
March  31,  2004 and the year ended December
31,  2003, included in worldwide expenditures, were $8
million, $6  million, $2  million and $10  million,
respectively. Environmental reserves for remediation matters were
$124  million and $143  million as of December
31,  2005 and 2004, respectively, which represents the
Company’s best estimate.

Remediation

– Due
to its industrial history and through retained contractual and legal
obligations, the Company has the obligation to remediate specific areas
on its own sites as well as on divested, orphan or U.S. Superfund
sites. In addition, as part of the demerger agreement between the
Predecessor and Hoechst AG (‘‘Hoechst’’), a
specified portion of the responsibility for environmental liabilities
from a number of Hoechst divestitures was transferred to the
Predecessor. The Company provides for such obligations when the event
of loss is probable and reasonably estimable.

For the year ended
December  31,  2005, the nine months ended December
31,  2004, the three months ended March  31,  2004
and the year ended December  31,  2003, the total
remediation efforts charged to earnings before tax were $14
million, $3  million, $0 million and $0 million, respectively.
These charges were offset by reversals of previously established
environmental reserves due to favorable trends in estimates at
unrelated sites of $10  million, $2  million, $2
million and $6  million during the year ended December
31,  2005, the nine months ended December  31,  2004,
the three months ended March  31,  2004 and the year ended
December  31,  2003, respectively. In 2005, the Company
also recorded a $7  million reduction to previously established
environmental reserves due to the sale of the Rock Hill plant (See Note
6). Management believes that environmental remediation costs will not
have a material adverse effect on the financial position of the
Company, but may have a material adverse effect on the results of
operations or cash flows in any given accounting period.

The
Company did not record any insurance recoveries related to these
matters for the reported periods. There are no receivables for
recoveries as of December  31,  2005 and
2004.

German InfraServs

– On January
1,  1997, coinciding with a reorganization of the Hoechst
businesses in Germany, real estate service companies
(‘‘InfraServs’’) were created to own
directly the land and property and to provide various technical and
administrative services at each of the manufacturing locations. The
Company has manufacturing operations at three InfraServ locations in
Germany: Oberhausen, Frankfurt am Main-Hoechst and Kelsterbach, and
holds interests in the companies which own and operate the former
Hoechst sites in Gendorf, Knapsack and Wiesbaden.

F-51

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

InfraServs are liable for any residual
contamination and other pollution because they own the real estate on
which the individual facilities operate. In addition, Hoechst, as the
responsible party under German public law, is liable to third parties
for all environmental damage that occurred while it was still the owner
of the plants and real estate. The contribution agreements entered into
in 1997 between Hoechst and the respective operating companies, as part
of the divestiture of these companies, provide that the operating
companies will indemnify Hoechst against environmental liabilities
resulting from the transferred businesses. Additionally, the InfraServs
have agreed to indemnify Hoechst against any environmental liability
arising out of or in connection with environmental pollution of any
site. Likewise, in certain circumstances the Company could be
responsible for the elimination of residual contamination on a few
sites that were not transferred to InfraServ companies, in which case
Hoechst must reimburse the Company for two-thirds of any costs so
incurred.

The InfraServ partnership agreements provide that, as
between the partners, each partner is responsible for any contamination
caused predominantly by such partner. Any liability, which cannot be
attributed to an InfraServ partner and for which no third party is
responsible, is required to be borne by the InfraServ Partnership. In
view of this potential obligation to eliminate residual contamination,
the InfraServs, primarily relating to equity and cost affiliates which
are not consolidated by the Company, have reserves of $69
million and $81  million as of December  31,  2005
and 2004, respectively.

If an InfraServ partner defaults on its
respective indemnification obligations to eliminate residual
contamination, the owners of the remaining participation in the
InfraServ companies have agreed to fund such liabilities, subject to a
number of limitations. To the extent that any liabilities are not
satisfied by either the InfraServs or their owners, these liabilities
are to be borne by the Company in accordance with the demerger
agreement. However, Hoechst will reimburse the Company for two-thirds
of any such costs. Likewise, in certain circumstances the Company could
be responsible for the elimination of residual contamination on several
sites that were not transferred to InfraServ companies, in which case
Hoechst must also reimburse the Company for two-thirds of any costs so
incurred. The German InfraServs are owned partially by the Company, as
noted below, and the remaining ownership is held by various other
companies. The Company's ownership interest and environmental
liability participation percentages for such liabilities which cannot
be attributed to an InfraServ partner were as follows as of
December  31,
2005:

U.S.
Superfund Sites

– In the U.S., the Company may be subject to
substantial claims brought by U.S. federal or state regulatory agencies
or private individuals pursuant to statutory authority or common law.
In particular, the Company has a potential liability under the U.S.
Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and
Liability Act of 1980, as amended, and related state laws (collectively
referred to as ‘‘Superfund’’) for
investigation and cleanup costs at approximately 50 sites. At most of
these sites, numerous companies, including certain companies comprising
the Company, or one of its predecessor companies, have been notified
that the Environmental Protection Agency, state governing bodies or
private individuals consider such companies to be potentially
responsible parties (‘‘PRP’’) under
Superfund or related laws. The proceedings relating to these sites are
in various stages. The cleanup process has not been completed at most
sites and the status of the insurance coverage for most of these
proceedings is uncertain. Consequently, the Company cannot determine
accurately its ultimate liability for investigation or cleanup costs at
these sites. As of December  31,  2005 and 2004, the
Company had

F-52

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

provisions totaling $15  million and
$14  million, respectively, for U.S. Superfund sites and utilized
$2  million, $2  million, less than $1  million and
$1  million of these reserves during the year ended
December  31,  2005, the nine months ended December
31,  2004, the three months ended March  31,  2004
and the year ended December  31,  2003, respectively.
Additional provisions recorded during the year ended December
31,  2005, the nine months ended December  31,  2004,
the three months ended March  31,  2004 and the year ended
December  31,  2003 approximately offset these
expenditures.

As events progress at each site for which it has
been named a PRP, the Company accrues, as appropriate, a liability for
site cleanup. Such liabilities include all costs that are probable and
can be reasonably estimated. In establishing these liabilities, the
Company considers its shipment of waste to a site, its percentage of
total waste shipped to the site, the types of wastes involved, the
conclusions of any studies, the magnitude of any remedial actions that
may be necessary and the number and viability of other PRPs. Often the
Company will join with other PRPs to sign joint defense agreements that
will settle, among PRPs, each party's percentage allocation of
costs at the site. Although the ultimate liability may differ from the
estimate, the Company routinely reviews the liabilities and revises the
estimate, as appropriate, based on the most current information
available.

Hoechst Liabilities

– In connection with
the Hoechst demerger, Celanese agreed to indemnify Hoechst for the
first €250  million (approximately $295
million) of future remediation liabilities for environmental damages
arising from 19 specified divested Hoechst entities. As of
December  31,  2005 and 2004, reserves of $33
million and $46  million, respectively, for these matters are
included as a component of the total environmental reserves. As of
December  31,  2005 and 2004, the Company, has made total
cumulative payments of $41  million and $38  million,
respectively. If such future liabilities exceed
€250  million (approximately $295  million),
Hoechst will bear such excess up to an additional
€500  million (approximately $590  million).
Thereafter, the Company will bear one-third and Hoechst will bear
two-thirds of any further environmental remediation liabilities. Where
the Company is unable to reasonably determine the probability of loss
or estimate such loss under this indemnification, the Company has not
recognized any liabilities relative to this
indemnification.

F-53

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

19.

Shareholders'
Equity (Deficit

)

Number of Shares
Issued

See table below for share
activity:

On
December  31,  2004, the capital structure of the Company
consisted of 650,494 shares of Series B common stock, par value $0.01
per share. In January  2005, the Company amended its certificate
of incorporation and increased its authorized common stock to
500,000,000 shares and the Company effected a 152.772947 for 1 stock
split for the outstanding shares of the Series B common stock.
Accordingly, all Successor share information is effected for such stock
split.

Preferred Stock

As a result of the offering in
January  2005 (See Note 3), the Company now has $240
million aggregate liquidation preference of outstanding preferred
stock. Holders of the preferred stock are entitled to receive, when, as
and if, declared by the Company's board of directors, out of
funds legally available therefore, cash dividends at the rate of
4.25% per annum of liquidation preference, payable quarterly in
arrears, commencing on May  1,  2005. Dividends on the
preferred stock are cumulative from the date of initial issuance.
Accumulated but unpaid dividends accumulate at an annual rate of
4.25%. The preferred stock is convertible, at the option of the
holder, at any time into approximately 1.25 shares of Series A common
stock, subject to adjustments, per $25.00 liquidation preference of
preferred stock and upon conversion will be recorded in
Shareholders' equity (deficit). As of December  31,
2005, the Company had $2  million of accumulated but undeclared
and unpaid dividends, which were declared on January  5,
2006 and paid on February  1,  2006.

Additional
Paid-in Capital

In connection with the demerger and pursuant to
the Demerger Agreement executed and delivered by the Predecessor and
Hoechst, the Predecessor assumed certain Hoechst’s businesses as
well as certain contractual rights, including indemnifications. For the
year ended December  31,  2005 and the nine months ended
December  31,  2004, the Successor recorded $5
million and $3  million, respectively, increases in

F-54

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

Additional paid-in capital related to
recoveries due from Hoechst for the antitrust matters in the sorbates
industry. During 2003, the Predecessor recorded a $44  million
increase to Additional paid-in capital related to recoveries due from
Hoechst for the antitrust matters in the sorbates industry (See Note
25).

During the year ended December  31,  2005,
additional paid-in capital was increased by $1  million related
to stock options that were subject to variable plan accounting. Also,
Additional paid-in capital was increased by $1 million and $14 million
for the year ended December 31, 2005 and the nine months ended December
31, 2004, respectively, related to the Company's discounted share
program. (See Note 22).

Funding for the Acquisition included an
initial equity investment of $641  million from Blackstone
Capital Partners (Cayman) Ltd. 1, Blackstone Capital Partners (Cayman)
Ltd. 2 and Blackstone Capital Partners (Cayman) Ltd. 3 (collectively,
‘‘Blackstone’’) and BA Capital Investors
Sidecar Fund, L.P. (and together with Blackstone, the
‘‘Original Shareholders’’).

During
2003, the Predecessor granted stock options totaling 0.1  million
in accordance with SFAS No. 123, and recognized compensation expense
for the fair value of these options. As a result, Additional paid-in
capital increased by $1  million during the three months ended
March  31,  2004 and $5  million in 2003 to reflect
the amortization of the fair value of the stock options (See Note
22).

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
(Loss)

Comprehensive income (loss), which is displayed in the
consolidated statement of shareholders' equity (deficit),
represents net earnings (loss) plus the results of certain
shareholders' equity (deficit) changes not reflected in the
consolidated statements of operations. Such items include unrealized
gains/losses on marketable securities, foreign currency translation,
additional minimum pension liabilities and unrealized gains/losses on
derivative contracts.

The after-tax components of Accumulated
other comprehensive income (loss) are as
follows:

Dividends

During
2005, the Company’s board of directors adopted a policy of
declaring, subject to legally available funds, a quarterly cash
dividend on each share of the Company’s common stock at an
annual rate initially equal to approximately 1% of the $16 price
per share in the initial public offering of the Company’s Series
A common stock (or $0.16 per share) unless the Company’s board
of directors, in its

F-55

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

sole discretion, determines otherwise.
Further, such dividends payable to holders of the Company’s
Series A common stock cannot be declared or paid nor can any funds be
set aside for the payment thereof, unless the Company has paid or set
aside funds for the payment of all accumulated and unpaid dividends
with respect to the shares of the Company’s preferred stock, as
described above.

During 2005, the Company declared and paid
dividends to holders of its Series A common shares of $13
million. These dividends were recorded to Additional paid-in capital as
the Company had an accumulated deficit until the fourth quarter of
2005.

In addition, on March  9,  2005, the Company
issued a 7,500,000 Series A common stock dividend to the Original
Shareholders of its Series B common stock.

On March
8,  2005, the Company declared a special cash dividend to holders
of the Company's Series B common stock of $804  million,
which was paid on April  7,  2005. Upon payment of the
$804  million dividend, all of the outstanding shares of Series B
common stock converted automatically to shares of Series A common
stock.

In September  2004, the Company issued senior
discount notes for gross proceeds of $513  million and
distributed $500  million of the proceeds to the Original
Stockholder in the form of a dividend.

During 2005, the Company
declared and paid cash dividends on its 4.25% convertible
preferred stock amounting to $8  million. These dividends were
recorded to additional paid in capital as the Company had an
accumulated deficit until the fourth quarter of
2005.

20.

Special (Charges)
Gains

Special (charges) gains include provisions for
restructuring and other expenses and income incurred outside the normal
ongoing course of operations. Restructuring provisions represent costs
related to severance and other benefit programs related to major
activities undertaken to fundamentally redesign the business
operations, as well as costs incurred in connection with decisions to
exit non-strategic businesses. These measures are based on formal
management decisions, establishment of agreements with employees'
representatives or individual agreements with affected employees, as
well as the public announcement of the restructuring plan. The related
reserves reflect certain estimates, including those pertaining to
separation costs, settlements of contractual obligations and other
closure costs. The Company reassesses the reserve requirements to
complete each individual plan under existing restructuring programs at
the end of each reporting period. Actual experience may be different
from these estimates.

The components of special (charges) gains
for the year ended December  31,  2005, the nine months
ended December  31,  2004, the three months ended
March  31,  2004 and for the year ended December
31,  2003 were as follows:

F-56

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)


In
connection with the completion of the initial public offering in
January  2005, the parties amended and restated the transaction
and monitoring fee agreement to terminate the monitoring services and
all obligations to pay future monitoring fees and paid Blackstone
Management Partners (the ‘‘Advisor’’) $35
million, which is included in other special (charges) gains in the
table above. In addition, the Company also paid $10  million to
the Advisor for the 2005 monitoring fee, which is included in Selling,
general and administrative expense on the consolidated statement of
operations (See Note 28).

Asset impairments primarily consists of
revised estimates related to the Company’s decision to divest
its COC business (See Note 6).

Special (charges) gains also
includes charges related to a change in environmental remediation
strategy related to the closure of the Edmonton methanol plant, as well
as severance primarily associated with the same closure of $8
million and severance related to the relocation of corporate offices of
$10  million.

These charges were offset by $34
million of income related to insurance recoveries associated with
plumbing actions.


Asset impairments primarily
consists of the original impairment related to the Company’s
decision to divest its COC business.

In October  2004, the
Company announced plans to consolidate its tow production to fewer
sites by 2007. In the third quarter of 2004, the Company recorded
restructuring charges of $43  million related to asset impairment
of the Company's acetate business. The restructuring is being
implemented to increase efficiency, reduce overcapacity and to focus on
products and markets that provide long-term value.

During the
nine months ended December  31,  2004, the Company
continued with its redesign initiatives. The Chemical Products segment
recorded $4  million of severance and organizational redesign
costs, which included $2  million related to the shutdown of an
obsolete synthesis gas unit in Germany. Technical Polymers Ticona
("Ticona") recorded $6  million
similarly for severance, relocation and employee related expenses,
primarily associated with management's initiative to relocate the
segment's administrative and research and development functions
from Summit, New Jersey to Florence, Kentucky.

For the three
months ended March  31,  2004, the Predecessor recorded
special charges of $26  million for advisory services related to
the Acquisition.

F-57

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)


In 2003, the
Predecessor recorded income of $107  million related to insurance
recoveries associated with the plumbing cases, partially offset by
$95  million of expenses for antitrust matters in the sorbates
industry, primarily related to a decision by the European Commission
(See Note 25).

In 2003, the Chemical Products segment recorded
employee severance charges of $4  million, which primarily
related to the shutdown of an obsolete synthesis gas unit in
Germany.

In 2003, Ticona commenced the redesign of its
operations. These plans included a decision to sell the Summit, New
Jersey site and to relocate administrative and research and development
activities to the existing Ticona site in Florence, Kentucky in 2004.
As a result of this decision, the Predecessor recorded termination
benefit expense of $5  million in 2003. In addition to the
relocation in the United States, Ticona has streamlined its operations
in Germany, primarily through offering employees early retirement
benefits under an existing employee benefit arrangement. As a result of
this arrangement, Ticona recorded a charge of $7  million in
2003.

Also in 2003, based on a 2002 restructuring initiative to
concentrate its European manufacturing operations in Germany, Ticona
ceased its manufacturing operations in Telford, United Kingdom. This
resulted in contract termination costs and asset impairments totaling
$7  million and employee severance costs of $1  million in
2003. Through December  31,  2003, the total costs of the
Telford shutdown through 2003 were $12  million.

The
$6  million of income from favorable adjustments of previously
recorded restructuring reserves consisted of a $1  million
adjustment to the 2002 reserves, a $4  million adjustment to the
2001 reserves and a $1  million adjustment to the 1999 reserves.
The adjustment to the 2002 reserve related to lower than expected costs
related to the demolition of the GUR Bayport facility. The adjustment
to the 2001 reserve was primarily due to the lower than expected
decommissioning costs of the Mexican production facility. The
adjustment to the 1999 reserve was due to lower than expected payments
related to the closure of a former administrative facility in the
United States.

F-58

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

The components of the December
31,  2005, the December  31,  2004 and March
31,  2004 restructuring reserves were as
follows:

Included
in the above restructuring reserve of $65  million and $86
million at December  31,  2005 and 2004, respectively, are
$21  million and $18  million, respectively, of long-term
reserves included in Other liabilities.

In connection with the
Acquisition, at the acquisition date, the Company began formulating a
plan to exit or restructure certain activities. The Company recorded
purchase accounting liabilities of $60  million, $51
million of which is included in the table above, with the remaining
$9  million recorded in Other current liabilities. These
liabilities were primarily for employee severance and related costs in
connection with the preliminary plan as well as approving the
continuation of all existing Predecessor restructuring and exit
plans.

21.

Income Taxes

As
of the periods ended December  31,  2005 and 2004, the
Company is headquartered in the U.S. Under U.S. tax law, U.S.
corporations are subject to a 35% federal corporate income tax.
In addition, U.S. corporations are generally subject to state income
taxes at various rates based on location. The blended state income tax
rate, after federal benefit, is approximately 2%.

For the
three months ended March  31,  2004 and for the year ended
2003, the Predecessor was headquartered in Germany. Under German tax
law, German corporations are subject to both a corporate income tax and
a trade income tax, the latter of which varies based upon location. The
German corporate income tax rate in 2003 was 26.5%. Combined
with a solidarity surcharge of 5.5% on the corporate tax, and
the blended trade income tax rate after corporate tax benefit, the
statutory tax rate in Germany was 41%.

F-59

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

For the three months ended March
31,  2004, the corporate rate was 25%. Combined with a
solidarity surcharge of 5.5% on the corporate tax, and the
blended trade income tax rate after corporate tax benefit, the
statutory tax rate in Germany was 40%.

Deferred taxes are
being provided at a 37% rate for the U.S. companies as of
December  31,  2005. Deferred taxes are being provided on
all other companies at the tax rate that will be in effect in the local
tax jurisdictions at the time the temporary differences are expected to
reverse.

F-60

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

A reconciliation of income tax provision
(benefit) for the year ended December  31,  2005, the nine
months ended December  31,  2004, the three months ended
March  31,  2004 and the year ended December
31,  2003 determined by using the applicable U.S. statutory rate
of 35% for the year and nine months ended December
31,  2005 and 2004, respectively, and the applicable German
statutory rate of 40% for the three months ended March
31,  2004; and 41% for the year ended December
31,  2003, respectively, is as
follows:

The
effective tax rate for the year ended December  31,  2005
and the nine months ended December  31,  2004 was
16% and negative 39%, respectively. The effective tax
rate for the three months ended March  31,  2004 and the
year ended December  31,  2003 was 22% and
26%, respectively.

For the year ended December
31,  2005, and as compared to the statutory rate, the effective
tax rate was favorably affected by unrepatriated low-taxed earnings,
primarily in Singapore and Bermuda. The effective tax rate was also
favorably affected by the reversal of valuation allowance on certain
German deferred tax assets of $31 million, primarily net operating loss
carryforwards, partially offset by increasing valuation allowances on
losses in other countries. A valuation allowance is provided when it is
more likely than not that a deferred tax asset, all or in part, will
not be realized.

For the nine months ended December  31,
2004, and as compared to the statutory rate, the effective tax rate was
unfavorably affected primarily by the application of full valuation
allowances against post-acquisition net U.S. deferred tax assets,
Canadian deferred tax assets due to post-acquisition restructuring and
certain German deferred tax assets. The effective rate was also
unfavorably affected by the non-recognition of tax benefits associated
with acquisition related expenses. The unfavorable effects were
partially offset by unrepatriated low taxed earnings, primarily in
Singapore. In the nine months ended December  31,  2004,
the Company finalized certain tax audits related to the pre-acquisition
period which resulted in a reduction to Income taxes payable of
approximately $113  million with a corresponding reduction to
Goodwill.

The effective tax rate for the three months ended
March  31,  2004 was based on a 24% annualized
effective rate which was primarily attributable to projected
unrepatriated low taxed earnings in Singapore.

F-61

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

In comparison to the German statutory tax
rate, the 2003 effective rate was favorably affected by unrepatriated
low-taxed earnings, favorable settlement of prior year (1996) taxes in
the U.S., equity earnings from Polyplastics Co. Ltd. which are excluded
from U.S. taxable income and utilization of a U.S. capital loss
carryforward that had been subject to a valuation allowance. The
effective tax rate was unfavorably affected in 2003 by dividend
distributions from subsidiaries and writedowns of certain German
corporate income and trade tax benefits related to prior
years.

The tax effects of the temporary differences which give
rise to a significant portion of deferred tax assets and liabilities
are as
follows:

(1)

Includes
deferred tax asset valuation allowances primarily for the
Company's deferred tax assets in the U.S., Mexico, France, Spain
and certain Canadian entities, as well as other foreign jurisdictions.
These valuation allowances relate to net operating loss carryforward
benefits and other net deferred tax assets, all of which may not be
realizable. Net operating loss and the related valuation allowance as
of December 31, 2004 was increased by $58 million due to a true-up of
state net operating losses in 2005.

At December
31,  2005, the Company had U.S. federal net operating loss
carryforwards of approximately $440  million, which will begin to
expire in 2023. Of this amount, approximately $51  million
relates to the pre-Acquisition period and is subject to significant
limitation. The acquisition and corresponding tax law governing the
utilization of acquired net operating losses triggered this limitation.

The Company has net operating loss carryforwards of
approximately $482 million for Germany Mexico, France and other foreign
jurisdictions with various expiration dates.

The U.S. net
deferred tax assets as of March  31,  2004 were $475
million. As a result of the Acquisition, a full valuation allowance was
applied against these net assets with a corresponding increase in
Goodwill. In addition, there was approximately $70 million of valuation
allowance associated with pre-acquisition net deferred tax assets in
Mexico and Canada, as well as other foreign jurisdictions. Subsequent
recognition of any tax benefit related to these temporary differences
and/or certain pre-acquisition net operating losses will be a decrease
to Goodwill.

The Company had U.S. capital loss carryforwards of
$104  million, which expired in October  2004 and
accordingly are not reflected in the 2004 deferred tax assets and
valuation allowance amounts above.

Provisions have not been made
for income taxes or foreign withholding taxes on cumulative earnings of
foreign subsidiaries of approximately $478 million because such
earnings will either not be subject to any such taxes or are intended
to be indefinitely reinvested in those operations. In addition, the
Company

F-62

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

has not provided taxes on approximately $480
million of temporary differences attributable to investments in foreign
subsidiaries and corporate ventures because such differences are
essentially permanent in duration. It is not practical to determine the
tax liability, if any, that would be payable if such amounts were not
reinvested indefinitely or were not permanent in duration.

The
American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the
"Act"), which was signed into law in October
2004, introduced a special one-time dividends received deduction on the
repatriation of certain foreign earnings to a U.S. taxpayer, provided
certain criteria are met. This provision was applicable to the last tax
year that began before the enactment date, or that begins in the
one-year period beginning on the enactment date. The Company did not
utilize this provision.

The income tax (benefit) expense for the
year ended December  31,  2005, the nine months ended
December  31,  2004, the three months ended March
31,  2004 and the year ended December  31,  2003 was
allocated to continuing operations and Accumulated other comprehensive
income. The aggregate tax expense (benefit) amounts allocated to
Accumulated other comprehensive income, for unrealized gains (losses)
on securities, additional minimum pension liabilities and unrealized
gains (losses) on derivative contracts was $(21) million, $(2) million,
$2  million, and $11  million for the year ended
December  31,  2005, the nine months ended December
31,  2004, the three months ended March  31,  2004
and the year ended December  31,  2003, respectively. The
income tax (benefit) expense associated with Accumulated other
comprehensive income is dependent upon the tax jurisdiction in which
the items arise and accordingly could result in an effective tax rate
that is different from the overall consolidated effective income tax
rate on the statement of
operations.

22.

Stock-Based and Other
Management Compensation Plans

In December  2004, the
Company approved a stock incentive plan for executive officers, key
employees and directors, a deferred compensation plan for executive
officers and key employees as well as other management incentive
programs.

These plans allow for the issuance or delivery of up to
16.25  million shares of the Company's Series A common
stock through stock options and a discounted share program. It is the
Company’s policy to grant options with an exercise price equal
to the price of the Company’s Series A common stock on the grant
date. The options have a ten-year term with vesting terms pursuant to a
schedule, with all vesting to occur no later than the 8th anniversary
of the date of the grant. Accelerated vesting depends on meeting
specified performance targets. Of the 12.1  million stock options
outstanding as of December  31,  2005, 11.4  million
are non-compensatory. The remaining 0.7  million options are
subject to variable plan accounting. Compensation expense related to
these options was approximately $1  million for the year ended
December  31,  2005.

F-63

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

A summary of the activity related to the
Celanese Corporation stock option program is presented in the table
below (stock options in millions):

In
December  2004, the Company granted rights to executive officers
and key employees to purchase up to 1,797,386 shares of Series A common
stock at a discount of $8.80 per share. As of December
31,  2005, 1,684,277 shares have been purchased. As a result of
this discounted share offering, the Company recorded a pre-tax non-cash
charge of $14  million, with a corresponding adjustment to
Additional paid-in capital within shareholders' equity (deficit)
in the fourth quarter 2004. Compensation expense associated with the
discounted shares was approximately $1  million for the year
ended December  31,  2005.

The deferred compensation
plan has an aggregate maximum amount payable of $192  million.
The initial component of the deferred compensation plan vested in 2004
and was paid in the first quarter of 2005. The remaining aggregate
maximum amount payable of $165  million is subject to downward
adjustment if the price of the Company’s Series A common stock
falls below the initial public offering price and vests subject to both
(1) continued employment or the achievement of certain performance
criteria and (2) the disposition by three of the four Original
Shareholders of at least 90% of their equity interest in the
Company with at least a 25% cash internal rate of return on
their equity interest. During the year ended December  31,
2005 and the nine months ended December  31,  2004, the
Company recorded compensation expense of $1 million and $27
million, respectively, associated with this plan.

The Predecessor
had multiple stock option plans, which resulted in the Predecessor
granting 1.2  million CAG stock options during 2002 and 2003 to
members of the Board of Management and key employees.

In
accordance with SFAS No. 123, the fair value of the 1.1  million
and 0.1  million options granted was $10  million and
$1  million, respectively. The fair value of these options was
recognized over the vesting period of two years. For the three months
ended March  31,  2004 and the year ended December
31,  2003 the Predecessor recognized compensation expense of
$2  million and $6  million, respectively, for these
options in the consolidated statements of operations with a
corresponding increase to Additional paid in capital within
Shareholders' equity (deficit).

There were no CAG stock
options outstanding as of December  31,  2005. There were
0.5  million CAG stock options outstanding as of December
31,  2004, all of which were exercised during 2005. There were
0.6  million CAG stock options exercised during
2004.

F-64

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

The weighted-average fair value of the
CAG options granted during the year ended December  31,
2003 was estimated to be €6.41 ($6.93) per option, on the
date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the
following
assumptions:

The Predecessor had
multiple stock appreciation right plans. As a result, the Successor
recorded expense associated with these plans of less than $1
million and less than $1  million for the year ended
December  31,  2005 and the nine months ended
December  31,  2004, respectively. The Predecessor recorded
expense associated with these plans of $1  million and $59
million for the three months ended March  31,  2004 and the
year ended December  31,  2003, respectively.

23.

Leases

Total rent
expense charged to operations under all operating leases was $93
million, $63  million, $21  million and $95  million
for the year ended December  31,  2005, the nine months
ended December  31,  2004, the three months ended
March  31,  2004 and for the year ended December
31,  2003, respectively. Future minimum lease payments under
non-cancelable rental and lease agreements which have initial or
remaining terms in excess of one year at December  31,
2005 are as
follows:

The
related assets for capital leases are included in buildings and
machinery and equipment in the consolidated balance sheet (See Note
11).

Management expects that, in the normal course of business,
leases that expire will be renewed or replaced by other
leases.

24.

Financial
Instruments

In the normal course of business, the Company
uses various financial instruments, including derivative financial
instruments, to manage risks associated with interest rate, currency,
certain raw material price and stock based compensation exposures. The
Company does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative
purposes.

Interest Rate Risk Management

The Company
may enter into interest rate swap agreements to reduce the exposure of
interest rate risk inherent in the Company's outstanding debt by
locking in borrowing rates to achieve a desired level

F-65

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

of fixed/floating rate debt depending on
market conditions. At December  31,  2005, the Company had
interest rate swap agreements, designated as cash flows hedges, with a
notional value of $300  million in place. At December
31,  2004, the Company had no interest rate swap agreements in
place. The Predecessor had open interest rate swaps with a notional
amount of $200  million at December  31,  2003. In
the second quarter of 2004, the Successor recorded a loss of less than
$1  million in Other income (expense), net, associated with the
early termination of its $200  million interest rate swap. During
2003, the Predecessor recorded a loss of $7  million in Other
income (expense), net, associated with the early termination of one of
its interest rate swaps. The Successor recognized interest expense from
hedging activities relating to interest rate swaps of $3  million
and $1  million for the year ended December  31,
2005 and the nine months ended December  31,  2004,
respectively. The Predecessor recognized net interest expense from
hedging activities relating to interest rate swaps of $2  million
and $11  million for the three months ended March
31,  2004 and the year ended December  31,  2003,
respectively. The Predecessor recorded a net gain (loss) of less than
($1) million and $2  million in Other income (expense), net of
the ineffective portion of the interest rate swaps, during the three
months ended March  31,  2004 and the year ended
December  31,  2003, respectively.

Foreign
Exchange Risk Management

Certain entities have receivables and
payables denominated in currencies other than their respective
functional currencies, which creates foreign exchange risk. The Company
may enter into foreign currency forwards and swaps to minimize its
exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. The foreign currency
contracts are mainly for booked exposure and, in some cases, cash flow
hedges for anticipated exposure associated with sales from the
Performance Products segment.

In June  2004, as part of its
currency risk management, the Company entered into a cross currency
swap with certain financial institutions. Under the terms of the swap
arrangement, the Company will pay approximately €13
million in interest and receive approximately $16  million in
interest on each June  15 and December  15 (with interest
for the first period prorated). Upon maturity of the swap agreement in
June  2008, the Company will pay approximately
€276  million and receive approximately $333
million. The Company designated the cross currency swap, part of its
senior euro term loan and the euro senior subordinated note as a net
investment hedge (for accounting purposes) in the fourth quarter of
2004. The loss related to the swap was $18  million and
$21  million for the year ended December  31,  2005
and the nine months ended December  31,  2004,
respectively, of which $3  million in 2005 and $14  million
in 2004 is related to the ineffectiveness of the net investment hedge
and recorded in Other income (expense), net in the consolidated
statement of operations. At December  31,  2005 and the
nine months ended December  31,  2004, the effects of the
swap resulted in an increase in Shareholders’ equity (deficit)
of $14  million and a decrease in Shareholders’ equity
(deficit) of $36  million, respectively.

Contracts with
notional amounts totaling approximately $564  million and
$288  million at December  31,  2005 and 2004,
respectively, are predominantly in U.S. dollars, British pound
sterling, Japanese yen, and Canadian dollars. Most of the
Company's foreign currency forward contracts did not meet the
criteria of SFAS No. 133 to qualify for hedge accounting. The Company
recognizes net foreign currency transaction gains or losses on the
underlying transactions, which are offset by losses and gains related
to foreign currency forward contracts. As of December  31,
2005 and 2004, these contracts, in addition to natural hedges, hedged
approximately 100% of the Company's net receivables held
in currencies other than the entities' functional currency for
the Company’s European operations. Related to the unhedged
portion during the year, a net gain (loss) of approximately $20
million, ($2) million and $4  million from foreign exchange gains
or losses was recorded to Other income (expense), net for the year
ended December  31,  2005, the nine months ended
December  31,  2004 and the three months ended March
31,  2004, respectively. During 2003, the Predecessor's
foreign currency forward contracts resulted in a decrease in total
assets of $8  million and an increase in total liabilities of
$1  million. As of December  31,  2003, these

F-66

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

contracts hedged a portion (approximately
85%) of the Predecessor's U.S. dollar denominated
intercompany net receivables held by euro denominated entities. Related
to the unhedged portion, a net loss of approximately $14  million
from foreign exchange gains or losses was recorded to Other income
(expense), net in 2003.

Commodity Risk
Management

The Company's policy for the majority of the
Company’s natural gas and butane requirements allows entering
into supply agreements and forward purchase or cash-settled swap
contracts. The Successor recognized losses of less than $1
million from natural gas swaps and butane contracts for the year ended
December  31,  2005 and the nine months ended
December  31,  2004, respectively. The Predecessor
recognized losses of $1  million and $3  million from
natural gas swaps and butane contracts for the three months ended
March  31,  2004 and the year ended December
31,  2003, respectively. There was no material impact on the
balance sheet at December  31,  2005 and 2004. There were
no unrealized gains and losses associated with the cash-settled swap
contracts as of December  31,  2005 and 2004. Celanese did
not have any open commodity swaps as of December  31,
2005.

Stock Based Compensation Risk
Management

During 2001, the Predecessor purchased call options
for one million shares of CAG stock to offset, in part, its exposure of
the 2000 Celanese LTIP. These options had a maturity of two years, a
strike price of €19.56 per share and an average premium of
€4.39 per share. These options expired during 2003. As a
result, a net loss of $1  million was recorded to interest income
in 2003.

Fair Value of Financial
Instruments

Summarized below are the carrying values and
estimated fair values of financial instruments as of December
31,  2005 and 2004, respectively. For these purposes, the fair
value of a financial instrument is the amount at which the instrument
could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing
parties.

At
December  31,  2005 and 2004, the fair values of cash and
cash equivalents, receivables, notes payable, trade payables,
short-term debt and the current installments of long-term debt
approximate carrying values due to the short-term nature of these
instruments. These items have been excluded from the table.
Additionally, certain long-term receivables, principally insurance
recoverables, are carried at net realizable value (See Note
25).

Included in other assets are long-term marketable securities
classified as available-for-sale. In general, the cost investments
included in the table above are not publicly traded and their fair
values are not readily determinable; however, the Company believes that
the carrying value approximates or is less than the fair
value.

F-67

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

The fair value of long-term debt and
debt-related financial instruments is estimated based upon the
respective implied forward rates as of December  31,  2005
and 2004, as well as quotations from investment bankers and on current
rates of debt for similar type
instruments.

25.

Commitments and
Contingencies

The Company is involved in a number of legal
proceedings, lawsuits and claims incidental to the normal conduct of
its business, relating to such matters as product liability,
anti-trust, past waste disposal practices and release of chemicals into
the environment. While it is impossible at this time to determine with
certainty the ultimate outcome of these proceedings, lawsuits and
claims, management believes, based on the advice of legal counsel, that
adequate provisions have been made and that the ultimate outcome will
not have a material adverse effect on the financial position of the
Company, but may have a material adverse effect on the results of
operations or cash flows in any given accounting
period.

Plumbing Actions

CNA Holdings, Inc.
(‘‘CNA Holdings’’), a U.S. subsidiary of
the Company, which included the U.S. business now conducted by the
Ticona segment, along with Shell Oil Company
(‘‘Shell’’), E.I. DuPont de Nemours and
Company (‘‘DuPont’’) and others, has been a
defendant in a series of lawsuits, including a number of class actions,
alleging that plastics manufactured by these companies that were
utilized in the production of plumbing systems for residential property
were defective or caused such plumbing systems to fail. Based on, among
other things, the findings of outside experts and the successful use of
Ticona's acetal copolymer in similar applications, CNA Holdings
does not believe Ticona's acetal copolymer was defective or
caused the plumbing systems to fail. In many cases CNA Holdings'
exposure may be limited by invocation of the statute of limitations
since CNA Holdings ceased selling the resin for use in the plumbing
systems in site built homes during 1986 and in manufactured homes
during 1990.

CNA Holdings has been named a defendant in ten
putative class actions, as well as a defendant in other non-class
actions filed in ten states, the U.S. Virgin Islands and Canada. In
these actions, the plaintiffs typically have sought recovery for
alleged property damages and, in some cases, additional damages under
the Texas Deceptive Trade Practices Act or similar type statutes.
Damage amounts have not been specified.

In November  1995,
CNA Holdings, DuPont and Shell entered into national class action
settlements, which have been approved by the courts. The settlements
call for the replacement of plumbing systems of claimants who have had
qualifying leaks, as well as reimbursements for certain leak damage.
Furthermore, the three companies had agreed to fund these replacements
and reimbursements up to $950  million. As of December
31,  2005, the aggregate funding is $1,073  million due to
additional contributions and funding commitments made primarily by
other parties. There are additional pending lawsuits in approximately
ten jurisdictions, not covered by this settlement; however, these cases
do not involve (either individually or in the aggregate) a large number
of homes, and management does not expect the obligations arising from
these lawsuits to have a material adverse effect on the
Company.

In 1995, CNA Holdings and Shell settled the claims
relating to individuals in Texas owning a total of 110,000 property
units, who are represented by a Texas law firm, for an amount that will
not exceed $170  million. These claimants are also eligible for a
replumb of their homes in accordance with terms similar to those of the
national class action settlement. CNA Holdings' and
Shell’s contributions under this settlement were subject to
allocation as determined by binding arbitration.

In addition, a
lawsuit filed in November  1989 in Delaware Chancery Court,
between CNA Holdings and various of its insurance companies relating to
all claims incurred and to be incurred for the product liability
exposure led to a partial declaratory judgment in CNA Holdings'
favor. As a result, settlements have been reached with a majority of
CNA Holdings' insurers specifying their responsibility for these
claims.

CNA Holdings has accrued its best estimate of its share
of the plumbing actions. At December  31,  2005 and 2004,
the Company had remaining accruals of $68  million and $73
million, respectively,

F-68

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

for this matter, of which $6  million
and $11  million, respectively, is included in current
liabilities. Management believes that the plumbing actions are
adequately provided for in the Company’s consolidated financial
statements and that they will not have a material adverse effect on our
financial position. However, if the Company were to incur an additional
charge for this matter, such a charge would not be expected to have a
material adverse effect on our financial position, but may have a
material adverse effect on the results of operations or cash flows in
any given accounting period.

The Company has reached settlements
with CNA Holdings' insurers specifying their responsibility for
these claims; as a result, the Company has recorded receivables
relating to the anticipated recoveries from certain third party
insurance carriers. These receivables are based on the probability of
collection, an opinion of external counsel, the settlement agreements
with the Company’s insurance carriers whose coverage level
exceeds the receivables and the status of current discussions with
other insurance carriers. As of December  31,  2005, the
Company has $22  million of receivables related to a settlement
with an insurance carrier. This receivable is discounted and recorded
within other assets as it will be collected over the next three
years.

In February  2005, CNA Holdings reached a settlement
agreement through mediation with another insurer, pursuant to which the
insurer paid CNA Holdings $44  million in exchange for the
release of certain claims against the policy with the insurer. This
amount was recorded as a reduction of Goodwill as of December
31,  2004 and was received during the year ended December
31,  2005.

Sorbates Antitrust Actions

In
May  2002, the European Commission informed Hoechst of its intent
to investigate officially the sorbates industry. In early
January  2003, the European Commission served Hoechst, Nutrinova,
Inc., a U.S. subsidiary of Nutrinova Nutrition Specialties & Food
Ingredients GmbH, previously a wholly owned subsidiary of Hoechst, and
a number of competitors with a statement of objections alleging
unlawful, anticompetitive behavior affecting the European sorbates
market. In October  2003, the European Commission ruled that
Hoechst, Chisso Corporation, Daicel Chemical Industries Ltd., The
Nippon Synthetic Chemical Industry Co. Ltd. and Ueno Fine Chemicals
Industry Ltd. operated a cartel in the European sorbates market between
1979 and 1996. The European Commission imposed a total fine of
€138  million, of which €99
million was assessed against Hoechst. The case against Nutrinova was
closed. The fine against Hoechst is based on the European
Commission's finding that Hoechst does not qualify under the
leniency policy, is a repeat violator and, together with Daicel, was a
co-conspirator. In Hoechst's favor, the European Commission gave
a discount for cooperating in the investigation. Hoechst appealed the
European Commission's decision in December  2003, and that
appeal is still pending.

In addition, several civil antitrust
actions by sorbates customers, seeking monetary damages and other
relief for alleged conduct involving the sorbates industry, have been
filed in U.S. state and federal courts naming Hoechst, Nutrinova, and
our other subsidiaries, as well as other sorbates manufacturers, as
defendants. Many of these actions have been settled and dismissed by
the court. One private action,

Kerr v. Eastman Chemical Co. et
al

., previously pending in the Superior Court of New Jersey, Law
Division Gloucester County, was dismissed for failure to prosecute. The
plaintiff alleged violations of the New Jersey Antitrust Act and the
New Jersey Consumer Fraud Act and sought unspecified damages. The only
other private action previously pending,

Freeman v. Daicel et
al.

, had been dismissed. The plaintiffs lost their appeal to
the Supreme Court of Tennessee in August  2005 and have since
filed a motion for leave.

In July  2001, Hoechst and
Nutrinova entered into an agreement with the Attorneys General of 33
states, pursuant to which the statutes of limitations were tolled
pending the states' investigations. This agreement expired in
July  2003. Since October  2002, the Attorneys General for
New York, Illinois, Ohio, Nevada, Utah and Idaho filed suit on behalf
of indirect purchasers in their respective states. The Utah, Nevada and
Idaho actions have been dismissed as to Hoechst, Nutrinova and the
Company. A motion for reconsideration is pending in Nevada. The Ohio
and Illinois actions have been settled and the Idaho action was
dismissed in February  2005. The New York action,

New York v.
Daicel Chemical Industries Ltd., et al

. which was pending in the
New York State Supreme Court, New York County was dismissed in

F-69

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

August  2005; however, it is still
subject to appeal. In January  2005, Hoechst, Nutrinova, and
other subsidiaries, as well as other sorbates manufacturers, entered
into a settlement agreement with the Attorneys General of Connecticut,
Florida, Hawaii, Maryland, South Carolina, Oregon and Washington before
these states filed suit. Pursuant to the terms of the settlement
agreement, the defendants agreed to refrain from engaging in
anticompetitive conduct with respect to the sale or distribution of
sorbates and pay approximately $1  million to the states in
satisfaction of all released claims.

Based on the advice of
external counsel and a review of the existing facts and circumstances
relating to the sorbates matter, including the status of government
investigations, as well as civil claims filed and settled, the Company
has remaining accruals of $129  million. This amount is included
in current liabilities at December  31,  2005 for the
estimated loss relative to this matter. At December  31,
2004, the accrual was $145  million. Although the outcome of this
matter cannot be predicted with certainty, management's best
estimate of the range of possible additional future losses and fines
(in excess of amounts already accrued), including any that may result
from the above noted governmental proceedings, as of December
31,  2005 is between $0 million and $9  million. The
estimated range of such possible future losses is management's
best estimate based on the advice of external counsel taking into
consideration potential fines and claims, both civil and criminal, that
may be imposed or made in other jurisdictions.

Pursuant to the
Demerger Agreement with Hoechst, Celanese AG was assigned the
obligation related to the sorbates matter. However, Hoechst agreed to
indemnify Celanese AG for 80% of any costs Celanese may incur
relative to this matter. Accordingly, Celanese AG has recognized a
receivable from Hoechst and a corresponding contribution of capital,
net of tax, from this indemnification. As of December  31,
2005 and 2004, the Company has receivables, recorded within current
assets, relating to the sorbates indemnification from Hoechst totaling
$103  million and $116  million, respectively. The Company
believes that any resulting liabilities, net of amounts recoverable
from Hoechst, will not, in the aggregate, have a material adverse
effect on its financial position, but may have a material adverse
effect on the results of operations or cash flows in any given
period.

Acetic Acid Patent Infringement
Matters

Celanese International Corporation v. China
Petrochemical Development Corporation—Taiwan Kaohsiung District
Court.

On February  7,  2001, Celanese
International Corporation filed a private criminal action for patent
infringement against China Petrochemical Development Corporation, or
CPDC, alleging that CPDC infringed Celanese International
Corporation's patent covering the manufacture of acetic acid.
Celanese International Corporation also filed a supplementary civil
brief which, in view of changes in Taiwanese patent laws, was
subsequently converted to a civil action alleging damages against CPDC
based on a period of infringement of ten years, 1991-2000, and based on
CPDC's own data and as reported to the Taiwanese securities and
exchange commission. Celanese International Corporation's patent
was held valid by the Taiwanese patent office. On August
31,  2005 a Taiwanese court held that CPDC infringed Celanese
International Corporation’s acetic acid patent and awarded
Celanese International Corporation approximately $28  million for
the period of 1995 through 1999. The judgment has been appealed. The
Company will not record income associated with this favorable judgment
until cash is received.

Shareholder
Litigation

A number of minority shareholders of CAG have
filed lawsuits in the Frankfurt District Court

(Landgericht)

that, among other things, request the court to set aside
shareholder resolutions passed at the extraordinary general meeting
held on July 30 and 31, 2004, as well as the confirmatory resolutions
passed at the annual general meeting held on May 19 and 20, 2005. On
March 6, 2006, the Purchaser and CAG signed a settlement agreement with
eleven minority shareholders who had filed such lawsuits (the
"Settlement Agreement"). Pursuant to the
Settlement Agreement, the plaintiffs agreed to withdraw the actions to
which they are a party and to recognize the validity of the Domination
Agreement in exchange for the Purchaser to offer least
€51.00 per share as cash consideration to each shareholder
who will cease

F-70

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

to be a shareholder in the context of the
Squeeze-Out. The Purchaser further agreed to make early payment of the
guaranteed annual payment

(Ausgleich)

pursuant to the Domination
Agreement for the financial year 2005/2006, ending on September 30,
2006. Such guaranteed annual payment normally would have come due
following the annual general meeting in 2007; however, pursuant to the
Settlement Agreement, it will be made on the first banking day
following CAG's annual general meeting that commences on May 30,
2006. To receive the early compensation payment, the respective
minority shareholder will have to declare that (i) their claim for
payment of compensation for the financial year 2005/2006 pursuant to
the Domination Agreement is settled by such early payment and that (ii)
in this respect, they indemnify the Purchaser against compensation
claims by any legal successors to their shares.

During
August  2004, nine actions requesting this court to set aside
shareholder resolutions passed at the extraordinary general meeting
held on July 30-31, 2004 had been brought by minority shareholders
against CAG in the Frankfurt District Court (

Landgericht

), all
of which were consolidated in September  2004. Several minority
shareholders joined these proceedings via a third party intervention in
support of the plaintiffs. The Purchaser joined the proceedings via a
third party intervention in support of CAG. These ten actions have been
withdrawn pursuant to the Settlement Agreement.

These actions
request the court to set aside shareholder resolutions passed at the
extraordinary general meeting held on July  30 and 31, 2004 based
on allegations that include the alleged violation of procedural
requirements and information rights of the shareholders. Based on the
information as available, the outcome of the foregoing proceedings
cannot be predicted with certainty.

Twenty-seven minority
shareholders filed lawsuits (

Anfechtungs - und
Nichtigkeitsklagen

) in May and June of 2005 in the Frankfurt
District Court (

Landgericht

) contesting the shareholder
resolutions passed at the annual general meeting held May
19-20,  2005, which confirmed the resolutions passed at the
July  30-31,  2004 extraordinary general meeting. In
conjunction with the acquisition of 5.9  million CAG shares from
two shareholders in August  2005, two of those lawsuits were
withdrawn in August  2005 and another ten will be withdrawn
pursuant to the Settlement Agreement (See Note 1).

In June and
September  2005, Celanese AG was served in five actions filed in
the Frankfurt District Court (

Landgericht

) requesting that the
court declare some or all of the shareholder resolutions passed at the
extraordinary general meeting on July  30 and 31, 2004 null and
void (

Nichtigkeitsklage

), based on allegations that certain
formal requirements necessary in connection with the invitation to the
extraordinary general meeting had been violated. The Frankfurt District
Court (

Landgericht

) has suspended the proceedings regarding the
resolutions passed at the July  30-31,  2004 extraordinary
general meeting described above as long as the lawsuits contesting the
confirmatory resolutions are pending.

On August  2,
2004, two minority shareholders instituted public register proceedings
with each of the Königstein Local Court (

Amtsgericht

) and
the Frankfurt District Court (

Landgericht

), both with a view to
have the registration of the Domination Agreement in the Commercial
Register deleted (

Amtslöschungsverfahren

). These actions
are based on an alleged violation of procedural requirements at the
extraordinary general meeting held July  30 and 31, 2004, an
alleged undercapitalization of the Purchaser and its related entities
as of the time of the tender offer, and an alleged misuse of discretion
by the competent court with respect to the registration of the
Domination Agreement in the Commercial Register. In April  2005,
the court of appeals rejected the demand by one shareholder for
injunctive relief, and in June  2005 the Frankfurt District Court
(

Landgericht

) ruled that it does not have jurisdiction over this
matter. One of the claims in the Königstein Local Court
(

Amtsgericht

) is still pending; the other will be withdrawn
pursuant to the Settlement Agreement.

In February  2005, a
minority shareholder of CAG also brought a lawsuit against the
Purchaser, as well as a former member of CAG's board of
management and a former member of CAG's supervisory board, in the
Frankfurt District Court (

Landgericht

). Among other things, this
action seeks to unwind the tender of the plaintiff's shares in
the Tender Offer and seeks compensation for damages suffered as a
consequence of tendering shares in the Tender Offer. The court ruled
against the plaintiff in this matter

F-71

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

in June  2005. The plaintiff appealed
this decision with respect to the Purchaser and the former member of
the CAG board of management; however, the appeal will be withdrawn
pursuant to the Settlement Agreement.

Based upon the information
available as of March 30, 2006, the outcome of the foregoing
proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty.

The amounts of
the fair cash compensation (

Abfindung

) and of the guaranteed
fixed annual payment (

Ausgleich

) offered under the Domination
Agreement may be increased in special award proceedings
(

Spruchverfahren

) initiated by minority shareholders, which may
further reduce the funds the Purchaser can otherwise make available to
the Company. As of March  30,  2005, several minority
shareholders of CAG had initiated special award proceedings seeking the
court's review of the amounts of the fair cash compensation
(

Abfindung

) and of the guaranteed fixed annual payment
(

Ausgleich

) offered under the Domination Agreement. As a result
of these proceedings, the amount of the fair cash consideration and the
guaranteed fixed annual payment offered under the Domination Agreement
could be increased by the court so that all minority shareholders,
including those who have already tendered their shares into the
Mandatory Offer and have received the fair cash compensation could
claim the respective higher amounts. The court dismissed all of these
proceedings in March  2005 on the grounds of inadmissibility.
Thirty-three plaintiffs appealed the dismissal, and in January 2006,
twenty-three of these appeals were granted by the court. They were
remanded back to the court of first instance, where the valuation will
be further reviewed.

Guarantees

The Company has
agreed to guarantee or indemnify third parties for environmental and
other liabilities pursuant to a variety of agreements, including asset
and business divestiture agreements, leases, settlement agreements, and
various agreements with affiliated companies. Although many of these
obligations contain monetary and/or time limitations, others do not
provide such limitations.

The Company has accrued for all
probable and reasonably estimable losses associated with all known
matters or claims that have been brought to its attention (See Note
18).

These known obligations include the
following:

Demerger Obligations

The Company has
obligations to indemnify Hoechst for various liabilities under the
Demerger Agreement as follows:

•

The
Company agreed to indemnify Hoechst for environmental liabilities
associated with contamination arising under 19 divestiture agreements
entered into by Hoechst prior to the demerger.

The
Company's obligation to indemnify Hoechst is subject to the
following thresholds:

•

The Company will
indemnify Hoechst against those liabilities up to
€250
million;

•

Hoechst will bear those
liabilities exceeding €250  million, however the
Company will reimburse Hoechst for one-third of those liabilities for
amounts that exceed €750  million in the
aggregate.

The Company's obligation regarding two
agreements has been settled. The aggregate maximum amount of
environmental indemnifications under the remaining divestiture
agreements that provide for monetary limits is approximately
€750  million. Three of the divested agreements do
not provide for monetary limits.

Based on the estimate of the
probability of loss under this indemnification, the Company had
reserves of $33  million and $46  million as of
December  31,  2005 and 2004, respectively, for this
contingency. Where the Company is unable reasonably to determine the
probability of loss or estimate such loss under an indemnification, the
Company has not recognized any related liabilities (See Note
18).

F-72

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

The Company has also undertaken in the
Demerger Agreement to indemnify Hoechst to the extent that Hoechst is
required to discharge liabilities, including tax liabilities,
associated with businesses that were included in the demerger where
such liabilities were not demerged, due to legal restrictions on the
transfers of such items. These indemnities do not provide for any
monetary or time limitations. The Company has not provided for any
reserves associated with this indemnification. Neither the Company nor
the Predecessor made any payments to Hoechst in the year ended
December  31,  2005, the nine months ended December
31,  2004, the three months ended March  31,  2004 or
the year ended December  31,  2003 in connection with this
indemnification.

Divestiture Obligations

The Company
and its predecessor companies agreed to indemnify third party
purchasers of former businesses and assets for various pre-closing
conditions, as well as for breaches of representations, warranties and
covenants. Such liabilities also include environmental liability,
product liability, antitrust and other liabilities. These
indemnifications and guarantees represent standard contractual terms
associated with typical divestiture agreements and, other than
environmental liabilities, the Company does not believe that they
expose the Company to any significant risk.

The Company and the
Predecessor have divested in the aggregate over 20 businesses,
investments and facilities, through agreements containing
indemnifications or guarantees to the purchasers. Many of the
obligations contain monetary and/or time limitations, ranging from one
year to 30 years. The aggregate amount of guarantees provided for under
these agreements is approximately $2.9  billion as of
December  31,  2005. Other agreements do not provide for
any monetary or time limitations.

Based on historical claims
experience and its knowledge of the sites and businesses involved, the
Company believes that it is adequately reserved for these matters. As
of December  31,  2005 and 2004, the Company has reserves
in the aggregate of $54  million and $52  million,
respectively, for all such environmental matters.

Plumbing
Insurance Indemnifications

CAG entered into agreements with
insurance companies related to product liability settlements associated
with Celcon

®

plumbing claims. These agreements,
except those with insolvent insurance companies, require the Company to
indemnify and/or defend these insurance companies in the event that
third parties seek additional monies for matters released in these
agreements. The indemnifications in these agreements do not provide for
time limitations.

In certain of the agreements, CAG received a
fixed settlement amount. The indemnities under these agreements
generally are limited to, but in some cases are greater than, the
amount received in settlement from the insurance company. The maximum
exposure under these indemnifications is $95  million. Other
settlement agreements have no stated limits.

There are other
agreements whereby the settling insurer agreed to pay a fixed
percentage of claims that relate to that insurer's policies. The
Company has provided indemnifications to the insurers for amounts paid
in excess of the settlement percentage. These indemnifications do not
provide for monetary or time limitations.

The Company has
reserves associated with these product liability claims. See

Plumbing Actions

above.

Other
Obligations

•

The Company is secondarily
liable under a lease agreement pursuant to which the Company has
assigned a direct obligation to a third party. The lease assumed by the
third party expires on April  30,  2012. The lease
liability for the period from January  1,  2006 to
April  30,  2012 is estimated to be approximately
$49  million.

F-73

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

•

The Company has
agreed to indemnify various insurance carriers, for amounts not in
excess of the settlements received, from claims made against these
carriers subsequent to the settlement. The aggregate amount of
guarantees under these settlements is approximately $10  million,
which is unlimited in term.

As indemnification obligations often
depend on the occurrence of unpredictable future events, the future
costs associated with them cannot be determined at this time. However,
the Company were to incur additional charges for these matters, such
charges may have a material adverse effect on the financial position,
results of operations or cash flows of the Company in any given
accounting period.

Other Matters

In the normal
course of business, the Company enters into commitments to purchase
goods and services over a fixed period of time. The Company maintains a
number of ‘‘take-or-pay’’ contracts for the
purchase of raw materials and utilities. As of December
31,  2005, there were outstanding future commitments of
approximately $1,312  million under take-or-pay contracts. The
Company does not expect to incur any losses under these contractual
arrangements and historically has not incurred any material losses
related to these contracts. Additionally, as of December
31,  2005, there were outstanding commitments relating to capital
projects of approximately $85  million.

As of
December  31,  2005, Celanese Ltd. and/or CNA Holdings,
Inc., both U.S. subsidiaries of the Company, are defendants in
approximately 630 asbestos cases. Because many of these cases involve
numerous plaintiffs, the Company is subject to claims significantly in
excess of the number of actual cases. The Company has reserves for
defense costs related to claims arising from these matters. The Company
believes that there is not significant exposure related to these
matters.

During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company
recorded a gain of $36 million from the settlement of
transportation-related antitrust matters. This amount was recorded
against cost of sales.

Under the transaction and monitoring fee
agreement/sponsor services agreement, the Company has agreed to
indemnify the Advisor and its affiliates and their respective partners,
members, directors, officers, employees, agents and representatives for
any and all losses relating to services contemplated by these
agreements and the engagement of the Advisor pursuant to, and the
performance by the Advisor or the services contemplated by, these
agreements. The Company has also agreed under the transaction and
monitoring fee agreement/sponsor services agreement to reimburse the
Advisor and its affiliates for their expenses incurred in connection
with the services provided under these agreements or in connection with
their ownership or subsequent sale of Celanese Corporation stock (See
Note 28).

The Company entered into an agreement with Goldman,
Sachs & Co. oHG, an affiliate of Goldman, Sachs and Co., on
December  15,  2003 (the ‘‘Goldman Sachs
Engagement Letter’’), pursuant to which Goldman Sachs
acted as the Company’s financial advisor in connection with the
tender offer. Pursuant to the terms of the Goldman Sachs Engagement
Letter, in March  2004, Celanese AG paid Goldman Sachs a
financial advisory fee equal to $13  million and a discretionary
bonus equal to $5  million, upon consummation of the tender
offer. In addition, Celanese AG agreed to reimburse Goldman Sachs for
all its reasonable expenses and to indemnify Goldman Sachs and related
persons for all direct damages arising in connection with Goldman Sachs
Engagement Letter.

From time to time, certain of the
Company's foreign subsidiaries have made sales of acetate,
sweeteners and polymer products to customers in countries that are or
have previously been subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the
U.S. government. These countries include Cuba, Iran, Sudan and Syria,
four countries currently identified by the U.S. State Department as
terrorist-sponsoring states and other countries that previously have
been identified by the U.S. State Department as terrorist-sponsoring
states, or countries to which sales have been regulated in connection
with other foreign policy concerns. In September 2005, the Company
began an investigation of these transactions and initially identified
approximately $10  million of sales by its foreign subsidiaries
that may be in violation of regulations of the United States Treasury
Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, or

F-74

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

the United States Department of
Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security. The Company now
believes that approximately $5 million of these sales may actually be
violations of U.S. law or regulation. The potential violations
uncovered by the investigation include approximately $180,000 of sales
of emulsions to Cuba by two of the Company's foreign
subsidiaries. Sales to Cuba are violations of OFAC regulations. In
addition, the Company has recently discovered that its sales office in
Turkey sold polymer products to companies in Iran and Syria, including
indirectly selling product through other companies located in
non-embargoed locations. These transactions may have involved an
intentional violation of the Company's policies and federal
regulations by employees of its office in Turkey. The Company's
investigation of potentially prohibited sales is ongoing and it can not
yet be certain of the number of these transactions, the sales amounts
or the identity of every individual who may have been involved.
However, sales from our office in Turkey to all customers are
approximately $12 million annually.

The Company has voluntarily
disclosed these matters to the U.S. Treasury Department and the U.S.
Department of Commerce, and it is currently engaged in discussions with
them. The Company has also taken corrective actions, including
directives to senior business leaders prohibiting such sales, as well
as modifications to its accounting systems that are intended to prevent
the initiation of sales to countries that are subject to the U.S.
Treasury Department or the U.S. Department of Commerce
restrictions.

If violations of the U.S. export control laws are
found the Company could be subject to civil penalties of up to $50,000
per violation, and criminal penalties could range up to the greater of
$1 million per violation, or five times the value of the goods sold. If
such violations occurred, the United States Government could deny the
Company export privileges. The ultimate resolution of this matter is
subject to completion of the Company's investigation and a final
ruling or settlement with the government. Accordingly, the Company
cannot estimate the potential sanctions or fines relating to this
matter. There can be no assurance that any governmental investigation
or the Company's investigation of these matters will not conclude
that violations of applicable laws have occurred or that the results of
these investigations will not have a material adverse effect on the
Company's business and results of operations.

26.

Supplemental Cash Flow
Information

F-75

27.

Business
and Geographical Segments

Information with respect to the
industry segments is as
follows:

F-76

(1)

Defined
as operating profit (loss) divided by net sales (which includes sales
to external customers and inter-segment
revenues)

n.m. = not
meaningful

Business
Segments

Chemical Products

primarily produces and
supplies acetyl products, including acetic acid, vinyl acetate monomer
and polyvinyl alcohol; specialty and oxo products, including organic
solvents and other intermediates;

Acetate Products

primarily produces and supplies acetate filament and acetate
tow;

Ticona,

the technical polymers segment, develops and
supplies a broad portfolio of high performance technical polymers;
and

Performance Products

consists of Nutrinova, the high
intensity sweetener and food protection ingredients business.

The
segment management reporting and controlling systems are based on the
same accounting policies as those described in the summary of
significant accounting policies in Note 4. The Company evaluates
performance based on operating profit, net earnings (loss), cash flows
and other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with
U.S. GAAP.

F-77

Sales and revenues related to transactions
between segments are generally recorded at values that approximate
third-party selling prices. Revenues and long-term assets are allocated
to countries based on the location of the business. Capital
expenditures represent the purchase of property, plant and
equipment.

The reconciliation column includes (a) operations of
certain other operating entities and their related assets, liabilities,
revenues and expenses, (b) the elimination of inter-segment sales, (c)
assets and liabilities not allocated to a segment, (d) corporate center
costs for support services such as legal, accounting and treasury
functions and (e) interest income or expense associated with financing
activities of the Company.

Additionally, the Company recognized
special charges (gains) in the year ended December  31,
2005, the nine months ended December  31,  2004, the three
months ended March  31,  2004 and the year ended
December  31,  2003 primarily related to restructuring
costs and environmental and other costs associated with previously
divested entities of Hoechst, and demerger costs (See Note 20). Also
included in these amounts is income related to insurance recoveries
associated with plumbing actions and sorbates antitrust
matters.

Other operating entities consist of primarily ancillary
businesses as well as companies which provide infrastructure
services.

The following table presents financial information
based on the geographic location of Celanese's
facilities:

F-78

28.

Transactions
and Relationships with Affiliates and Related Parties

The
Company is a party to various transactions with affiliated companies.
Companies in which the Company has an investment accounted for under
the cost or equity method of accounting, are considered Affiliates; any
transactions or balances with such companies are considered Affiliate
transactions. The following tables represent the Company's
transactions with Affiliates for the periods
presented:

F-79

(1)

Purchases/Sales
from/to Affiliates

Purchases and sales from/to Affiliates are
accounted for at prices which, in the opinion of management,
approximate those charged to third party customers for similar goods or
services.

(2)

Short-term
borrowings from Affiliates (See Note 16)

The Company has
agreements with certain Affiliates, primarily Infraserv entities,
whereby excess Affiliate cash is lent to and managed by the Company, at
variable interest rates governed by those agreements.

Upon
closing of the Acquisition, the Company entered into a transaction and
monitoring fee agreement with the Advisor, an affiliate of the
Blackstone Group (the ‘‘Sponsor’’). Under
the agreement, the Advisor agreed to provide monitoring services to the
Company for a 12 year period. Also, the Advisor may receive additional
compensation for providing investment banking or other advisory
services provided to the Company by the Advisor or any of its
affiliates, and may be reimbursed for certain expenses, in connection
with any specific acquisition, divestiture, refinancing,
recapitalization, or similar transaction. In connection with the
completion of the initial public offering, the parties amended and
restated the transaction and monitoring fee agreement to terminate the
monitoring services and all obligations to pay future monitoring fees
and paid the Advisor $35  million. The Company also paid
$10  million to the Advisor for the 2005 monitoring fee. The
transaction based agreement remains in effect.

Also in connection
with the Acquisition, the Company issued $200  million
mandatorily redeemable preferred stock to an affiliate of Banc of
America Securities LLC. The mandatorily redeemable preferred shares
were redeemed using the proceeds from the senior subordinated notes
issued July  1,  2004. Banc of America Securities LLC was
also an initial purchaser of the senior subordinated notes and the
senior discount notes and is an affiliate of a lender under the amended
and restated senior credit facilities. Banc of America Securities LLC
is an affiliate of BA Capital Investors Fund, L.P., one of the Original
Shareholders (See Note 16).

In connection with the acquisition of
Vinamul, the Company paid the Advisor a fee of $2  million, which
was included in the computation of the purchase price for the
acquisition. In connection with the acquisition of Acetex, the Company
paid the Advisor an initial fee of $1  million. Additional fees
of $3  million were paid in August  2005 to the Advisor
upon the successful completion of this acquisition. In addition, the
Company has paid the Advisor aggregate fees of approximately
€3  million (approximately $4  million) in
connection with the Company’s acquisition of 5.9  million
additional CAG shares in August  2005 (See Note 2).

During
the year ended December  31,  2005 and 2004, the Company
reimbursed the Advisor approximately $2  million and $0 million,
respectively, for other costs.

Commencing in September
2005, the Company filed a Registration Statement on Form S-1 and
amendments to that Registration Statement with the SEC on behalf of the
Original Shareholders (the ‘‘Resale
Offering’’) pursuant to the terms of the Amended and
Restated Registration Rights Agreement (‘‘Registration
Rights Agreement’’) dated as of January  26,
2005, between the Company and the Original Shareholders. Pursuant to
the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company paid
certain fees and expenses incurred in connection with the Resale
Offering, which amounted to approximately $1
million.

29.

Consolidating
Guarantor Financial Information

In September  2004,
Crystal US Holdings 3 LLC and Crystal US Sub 3 Corp (the
‘‘Issuers’’) both wholly owned subsidiaries
of Celanese Corporation issued senior discount notes (the
‘‘Notes’’) for gross proceeds of
$513  million (See Note 16). Effective March  2005,
Celanese Corporation (the ‘‘Parent
Guarantor’’) guaranteed the Notes in order that the
financial information required to be filed under the indenture can be
filed by the Company rather than the Issuers. No other subsidiaries
guaranteed these notes.

The Parent Guarantor was formed on
February  24,  2004, and the Issuers were formed in
September  2004. The Parent Guarantor and the Issuers held no
assets and conducted no operations prior

F-80

to the acquisition of the CAG Shares. Prior
to the Acquisition, the Parent Guarantor currently had no independent
assets or operations. Accordingly, there is no financial information
for the Parent Guarantor or the Issuers for the periods prior to the
nine months ended December  31,  2004.

The following
consolidating financial statements are presented in the provided form
because:

(i) the Issuers are wholly owned subsidiaries of the
Parent Guarantor; (ii) the guarantee is considered to be full and
unconditional, that is, if the Issuers fail to make a scheduled
payment, the Parent Guarantor is obligated to make the scheduled
payment immediately and, if they do not, any holder of notes may
immediately bring suit directly against the Parent Guarantor for
payment of all amounts due and payable.

Separate financial
statements and other disclosures concerning the Parent Guarantor are
not presented because management does not believe that such information
is material to investors.

F-81

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
(Continued)

F-82

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
(Continued)

F-83

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
(Continued)

F-84

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
(Continued)

F-85

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
(Continued)

F-86

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
(Continued)

F-87

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
(Continued)

F-88

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
(Continued)

*

Amounts
included in Non-Guarantors column represent proceeds received directly
by the Non-Guarantors, on behalf of the Parent Guarantor. The legal
issuer of the mandatorily redeemable preferred stock is the Parent
Guarantor.

F-89

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
(Continued)

F-90

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
(Continued)

F-91

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

30.

Earnings
(Loss) Per
Share

Prior
to the completion of the initial public offering of Celanese
Corporation Series A common stock in January  2005, the Company
effected a 152.772947 for 1 stock split of outstanding shares of common

F-92

CELANESE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

stock (See Note 19). Accordingly, basic and
diluted shares for the year ended December  31,  2005 and
the nine months ended December  31,  2004 have been
calculated based on the weighted average shares outstanding, adjusted
for the stock split. Earnings (loss) per share for the Predecessor
periods has been calculated by dividing net income available to common
shareholders by the historical weighted average shares outstanding of
the Predecessor. As the capital structure of the Predecessor and
Successor are different, the reported earnings (loss) per share are not
comparable.

Shares issuable pursuant to outstanding common stock
options under the Predecessor's Stock Option Plans of 544,750
have been excluded from the computation of diluted earnings (loss) per
share for the nine months ended December  31,  2004 because
their effect is antidilutive.

31.

Subsequent
Events

On January 5, 2006, the Company declared a cash
dividend on its 4.25% convertible perpetual preferred stock
amounting to $2 million and a cash dividend of $0.04 per share on its
Series A common stock amounting to $6 million. Both cash dividends are
for the period November 1, 2005 to January 31, 2006 and were paid on
February 1, 2006 to holders of record as of January 5, 2006.

On
March 6, 2006, the Purchaser and CAG signed a settlement agreement with
eleven minority shareholders who had previously filed lawsuits in the
Frankfurt District Court

(Landgericht)

against CAG (See Note
25).

F-93

INDEX TO
EXHIBITS

(a)

Incorporated by
reference to Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No.
333-127902).

(b)

Incorporated by reference to
Current Report on Form 8-K, filed January  28,
2005.

(c)

Incorporated by reference to
Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No.
333-124049).

(d)

Incorporated by reference to
Registration Statement on Form S-l (File No.
333-120187).

(e)

Incorporated by reference to
Current Report on Form 8-K, filed February  1,
2005.

(f)

Incorporated by reference to Annual
Report on Form 10-K, filed March  31,
2005.

(g)

Incorporated by reference to
Registration Statement on Form S-8, filed February  14,
2005.

(h)

Incorporated by reference to Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q, filed May  16,
2005.

(i)

Incorporated by reference to Current
Report on Form 8-K, filed August  19,
2005.

(j)

Incorporated by reference to Current
Report on Form 8-K, filed August  31,
2005.

(k)

Incorporated by reference to Current
Report on Form 8-K, filed November 18,
2005.

(l)

Incorporated by reference to Current
Report on Form 8-K, filed December 2,
2005.