
10-K
1998 10-K





                             UNITED STATES
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                         Washington, D.C. 20549
                               FORM 10-K

        [X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                  For the year ended December 31, 1998


                    Commission file number 1-3285

              MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY

  State of Incorporation: Delaware
                        I.R.S. Employer Identification No. 41-0417775
        Executive offices: 3M Center, St. Paul, Minnesota 55144
                    Telephone number: (651) 733-1110

     SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:
                                              Name of each exchange
  Title of each class                          on which registered
  Common Stock, Par Value $.50 Per Share      New York Stock Exchange
                                              Pacific Exchange
                                              Chicago Stock Exchange

  Note: The common stock of the registrant is also traded on the Swiss
  stock exchange.

    Securities registered pursuant to section 12(g) of the Act: None

    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
  required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
  of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
  registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
  such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  X  . No    .

    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
  Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
  contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or
  information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
  Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  [ ]

    The aggregate market value of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
  registrant, based on the closing price of $77.63 per share as reported on
  the New York Stock Exchange-Composite Index on January 29, 1999, was $31.2
  billion.

     Shares of common stock outstanding at January 31, 1999: 402,145,924.

                     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
    Parts of the following documents are incorporated by reference in Parts
  III and IV of this Form 10-K: (1) Proxy Statement for registrant's 1999
  annual meeting, (2) Form 10-Q for period ended June 30, 1987; Form 8-K
  dated November 20, 1996; Form 8-K dated June 30, 1997, (3) Registration
  Nos. 33-48089 and 333-30689.
                        This document contains 54 pages.
                   The exhibit index is set forth on page 49.




                   MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY
                                  FORM 10-K
                      For the Year Ended December 31, 1998
                                   PART I

Item 1. Business.

Minnesota  Mining and Manufacturing Company was incorporated  in  1929
under  the laws of the State of Delaware to continue operations, begun
in 1902, of a Minnesota corporation of the same name.  As used herein,
the term "3M" or "company" includes Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing
Company and subsidiaries unless the context otherwise indicates.

General
3M   is   an   integrated  enterprise  characterized  by   substantial
intercompany  cooperation in research, manufacturing and marketing  of
products.    3M's  business  has  developed  from  its  research   and
technology in coating and bonding for coated abrasives, the  company's
original product.  Coating and bonding is the process of applying  one
material  to  another, such as abrasive granules  to  paper  or  cloth
(coated abrasives), adhesives to a backing (pressure-sensitive tapes),
ceramic coating to granular mineral (roofing granules), glass beads to
plastic backing (reflective sheeting), and low-tack adhesives to paper
(repositionable notes).

3M  is  among  the leading manufacturers of products for many  of  the
markets it serves. In all cases, 3M products are subject to direct  or
indirect  competition.  Most 3M products involve expertise in  product
development,   manufacturing  and  marketing,  and  are   subject   to
competition  from products manufactured and sold by other  technically
oriented companies.

At December 31, 1998, the company employed 73,564 people.

Business Segments
Financial  information and other disclosures relating  to  3M's  three
business  segments  and  operations in various  geographic  areas  are
provided in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 3M's three
business  segments bring together common or related  3M  technologies,
enhancing  the  development of innovative products  and  services  and
providing for efficient sharing of business resources.  These segments
have  worldwide responsibility for virtually all 3M product lines.   A
few miscellaneous businesses and staff-sponsored products, as well  as
various  corporate  assets and corporate overhead  expenses,  are  not
assigned to the segments.

Industrial  and  Consumer  Markets: This  segment  provides  pressure-
sensitive  adhesives, specialty tapes, coated and nonwoven  abrasives,
consumer and office products, electronic and electrical products,  and
telecommunications products.

Industrial  products  include a wide variety of  high-performance  and
general-purpose  pressure-sensitive  tapes,  as  well   as   specialty
products.  Major products include industrial tapes made from materials
such  as  foil,  film,  vinyl  and  polyester;  specialty  tapes   and
adhesives, including Scotch brand VHB brand Tapes, lithographic tapes,
joining systems,  specialty  additives, vibration  control  materials,
liquid adhesives,   and reclosable fasteners;   general-purpose tapes,
such as masking, box-sealing and filament; labels and other  materials
for identifying  and  marking  durable  goods;  coated  and  non-woven
abrasives for grinding, conditioning and finishing surfaces; finishing
compounds; and products for maintaining and repairing vehicles.




Major  consumer and office products include Scotch brand tapes;  Post-
it brand Note products,  such  as  flags, memo pads, labels, stickers,
pop-up notes  and  dispensers; home care products,  including  Scotch-
Brite brand Scouring Products,  O-Cel-O  brand  Sponges and Scotchgard
brand Fabric Protectors; energy  control  products;  nonwoven abrasive
materials  for  floor  maintenance  and  commercial  cleaning;   floor
mattings; and home improvement products, including surface-preparation
and  wood-finishing  materials,  and  filters  for  furnaces  and  air 
conditioners.

Major  electronic  and  electrical  products  include  packaging   and
interconnection  devices;  insulating materials,  including  pressure-
sensitive tapes and resins; and related items. These products are used
extensively  by manufacturers of electronic and electrical  equipment,
as  well  as  in  the  construction and maintenance  segments  of  the
electric  utility,  telephone and other industries. Telecommunications
products  serve the world's telephone companies with a wide  array  of
products  for  fiber-optic and copper-based telephone systems.   These
include  many  innovative connecting, closure  and  splicing  systems,
maintenance   products  and  test  equipment.   Visual   communication
products  serve the world's office and education markets with overhead
projectors  and transparency films, plus equipment and  materials  for
electronic and multimedia presentations.

Transportation,  Safety and Specialty Material Markets:  This  segment
provides  reflective sheeting, high-performance graphics, respirators,
automotive components, optical films and specialty materials.

Transportation products include reflective sheetings used  on  highway
signs,  vehicle license plates, construction workzone devices,  trucks
and  other  vehicles.  Major occupational health and  safety  products
include  maintenance-free  and  reusable  respirators,  plus  personal
monitoring  systems.  Other products include  spill-control  sorbents,
Thinsulate brand  and  Lite Loft brand Insulations,   traffic  control
devices, electronic surveillance products,  reflective  materials  for
personal safety, and films that protect against counterfeiting.

Major  commercial graphic products include equipment, films, inks  and
related  products  used to produce graphics for  vehicles  and  signs.
Major   automotive  products  include  body  side-molding  and   trim;
functional and decorative graphics; corrosion-resistant and  abrasion-
resistant  films; tapes for attaching nameplates, trim  and  moldings;
and fasteners for attaching interior panels and carpeting.  Safety and
security products include reflective materials that are widely used on
apparel,  footwear and accessories, enhancing visibility in  low-light
situations.  Optical products include brightness enhancement films for
electronic  displays  and multilayer optical  films.   Other  products
include   natural  and  color-coated  mineral  granules  for   asphalt
shingles.   On August 15, 1997, the company sold National  Advertising
Company, an outdoor and mall advertising subsidiary that was  part  of
this segment.

Major  specialty materials include protective materials for furniture,
fabrics and paper products; firefighting agents; fluoroelastomers  for
seals,  tubes  and gaskets in engines; engineering fluids;  and  high-
performance fluids used in the manufacture of computer chips, and  for
electronic cooling and lubricating of computer hard disk drives.

Health  Care  Markets: Major product categories include  skin  health,
medical/surgical    supplies   and   devices,    infection    control,
cardiovascular    systems,    health   care    information    systems,
pharmaceuticals, drug delivery systems, dental products, and  closures
for disposable diapers.




Medical product lines include skin health and infection protection, as
well  as microbiology and health information systems.  In skin health,
3M is a leading supplier of medical tapes and dressings.  In infection
protection, 3M markets a variety of surgical drapes and masks, as well
as  sterilization  assurance equipment.   The  segment  also  provides
microbiology  products,  which make it  faster  and  easier  for  food
processors  to  test for microbiological quality of food.   In  health
information systems, 3M markets computer software for hospital  coding
and  data classification.  This segment also provides medical supplies
and  devices,  including  orthopedic  casting  materials,  electrodes,
stethoscopes, heart-lung machines and blood gas monitors.

This  segment  also serves the pharmaceutical and dental  markets,  as
well   as   manufacturers   of  disposable  diapers.   Among   ethical
pharmaceuticals are analgesics, anti-inflammatories and cardiovascular
products.   Other  products  include drug-delivery  systems,  such  as
metered-dose   inhalers,   transdermal  skin   patches   and   related
components.   Dental products include tooth-colored fillings,  crowns,
impression  materials and orthodontic appliances.  This  segment  also
provides  tape  closures  for  disposable diapers,  and  hook-and-loop
fastening  systems and other diaper components that help  diapers  fit
better.

Discontinued Operations
In November 1995, the Board of Directors approved a plan to launch the
company's  data  storage  and imaging businesses  as  an  independent,
publicly  owned  company  and  to discontinue  3M's  audio  and  video
business.   This  is discussed in the Notes to Consolidated  Financial
Statements.

Distribution
3M   products  are  sold  directly  to  users  and  through   numerous
wholesalers, retailers, jobbers, distributors and dealers  in  a  wide
variety  of  trades  in many countries around the  world.   Management
believes  that  the  confidence  of wholesalers,  retailers,  jobbers,
distributors  and  dealers in 3M and its products,  developed  through
long association with skilled marketing and sales representatives, has
contributed significantly to 3M's position in the marketplace  and  to
its  growth.   3M  has  240  sales offices  and  distribution  centers
worldwide,  including nine major branch offices located  in  principal
cities throughout the United States.  3M operates 30 sales offices and
distribution  centers in the United States.  Internationally,  3M  has
210 sales offices and distribution centers.

Research, Patents and Raw Materials
Research and product development constitute an important part of  3M's
activities.   Products  resulting from research and  development  have
been  major drivers of 3M's growth.  Research and development spending
totaled $1.016 billion, $1.002 billion and $947 million in 1998,  1997
and 1996, respectively.

Corporate  research laboratories support research efforts of  division
and market laboratories.  These corporate laboratories also engage  in
research  not  directly related to existing 3M  product  lines.   Most
major  operating  divisions  have their own  laboratories  to  improve
existing  products  and  develop new products. Research  staff  groups
provide  specialized  services  in  instrumentation,  engineering  and
process   development.   3M  also  maintains   an   organization   for
technological development not sponsored by other units of the company.

3M is the owner of many domestic and foreign patents derived primarily
from  its  research  activities.  3M's business  as  a  whole  is  not
materially dependent upon any one patent, license or trade secret,  or
upon any group of related patents, licenses or trade secrets.




The  company  experienced no significant or unusual  problems  in  the
purchase  of raw materials during 1998.  It is impossible  to  predict
future shortages or the impact such shortages would have.

Executive Officers
Following  is  a  list of the executive officers of  3M,  their  ages,
present  positions, the years elected to their present  positions  and
other  positions held within 3M during the past five  years.   All  of
these  officers have been employed full time by 3M or a subsidiary  of
3M for more than five years.  All 3M officers are elected by the Board
of  Directors at its annual meeting, with vacancies and new  positions
filled  at interim meetings.  No family relationships exist among  any
of  the  executive  officers named, nor is there  any  arrangement  or
understanding pursuant to which any person was selected as an officer.









Item 2. Properties.

3M's  general offices, corporate research laboratories, some  division
laboratories and certain manufacturing facilities are located  in  St.
Paul,  Minnesota.  In the United States, 3M has 30 sales  offices  and
distribution  centers  in  20  states and  operates  68  manufacturing
facilities in 24 states. Internationally, 3M has 210 sales offices and
distribution  centers.  The  company  operates  86  manufacturing  and
converting facilities in 41 countries outside the United States.

3M  owns  substantially all of its physical properties.  3M's physical
facilities  are highly suitable for the purposes for which  they  were
designed.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings.

The company and certain of its subsidiaries are named as defendants in
a  number  of actions, governmental proceedings and claims,  including
environmental  proceedings  and products  liability  claims  involving
products  now  or formerly manufactured and sold by the  company.   In
some  actions,  the claimants seek damages as well  as  other  relief,
which, if granted, would require substantial expenditures. The company
has  accrued certain liabilities, which represent reasonable estimates
of  its probable liabilities for these matters.  The company also  has
recorded  receivables for the probable amount of insurance recoverable
with respect to these matters.

Some  of  these matters raise difficult and complex factual and  legal
issues,  and  are  subject to many uncertainties, including,  but  not
limited to, the facts and circumstances of each particular action, the
jurisdiction  and  forum  in  which  each  action  is  proceeding  and
differences in applicable law. Accordingly, the company is not  always
able  to  estimate the amount of its possible future liabilities  with
respect to such matters.

There  can  be no certainty that the company may not ultimately  incur
charges,  whether  for governmental proceedings and  claims,  products
liability  claims,  environmental proceedings  or  other  actions,  in
excess  of presently established accruals.  While such future  charges
could  have a material adverse impact on the company's net  income  in
the  quarterly period in which they are recorded, the company believes
that  such  additional  charges, if any, would  not  have  a  material
adverse  effect  on  the  consolidated financial  position  or  annual
results  of operations of the company.  (NOTE: The preceding  sentence
applies  to  all  legal proceedings involving the company  except  the
breast  implant litigation, which is discussed separately in the  next
section).

Breast Implant Litigation

As  of  December 31, 1998, the company had been named as a  defendant,
often with multiple co-defendants, in 5,863 lawsuits and 121 claims in
various  courts,  all  seeking  damages  for  personal  injuries  from
allegedly  defective  breast  implants.   These  claims  and  lawsuits
purport  to  represent  21,001 individual claimants.  It  is  not  yet
certain  how  many  of  these  lawsuits and  claims  involve  products
manufactured   and   sold  by  the  company,  as  opposed   to   other
manufacturers,  but  the company has confirmed  that  1,117  of  these
claimants  have  3M  implants.  The company entered  the  business  of
manufacturing  breast  implants in 1977 by purchasing  McGhan  Medical
Corporation.  In 1984, the company sold the business to a  corporation
that also was named McGhan Medical Corporation.




The  typical claim or lawsuit alleges the individual's breast implants
caused  one  or  more  of  a  wide  variety  of  ailments  and   local
complications, including, but not limited to, non-specific  autoimmune
disease, scleroderma, lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, fibromyalgia, mixed
connective   tissue  disease,  Sjogren's  Syndrome,   dermatomyositis,
polymyositis and chronic fatigue.

Plaintiffs  in these cases typically seek monetary damages,  often  in
unspecified  amounts,  and also may seek certain  types  of  equitable
relief,  including requiring the company to fund the costs  associated
with removal of the breast implants.

A  number  of  breast  implant  claims and  lawsuits  seek  to  impose
liability on the company under various theories for personal  injuries
allegedly  caused  by  breast  implants  manufactured  and   sold   by
manufacturers other than the company. These manufacturers include, but
are  not limited to, McGhan Medical Corporation and manufacturers that
are no longer in business or that are insolvent, whose breast implants
may   or   may  not  have  been  used  in  conjunction  with  implants
manufactured  and  sold  by  the company.   These  claims  raise  many
difficult  and  complex factual and legal issues that are  subject  to
many  uncertainties,  including the facts and  circumstances  of  each
particular claim, the jurisdiction in which each suit is brought,  and
differences in applicable law and insurance coverage.

A  number of breast implant lawsuits seek to recover punitive damages.
Any  punitive damages that may be awarded against the company  may  or
may  not  be  covered by certain insurance policies depending  on  the
language  of the insurance policy, applicable law and agreements  with
insurers.

In addition to individual suits against the company, a class action on
behalf   of   all  women  with  breast  implants  filed  against   all
manufacturers of such implants has been conditionally certified and is
pending  in the United States District Court for the Northern District
of  Alabama  (the  "Court")(DANTE, ET AL., V.  DOW  CORNING,  ET  AL.,
U.S.D.C., N. Dist., Ala., 92-2589; part of IN RE: SILICONE GEL  BREAST
IMPLANT  PRODUCT  LIABILITY LITIGATION, U.S.D.C., N. Dist.  Ala.,  MDL
926,  U.S.D.C., N. Dist. Ala., CV 92-P-10000-S; now held  in  abeyance
pending settlement proceedings in the settlement class action LINDSEY,
ET  AL., V. DOW CORNING CORPORATION, ET AL., U.S.D.C., N. Dist., Ala.,
CV  94-P-11558-S). Class actions, some of which have  been  certified,
are   pending  in  various  state  courts,  including,  among  others,
Louisiana, Florida and Illinois, and in the British Columbia courts in
Canada.  The Louisiana state court action (SPITZFADEN, ET AL., v.  DOW
CORNING  CORPORATION, ET AL., Dist. Ct., Parish of  Orleans,  92-2589)
has  been  decertified by the trial court.  Plaintiffs'  writ  for  an
emergency  appeal  from the decertification has  been  denied  by  the
Louisiana Supreme Court. A normal appeal remains pending.

The company also has been served with a purported class action brought
on  behalf  of  children allegedly exposed to silicone  in  utero  and
through breast milk.  (FEUER, ET AL., V. MCGHAN, ET AL., U.S.D.C.,  E.
Dist.  NY,  93-0146.)  The suit names all breast implant manufacturers
as defendants and seeks to establish a medical-monitoring fund.

On  December  22,  1995,  the Court approved a  revised  class  action
settlement  program  for  resolution of  claims  seeking  damages  for
personal  injuries  from  allegedly  defective  breast  implants  (the
"Revised  Settlement Program").  The Revised Settlement Program  is  a
revision  of  a  previous  settlement pursuant  to  a  Breast  Implant
Litigation  Settlement Agreement (the "Settlement Agreement")  reached
on April 8, 1994, and approved by the Court on September 1, 1994.




The Court ordered that, beginning after November 30, 1995, members  of
the   plaintiff  class  may  choose  to  participate  in  the  Revised
Settlement Program or opt out, which would then allow them to  proceed
with separate products liability actions.

The  Revised  Settlement Program includes domestic class members  with
implants  manufactured  by certain manufacturer defendants,  including
Baxter  International, Bristol Meyers-Squibb, the company  and  McGhan
Medical  Corporation.  The  company's obligations  under  the  Revised
Settlement  Program  are limited to eligible claimants  with  implants
manufactured  by  the company or its predecessors ("3M  implants")  or
manufactured only by McGhan Medical Corporation after its  divestiture
from  the  company  on August 3, 1984 ("Post 8/84  McGhan  implants").
With respect to claimants with only Post 8/84 McGhan implants (or only
Post 8/84 McGhan implants plus certain other manufacturers' implants),
the  benefits  are more limited than for claimants with  3M  implants.
Post  8/84 McGhan implant benefits are payable in fixed shares by  the
company,  Union  Carbide Corporation and McGhan  Medical  Corporation.
McGhan Medical Corporation has defaulted on its fixed share obligation
(which  does not affect 3M's obligation to pay its share)  and  has  a
request for a mandatory class action recently approved by the Court.

In  general,  the amounts payable to individual current claimants  (as
defined  in  the Court's order) under the Revised Settlement  Program,
and the company's obligations to make those payments, are not affected
by  the  number of class members who have elected to opt  out  of  the
Revised  Settlement  Program or the number  of  class  members  making
claims  under the Revised Settlement Program. In addition  to  certain
miscellaneous  benefits, the Revised Settlement Program  provides  for
two compensation options for current claimants with 3M implants.

Under  the first option, denominated as Fixed Amount Benefits, current
claimants with 3M implants who satisfy disease criteria established in
the  prior  Settlement  Agreement will receive  amounts  ranging  from
$5,000 to $100,000, depending on disease severity or disability level;
whether  the  claimant can establish that her implants have  ruptured;
and  whether  the claimant also has had implants manufactured  by  Dow
Corning.   Under the second option, denominated as Long-Term Benefits,
current  claimants  with  3M  implants who  satisfy  more  restrictive
disease  and severity criteria specified under the Revised  Settlement
Program can receive benefits ranging from $37,500 to $250,000.

In addition, current claimants with 3M implants are eligible for (a) a
one-time  payment  of  $3,000 upon removal of 3M implants  during  the
course  of the class settlement, and (b) an advance payment of  $5,000
against the above referenced benefits upon proof of having 3M implants
and  upon waiving or not timely exercising the right to opt out of the
Revised  Settlement Program.  Current claimants with  only  Post  8/84
McGhan implants (or only Post 8/84 McGhan implants plus certain  other
manufacturers' implants) are eligible only for benefits  ranging  from
$10,000 to $50,000.

Eligible participants with 3M implants who did not file current claims
but  are  able  to satisfy the more restrictive disease  and  severity
criteria during an ongoing period of 15 years will be eligible for the
Long-Term  Benefits,  subject to certain  funding  limitations.   Such
participants  also will be eligible for an advance payment  of  $1,000
upon  proof  of  having  3M implants and upon waiving  or  not  timely
exercising the right to opt out of the Revised Settlement Program  or,
as  an  elective option expiring on June 15, 1999, a payment of $3,500
in  full  settlement of all breast implant claims including any  claim
for  Long-Term Benefits under the Revised Settlement Program.  Benefit
levels  for  eligible participants who are not current  claimants  and




have only Post 8/84 McGhan implants (or only Post 8/84 McGhan implants
plus certain other manufacturers' implants) will range from $10,000 to
$50,000.

On  June 10, 1998 the Court approved the terms of a settlement program
offered by Baxter International, Bristol Meyers-Squibb and the company
to  eligible  foreign  implant  recipients  (the  "Foreign  Settlement
Program").   Notices and claim forms were mailed  on  June  15,  1998.
Benefits to eligible foreign claimants range from $3,500 to $50,000.

As of the date of this filing, the company believes that approximately
90%  of  the registrants, including those claimants who filed  current
claims, have elected to participate in the Revised Settlement Program.
It  is  still  unknown as to what disease criteria all claimants  have
satisfied, and what options they have chosen.  As a result, the  total
amount  and  timing  of the company's prospective payments  under  the
Revised Settlement Program cannot be determined with precision at this
time. As of December 31, 1998, the company has paid $232 million  into
the  court-administered  fund as a reserve  against  costs  of  claims
payable by the company under the Revised Settlement Program (including
a  $5 million administrative assessment). Additional payments will  be
made  as  necessary.  Payments to date have been consistent  with  the
company's estimates of the total liability for these claims.

In the first quarter of 1994, the company took a pre-tax charge of $35
million  ($22  million  after tax) in recognition  of  its  then  best
estimate of its probable liabilities and associated expenses,  net  of
the  probable  amount of insurance recoverable from its carriers.   In
the  second quarter of 1998, the company increased its estimate of the
minimum  probable liabilities and associated expenses to approximately
$1.1  billion,  with an  offsetting increase in the probable amount of
insurance  recoveries.  This  amount  represents  the  company's  best
estimate of the minimum  amount to  cover the cost and expense  of the
Revised Settlement  Program   and  the cost and expense  of  resolving
opt-out claims  and recovering insurance proceeds.   After subtracting
payments  of  $963  million  as  of December 31, 1998, for defense and
other costs and  settlements with litigants and claimants, the company
had accrued liabilities of $137 million.

The  company  has  substantial primary and excess  products  liability
occurrence  insurance  coverage  and  claims-made  products  liability
insurance   coverage,   which  it  believes   provide   coverage   for
substantially  all of its current exposure for breast  implant  claims
and  defense costs. Most insurers have alleged reservations of  rights
to  deny  all or part of the coverage for differing reasons, including
each  insurer's  obligations in relation to the other  insurers  (i.e.
allocation)  and which claims trigger both the various occurrence  and
claims-made insurance policies. Some insurers have resolved and  paid,
or  committed  to, their policy obligations. The company believes  the
failure  of many insurers to voluntarily perform as promised  subjects
them  to  the  company's claims for excess liability and  damages  for
breach of the insurers' obligation of good faith.

On  September  22,  1994,  three excess coverage  occurrence  insurers
initiated  in  the  courts  of the State of  Minnesota  a  declaratory
judgment  action  against the company and numerous insurance  carriers
seeking  adjudication of certain coverage issues and allocation  among
insurers. On December 9, 1994, the company initiated an action against
its  occurrence insurers in the Texas State Court in and for  Harrison
County,  seeking a determination of responsibility among the company's
various  occurrence insurers with applicable coverages. The  state  of
Texas has the most implant claims.  This action has since been removed
to  the  U.S.  District Court, Eastern District of Texas,  and  stayed
pending resolution of the litigation in the Minnesota courts.




The  insurers that are parties to these actions generally  acknowledge
that  they issued products liability insurance to the company and that
breast  implant  claims are products liability claims.  The  trial  in
Minnesota  to  resolve  the  company's  insurance  coverage  and   the
financial  responsibility of occurrence insurers  for  breast  implant
claims  and defense costs began on June 4, 1996, and is continuing  in
phases.  The most recent phase was completed on January 20, 1999.  The
next phase is scheduled to begin on February 16, 1999.

In  mid-October 1995, the occurrence insurers that are parties to  the
litigation  in  Minnesota  filed more  than  30  motions  for  summary
judgment  or  partial  summary judgment. The insurers,  through  these
motions, attempted to shift all or a portion of the responsibility for
those claims the company believes fall within the period of occurrence-
based  coverage (before 1986) into the period of claims-made  coverage
(from  and after 1986). The trial court denied the insurers'  motions,
ruling  that the key issues of trigger and allocation raised in  these
motions  would  be resolved at trial. In the trial's  first  phase  in
1996,  the  court  granted  3M  partial declaratory  judgment  on  the
question  of when insurance coverage is "triggered."  The  court  also
granted the insurers' motion for partial declaratory judgment  on  the
question of the allocation method to be applied in the case.  In  July
1997,  the trial court ruled further on the trigger issue and  on  the
general  allocation  method.   That ruling  was  consistent  with  and
further  supported the company's opinion as stated  in  the  following
paragraph.  In November 1997, upon reconsideration, the court reversed
a  portion of its July ruling and reinstated a portion of its previous
ruling.  The company believes that conflicting rulings now exist  that
need  to be clarified by the court and reconciled with applicable law.
Motions  to  clarify the allocation methodology of triggered  policies
under  these rulings were filed and have been ruled upon by the Court.
While  the  Court clarified certain aspects of these rulings  it  also
conducted an additional evidentiary hearing on the issue. The court is
expected to rule on this issue by February 16, 1999.

The  company  believes it ultimately will prevail  in  this  insurance
litigation.  The  company's belief is based  on  an  analysis  of  its
insurance  policies;  court  decisions on these  and  similar  issues;
reimbursement by insurers for these types of claims; and  consultation
with  outside  counsel who are experts in insurance coverage  matters.
If,  however,  the  occurrence insurers  ultimately  prevail  in  this
insurance  litigation,  the company could be effectively  deprived  of
significant  and  potentially material insurance coverage  for  breast
implant  claims.   (See  discussion of  the  accrued  receivables  for
insurance recoveries below.)

As  of  December  31,  1998, the company had accrued  receivables  for
insurance  recoveries of $767 million, substantially all of  which  is
contested by the insurance carriers.  Various factors could affect the
timing  and  amount  of proceeds to be received  under  the  company's
various insurance policies, including (i) the timing of payments  made
in  settlement  of  claims; (ii) the outcome of  occurrence  insurance
litigation in the courts of Minnesota (as discussed above) and  Texas;
(iii) potential arbitration with claims-made insurers; (iv) delays  in
payment  by insurers; and (v) the extent to which insurers may  become
insolvent in the future. There can be no absolute assurance  that  the
company will collect all amounts accrued as being probable of recovery
from its insurers.

The company's current estimate of the probable liabilities, associated
expenses  and  probable  insurance recoveries related  to  the  breast
implant  claims  is based on the facts and circumstances  existing  at
this  time. New developments may occur that could affect the company's
estimates of probable liabilities (including associated expenses)  and
the  probable  amount  of  insurance recoveries.   These  developments
include, but are not limited to,




(i) the ultimate Fixed Amount Benefit
distribution to claimants in the Revised Settlement Program; (ii)  the
success  of  and  costs  to the company in defending  opt-out  claims,
including claims involving breast implants not manufactured or sold by
the  company; (iii) the outcome of the occurrence insurance litigation
in  the  courts  of  Minnesota and Texas;  and  (iv)  the  outcome  of
potential arbitration with claims-made insurers.

The   company   cannot  determine  the  impact  of   these   potential
developments   on   the  current  estimate  of  probable   liabilities
(including  associated expenses) and the probable amount of  insurance
recoveries.   Accordingly, the company is not  able  to  estimate  its
possible   future  liabilities  and  recoveries  beyond  the   current
estimates  of  probable  amounts.  As new  developments  occur,  these
estimates  may be revised, or additional charges may be  necessary  to
reflect  the impact of these developments on the costs to the  company
of   resolving   breast  implant  litigation,  claims  and   insurance
recoveries. Such revisions or additional future charges could  have  a
material  adverse impact on the company's net income in the  quarterly
period  in which they are recorded. Although the company considers  it
unlikely, such revisions or additional future charges could also  have
a  material  adverse effect on the consolidated financial position  or
annual results of operations of the company.

The company conducts ongoing reviews, assisted by outside counsel,  to
determine  the adequacy and extent of insurance coverage  provided  by
its  occurrence and claims-made insurers. The company believes,  based
on  these  ongoing  reviews  and the bases  described  in  the  fourth
preceding  paragraph,  it  is probable that the  collectible  coverage
provided  by its applicable insurance policies is sufficient to  cover
substantially  all of its current exposure for breast  implant  claims
and  defense  costs.   Based  on the availability  of  this  insurance
coverage,  the company believes that its uninsured financial  exposure
has not materially changed since the first quarter of 1994. Therefore,
no recognition of additional charges has been made.

Environmental Matters

The  company also is involved in a number of environmental proceedings
by  governmental  agencies and by private parties asserting  liability
for  past  waste disposal and other alleged environmental damage.  The
company  conducts  ongoing investigations, assisted  by  environmental
consultants,  to determine accruals for the probable, estimable  costs
of  remediation.  The remediation accruals are reviewed  each  quarter
and changes are made as appropriate.

On  September  3,  1998,  the United States  Environmental  Protection
Agency (EPA) instituted a civil administrative proceeding against  the
company  by  filing a complaint alleging violations of  the  hazardous
waste  regulations at the company's Cordova, Ill. facility  under  the
Resource  Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA).  The complaint  sought
penalties of $287,600. In January 1999, the Company and the EPA agreed
to  the terms of a Consent Agreement and Consent Order, including  the
payment of a penalty in the amount of $143,800.




Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

None in the quarter ended December 31, 1998.

                                    Part II

Item  5. Market Price of 3M's Common Stock and Related Security Holder
Matters.

At January 31, 1999, there were 138,066 shareholders of record.

3M's stock is listed on the New York, Pacific, Chicago and Swiss stock
exchanges.

Stock price comparisons are provided in the Quarterly Data section  in
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.






Item  7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial  Condition
and Results of Operations.

Operating Results
Sales  in 1998 totaled $15.021 billion, compared with $15.070  billion
in  1997.  This  followed increases of 5.9 percent  in  1997  and  5.8
percent  in  1996.   Sales  in all three years  were  reduced  by  the
stronger  U.S. dollar. In 1998, currency translation reduced sales  by
more than $500 million, or 3 percent.

In  the United States, sales totaled $7.231 billion, similar to  1997.
Adjusting for the 1997 sale of the outdoor advertising business, sales
rose  about  2  percent.  The company posted good growth in  consumer,
office,  pharmaceuticals  and  automotive  products  businesses,   but
softness in electronics, industrial and transportation safety  markets
affected overall growth.

Internationally, sales totaled $7.790 billion, also similar  to  1997.
Flat  sales  in  1998  reflected negative  currency  and  a  difficult
economic   backdrop   in   Japan   and  many   developing   countries.
International volume increased about 4 percent and selling prices were
up  about  2  percent.  The stronger U.S. dollar reduced international
sales by about 6 percent.



In  1998,  3M  recorded  a  $493  million  ($313  million  after  tax)
restructuring  charge.   Details  of  the  restructuring  charge   are
discussed in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Cost   of  goods  sold,  excluding  the  inventory  portion   of   the
restructuring charge, was 57.9 percent of sales, up nine-tenths  of  a
percentage  point  from 1997.  In both 1998 and  1997,  gross  margins
benefited  from slightly lower raw material costs, but were negatively
affected  by  the stronger U.S. dollar.  Cost of goods  sold  includes
manufacturing, research and development, and engineering expenses.

Selling,  general  and administrative expenses were  25.2  percent  of
sales,  down  from  25.3  percent in 1997 and 25.6  percent  in  1996.
Continued  tight  expense  controls had  a  positive  effect  on  this
spending.



The   operating   income   discussion  that   follows   excludes   the
restructuring  charge. Operating income totaled $2.532  billion,  down
5.4  percent  from 1997. Operating income was 16.9 percent  of  sales,
down  from 17.7 percent in 1997 and 17.5 percent in 1996. During 1998,
economic  contractions in many international markets where  3M  has  a
strong  presence,  and softness in a few key U.S.  markets  negatively
affected  operating  income  margins.   The  company  estimates   that
currency effects reduced operating income by $237 million in 1998  and
$189 million in 1997.




In  the United States, operating income decreased 8 percent and profit
margins  were  down 1.4 percentage points.  In 1997, operating  income
increased 15 percent and profit margins improved by nine-tenths  of  a
percentage point.

Internationally, operating income decreased about 3 percent and profit
margins  declined  by  four-tenths of  a  percentage  point.  Currency
effects reduced international profits by 17 percent and profit margins
by  1.8  percentage points.  In 1997, operating income  rose  about  1
percent  and  profit margins declined by three-tenths of a  percentage
point.  Currency effects reduced international profits in 1997  by  15
percent.



Interest expense was $139 million, compared with $94 million  in  1997
and  $79  million in 1996.  The 1998 increase reflects  the  company's
strategy  to  lower  its  cost  of capital  by  moderately  increasing
financial  leverage.   The 1997 increase was due to  several  factors,
including  slightly  higher debt balances  and  higher  interest  rate
resets on certain long-term floating-rate issues.

Investment and other income was $42 million, compared with $56 million
in  1997  and $67 million in 1996.  Lower cash and securities balances
resulted in less interest income in both 1998 and 1997.

In  1997,  the  company realized a gain of $803 million ($495  million
after  tax) on the sale of National Advertising Company.  In  1998,  a
$10  million  gain  was recorded to finalize the accounting  for  this
sale,  which  is  discussed  in the Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements.

The  impact  of  the 1998 restructuring charge and the  1997  gain  on
divestiture  on  3M's consolidated statement of income  and  tax  rate
follows.






3M's  effective tax rate was 35.1 percent in 1998, compared with  36.1
percent  in  1997  and  35.8  percent in  1996.   Excluding  the  1998
restructuring  charge and the 1997 gain on divestiture, the  worldwide
effective income tax rate in both 1998 and 1997 was 35.4 percent.  The
1998  restructuring charge was taxed at a rate of 36.5  percent.   The
1997 gain on divestiture was taxed entirely in the United States at  a
rate of 38.4 percent.

Minority interest was $54 million, compared with $78 million  in  1997
and  $77 million in 1996.  Minority interest primarily relates to 3M's
partial  ownership  of  Sumitomo  3M Limited  and  Dyneon  LLC.  These
companies'   results  are  fully  consolidated   in   3M's   financial
statements,  and  then partially eliminated on the  minority  interest
line to reflect 3M's net position in these companies.  The decrease in
1998 minority interest was driven by lower profits in these companies.

The  company refinanced debt relating to its Employee Stock  Ownership
Plan in the fourth quarter of 1998, replacing the debt with a new bond
carrying a significantly lower interest rate. This resulted in  a  $38
million after-tax charge, or $0.09 per diluted share. This is reported
as an extraordinary loss from early extinguishment of debt.

Net  income  totaled  $1.175  billion, or  $2.88  per  diluted  share,
compared  with  $2.121 billion, or $5.06 per diluted share,  in  1997.
Excluding  the 1998 restructuring charge, the 1998 extraordinary  loss
and  the  1997 gain on divestiture, net income totaled $1.526 billion,
or $3.74 per diluted share, compared with $1.626 billion, or $3.88 per
diluted  share, in 1997.  Per-share income was down 3.6  percent.   In
1996,  income  from continuing operations totaled $1.516  billion,  or
$3.59 per diluted share.

In  1998,  1997  and  1996, changes in the value of  the  U.S.  dollar
reduced net income by an estimated $141 million, $112 million and  $65
million,  or 35 cents per share, 27 cents per share and 15  cents  per
share,   respectively.   These  estimates  include   the   effect   of
translating  profits  from local currencies  into  U.S.  dollars;  the
impact  of  currency  fluctuations on the value of  goods  transferred
between 3M operations in the United States and abroad; and transaction
gains   and   losses  in  countries  not  considered  to   be   highly
inflationary.

Economic profit totaled $604 million, a 16 percent decrease from 1997.
Return  on  invested  capital  was 15.9 percent,  a  decrease  of  2.1
percentage  points  from 1997.  Both economic  profit  and  return  on
invested  capital  exclude the impact of the restructuring.   Economic
profit  equals after-tax operating income, less a charge for operating
capital  employed  in 3M's businesses. Return on invested  capital  is
after-tax operating income divided by average operating capital.

At  December 31, 1998, employment totaled 73,564 people, a decrease of
2,075  from  year-end  1997.  Sales per employee in  local  currencies
increased  about 3 percent in 1998.  During the preceding four  years,
3M's productivity increased an average of about 9 percent a year.

Performance by Business Segment
Financial  information and other disclosures relating  to  3M's  three
business  segments are provided in this Form 10-K,  Item  1,  Business
Segments, and in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   The
discussion of segment results excludes the effect of the restructuring
charge as this charge was not allocated to the individual segments.




Industrial and Consumer Markets:
This  segment  represented about 51 percent of consolidated  sales  in
1998.   Sales  totaled  $7.714 billion, down 0.8  percent  from  1997.
Operating  income  decreased 6.3 percent to $1.285 billion.  Operating
income was 16.7 percent of sales, compared with 17.6 percent in  1997.
Results  in  1998 were negatively impacted by the strong U.S.  dollar,
the  Asian  economic crisis, softness in the electronics industry  and
slowing in the manufacturing sector of the U.S. economy.

This segment develops, manufactures and markets innovative, high-value
products for industrial, consumer and office customers worldwide.  Key
industrial  products  include  tapes,  adhesives,  abrasives,  resins,
electrical  connectors, and flexible circuits.  Many of  the  market's
new  product  developments  serve fast-growing  industries,  including
semiconductors, electronics, personal computers and energy management.
Key consumer and office supply products include tapes, notes, scouring
pads and sponges, energy-saving products and floor matting.

Transportation, Safety and Specialty Material Markets:
This  segment represented nearly 28 percent of consolidated  sales  in
1998.  Sales  totaled  $4.125 billion, down  1.8  percent  from  1997.
Operating  income  decreased 6.9 percent to $753  million.   Operating
income was 18.2 percent of sales, compared with 19.2 percent in  1997.
Sales and operating income in 1998 were affected by the stronger  U.S.
dollar,  the  Asian  economic crisis, delays in  the  passage  of  new
federal   legislation  for  highway  funding  and  softness   in   the
electronics industry.

This   market  produces  reflective  materials  for  traffic   safety,
respirators for worker protection, equipment and materials for  large-
format  graphics, and specialty materials.  On August  15,  1997,  the
company  sold  National  Advertising  Company,  an  outdoor  and  mall
advertising  subsidiary  that  was  part  of  this  market.   National
Advertising  Company  had  annual sales  of  about  $200  million  and
operating income of about $35 million.  The gain on this sale was  not
reflected in the segment's operating income results.

Health Care Markets:
This  segment represented nearly 21 percent of consolidated  sales  in
1998.   Sales  totaled  $3.076 billion,  up  2.4  percent  from  1997.
Operating  income  increased 9.1 percent to $600  million.   Operating
income  was  19.5  percent of sales, up from  18.3  percent  in  1997,
despite negative currency effects.

This   market's   major  product  categories  include   skin   health,
medical/surgical    supplies   and   devices,    infection    control,
cardiovascular    systems,    health   care    information    systems,
pharmaceuticals, drug-delivery systems, dental products, and  closures
for disposable diapers.

Performance by Geographic Area
Financial  information relating to 3M operations in various geographic
areas  is  provided in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
The   discussion  by  geographic  area  excludes  the  effect  of  the
restructuring  charge as this charge was not allocated  to  individual
geographic area.

United States (48% of consolidated sales)
In  the  United  States, adjusted for the 1997  sale  of  the  outdoor
advertising business, sales were up about 2 percent.  Operating income
was 16.4 percent of sales, down from 17.8 percent in 1997. The company
posted good growth in consumer, office, pharmaceuticals and automotive
products businesses,  but  softness  in  electronics,  industrial  and 
transportation safety markets affected overall sales and profits.




Europe and Middle East (26% of consolidated sales)
Sales  in  Europe  and  the Middle East totaled $3.85  billion,  up  6
percent  from 1997.  Local currency sales increased about  8  percent,
while   currency  translation  reduced  sales  by  about  2   percent.
Operating  income was 13.4 percent of sales, up from 11.8  percent  in
1997.   This  margin  improvement was driven  by  good  local-currency
sales, together with streamlining of operations.

In  Western  Europe, 3M's unit volume grew about  6  percent,  led  by
Pacing  Plus programs and a market-focused approach to customers.   In
Eastern Europe, where the company has traditionally posted very strong
double-digit volume gains, unit sales rose about 11 percent,  affected
by the contagion from the turmoil in Russia.

Asia Pacific (16% of consolidated sales)
Unit sales in the Asia Pacific area decreased about 1 percent in 1998.
Selling   prices  increased  more  than  2  percent,  while   currency
translation  reduced sales by about 11 percent. Operating  income  was
21.2 percent of sales, down from 23.2 percent in 1997.

Recession  in  Japan,  economic turmoil  in  many  Asian  nations  and
depreciating currencies throughout the area affected 3M's Asia Pacific
sales  and  profits.  In  Japan, home of  3M's  largest  international
company,  volume  increased  about 2  percent.  Unit  sales  in  Asia,
excluding Japan, declined about 6 percent in 1998.

Latin America, Canada and Africa (10% of consolidated sales)
In  Latin  America, unit sales increased 6 percent.  Slowing economies
throughout  this region restrained 3M growth.  In Canada,  unit  sales
increased  about  9  percent.  In Africa,  volume  decreased  about  1
percent.   Operating results in Africa were impacted by soft economies
and  weak currencies.  Operating income for Latin America, Canada  and
Africa was 22.7 percent of sales, down from 23.5 percent in 1997.

Financial Position
3M's  financial condition remained strong in 1998, and working capital
remained well-controlled.  The company's key inventory index  was  3.4
months,  down  about  10  percent from year-end  1997.   The  year-end
accounts receivable index was 61 days, up one day from year-end  1997.
The current ratio was 1.4, down from 1.5 at year-end 1997.

Total  debt  was  $3.106 billion, up from $2.514 billion  at  year-end
1997.   Total debt was 34 percent of total capital, compared  with  30
percent  in 1997, reflecting the planned moderate increase in leverage
during  1998.   Of debt outstanding at the end of 1998,  $385  million
represented  a  guarantee of debt of the 3M Employee  Stock  Ownership
Plan.

Various  assets  and liabilities, including cash and short-term  debt,
can  fluctuate  significantly on a month-to-month basis  depending  on
short-term liquidity needs.

Legal  proceedings are discussed in the Legal Proceedings  section  in
Part I, Item 3, of this Form 10-K.  There can be no certainty that the
company  may  not  ultimately incur charges, whether for  governmental
proceedings  and  claims,  products  liability  claims,  environmental
proceedings  or  other  actions, in excess  of  presently  established
accruals.   While  such future charges could have a  material  adverse
impact  on the company's net income in the quarterly period  in  which
they  are recorded, the company believes that such additional charges,
if  any,  would not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated
financial  position or annual results of operations  of  the  company.
(NOTE:  The  preceding  sentence  applies  to  all  legal  proceedings
involving  the  company  except the




breast  implant   litigation.    See  discussion  of  breast  implant
litigation in Legal Proceedings, Part  I, Item 3.)

Financial Instruments
The  company enters into contractual arrangements (derivatives) in the
ordinary  course  of  business to manage  foreign  currency  exposure,
interest  rate  risks  and commodity price risks.   A  financial  risk
management   committee,  composed  of  senior   management,   provides
oversight  for  risk  management  and  derivative  activities.    This
committee  determines  the  company's  financial  risk  policies   and
objectives,   and   provides  guidelines  for  derivative   instrument
utilization.  This committee also establishes procedures  for  control
and  valuation,  risk  analysis,  counterparty  credit  approval,  and
ongoing monitoring and reporting.

The  company enters into forward contracts and swaps to hedge  certain
intercompany  financing transactions, and purchases options  to  hedge
against  the  effect  of  exchange rate  fluctuations  on  cash  flows
denominated in foreign currencies.

The  company  manages interest expense using a mix of fixed,  floating
and  variable rate debt. To help manage borrowing costs,  the  company
may  enter  into  interest rate swaps. Under these  arrangements,  the
company  agrees  to exchange, at specified intervals,  the  difference
between fixed and floating interest amounts calculated by reference to
an agreed-upon notional principal amount.

The  company  manages commodity price risks through negotiated  supply
contracts, price protection swaps, and forward physical contracts.

A  variance/co-variance  value-at-risk model  was  used  to  test  the
company's  exposure  to  changes in currency and  interest  rates.   A
historical  value-at-risk model was used to  assess  commodity  risks.
All  models  used a 95 percent confidence level over a one month  time
horizon.   The  JP  Morgan  Riskmetrics  dataset  was  used  for   the
variance/co-variance  analysis.  Five years of  historical  data  were
used  for the commodity risk analysis.  Both models assessed the  risk
of  loss  in  market  value of outstanding financial  instruments  and
derivatives.   Based  on  a value-at-risk analysis  of  the  company's
foreign  exchange, interest rate and commodity derivative  instruments
outstanding  at  December  31,  1998, probable  near-term  changes  in
exchange   rates,  interest  rates  or  commodity  prices  would   not
materially  affect  the  company's  consolidated  financial  position,
results of operations or cash flows.

Liquidity
During 1998, cash flows provided by operating activities of continuing
operations totaled $2.374 billion, up from $1.818 billion in 1997.  In
1997, operating cash flows were negatively impacted by $308 million of
income  taxes  paid  relating to the gain  on  the  sale  of  National
Advertising Company. Operating cash flows in 1998 were affected by net
outflows of $255 million relating to implant litigation, compared with
net  inflows of $35 million in 1997. In both 1998 and 1997, cash flows
benefited from effective asset management.

Capital  spending  totaled $1.430 billion,  an  increase  of  about  2
percent from 1997.  This followed increases of 27 percent in 1997  and
2 percent in 1996. These investments are helping to meet global demand
for new products and to increase manufacturing efficiency.




Cash  used for acquisitions and investments totaled $265 million,  $40
million  and  $263 million in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.   The
higher  amount  in  1998  primarily was due  to  acquisitions  in  the
occupational health and telecommunication areas.  The higher amount in
1996  was primarily due to acquisitions in the health care field,  and
the purchase of the minority interest in 3M Korea.

In  1997, cash proceeds from the sale of National Advertising  Company
totaled  $1  billion, with net after-tax cash proceeds of nearly  $700
million.   Cash  proceeds  from  other  divestitures  and  investments
totaled  $98  million, $51 million and $62 million in 1998,  1997  and
1996, respectively.

Stockholder  dividends increased 3.8 percent to $2.20 a  share.   Cash
dividend  payments totaled $887 million.  3M has paid dividends  since
1916.   In  February  1999,  the  Board  of  Directors  increased  the
quarterly  dividend on 3M common stock to 56 cents a share, equivalent
to  an  annual  dividend  of  $2.24  a  share.  This  marks  the  41st
consecutive year of dividend increases.

Repurchases of 3M common stock totaled $618 million in 1998,  compared
with $1.693 billion in 1997 and $532 million in 1996.  The combination
of  a  reduction  in  average shares outstanding and  higher  interest
expense  resulted  in a net benefit to earnings of  $.03  per  diluted
share  in  1998.  In 1997, net proceeds from the National  Advertising
Company   divestiture  were  used  primarily  to  repurchase   shares.
Repurchases were made to support employee stock purchase plans and for
other corporate purposes.

In  February 1999, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of
up  to  12  million  of the company's shares.  This  share  repurchase
authorization  extends through December 31, 1999.  Under  a  preceding
authorization, the company purchased about 9.8 million shares.

The company's strong credit rating provides ready and ample access  to
funds  in  global capital markets.  At year-end 1998, the company  had
available short-term lines of credit totaling about $670 million.

Timing  differences between payment of implant liabilities and receipt
of  related insurance recoveries could affect future cash flows.  This
is discussed in Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings, of this Form 10-K.

Future Outlook
The  company encountered a difficult set of challenges in 1998 - large
negative currency effects, economic contractions in many international
markets,  and  softness  in  a  few  key  U.S.  markets.   To  improve
productivity and reduce costs, the company is exiting certain  product
lines,  consolidating manufacturing operations, and eliminating lower-
value  activities in corporate service functions.  Relating  to  these
actions,  the  company recorded a restructuring charge in  1998.  This
charge is discussed in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

In addition, the company is divesting certain businesses, primarily in
its Health Care segment, as part of  its  restructuring  plan.   These
businesses have annual revenues of about  $200  million  and  marginal
operating income.  Potential gains  from  divesting  these  businesses
with a decreasing strategic fit are not expected to  be  material  and
will be recognized when realized  as  part  of  selling,  general  and
administrative expenses.

The  company  experienced a net reduction of about 2,200 positions  in
the  second  half of 1998, with a total net reduction of  about  4,500
positions  expected by December 31, 1999.   Each business segment  and
geographic  area of the company will be affected by this restructuring
plan.   The company expects to eliminate




about 1,500  positions  in the United States, 1,500 in Europe, 700 in
the Asia Pacific area, and 800 in the company's Latin America, Africa,
and Canada geographic area.

When  fully implemented by the end of 1999, the restructuring plan  is
expected to provide annual pre-tax savings of about $250 million.  The
company   anticipates  implementation  costs  associated   with   this
restructuring plan to be about $35 million in 1999. These  costs,  not
included  in the restructuring charge, include expenses for relocating
employees,  inventory and equipment; unfavorable  overhead  variances;
and  other  expenses. If the company does not generate adequate  sales
growth,   normal  increases  in  salaries  and  wages  and  additional
depreciation  from  capital expenditures will create  offsets  to  the
annual savings.

3M expects sales growth in 1999 of 4 to 5 percent in local currencies.
Sales  are  expected  to  grow 3 to 4 percent in  the  United  States.
Internationally, the company is expecting to increase sales  in  local
currencies 5 to 6 percent. Volume growth is anticipated to be about  5
percent  in  Europe, 5 percent in the Asia Pacific area  and  3  to  4
percent in Japan.  In Asia outside Japan, volume growth is expected to
resume  in  1999.   In  Latin  America, it  is  difficult  to  predict
ramifications of the Brazilian currency devaluation, and therefore the
company  is  not  expecting any contribution to earnings  growth  from
Latin America.

The  company is not able to project what the consequences will be from
the  turmoil  in  various economies around the world. The  company  is
monitoring  business  conditions  closely  and  is  prepared  to  make
adjustments  in  costs, pricing and investments  as  appropriate.  The
company  expects to resume earnings growth in 1999, driven  by  volume
growth,  new  products, greater productivity gains and  tight  expense
controls.

Based  on exchange rates as of February 10, 1999, the company believes
that currency effects will have a minimal impact on sales and earnings
in 1999.

Capital spending totaled $1.430 billion in 1998, and is expected to be
about  10  percent  lower  in 1999.  The company  does  not  expect  a
significant change in its tax rate in 1999.

Year 2000 Readiness
The Year 2000 issue is the result of using only the last two digits to
indicate  the  year  in  computer hardware and software  programs  and
embedded  technology such as micro-controllers.  As  a  result,  these
programs  do  not  properly recognize a year  that  begins  with  "20"
instead  of the familiar "19." If uncorrected, such programs  will  be
unable  to  interpret dates beyond the year 1999,  which  could  cause
computer  system  failure or other errors disrupting  normal  business
operations.

The  company recognizes the importance of readiness for the Year  2000
and has given it high priority.  In November 1996, the company created
a  corporate-wide  Year  2000 project team  representing  all  company
business  and  staff  units.  The team's objective  is  to  ensure  an
uninterrupted  transition to the year 2000 by assessing,  testing  and
modifying  IT  and  non-IT systems (defined below) and  date-sensitive
company products so that (a) they will perform as intended, regardless
of  the  date  (before, during and after December 31, 1999),  and  (b)
dates  (before,  during  and after December  31,  1999  and  including
February 29, 2000) can be processed with expected results ("Year  2000
Compliant"). The scope of the Year 2000 compliance effort includes (i)
information technology ("IT") such as software and hardware; (ii) non-
IT  systems or embedded technology such as micro-controllers contained
in  various manufacturing and laboratory equipment; environmental  and
safety systems, facilities and




utilities,  (iii)  date-sensitive  company  products;  and  (iv)  the
readiness of key third parties,  including suppliers  and  customers,
and the electronic data interchange (EDI) with those key third parties.

The  Year  2000 project team has taken an inventory of IT  and  non-IT
systems and date-sensitive company products that might malfunction  or
fail  as  a  result of using only the last two digits to indicate  the
year.  The project teams then categorized the potential date component
failures  into three categories: "Vital" (stops the business operation
and no short-term solution is available); "Critical" (inconvenient  to
the  business  operation and a short-term solution is available);  and
"Marginal" (inconsequential to the business operation).

IT Systems - The company is using both internal and external resources
to  remediate and test millions of lines of application software code.
As  of  December  31, 1998, approximately 95 percent of  the  core  IT
systems   (e.g.,  general  ledger,  payroll,  procurement  and   order
management)  located in the United States that are deemed  "Vital"  or
"Critical"  are  Year  2000  Compliant.  As  of  December  31,   1998,
approximately 95 percent of the IT systems in subsidiaries outside the
United  States  that are deemed "Vital" or "Critical"  are  Year  2000
Compliant.

Non-IT  Systems  -  The  company has more than 100  manufacturing  and
laboratory locations worldwide with varying degrees of non-IT  systems
(such   as  programmable  logic  controllers,  gauging  guidance   and
adjustment  systems and testing equipment). Assessment and testing  of
non-IT systems for Year 2000 compliance has proven much more difficult
than  assessing  compliance of IT systems because  testing  of  non-IT
systems often requires shutdown of the manufacturing operations.

As a result, the company has approached assessment and testing of non-
IT  systems that are common to many of the company's facilities by (i)
contacting  the  suppliers  of  these  non-IT  systems  and  obtaining
statements that the systems are Year 2000 Compliant, and (ii)  testing
components  of  non-IT systems when they  are  shut  down  for  normal
maintenance. The company has also shut  down  manufacturing  lines  in
three of its facilities and tested non- IT  systems that are common to
many of the company's facilities. These tests  demonstrate  that "time
intervals" instead of "dates"  are  used almost  exclusively  in these
non-IT systems   and  support  the  company's  belief  that  potential
disruptions  of  such  systems  due  to  the Year 2000 issue should be
minimal.

As  of  December  31,  1998, approximately 85 percent  of  the  non-IT
systems  located  in  the United States that  are  deemed  "Vital"  or
"Critical"  and  approximately 90 percent of  the  non-IT  systems  in
subsidiaries  outside  the United States that are  deemed  "Vital"  or
"Critical" are believed to be Year 2000 Compliant.

Company Products - The vast majority of the company's products are not
date-sensitive. The company has collected information on  current  and
discontinued  date-sensitive products.  This information is  available
to customers as of the date of this filing.

Third  Parties  -  In  addition to internal Year 2000  IT  and  non-IT
remediation  activities, the company is in contact with key  suppliers
and electronic commerce customers to minimize potential disruptions in
the  relationships  between  the company  and  these  important  third
parties  related  to  the  Year  2000  issue.  The  company  has  also
categorized  supplies  purchased from vendors into  three  categories:
"Vital"  (disruption  of supply stops the business  operation  and  no
short-term solution is available); "Critical" (disruption of supply is
inconvenient  to the business operation and a short-term  solution  is




available); and "Marginal" (disruption of supply is inconsequential to
the  business operation). The company has focused its efforts on those
vendors  that supply goods or services deemed "Vital" to the company's
business.  While  the  company cannot guarantee  compliance  by  third
parties,  the  company is developing contingency plans  with  its  key
suppliers that includes the availability of appropriate inventories of
supplies in the event the supplier is not Year 2000 Compliant.

Contingency  Planning  -  The company is preparing  contingency  plans
specifying what the company will do if failures occur in IT and non-IT
systems,  or important third parties are not Year 2000 Compliant.  The
company  expects to finalize contingency plans by March 31, 1999,  for
its  IT  and  non-IT  systems, and by April  30,  1999,  for  its  key
suppliers.

Costs  -  Through December 31, 1998, the company had spent $53 million
out  of a total estimate of approximately $86 million related to  Year
2000  readiness  issue.  These costs include the  costs  incurred  for
external  consultants  and professional advisors  and  the  costs  for
software  and  hardware. The company's process for  tracking  internal
costs does not capture all of the costs incurred for each of the teams
working  on the Year 2000 project. Such internal costs are principally
the  related payroll costs for its information systems group and other
employees  working on the Year 2000 project.  The company is expensing
as incurred all costs related to the assessment and remediation of the
Year  2000 issue.  These costs are being funded through operating cash
flows.

The  company's  current estimates of the time and costs  necessary  to
remediate  and  test its computer systems are based on the  facts  and
circumstances  existing at this time. The estimates  were  made  using
assumptions  of future events including the continued availability  of
certain resources, such as skilled IT personnel and electrical  power,
Year  2000  modification plans, implementation success by  key  third-
parties,  and  other  factors.   New  developments  could  affect  the
company's  estimates of the amount of time and costs needed to  modify
and  test  its IT and non-IT systems for Year 2000 compliance.   These
developments include, but are not limited to: (i) the availability and
cost of personnel trained in this area; (ii) the ability to locate and
correct  all  relevant  date-sensitive code  in  both  IT  and  non-IT
systems;  (iii) unanticipated failures in IT and non-IT  systems;  and
(iv)  the planning and Year 2000 compliance success that key customers
and suppliers attain.

The   company   cannot  determine  the  impact  of   these   potential
developments on the current estimate of probable costs of  making  its
products  and  IT and non-IT systems Year 2000 Compliant. Accordingly,
the  company is not able to estimate possible future costs beyond  the
current  estimates.  As new developments occur, these  cost  estimates
may  be  revised  to reflect the impact of these developments  on  the
costs  to the company of making its products and IT and non-IT systems
Year  2000  Compliant.   Such cost revisions  could  have  a  material
adverse impact on the company's net income in the quarterly period  in
which  they are recorded. Although the company considers it  unlikely,
such  revisions  could  also have a material  adverse  effect  on  the
consolidated financial position or annual results of operations of the
company.

The Euro Conversion
On  January  1,  1999, 11 of the 15 member countries of  the  European
Union  (EU)  established fixed conversion rates through  the  European
Central Bank (ECB) between existing local currencies and the euro, the
EU's  new  single currency. The participating countries had agreed  to
adopt the euro as their common legal currency on that date.  From that
date,  the  euro is traded on currency exchanges and is available  for
non-cash transactions.




Following introduction of the euro, local currencies will remain legal
tender until December 31, 2001.  During this transition period,  goods
and services may be paid for with the euro or the local currency under
the  EU's  "no  compulsion, no prohibition" principle. If cross-border
payments  are made in a local currency during this transition  period,
the  amount will be converted into euros and then converted from euros
into  the second local currency at rates fixed by the ECB. By no later
than  December  31, 2001, the participating countries will  issue  new
euro-denominated bills and coins for use in cash transactions.  By  no
later  than  July 1, 2002, participating countries will  withdraw  all
bills  and  coins  denominated in local currencies,  making  the  euro
conversion complete.

In  February 1997, the company created a European Monetary Union (EMU)
Steering Committee and project teams representing all company business
and staff units in Europe.  The common objective of these teams is  to
ensure   a  smooth  transition  to  EMU  for  the  company   and   its
constituencies.   The  scope  of  the  teams'  efforts  includes   (i)
assessing  the  euro's  impact on the company's business  and  pricing
strategies  for  customers and suppliers, and (ii) ensuring  that  the
company's  business processes and information technology (IT)  systems
can  process  transactions in euros and local  currencies  during  the
transition  period  and achieve the conversion of all  relevant  local
currency  data  to the euro by December 31, 2001, in the participating
countries.

Europe  is a significant market for the company, contributing  26%  of
consolidated  sales and 20% of consolidated operating income  in  1998
(excluding  the restructuring charge). The company believes  that  the
euro  will,  over time, increase price competition for  the  company's
products  across  Europe due to cross-border price  transparency.  The
company  also  believes that the adverse effects  of  increased  price
competition will be offset somewhat by new business opportunities  and
efficiencies  in  what  is  the world's second  largest  economy.  The
company,  however, is not able to estimate the anticipated  net  long-
term impact of the euro introduction on the company.

The  company  has  consolidated  IT operations  and  made  significant
investments in IT systems in Europe in anticipation of the  EMU.   The
company  expects  that these investments will enable  the  company  to
manage  customer orders, invoices, payments and accounts in euros  and
in  local currencies according to customer needs during the three-year
transition   period.  During  this  period,  the  company  anticipates
spending  approximately $35-50 million to complete the  conversion  to
the euro. Because the company believes its IT systems will be ready by
December  31,  2001  for the euro conversion,  it  has  not  developed
contingency plans at this time.

The euro introduction is not expected to have a material impact on the
company's  overall  currency risk.  Although the  company  engages  in
significant  trade  within the EU, the impact to date  of  changes  in
currency  exchange rates on trade within the EU has not been material.
The  company  anticipates  the  euro will  simplify  financial  issues
related  to  cross-border trade in the EU and reduce  the  transaction
costs  and  administrative time necessary to  manage  this  trade  and
related risks.  The company believes that the associated savings  will
not be material to corporate results.

The  company  has derivatives outstanding beyond January 1,  1999,  in
several  European  currencies.  Under  the  EU's  "no  compulsion,  no
prohibition"  principle,  the outstanding  derivative  positions  will
either mature as local currency contracts or convert to euro contracts
at  no  additional economic cost to the company.  The company believes
that systems used to monitor derivative positions can be appropriately
modified  for these changes.  The company




believes  the  impact  of  the euro  introduction  on  the  company's
derivative positions will not be material.

Forward-Looking Statements
The  Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a "safe
harbor" for certain forward-looking statements.  This Annual Report on
Form  10-K  contains  forward-looking statements,  which  reflect  the
Company's  current views with respect to future events  and  financial
performance.

These  forward-looking statements are subject  to  certain  risks  and
uncertainties,  including those identified below,  which  could  cause
actual  results to differ materially from historical results or  those
anticipated.   The  words  "aim," "believe,"  "expect,"  "anticipate,"
"intend,"  "estimate," "will," "should," "could" and other expressions
that  indicate  future  events  and  trends  identify  forward-looking
statements.

Actual future results and trends may differ materially from historical
results  or  those  anticipated depending on  a  variety  of  factors,
including, but not limited to: foreign exchange rates and fluctuations
in  those  rates;  the effects of, and changes in, worldwide  economic
conditions;  raw materials, including shortages and increases  in  the
costs  of  key raw materials; the impact of the Year 2000  issue  (see
discussion of the Year 2000 issue in Part I, Item 7 of this  Form  10-
K); and legal proceedings (see discussion of Legal Proceedings in Part
I, Item 3 of this Form 10-K).




Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

        Index to Financial Statements

                                                          Reference (pages)
                                                               Form 10-K

Data submitted herewith:
   Report of Independent Auditors ...............................  26

   Consolidated Statement of Income for the years ended
     December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996 ...........................  27

   Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 1998 and
     1997 .......................................................  28

   Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders'
     Equity and Comprehensive Income for the years ended
     December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996............................  29

   Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
     for the years ended December 31,
     1998, 1997 and 1996 ........................................  30

   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ..................31-47




                        Report of Independent Auditors

To  the  Stockholders and Board of Directors of Minnesota  Mining  and
Manufacturing Company:

In  our  opinion, the consolidated financial statements as  listed  in
Item 8 of this Form 10-K present fairly, in all material respects, the
consolidated  financial position of Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing
Company  and  Subsidiaries at December 31,  1998  and  1997,  and  the
consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each
of  the  three  years  in  the  period ended  December  31,  1998,  in
conformity  with  generally  accepted  accounting  principles.   These
financial   statements  are  the  responsibility  of   the   company's
management;  our  responsibility is to express  an  opinion  on  these
financial statements based on our audits.  We conducted our audits  in
accordance  with generally accepted auditing standards  which  require
that  we  plan  and  perform the audit to obtain reasonable  assurance
about   whether  the  financial  statements  are  free   of   material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis,  evidence
supporting  the  amounts and disclosures in the financial  statements,
assessing  the  accounting principles used and  significant  estimates
made  by  management,  and evaluating the overall financial  statement
presentation.   We believe that our audits provide a reasonable  basis
for the opinion expressed above.





                                /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

                                PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP



St. Paul, Minnesota
February 8, 1999
























Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Accounting Policies
Consolidation:   All  significant subsidiaries are  consolidated.  All
intercompany transactions are eliminated.

Foreign   currency  translation:   Local  currencies   generally   are
considered the functional currencies outside the United States, except
in  countries treated as highly inflationary.  Assets and  liabilities
for  operations in local currency environments are translated at year-
end  exchange  rates.   Income and expense  items  are  translated  at
average  rates  of  exchange prevailing during  the  year.  Cumulative
translation  adjustments are recorded as a component of  stockholders'
equity.

For  operations  in countries treated as highly inflationary,  certain
financial  statement  amounts are translated  at  historical  exchange
rates,  with  all other assets and liabilities translated at  year-end
exchange rates. These translation adjustments are reflected in  income
and are not material.

Use  of  estimates:   The  preparation  of  financial  statements   in
conformity  with  generally  accepted accounting  principles  requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the  reported
amounts  of  assets and liabilities and the disclosure  of  contingent
assets  and  liabilities at the date of the financial statements,  and
the  reported  amounts of revenues and expenses during  the  reporting
period.  Actual results could differ from these estimates.

Cash  and cash equivalents:  Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash
and temporary investments with maturities of three months or less when
purchased.

Other  securities  and  investments:   Other  securities  consist   of
marketable  securities and interest-bearing bank deposits with  varied
maturity  dates.  These  securities  are  employed  in  the  company's
banking,   captive   insurance   and   cash   management   operations.
Investments  primarily  include  debt  securities  held   by   captive
insurance  and  banking operations; individual  and  commercial  loans
receivable  held  by banking operations; the cash surrender  value  of
life   insurance  policies;  and  real  estate  and  venture   capital
investments.

Inventories:  Inventories are stated at lower of cost or market,  with
cost generally determined on a first-in, first-out basis.

Other  assets:   Other  assets  include product  and  other  insurance
receivables, goodwill, patents, other intangibles, deferred taxes  and
other  noncurrent  assets.  Goodwill is amortized on  a  straight-line
basis  over  the periods benefited, typically 10 to 40  years.   Other
intangible  items  are amortized on a straight-line basis  over  their
estimated economic lives.

Revenue recognition:  Revenue is recognized upon shipment of goods  to
customers and upon performance of services.  The company sells a  wide
range  of products to a diversified base of customers around the world
and,  therefore, believes there is no material concentration of credit
risk.

Property,  plant and equipment:  Depreciation of property,  plant  and
equipment  generally is computed using the straight-line method  based
on  estimated useful lives of the assets. Fully depreciated assets are
retained  in  property  and  accumulated depreciation  accounts  until
removed  from service.  Upon disposal, assets and related  accumulated
depreciation  are removed from the accounts and the net  amount,  less
proceeds from disposal, is charged or credited to operations.




Advertising and merchandising:  These costs are charged to  operations
in the year incurred.

Derivatives  and hedging activities:  The company uses  interest  rate
swaps,  currency  swaps, and forward and option  contracts  to  manage
risks  generally associated with foreign exchange rate, interest  rate
and   commodity  market  volatility.   All  hedging  instruments   are
designated  as  and  effective as hedges,  as  required  by  generally
accepted  accounting principles.  Instruments that do not qualify  for
hedge  accounting  are  marked to market with  changes  recognized  in
current  earnings.   The  company does not hold  or  issue  derivative
financial  instruments for trading purposes and  is  not  a  party  to
leveraged derivatives.

Realized  and  unrealized  gains  and  losses  for  qualifying   hedge
instruments  are  deferred until offsetting gains and  losses  on  the
underlying transactions are recognized in earnings.  These  gains  and
losses  generally are recognized either as interest expense  over  the
borrowing  period  for  interest  rate  and  currency  swaps;  as   an
adjustment   to  cost  of  goods  sold  for  inventory-related   hedge
transactions; or in stockholders' equity for hedges of net investments
in   international  companies.   Cash  flows  attributable  to   these
financial  instruments  are  included  with  the  cash  flows  of  the
associated hedged items.

In   June  1998,  the  Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board  issued
Statement  of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting  for
Derivative  Instruments  and Hedging Activities."   The  company  must
adopt  this  standard no later than January 1, 2000.  The  company  is
reviewing  the  requirements of this standard.  Although  the  company
expects  that  this standard will not materially affect its  financial
position  or  results  of operations, it has not  yet  determined  the
impact of this standard on its financial statements.

Accounting  for  stock-based  compensation:   The  company  uses   the
intrinsic  value  method for the Management Stock  Ownership  Program.
The   General   Employees'   Stock   Purchase   Plan   is   considered
noncompensatory.

Comprehensive income:  Effective January 1, 1998, the company  adopted
SFAS  No.  130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income."  Total comprehensive
income  and  the components of accumulated other comprehensive  income
are   presented   in  the  Consolidated  Statement   of   Changes   in
Stockholders' Equity and Comprehensive Income.

Earnings  per  share:  The difference in the weighted  average  shares
outstanding  for calculating basic and diluted earnings per  share  is
attributable  to  the assumed exercise of Management  Stock  Ownership
Program  stock options, if dilutive, and also includes the  effect  of
the assumed exercise of General Employees' Stock Purchase Plan (GESPP)
options for periods through June 30, 1997.  Effective July 1997, GESPP
options no longer have a dilutive effect.

Restructuring Charge
To  reduce costs and improve productivity, the company is streamlining
corporate   structure,  consolidating  manufacturing  operations   and
exiting certain product lines.

In  1998, the company recorded a restructuring charge of $332  million
($214  million after tax) in the third quarter and $161  million  ($99
million  after tax) in the fourth quarter, for a total of $493 million
($313  million  after tax).  As discussed below,  a  portion  of  this
restructuring charge ($39 million) has been classified as a  component
of  cost of goods sold. The restructuring charge does not include  the
write-down of goodwill or other intangible assets.




Of  the  total restructuring charge, $271 million relates to  employee
termination  benefits. The company expects to terminate  approximately
4,800 employees by December 31, 1999. These reductions will take place
in each business segment and geographic area of the company and in all
major functions.

Under  the plan, the company terminated 1,225 employees in the  second
half  of  1998, of whom about one-third were in the United States  and
two-thirds were abroad. Because certain employees can defer receipt of
termination  benefits  for  up to 12 months,  cash  payments  lag  job
eliminations. After subtracting payments of $39 million  made  through
December  31,  1998,  the company had a remaining  liability  of  $232
million related to employee termination benefits at year-end. This has
been  classified in current liabilities - payroll on the  Consolidated
Balance  Sheet and will be funded through cash provided  by  operating
activities.

The  company plans to consolidate or downsize manufacturing operations
including actions in seven locations in  the  United  States,  nine in
Europe,  four in  the  Asia  Pacific area and two in Latin America. As
part  of  the restructuring  plan, the  company  is also discontinuing
product lines which  had  combined  annual  sales  of  less  than $100
million and marginal  operating income in each of the years 1998, 1997
and 1996.

The  restructuring charge includes $143 million, net of salvage value,
for   the  write-down  of  assets  included  in  property,  plant  and
equipment. These assets primarily include specialized 3M manufacturing
machinery  and  equipment.   Estimated salvage  values  are  based  on
estimates of proceeds upon sale of certain of the affected assets.

The  restructuring  charge also includes $79  million  for  losses  on
inventory  write-downs  and exit plans.   The  company  has  taken  an
inventory  write-down of $39 million, which has been classified  as  a
component  of cost of goods sold, for certain product lines  that  are
being  discontinued.  The losses on exit plans include $40 million  in
incremental  costs  and  contractual obligations  for  items  such  as
leasehold termination payments and other facility exit costs  incurred
as  a  direct  result of this plan. After subtracting  $8  million  in
payments  made through December 31, 1998, the company had a  remaining
balance  in  other current liabilities of $32 million for  these  exit
costs at year-end.

Selected information relating to the restructuring charge follows.






Gain on Divestiture
Effective  August  15,  1997, the company  sold  National  Advertising
Company, an outdoor and mall advertising subsidiary, for cash proceeds
of $1 billion. After adjusting for the net cost of the assets sold and
for the expenses associated with the divestiture, the company realized
a  gain  of $803 million ($495 million after tax) or $1.18 per diluted
share,  in  1997.   National Advertising Company had annual  sales  of
about  $200  million and operating income of about  $35  million.   In
1998,  a $10 million gain was recorded to finalize the accounting  for
this sale.

Discontinued Operations
In November 1995, the Board of Directors approved a plan to launch the
company's  data  storage  and imaging businesses  as  an  independent,
publicly  owned  company  and  to discontinue  3M's  audio  and  video
business.  In June 1996, the Board of Directors approved the  tax-free
distribution by 3M of the common stock of Imation Corp. (Imation) as a
special  dividend of one share of Imation common stock  for  every  10
shares  of outstanding 3M common stock held of record as of  June  28,
1996.   The  company recorded the special dividend of  Imation  common
stock   by  reducing  retained  earnings  by  $1.008  billion,   which
represented the carrying value of the net assets underlying the common
stock  distributed.   The company's consolidated financial  statements
and  notes  reported  Imation  and the audio  and  video  business  as
discontinued operations.

The  1995  loss  on  disposal of $373 million included  the  estimated
future results of operations through the estimated date of spin-off or
closure.   The  $10  million  1996 gain  on  disposal  reflects  final
adjustments to the company's 1995 estimated loss on disposal.













Supplemental Stockholders' Equity Information
Common  stock ($.50 par value per share; without par value at December
31,  1996) of 1 billion shares is authorized, with 472,016,528  shares
issued in 1998, 1997 and 1996.  Common stock and capital in excess  of
par  includes $60 million transferred from common stock to capital  in
excess  of par value during 1997. Preferred stock, without par  value,
of  10 million shares is authorized but unissued.  The following table
shows  the  ending  balances of the components  of  accumulated  other
comprehensive income. The tax effects and reclassification adjustments
were not material.



Supplemental Cash Flow Information

Income tax payments and interest payments included in the Consolidated
Statement of Cash Flows are shown below.



Income  tax payments in 1997 include $308 million related to the  gain
on the sale of National Advertising Company.

In  1998,  the 3M Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) refinanced  its
existing  debt  by  issuing  new debt of $385  million.   Because  the
company  has  guaranteed  repayment of the ESOP  debt,  the  debt  and
related unearned compensation are recorded on the Consolidated Balance
Sheet.   The  repayment of principal and proceeds  of  long-term  debt
relating  to the ESOP have been excluded from the financing activities
of the company in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows because the
funds involved were received and disbursed by the ESOP trust.

In  connection with the spin-off of Imation, the company recorded cash
proceeds  of  $79 million in 1996, primarily related to  the  sale  of
international assets to Imation.  Imation also retired $65 million  of
short-term debt related to its businesses as of June 30, 1996.

In 1996, 3M increased its ownership in 3M Korea from 60 percent to 100
percent   by   purchasing   the  remaining  interest   from   minority
shareholders.  The purchase price included the deferral of $72 million
in installment payments over the period 1997 through 1999.




Debt




Debt  with  fixed interest rates includes the ESOP, U.S. dollar  6.375
percent  note,  Sumitomo  3M Limited note,  and  a  portion  of  other
borrowings.  ESOP debt is serviced by dividends on stock held  by  the
ESOP  and  by company contributions.  These contributions are reported
as  an employee benefit expense.  Debt not denominated in U.S. dollars
includes the 5.75 percent Eurobond, the Sumitomo 3M Limited note,  and
most  of other borrowings. Other borrowings include debt held by  3M's
international  companies and floating rate notes and  industrial  bond
issues in the United States.

Maturities  of long-term debt for the next five years are: 1999,  $131
million; 2000, $39 million; 2001, $674 million; 2002, $36 million; and
2003, $140 million.

The  company estimates that the fair value of short-term and long-term
debt approximates the carrying amount of this debt.  Debt covenants do
not restrict the payment of dividends.

At year-end 1998, the company had available short-term lines of credit
totaling about $670 million.




Other Financial Instruments
Interest rate and currency swaps:  The company uses interest rate  and
currency  swaps  to manage interest rate risk related  to  borrowings.
The  notional amounts shown in the table below serve solely as a basis
for  the  calculation  of  payment streams  to  be  exchanged.   These
notional  amounts are not a measure of the company's exposure  through
its  use  of  derivatives.   These  instruments  generally  mature  in
relationship to their underlying debt and have maturities extending to
2001.   Unrealized gains and losses and exposure to changes in  market
conditions were not material at December 31, 1998 and 1997.



Foreign  exchange  forward  and options contracts:   The  company  has
entered  into  foreign  exchange forward and  options  contracts,  the
majority  of  which have maturities of less than one year.   The  face
amounts  represent contracted U.S. dollar equivalents of  forward  and
options  contracts denominated in foreign currencies.  The amounts  at
risk  are not material because the company has the ability to generate
offsetting  foreign currency cash flows.  Unrealized gains and  losses
at December 31, 1998 and 1997, were not material.



The  company  engages  in hedging activities to reduce  exchange  rate
risks  arising  from  cross-border cash flows denominated  in  foreign
currencies.  The  company operates on a global basis, generating  more
than  half  its  revenues internationally and engaging in  substantial
product and financial transfers among geographic areas.  Major forward
contracts  at  December 31, 1998, were denominated in British  pounds,
Japanese yen, German marks, Singapore dollars and Belgian francs.

Credit  risk:  The company is exposed to credit loss in the  event  of
nonperformance  by  counterparties in interest  rate  swaps,  currency
swaps,  and  option  and  foreign exchange  contracts,  but  does  not
anticipate nonperformance by any of these counterparties.  The company
actively  monitors  its exposure to credit risk  through  the  use  of
credit   approvals   and  credit  limits,  and  by   selecting   major
international banks and financial institutions as counterparties.

Leases
Rental  expense under operating leases was $125 million in  both  1998
and  1997,  and  $138 million in 1996.  The table below shows  minimum
payments under operating leases with noncancelable terms in excess  of
one year, as of December 31, 1998.






Income Taxes
In  1998,  the  company refinanced debt related to its Employee  Stock
Ownership Plan. The provision for income taxes shown below excludes  a
$21 million tax benefit related to this refinancing. In 1997, the gain
on  the  sale  of National Advertising Company, a U.S.  business,  was
taxed  at  a  rate  of 38.4 percent (federal statutory  rate  of  35.0
percent  and a net effective state tax rate of 3.4 percent). The  1997
information reflects the pre-tax gain of $803 million on the sale  and
related income taxes paid of $308 million.







At  December  31,  1998,  about $2.643 billion  of  retained  earnings
attributable  to  international  companies  were  considered   to   be
indefinitely  invested.  No provision has been  made  for  taxes  that
might be payable if these earnings were remitted to the United States.
It  is not practical to determine the amount of incremental taxes that
might arise were these earnings to be remitted.






Business Segments
Effective  at  year-end  1998,  the  company  adopted  SFAS  No.  131,
"Disclosure  about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information."
Prior period amounts have been restated to conform to the requirements
of this statement.

3M's  businesses  are organized, managed, and internally  reported  as
three  segments.  The  segments, which are  based  on  differences  in
products, technologies  and  services, are  Industrial  and  Consumer;
Transportation, Safety and Specialty Material; and Health Care.  These
segments have worldwide responsibility for virtually all of the company's
product lines.  These  product  lines  serve  a wide range of markets,
including automotive,  communications, consumer,  electronics,  health
care, industrial, office, personal care and safety. 3M is not dependent
on any single product or market.

Transactions between reportable segments are recorded at cost.  3M  is
an  integrated  enterprise  characterized by substantial  intersegment
cooperation,  cost  allocations and inventory  transfers.   Therefore,
management  does  not  represent  that  these  segments,  if  operated
independently,  would report the operating income and other  financial
information shown.






Business Segments (continued)



Geographic Areas
Information  in the table below is presented on the basis the  company
uses  to  manage its businesses.  Export sales and certain income  and
expense items are reported within the geographic area where the  final
sales to customers are made.



Retirement and Postretirement Benefit Plans
Effective  at  year-end  1998,  the  company  adopted  SFAS  No.  132,
"Employers'   Disclosures  about  Pensions  and  Other  Postretirement
Benefits."   Information for prior years has been restated to  conform
to the requirements of this statement.

3M   has   various   company-sponsored   retirement   plans   covering
substantially all U.S. employees and many employees outside the United
States. Pension benefits are based principally on an employee's  years
of service and compensation near retirement.  In addition to providing
pension  benefits, the company provides certain postretirement  health
care  and  life insurance benefits for substantially all of  its  U.S.
employees  who  reach retirement age while employed  by  the  company.
Most  international employees and retirees are covered  by  government
health care programs.  The cost of company-provided health care  plans
for these international employees is not material.




The company's pension funding policy is to deposit with an independent
trustee amounts at least equal to those required by law.  A trust fund
is  maintained  to  provide pension benefits to plan participants  and
their  beneficiaries.   A number of plans are maintained  by  deposits
with  insurance  companies.  In addition, the company  has  set  aside
funds for its U.S. postretirement plan with an independent trustee and
makes periodic contributions to the plan.



The  company's  U.S.  nonqualified pension  plan  had  an  accumulated
benefit  obligation in excess of plan assets in both  1998  and  1997.
The plan's accumulated benefit obligation was $175 million at December
31,  1998, and $143 million at December 31, 1997.  There are  no  plan
assets in the nonqualified plan due its nature.

Certain  international pension plans were underfunded.  As of year-end
1998 and 1997, the accumulated benefit obligations of these plans were
$418  million and $84 million, respectively, and the assets  of  these
plans  were  $384  million  and $69 million,  respectively.   The  net
underfunded   amount   is  included  in  other  liabilities   in   the
Consolidated Balance Sheet.






The company expects its health care cost trend rate for postretirement
benefits  to  slow  from 6.4 percent in 1999 to 5.0 percent  in  2004,
after  which the rate is expected to stabilize. A one percentage point
change  in  the  assumed health care cost trend rates would  have  the
following effects.






Employee Savings and Stock Ownership Plans
The  company sponsors employee savings plans under Section  401(k)  of
the  Internal  Revenue Code.  These plans are offered to substantially
all regular U.S. employees.  Employee contributions of up to 6 percent
of  compensation are matched at rates ranging from 10 to  35  percent,
with   additional   company  contributions  depending   upon   company
performance.

The  company maintains an Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP).   This
plan  was  established in 1989 as a cost effective way of funding  the
majority of the company's contributions under 401(k) employee  savings
plans.  Total ESOP shares are considered to be shares outstanding  for
earnings per share calculations.

In  1998, the ESOP refinanced its existing debt by issuing new debt of
$385  million  at an interest rate of 5.62 percent.  This  refinancing
extended the life of the original ESOP from 2004 to 2009.  The company
incurred a one-time charge of $59 million ($38 million after  tax,  or
$0.09  per diluted share), which is reported as an extraordinary  loss
from early extinguishment of debt.

Dividends  on shares held by the ESOP are paid to the ESOP trust  and,
together  with  company contributions, are used by the ESOP  to  repay
principal and interest on the outstanding notes.  Over the life of the
notes, shares are released for allocation to participants based on the
ratio of the current year's debt service to the remaining debt service
prior to the current payment.

The  ESOP  has  been  the  primary funding source  for  the  company's
employee  savings  plans.   Expenses related  to  the  ESOP  generally
represent  total  debt  service on the  notes,  less  dividends.   The
company contributes treasury shares to employee savings plans to cover
obligations not funded by the ESOP.  These amounts are reported as  an
employee benefit expense.  Unearned compensation, shown as a reduction
of  stockholders' equity, is reduced symmetrically as the  ESOP  makes
principal payments.



In  July  1996,  the  ESOP received Imation shares from  the  spin-off
distribution.  These shares were sold and the proceeds  were  used  to
purchase additional 3M shares.






General Employees' Stock Purchase Plan
Substantially  all  employees  are  eligible  to  participate  in  the
company's   General   Employees'   Stock   Purchase   Plan    (GESPP).
Participants are granted options at 85 percent of market value at  the
date  of grant.  Effective July 1997, options are granted on the first
business day and exercised on the last business day of the same month.
Previously,  GESPP options were exercised within 27  months  from  the
date of grant.



Management Stock Ownership Program
In May 1997, shareholders approved an additional 35 million shares for
issuance   under  the  Management  Stock  Ownership  Program   (MSOP).
Management  stock options are granted at market value at the  date  of
grant. These options generally are exercisable one year after the date
of  grant  and  expire 10 years from the date of grant.  At  year-end,
there were 10,594 participants in the plan.  To preserve the intrinsic
value  of  management  stock options after the Imation  spin-off,  the
number  of  outstanding  options  and  related  exercise  prices  were
adjusted  in 1996, resulting in no economic impact to participants  or
the company.






Management Stock Ownership Program (continued)



Stock-Based Compensation
No  compensation  cost has been recognized for the General  Employees'
Stock  Purchase Plan (GESPP) or the Management Stock Ownership Program
(MSOP).  Pro forma amounts based on the options' estimated fair value,
net of tax, at the grant dates for awards under the GESPP and MSOP are
presented below.



The  weighted average fair value per option granted during 1998,  1997
and  1996 was $12.34, $13.67 and $10.37, respectively, for the  GESPP,
and  $20.41,  $21.81 and $13.43, respectively, for the incentive  MSOP
grants.   The weighted average fair value was calculated by using  the
fair  value  of  each option on the date of grant. The fair  value  of
GESPP options was based on the 15 percent purchase discount.  For MSOP
options  the  fair  value was calculated utilizing  the  Black-Scholes
option-pricing model and the assumptions that follow.



The  GESPP  and  MSOP options, if exercised, would have the  following
dilutive  effect  on  shares outstanding  for  1998,  1997  and  1996,
respectively:  4.7  million,  6.0  million  and  3.9  million  shares.
Beginning  July  1997,  GESPP options had no  dilutive  effect.   MSOP
options  to purchase 10.8 million shares of common stock at an average
price of $92.14 were outstanding at year-end 1998.  These MSOP options
were  not  included in the computation of diluted earnings  per  share
because they would not have had a dilutive effect.

Legal Proceedings
Discussion of legal matters is incorporated by reference from Part  I,
Item  3, of this Form 10-K, and should be considered an integral  part
of the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes.









Item 9.  Changes  in and Disagreements With Accountants on  Accounting
       and Financial Disclosure.

   None.

                            PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.

Item 11. Executive Compensation.

Item   12.  Security  Ownership  of  Certain  Beneficial  Owners   and
Management.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.

The  information  required by Items 10 through 13 are incorporated  by
reference from the registrant's definitive proxy statement pursuant to
general instruction G(3), with the exception of the executive officers
section  of  Item 10, which is included in Item 1 of this  Form  10-K.
The  registrant  will  file  with the Commission  a  definitive  proxy
statement pursuant to Regulation 14A by April 30, 1999.


                            PART IV

Item  14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form
8-K.

(a)  The  financial statements filed as part of this report are listed
   in the index to financial statements on page 25.

All  financial statement schedules are omitted because of the  absence
of  the  conditions  under  which they are  required  or  because  the
required  information is included in the financial statements  or  the
notes thereto.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K:
The company filed a report on Form 8-K dated December 16, 1998.
In  a  release dated December 16, 1998, the company announced that  it
expects  fourth-quarter 1998 earnings to be below those  in  the  same
quarter  last  year.   The new release also contained  forward-looking
statements relating to the fourth quarter of 1998 and full year  1999.
The news release was attached as Exhibit 99 to the Form 8-K.




(c) Exhibits:

Incorporated by Reference:

                                         Incorporated by Reference in the
                                                    Report From

 (3) Restated certificate of incorporation        Exhibit (3) to
     and bylaws, amended to and                   Form 10-Q
     including amendments of                      for period ended
     May 12, 1987.                                June 30, 1987.

     Restated certificate of incorporation,       Form 8-K dated
     as amended as of May 13, 1997.               June 30, 1997.

     Bylaws, as amended as of November 11, 1996.  Form 8-K dated
                                                  November 20, 1996.

 (4) Instruments defining the rights of security
     holders, including debentures:
     (a)  common stock.                           Exhibit (3) above.
     (b)  medium-term notes.                      Registration No. 33-48089
                                                         on Form S-3.

(10) Material contracts, management
     remuneration:
     (a) management stock ownership program.      Exhibit 4 of
                                                  Registration No. 333-30689
                                                  on Form S-8.
     (b)  profit sharing plan, performance        Written description contained
          unit plan and other compensation        in issuer's proxy statement
          arrangements.                           for the 1999 annual
                                                  shareholders' meeting.


                                                        Reference (pages)
                                                            Form 10-K
   Submitted herewith:

        (12)  Calculation of ratio of earnings
              to fixed charges.                                  51

        (21)  Subsidiaries of the registrant.                    52

        (23)  Consent of experts.                                53

        (24)  Power of attorney.                                 54

        (27)  Financial data schedule for the year ended
              December 31, 1998 (EDGAR filing only).




                                 SIGNATURES

Pursuant  to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange
Act  of  l934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                  MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY



                              By  /s/ Giulio Agostini
                                 Giulio Agostini, Senior Vice President
                                 Principal Financial and Accounting Officer
                                 February 11, 1999

Pursuant  to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of  1934,
this  report has been signed below by the following persons on  behalf
of  the  registrant and in the capacities indicated  on  February  11,
1999.

Signature               Title

Livio D. DeSimone       Chairman of the Board and
                        Chief Executive Officer, Director

Ronald O. Baukol        Director
Edward A. Brennan       Director
Edward R. McCracken     Director
W. George Meredith      Director
Ronald A. Mitsch        Director
Allen E. Murray         Director
Rozanne L. Ridgway      Director
Frank Shrontz           Director
F. Alan Smith           Director
Louis W. Sullivan       Director


Roger  P.  Smith,  by signing his name hereto, does hereby  sign  this
document  pursuant to powers of attorney duly executed  by  the  other
persons  named, filed with the Securities and Exchange  Commission  on
behalf  of such other persons, all in the capacities and on  the  date
stated, such persons constituting a majority of the directors  of  the
company.

                              By  /s/ Roger P. Smith
                                 Roger P. Smith, Attorney-in-Fact


