
10-K405
0001.txt
2000 10-K




                           UNITED STATES
                 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                      Washington, D.C. 20549
                             FORM 10-K

      [X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                  SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                For the year ended December 31, 2000

                   Commission file number 1-3285

            MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY

State of Incorporation: Delaware
                          I.R.S. Employer Identification No. 41-0417775
       Executive offices:  3M Center, St. Paul, Minnesota 55144
                  Telephone number: (651) 733-1110

         SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:
                                               Name of each exchange
         Title of each class                   on which registered
     Common Stock, Par Value $.01 Per Share    New York Stock Exchange
                                               Pacific Exchange
                                               Chicago Stock Exchange

     Note: The common stock of the registrant is also traded on the
           Swiss stock exchange.

     Securities registered pursuant to section 12(g) of the Act: None

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has
filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such
reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past 90 days.  Yes  X  .  No     .

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will
not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive
proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of
this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [ X ]

     The aggregate market value of voting stock held by nonaffiliates
of the registrant, based on the closing price of $110.65 per share
as reported on the New York Stock Exchange-Composite Index on
January 31, 2001, was $43.8 billion.

   Shares of common stock outstanding at January 31, 2001:  396,142,377.

                  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
     Parts of the following documents are incorporated by reference in
Parts III and IV of this Form 10-K:  (1) Proxy Statement for registrant's
2001 annual meeting, (2) Form 8-K dated December 7, 2000; Form 8-K dated
July 27, 2000;  Form 8-K dated November 20, 1996, (3) Registration Nos.
333-30689, 333-42660, 333-44692, 333-48922 and 333-49830.

                    This document contains 82 pages.
               The exhibit index is set forth on page 55.



                   MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY
                                  FORM 10-K
                      For the Year Ended December 31, 2000
                                   PART I

Item 1. Business.

Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company was incorporated in 1929 under
the  laws of the State of Delaware to continue operations, begun in 1902,
of  a  Minnesota corporation of the same name.  As used herein, the  term
"3M" or "company" includes Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company and
subsidiaries unless the context otherwise indicates.

General
3M  is an integrated enterprise characterized by substantial intercompany
cooperation  in research, manufacturing and marketing of products.   3M's
business  has developed from its research and technology in  coating  and
bonding  for  coated abrasives, the company's original product.   Coating
and  bonding is the process of applying one material to another, such  as
abrasive  granules to paper or cloth (coated abrasives), adhesives  to  a
backing  (pressure-sensitive tapes), ceramic coating to granular  mineral
(roofing granules), glass beads to plastic backing (reflective sheeting),
and low-tack adhesives to paper (repositionable notes).

3M is among the leading manufacturers of products for many of the markets
it  serves.  In all cases, 3M products are subject to direct or  indirect
competition.   Most 3M products involve expertise in product development,
manufacturing and marketing, and are subject to competition from products
manufactured and sold by other technically oriented companies.

At December 31, 2000, the company employed about 75,000 people.

Business Segments
Financial  information and other disclosures relating  to  3M's  business
segments and operations in various geographic areas are provided  in  the
Notes  to  Consolidated Financial Statements. 3M's six operating segments
bring   together  common  or  related  3M  technologies,  enhancing   the
development  of  innovative  products  and  services  and  providing  for
efficient  sharing of business resources.  These segments have  worldwide
responsibility  for  virtually  all  3M  product  lines.   Certain  small
businesses  and  staff-sponsored products, as well as  various  corporate
assets  and  unallocated  corporate expenses, are  not  assigned  to  the
operating segments.

Industrial Markets: Industrial products include a wide variety of  coated
and   nonwoven  abrasives,  adhesives,  pressure-sensitive   tapes,   and
specialty    products.    Industry-specialized   organizations    include
distribution  and key account management, converter channels,  automotive
aftermarkets, aerospace, marine and recreational vehicles.

Major   product  lines  include  vinyl,  polyester,  foil  and  specialty
industrial  tapes  and  adhesives; Scotch  brand  masking,  filament  and
packaging  tapes; packaging equipment; 3M brand VHB brand bonding  tapes;
conductive, low surface energy, hot melt, spray and structural adhesives;
reclosable fasteners; label materials for durable goods; coated, nonwoven
and   microstructured  surface  finishing  and  grinding  abrasives;  and
products  for  maintaining and repairing vehicles, boats,  airplanes  and
other vehicles.



Transportation,  Graphics  and  Safety  Markets:  This  segment  provides
reflective  sheeting, high-performance graphics, respirators,  automotive
components, security products and optical films.

In  transportation  safety,  3M  provides reflective  sheetings  used  on
highway  signs,  vehicle license plates, construction  workzone  devices,
trucks  and  other  vehicles. Major commercial graphic  products  include
equipment, films, inks and related products used to produce graphics  for
vehicles and signs.  The company also sells maintenance-free and reusable
respirators.  Major  automotive products include  body  side-molding  and
trim;   functional  and  decorative  graphics;  corrosion-resistant   and
abrasion-resistant  films;  tapes  for  attaching  nameplates,  trim  and
moldings;  and  fasteners for attaching interior  panels  and  carpeting.
Safety and security products include reflective materials that are widely
used  on apparel, footwear and accessories, enhancing visibility in  low-
light  situations. Optical products include brightness enhancement  films
for  electronic displays. Other products include spill-control  sorbents,
Thinsulate  brand  and  Lite  Loft  brand  Insulations,  traffic  control
devices, electronic surveillance products, and films that protect against
counterfeiting.  In  2000 and early 2001, 3M acquired  two  touch  screen
companies, which add product offerings to the Optical Systems business.

Health  Care  Markets:  Major  product categories  include  skin  health,
medical and surgical supplies, infection prevention, microbiology, health
care  information systems, pharmaceuticals, drug delivery systems, dental
and orthodontic products, and mechanical and tape closures for disposable
diapers.

In  skin  health, 3M is a supplier of medical tapes, dressings and  wound
closures.   In  infection prevention, 3M markets a  variety  of  surgical
drapes, masks and preps, as well as sterilization assurance equipment. 3M
also provides microbiology products, which make it faster and easier  for
food  processors to test for microbiological quality of food.  In  health
information  systems,  3M  develops and  markets  computer  software  for
hospital  coding  and data classification, as well as related  consulting
services.   The health care segment also provides other medical products,
including orthopedic casting materials, electrodes and stethoscopes.

This  segment also serves the pharmaceutical and dental markets, as  well
as manufacturers of disposable diapers. Among ethical pharmaceuticals are
immune  response modifiers, and respiratory and women's health  products.
Other  products  include  drug-delivery  systems,  such  as  metered-dose
inhalers,  transdermal  skin  patches  and  related  components.   Dental
products   include  restoratives,  adhesives,  finishing  and   polishing
products,  crowns, impression material, preventive sealants, professional
tooth  whiteners, prophylaxis and orthodontic appliances. Other  products
include  tape  closures for disposable diapers, and reclosable  fastening
systems  and  other diaper components that help diapers fit  better.   In
early 2001, 3M combined its German dental business with ESPE Dental AG, a
leading German supplier of crowns, bridges and other dental products.  In
the  second  quarter  of  1999,  the  company  sold  the  assets  of  its
cardiovascular systems business.

Consumer and Office Markets:  Major consumer and office products  include
Scotch  brand  tapes; Post-it brand Note products, such  as  flags,  memo
pads,  labels, Pop-up notes and dispensers; home care products, including
Scotch-Brite brand  Scouring, Sponge and High Performance Products, O-Cel-
O  brand  Sponges and Scotchgard brand Fabric Protectors; energy  control
products;   nonwoven  abrasive  materials  for  floor   maintenance   and
commercial  cleaning;  floor  matting;  and  home  improvement  products,
including surface-preparation and wood-finishing materials, and  Filtrete
brand  Filters  for furnaces and air conditioners.  Visual  communication
products  serve  the world's office and education markets  with



overhead projectors  and  transparency  films, plus equipment  and
materials  for electronic and multimedia presentations.

Electro and Communications Markets:  This segment serves the electronics,
telecommunications   and  electrical  markets.   Major   electronic   and
electrical  products  include  packaging  and  interconnection   devices;
insulating materials, including pressure-sensitive tapes and resins;  and
related  items.  These products are used extensively by manufacturers  of
electronic  and electrical equipment, as well as in the construction  and
maintenance  segments  of  the electric utility,  telecommunications  and
other  industries.  3M brand Microflex brand Circuits utilize  electronic
packaging  and interconnection technology, providing more connections  in
less  space,  and  are used in inkjet print cartridges, cell  phones  and
other    electronic   devices.    This   segment   serves   the   world's
telecommunications  companies with a wide array of  products  for  fiber-
optic  and  copper-based telecommunications systems.  These include  many
innovative   connecting,  closure  and  splicing   systems;   maintenance
products;  and test equipment. In 2000, 3M acquired 91 percent of  Quante
AG,  a  telecommunications supplier, with annual sales  of  approximately
$350  million. In the fourth quarter of 2000, 3M also acquired the multi-
layer integrated circuit packaging line of W.L. Gore and Associates,  and
in   early   2001  completed  the  acquisition  of  Robinson  Nugent,   a
manufacturer of electronic interconnects.

Specialty Material Markets:  Major specialty materials include protective
materials    for    furniture   and   fabrics;    firefighting    agents;
fluoroelastomers  for  seals, tubes and gaskets in  engines;  engineering
fluids;  and high-performance fluids used in the manufacture of  computer
chips,  and for electronic cooling and lubricating of computer hard  disk
drives.  Other products include natural and color-coated mineral granules
for asphalt shingles.  In December 1999, 3M finalized the acquisition  of
the outstanding minority interest in Dyneon LLC.

In   May  2000,  3M  announced  its  intent  to  substantially  phase-out
production by the end of 2000 of the perfluorooctanyl chemistry  used  to
produce  certain repellents and surfactant products.  These include  many
products  previously sold under the Scotchgard brand, such as  soil,  oil
and water repellent products for carpet, upholstery and fabrics; coatings
used  for  oil  and  grease resistance on paper packaging;  fire-fighting
foams;  and  specialty components for other products.   The  company  has
introduced  alternatives  for some applications  and  industry  segments,
including  carpet  protection,  and is  working  to  develop  replacement
chemistries for some of the other applications.

Distribution
3M  products are sold directly to users and through numerous wholesalers,
retailers, jobbers, distributors and dealers in a wide variety of  trades
in  many  countries  around  the  world.  Management  believes  that  the
confidence  of wholesalers, retailers, jobbers, distributors and  dealers
in  3M  and its products, developed through long association with skilled
marketing  and  sales representatives, has contributed  significantly  to
3M's  position  in the marketplace and to its growth.  3M has  231  sales
offices  and distribution centers worldwide, including nine major  branch
offices  located  in principal cities throughout the United  States.   3M
operates 25 sales offices and distribution centers in the United  States.
Internationally, 3M has 206 sales offices and distribution centers.



Research, Patents and Raw Materials
Research  and  product development constitute an important part  of  3M's
activities. Products resulting from research and development have been  a
major  driver of 3M's growth.  Research, development and related expenses
totaled  $1.101 billion, $1.056 billion and $1.028 billion in 2000,  1999
and   1998,  respectively.  Research  and  development,  covering   basic
scientific  research and the application of scientific  advances  to  the
development  of  new and improved products and their uses,  totaled  $727
million,  $688  million  and  $648  million  in  2000,  1999  and   1998,
respectively.  Related  expenses  primarily  include  technical   support
provided by the laboratories for existing products.

Corporate research laboratories support research efforts of division  and
market  laboratories.   These  corporate  laboratories  also  engage   in
research  not directly related to existing 3M product lines.  Most  major
operating  divisions  have  their own laboratories  to  improve  existing
products  and  develop  new  products.  Research  staff  groups   provide
specialized   services  in  instrumentation,  engineering   and   process
development.    3M  also  maintains  an  organization  for  technological
development not sponsored by other units of the company.

3M  is  the  owner of many domestic and foreign patents derived primarily
from its research activities.  3M's business as a whole is not materially
dependent upon any one patent, license or trade secret, or upon any group
of related patents, licenses or trade secrets.

The  company  experienced  no  significant or  unusual  problems  in  the
purchase  of  raw  materials during 2000.  It is  impossible  to  predict
future  shortages  of  raw materials or the impact such  shortages  would
have.

Executive Officers
Following is a list of the executive officers of 3M, their ages,  present
positions,  the  years  elected  to their  present  positions  and  other
positions held during the past five years. No family relationships  exist
among  any  of the executive officers named, nor is there any arrangement
or understanding pursuant to which any person was selected as an officer.





Executive Officers (continued)




Item 2. Properties.

3M's  general  offices,  corporate  research  laboratories,  and  certain
division  laboratories and manufacturing facilities are  located  in  St.
Paul,  Minnesota.  In  the United States, 3M has  25  sales  offices  and
distribution   centers  in  19  states  and  operates  54   manufacturing
facilities  in 23 states. Internationally, 3M has 206 sales  offices  and
distribution   centers.  The  company  operates  84   manufacturing   and
converting facilities in 38 countries outside the United States.

3M  owns  substantially  all of its physical properties.   3M's  physical
facilities  are  highly suitable for the purposes  for  which  they  were
designed.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings.

General
The company and certain of its subsidiaries are named as defendants in  a
number   of  actions,  governmental  proceedings  and  claims,  including
environmental   proceedings  and  products  liability  claims   involving
products  now or formerly manufactured and sold by the company.  In  some
actions,  the claimants seek damages as well as other relief,  which,  if
granted, would require substantial expenditures. The company has recorded
certain liabilities, which represent reasonable estimates of its probable
liabilities  for these matters. The company also has recorded receivables
for  the  probable amount of insurance recoverable with respect to  these
matters.

Some  of  these  matters raise difficult and complex  factual  and  legal
issues, and are subject to many uncertainties, including, but not limited
to,   the  facts  and  circumstances  of  each  particular  action,   the
jurisdiction and forum in which each action is proceeding and differences
in  applicable  law.  Accordingly, the company  is  not  always  able  to
estimate  the amount of its possible future liabilities with  respect  to
such matters.

While  the company currently believes that the ultimate outcome of  these
proceedings and claims, individually and in the aggregate, will not  have
a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position, results
of  operations,  or cash flows of the company, there can be  no  absolute
certainty that the company may not ultimately incur charges, whether  for
governmental proceedings and claims, products liability claims, or  other
actions, in excess of presently recorded liabilities.

While  the  company currently believes that a material adverse impact  on
its consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows
from  any  such future charges is remote, due to the inherent uncertainty
of  litigation, there exists the remote possibility that a future adverse
ruling  could result in future charges that could have a material adverse
impact  on  the company. The current estimate of the potential impact  on
the  company's  financial position for the above legal proceedings  could
change in the future.

Breast Implant Litigation
The company and certain other companies have been named as defendants  in
a number of claims and lawsuits alleging damages for personal injuries of
various types resulting from breast implants formerly manufactured by the
company  or  a  related  company. The company  entered  the  business  of
manufacturing  breast  implants  in 1977  by  purchasing  McGhan  Medical
Corporation. In 1984, the company sold the business to a corporation that
also was named McGhan Medical Corporation.



As  of  December 31, 2000, the company is currently named as a defendant,
often  with  multiple co-defendants, in 1,223 lawsuits and 29  claims  in
various  courts, all seeking damages for personal injuries from allegedly
defective breast implants. These lawsuits and claims purport to represent
3,715 individual claimants.

3M  has  confirmed that 70 of the 3,715 claimants have opted out  of  the
Revised  Settlement  Program  (discussed below)  and  have  3M  implants.
Approximately 93 percent of the claimants in these confirmed  cases  have
alleged  an unspecified amount of damages above the jurisdictional  limit
of the courts in which the cases were filed. The company has one claimant
who  filed  a  lawsuit in New York state court alleging  damages  of  $20
million.

The  company believes that most of the remaining 3,645 claimants will  be
dismissed  either because the claimants did not have 3M implants  or  the
claimants  accepted  benefits  under  the  Revised  Settlement   Program.
Approximately  88  percent of these claimants have  filed  lawsuits  that
either  do  not  allege  a  specific  amount  of  damages  or  allege  an
unspecified  amount  of  damages above the jurisdictional  limit  of  the
court.   The   rest   of  these  claimants  allege  damages   aggregating
approximately $300 million in their lawsuits. Approximately 412 claimants
have  filed lawsuits in New York state courts alleging damages in  excess
of  $20  million  each. 3M expects that virtually all of these  New  York
cases will be dismissed without payment for the reasons stated above. The
company  continues  to work to clarify the status of these  lawsuits  and
claims.

Based  on  3M's experience in resolving thousands of these  lawsuits,  3M
believes  that  the  amount of damages alleged in  complaints  is  not  a
reliable  or  meaningful measure of the potential liability that  3M  may
incur  in  the  breast  implant litigation.  Investors  should  place  no
reliance  on  the  amount of damages alleged in breast  implant  lawsuits
against 3M.

On  December 22, 1995, the United States District Court for the  Northern
District  of  Alabama approved a revised class action settlement  program
for  resolution  of  claims seeking damages for  personal  injuries  from
allegedly  defective breast implants (the "Revised Settlement  Program").
The Court ordered that, beginning after November 30, 1995, members of the
plaintiff  class  may  choose to participate in  the  Revised  Settlement
Program  or opt out, which would then allow them to proceed with separate
product liability actions.

The  company  believes that approximately 90 percent of the  registrants,
including  those  claimants who filed current  claims,  have  elected  to
participate in the Revised Settlement Program. It is still unknown as  to
what disease criteria all claimants have satisfied, and what options they
have  chosen.  As a result, the total amount and timing of the  company's
prospective  payments  under  the Revised Settlement  Program  cannot  be
determined  with  precision at this time. As of December  31,  2000,  the
company  had  paid  $296 million into the court-administered  fund  as  a
reserve  against costs of claims payable by the company under the Revised
Settlement  Program  (including a $5 million administrative  assessment).
Additional payments will be made as necessary. Payments to date have been
consistent with the company's estimates of the total liability for claims
under the Revised Settlement Program.

Under the Revised Settlement Program, additional opt outs are expected to
be  minimal since the opt-out deadline has passed for virtually all  U.S.
class  members.  The company's remaining obligations  under  the  Revised
Settlement  Program  are  limited since  (i)  most  payments  to  current
claimants  have already been made, (ii) no additional current claims  may
be  filed without court approval, and (iii) late registrants are  limited
by the terms of the Revised Settlement Program.



The  company's current best estimate of the amount to cover the cost  and
expense  of  the Revised Settlement Program and the cost and  expense  of
resolving   opt-out  claims  and  recovering  insurance  proceeds   (from
inception  of the litigation through December 31, 2000) is $1.2  billion.
After  subtracting cumulative payments of $1.168 billion as  of  December
31,  2000, for defense and other costs and settlements with litigants and
claimants,  the company had remaining liabilities for the breast  implant
litigation of $32 million.

The  company's insurers initiated a declaratory judgment action in Ramsey
County  Minnesota  against the company seeking  adjudication  of  certain
coverage  and  allocation issues. The jury trial  phase  of  this  action
finished  on February 24, 2000. The jury returned a verdict favorable  to
the  company  by  rejecting all of the insurers'  remaining  defenses  to
coverage  for  breast  implant  liabilities  and  costs.  The  court  has
considered additional remedies requested by the company and the  insurers
including  eliminating,  limiting  or  extending  allocation  among   the
insurers providing occurrence-based coverage (before 1986), pre- and post-
judgment interest, attorneys' fees and further equitable relief.

The  court's  rulings  in  post  verdict motions  are  considered  to  be
generally  favorable  to  the company.  The  court  awarded  the  company
prejudgment  interest  on amounts owing by insurers including  reasonable
attorney  fees.  However, the court has yet to determine  the  amount  of
attorneys'  fees recoverable by the company.  The court has  indicated  a
formula  to be used for this calculation that would result in the company
being reimbursed for less than all of its fees. Exact amounts cannot  yet
be  determined. The company expects entry of judgment to occur during the
first half of 2001.

As  of  December  31,  2000,  the company had receivables  for  insurance
recoveries  of $519 million, representing settled but yet to be  received
amounts  as  well as amounts contested by the insurance carriers.  During
2000, the company received payments from its occurrence carriers. Various
factors  could  affect the timing and amount of proceeds to  be  received
under  the company's various insurance policies, including (i) the timing
of  payments made in settlement of claims; (ii) the outcome of occurrence
insurance litigation in the courts of Minnesota (as discussed above)  and
Texas; (iii) potential arbitration with claims-made insurers; (iv) delays
in  payment by insurers; and (v) the extent to which insurers may  become
insolvent  in  the  future. There can be no absolute assurance  that  the
company  will collect all amounts recorded as being probable of  recovery
from its insurers.

While  the company currently believes that the ultimate outcome of  these
proceedings and claims, individually and in the aggregate, will not  have
a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position, results
of  operations,  or cash flows of the company, there can be  no  absolute
certainty  that the company may not ultimately incur charges  for  breast
implant claims in excess of presently recorded liabilities.

While  the  company currently believes that a material adverse impact  on
its consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows
from  any  such future charges is remote, due to the inherent uncertainty
of  litigation, there exists the remote possibility that a future adverse
ruling  could result in future charges that could have a material adverse
impact  on  the company. The current estimate of the potential impact  on
the  company's  financial  position for breast implant  litigation  could
change in the future.



Environmental Matters
The   company's  operations  are  subject  to  environmental   laws   and
regulations enforceable by foreign, federal, state, local authorities and
private  parties  in  the  United  States  and  abroad,  including  those
pertaining to air emissions, wastewater discharges, toxic substances, and
the  handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes. These laws  and
regulations  provide under certain circumstances for the  remediation  of
contamination, as well as personal injury and property damage claims. The
company  has  incurred,  and will continue to incur,  costs  and  capital
expenditures  in  complying  with these laws and  regulations,  defending
potential  personal injury and property damage claims, and modifying  its
business  operations  in light of its environmental responsibilities.  In
its  effort  to carry out its environmental responsibilities  and  comply
with environmental laws and regulations, the company has established, and
periodically  updates,  policies relating to environmental  standards  of
performance for its operations worldwide.

Under   certain   environmental  laws,  including   the   United   States
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability  Act  of
1980  and  similar state laws, the company may be jointly  and  severally
liable  for the costs of environmental contamination at current or former
facilities and at off-site locations at which the company has disposed of
hazardous waste. The company has identified numerous locations,  most  of
which  are in the United States, at which it may have some liability  for
remediating contamination. Amounts expensed for environmental remediation
activities  were not material for 2000 at these locations nor have  there
been  material  changes  in  the recorded liabilities  for  environmental
matters.  Liabilities  for  estimated costs of environmental  remediation
are,  depending on the site, based primarily upon internal or third-party
environmental  studies,  and estimates as to  the  number,  participation
level  and  financial  viability  of any  other  potentially  responsible
parties,  the  extent  of the contamination and the  nature  of  required
remedial   actions.   Recorded  liabilities  are  adjusted   as   further
information develops or circumstances change. The amounts recorded in the
company's consolidated financial statements for environmental liabilities
are  the  gross  amount  of  such  liabilities,  without  deductions  for
insurance or third party indemnity claims. The company expects  that  the
amounts recorded will be paid out over the periods of remediation for the
applicable sites, currently ranging from approximately 5 to 30 years.

It  is  often difficult to estimate the cost of environmental  compliance
and  remediation  and potential claims given the uncertainties  regarding
the  interpretation and enforcement of applicable environmental laws  and
regulations, the extent of environmental contamination and the  existence
of  alternate  cleanup  methods.  The company  records  an  environmental
liability  when it is probable that the company has incurred a  liability
and  the  amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated.  Where  no
amount  within  a  range  of estimates is more  likely,  the  minimum  is
recorded. Otherwise, the most likely cost to be incurred is recorded.

The   company's  current  assessment  of  the  probable  liabilities  and
associated  expenses related to environmental matters  is  based  on  the
facts  and  circumstances known at this time. New developments may  occur
that  could affect the company's assessment. These developments  include,
but  are  not  limited  to,  (i)  changes in  the  information  available
regarding  the  environmental  impact of  the  company's  operations  and
products;  (ii)  changes  in  environmental  regulations  or  enforcement
policies;  (iii) new and evolving analytical and remediation  techniques;
(iv)  success  in  allocating liability to other potentially  responsible
parties;  and  (v)  financial viability of other potentially  responsible
parties and third-party indemnitors.



While  the company currently believes that the ultimate outcome of  these
environmental matters, individually and in the aggregate, will not have a
material  adverse effect on the consolidated financial position,  results
of  operations,  or cash flows of the company, there can be  no  absolute
certainty  that the company may not ultimately incur charges for  capital
expenditures,  litigation  and  other  costs  in  excess   of   presently
established liabilities.

While  the  company currently believes that a material adverse impact  on
its consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows
from  any  such future charges is remote, due to the inherent uncertainty
of  environmental  matters or were an unfavorable  development  to  occur
(discussed  above),  there exists the remote possibility  that  a  future
adverse  ruling or development could result in future charges that  could
have  a  material adverse impact on the company. The current estimate  of
the  potential impact on the company's financial position for  the  above
environmental matters could change in the future.



Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

None in the quarter ended December 31, 2000.

                                    Part II

Item  5.  Market  Price of 3M's Common Stock and Related Security  Holder
Matters.

At  January  31, 2001, there were 129,109 shareholders of  record.   3M's
stock  is  listed  on  the  New York, Pacific, Chicago  and  Swiss  stock
exchanges.   Stock price comparisons are provided in the  Quarterly  Data
section in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Item 6. Selected Financial Data.





Item  7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition  and
Results of Operations.

Operating Results
Sales:   Sales  in  2000 totaled $16.724 billion, compared  with  $15.748
billion  in  1999 and $15.094 billion in 1998.  In 2000, volume  grew  10
percent,  with  the  stronger U.S. dollar reducing  sales  by  about  2.5
percent.   Selling  prices  declined about 1.5  percent,  mainly  due  to
reductions  in  certain 3M electronic products both in the United  States
and  internationally.  In 1999, volume grew 5 percent, with the  stronger
U.S. dollar reducing sales by about 1 percent.

In  the United States, sales in 2000 totaled $7.858 billion, up 4 percent
from  1999.  U.S.  volume  rose about 5 percent.  Internationally,  sales
totaled  $8.866  billion,  up 8 percent from 1999.  International  volume
increased  15  percent.  The stronger U.S. dollar  reduced  international
sales by 5 percent. In 1999, U.S. sales increased 3 percent.  Volume rose
4  percent,  while  selling prices were down 1 percent.  Internationally,
sales rose 5 percent.  Volume increased 7 percent and selling prices were
up  1 percent. The stronger U.S. dollar reduced international sales by  3
percent.



Non-recurring items:  In 2000, non-recurring items include costs of  $208
million  (included in cost of sales) and gains of $185 million,  included
in  the  other  expense  (income)  line within  operating  income.   Non-
recurring  costs in 2000 include $168 million of costs in  the  Specialty
Material  segment related to the company's phase-out of perfluorooctanyl-
based  chemistry  products,  a $20 million write-down  of  corporate  and
unallocated assets, and $20 million of other non-recurring expenses  ($13
million  related  to  acquisitions  in  the  Electro  and  Communications
segment).  Major  non-cash  costs  included  above  are  $73  million  of
accelerated depreciation and $48 million of impairment losses,  primarily
related  to production equipment used to manufacture products phased  out
in  the  Specialty  Material segment. Non-recurring gains  in  2000  were
largely related to asset dispositions, principally the sale of available-
for-sale  equity  securities,  and also included  $50  million  from  the
termination  of  a  product distribution agreement  in  the  Health  Care
segment.   A  cumulative effect of accounting change related  to  revenue
recognition  was also recorded in 2000, reducing earnings by $75  million
net  of  tax.  Combined, these non-recurring items reduced net income  by
$90 million, or 23 cents per diluted share.

In  1999,  non-recurring items include a net gain of  $147  million  ($81
million  after  tax)  related  to gains on the  divestitures  of  Eastern
Heights  Bank  and certain health care businesses, net of  an  investment
valuation  adjustment.  1999 also includes a charge of $73  million  ($46
million  after  tax) relating to an adverse jury verdict and  legal  fees
associated  with a lawsuit filed by LePage's, Inc.  In the third  quarter
of  1999, the company recorded a change in estimate that reduced the 1998
restructuring  charge by $26 million ($17 million after tax).   Combined,
this net pre-tax gain of $100 million ($52 million after tax, or 13 cents
per  diluted share) is included in the other expense (income) line within
operating income.



In   1998,   3M  recorded  a  $493  million  ($313  million  after   tax)
restructuring  charge, with $454 million recorded in  the  other  expense
(income)  line  within operating income.  The inventory  portion  of  the
restructuring charge totaling $39 million was recorded in cost of  sales.
Details  are discussed in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
In  1998, the company also refinanced debt relating to its Employee Stock
Ownership  Plan,  replacing  the debt with a  new  bond  that  carries  a
significantly  lower  interest  rate. This  resulted  in  a  $38  million
extraordinary after-tax charge, or 9 cents per diluted share, from  early
extinguishment of debt.

The  following table shows amounts for non-recurring items in 2000,  1999
and 1998, as well as amounts excluding these items.



The  following discussion excludes the impact of non-recurring  items  in
all years, except where indicated.

Costs:  Cost of sales was 51.3 percent of sales, down three-tenths  of  a
percentage point from 1999.  In 2000, gross margins benefited from volume
growth,  productivity gains and lower employee benefit  costs,  but  were
negatively affected by raw material costs and currency effects. In  1999,
gross  margins  benefited  from volume gains, restructuring  actions  and
slightly  lower raw material costs, but were negatively affected  by  the
stronger U.S. dollar.  Cost of sales includes manufacturing,  engineering
expenses, and freight costs.

Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses were 23.7 percent  of
sales  in 2000, 23.6 percent in 1999 and 23.5 percent in 1998.   In  both
2000 and 1999 these expenses reflected increased new product investments.
SG&A  spending in 2000 benefited from lower employee benefit  costs.   In
1999,  this  spending  benefited  from  productivity  gains  related   to
restructuring actions.





Operating  income:   Operating  income totaled  $3.081  billion,  up  7.9
percent  from 1999. Operating income was 18.4 percent of sales,  up  from
18.1 percent in 1999 and 16.8 percent in 1998. In 2000, volume growth and
productivity  gains  drove most of the improvement in  operating  income.
Lower  employee  benefit  costs resulting  from  lower  pension  expense,
primarily  in  the United States, increased operating profit  margins  in
2000 by an estimated five-tenths of a percentage point.  This benefit was
more  than offset by higher payroll costs and other inflationary impacts.
In 1999, unit volume growth and productivity gains helped results. During
1998, economic contractions in many international markets, softness in  a
few  key  U.S.  markets and negative currency effects impacted  operating
profit  margins.   The  company estimates that currency  effects  reduced
operating  income by about $78 million in 2000, $18 million in 1999,  and
$235 million in 1998.

In  the  United States, operating income in 2000 decreased 3 percent  and
profit margins were down one percentage point.  In 1999, operating income
increased  1  percent  and  profit margins were  down  four-tenths  of  a
percentage point.

Internationally, operating income increased 16 percent and profit margins
increased 1.4 percentage points.  In 1999, operating income increased  23
percent and profit margins increased by 3 percentage points.

Other  income  and expense:  Interest expense was $111 million,  compared
with  $109  million in 1999 and $139 million in 1998.  The 1999  decrease
reflected  lower debt balances due to increased operating cash  flow  and
reduced capital expenditures.

Interest  and other income was $27 million, compared with $33 million  in
1999  and  $52  million in 1998, with the declines in both years  due  to
lower interest income.  In 1998, interest and other income included a $10
million gain from a divestiture.

Provision for income taxes:  The worldwide effective income tax rate  was
34.5  percent  in 2000 and 35.4 percent in both 1999 and 1998.  Including
non-recurring  items, 3M's effective tax rate was 34.5 percent  in  2000,
compared  with  35.8  percent in 1999 and  35.1  percent  in  1998.   The
decrease  in  the 2000 worldwide effective income tax rate was  primarily
due  to  a  decrease in the average effective tax rate for  international
operations.

Minority interest:  Minority interest was $92 million, compared with  $85
million in 1999 and $54 million in 1998. Minority interest represents the
elimination  of the non-3M ownership interests, primarily in Sumitomo  3M
Limited  and Dyneon LLC (in 1999 and 1998 only). These companies' results
are  fully  consolidated in 3M's financial statements, and then partially
eliminated  on  the minority interest line to reflect 3M's net  position.
The  increase  in  2000 reflects higher profits in Sumitomo  3M  Limited,
partially offset by a decrease as a result of 3M's acquisition of the  46
percent minority interest in Dyneon in December of 1999. This acquisition
is  discussed in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The 1999
increase in minority interest was driven by higher profits in Sumitomo 3M
Limited and Dyneon LLC.



Net  income:   Net  income totaled $1.872 billion, or $4.68  per  diluted
share, compared with $1.711 billion, or $4.21 per diluted share, in 1999,
and  $1.526  billion,  or $3.74 per diluted share,  in  1998.   Per-share
income was up 11.2 percent in 2000 and 12.6 percent in 1999.

In  2000, 1999 and 1998, changes in the value of the U.S. dollar  reduced
net  income  by  an estimated $55 million, $23 million and $141  million,
respectively.  Currency effects reduced earnings by 14 cents per share, 6
cents  per  share  and  35  cents  per share  in  2000,  1999  and  1998,
respectively.  These estimates include the effect of translating  profits
from   local  currencies  into  U.S.  dollars;  the  impact  of  currency
fluctuations  on the value of goods transferred between 3M operations  in
the  United States and abroad; and foreign currency transaction gains and
losses, including derivative instruments designed to reduce exchange rate
risks.   Derivative transactions resulted in a net, pre-tax gain  of  $19
million  (included  in  cost  of sales) for 2000,  primarily  related  to
terminated  foreign  exchange  forward  contracts  used  to  hedge   euro
exposures.

Other  indices:   Excluding non-recurring items, economic profit  totaled
$974  million in 2000, up from $855 million in 1999 and $604  million  in
1998,  and return on invested capital was 19.3 percent in 2000,  up  from
18.6  percent  in 1999 and 15.9 percent in 1998.  Economic profit  equals
after-tax  operating income less a charge for operating capital  employed
in  3M's  businesses.  Return on invested capital is after-tax  operating
income divided by average operating capital.

At December 31, 2000, employment totaled about 75,000 people, an increase
of  about  4,500  from year-end 1999, with about 3,400  of  the  increase
related to acquisitions.  At December 31, 1999, employment totaled  about
70,500,  a  decrease of about 3,000 from year-end 1998. The 1999  decline
was  due both to restructuring actions and attrition.  Sales per employee
in  local currencies increased about 7 percent in 2000, about 10  percent
in 1999 and about 3 percent in 1998.

Restructuring  charge:  To  reduce costs and  improve  productivity,  the
company  initiated a restructuring program in the second half of 1998  to
streamline corporate structure, consolidate manufacturing operations  and
exit  certain product lines. These product lines, discontinued  primarily
in  1998,  had combined annual sales of less than $100 million. In  1999,
the  company  also  divested Eastern Heights Bank and the  cardiovascular
systems  and other health care businesses that together had annual  sales
of approximately $200 million.

The  company  recorded a restructuring charge in 1998,  and  subsequently
recorded  a change in estimate that reduced the restructuring  charge  in
1999.  As of the end of 1999, the restructuring program was substantially
complete.  The  company  experienced  a  net  reduction  of  about  2,200
positions in the second half of 1998, with a total net reduction of  more
than  5,000 positions by December 31, 1999. This decline was due to  both
restructuring actions and attrition. Of the employment reductions,  about
one-third  were in the United States and about one-third were in  Europe,
with   the  remainder  split  about  equally  between  the  Asia  Pacific
geographic area and the Latin America, Africa and Canada geographic area.
Each  business  segment of the company was affected by this restructuring
plan.

The  restructuring  plan provided annual pre-tax savings  of  about  $250
million  upon  completion of the plan. The incremental  benefit  in  2000
versus  1999  was an estimated $60 million, primarily in the first  half.
Implementation  costs  associated with this  restructuring  plan  totaled
about  $30  million in 1999. These costs, which are not included  in  the
restructuring   charge,  included  expenses  for  relocating   employees,
inventory  and  equipment;  unfavorable  overhead  variances;  and  other
expenses.



Performance by Business Segment
Disclosures relating to 3M's business segments are provided in this  Form
10-K,  Item  1,  Business  Segments.   Financial  information  and  other
disclosures, including discussion about non-recurring items, are provided
in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Industrial Markets (21 percent of consolidated sales):
Sales totaled $3.525 billion, up 3.4 percent from 1999.  Operating income
increased  4.7  percent to $641 million. Outpacing market growth  with  a
volume gain of nearly 6 percent, this segment increased profit margins to
18.2 percent, despite negative currency effects. This segment experienced
continued  strong growth in precision polishing abrasives for electronics
and  telecommunications  applications, and in  products  for  the  marine
trades.  This  segment  maintained leadership in  tapes,  abrasives,  and
specialty  adhesives,  while  newly  established  business  organizations
maximized  3M  opportunities  for  serving  the  appliance,  electronics,
commercial transportation, and recreational vehicle markets.

Transportation,  Graphics and Safety Markets (21 percent of  consolidated
sales):
Sales totaled $3.518 billion, up 8.8 percent from 1999.  Operating income
increased  16.0  percent to $783 million. This segment  increased  volume
13.5 percent and boosted profit margins to 22.3 percent from 20.9 percent
in  1999.  Growth was particularly strong in optical films for computers,
personal  digital assistants, cell phones, and other electronic  devices.
3M's  optical films business broadened its horizons with the  acquisition
of  two  touch screen companies in 2000 and early 2001. This market  also
achieved  good  volume  gains in automotive,  safety  and  security,  and
respiratory protection products.

Health Care Markets (19 percent of consolidated sales):
Sales  totaled $3.135 billion, down slightly from 1999 (up  more  than  2
percent  adjusted for divestitures). Despite accelerated  investments  to
support  large  new  3M  pharmaceutical opportunities,  the  Health  Care
segment strengthened core businesses and increased profit margins to  the
20-percent   level.   Health  information  systems   reported   continued
outstanding  growth in 2000, while the skin health and dental  businesses
also  continued to excel and grow. In early 2001, 3M combined its  German
dental business with ESPE Dental AG, a leading German supplier of crowns,
bridges, and other dental products. As controlling shareholder,  3M  will
be consolidating this company into its results.

Non-recurring  items in 2000 include a $50 million gain  in  Health  Care
from  the  termination  of a product distribution agreement.  A  new  co-
promotion and distribution agreement for this product was entered into in
the fourth quarter of 2000.  Non-recurring items in 1999 include gains on
divestitures  of  $62 million. Excluding non-recurring  items,  operating
income improved in 2000.

Consumer and Office Markets (17 percent of consolidated sales):
Sales totaled $2.848 billion, up 5.3 percent from 1999.  Operating income
increased 8.2 percent to $434 million. Operating income was 15.3  percent
of  sales  in 2000, compared to 14.8 percent in 1999.  A volume  gain  of
nearly  nine percent allowed this sector to outpace market growth.  Among
achievements   were  posting  double-digit  volume  increases   in   home
improvement and construction-related businesses, and good gains in office
and home care products. 3M's deep relationships with customers, including
industry  leaders, supported the continued extension  of  the  3M  brand,
Scotch  brand, Post-it brand, Scotch-Brite brand and O-Cel-O brands,  and
bolstered  the building of newer brands like Filtrete brand  and  Command
brand.  In 2000, 3M also confirmed its trademark protection of the canary-
yellow color for Post-it brand Notes.



Electro and Communications Markets (15 percent of consolidated sales):
Sales  totaled  $2.467 billion, up 22.3 percent from 1999 (up  about  8.5
percent after adjusting for acquisitions).  Operating income increased to
$404  million.  Operating income was 16.4 percent of sales, compared with
19.9 percent in 1999. This segment increased volume nearly 35 percent  on
a  reported  basis,  and  more  than 20 percent  excluding  acquisitions.
Profits grew more slowly than sales due to volume-related price decreases
in certain 3M electronic products and costs associated with acquisitions.
Both  the  electronics and telecommunications businesses achieved  strong
volume  gains.  This  market  expanded its  industry  market  penetration
through  new-product  development, as well as through  acquisitions.   3M
acquired  91  percent  of  Quante  AG, a German-based  telecommunications
supplier, and purchased the multi-layer integrated circuit packaging line
of  W.  L.  Gore  and Associates.  In early 2001, 3M also  completed  the
acquisition  of Robinson Nugent, a U.S.-based manufacturer of  electronic
interconnects.  Strong  customer relationships  continue  throughout  the
business segment.

Specialty Material Markets (7 percent of consolidated sales):
Sales  totaled  $1.197  billion,  up  slightly  from  1999.  Dyneon   LLC
manufactures  and markets fluoropolymers for transportation,  electronics
and other high-growth industries. In May 2000, 3M announced its intent to
substantially  phase-  out  production  by  the  end  of  2000   of   the
perfluorooctanyl  chemistry  used  to  produce  certain  repellents   and
surfactant  products.  The affected product lines  represent  about  $300
million  in  annual  sales  with an operating  income  margin  around  20
percent.  Overall sales were affected by this phase-out.  The company has
introduced  alternatives  for some applications  and  industry  segments,
including  carpet  protection,  and is  working  to  develop  replacement
chemistries for some of the other applications.  3M  believes  that  it
will  retain a significant portion of this business. Operating income  in
2000  includes  non-recurring  costs  of  $168  million  related  to  the
company's  decision  to  phase-out the perfluorooctanyl  chemistry  based
products.

Excluding non-recurring items in 2000, this market saw an improvement  in
operating  profit  margin to 18.9 percent, versus 15.5 percent  in  1999.
Benefiting  from strong demand for 3M brand Novec brand and Dyneon  brand
high-performance  materials used in the electronics,  semiconductor,  and
telecommunications  markets, this market increased sales  of  performance
materials  by  more than 14 percent. Having fulfilled its  commitment  to
make  the  transition from the perfluorooctanyl chemistry  as  smooth  as
possible for its customers, this market has moved aggressively to develop
alternative  repellants and surfactant technology for  several  important
customer  applications.   This market also continues  to  invest  in  the
development  of  the  valuable Scotchgard brand using  replacements  with
improved performance and environmental properties.

Performance by Geographic Area
Financial  information  relating to 3M operations in  various  geographic
areas,  including discussion of non-recurring items, is provided  in  the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

United States (47 percent of consolidated sales):
Sales  in  the United States totaled $7.858 billion, up about  4  percent
from  1999.   Unit  sales  increased  5  percent,  while  selling  prices
decreased  about  1  percent. Operating income,  excluding  non-recurring
items,  was  down about 3 percent.  In 2000, good unit volume growth  and
productivity gains helped results, but increased new product  investments
held  back  overall profit growth. Operating income was 14.8  percent  of
sales, down from 15.8 percent in 1999.



Europe and Middle East (24 percent of consolidated sales):
Sales  in Europe and the Middle East totaled $3.946 billion, up nearly  4
percent from 1999.  Local-currency sales increased about 15 percent on  a
reported  basis,  and  about 8 percent excluding the Quante  acquisition.
Currency  translation  reduced  sales  by  about  11  percent.    Despite
significant  unfavorable  currency effects,  operating  income  increased
nearly  3  percent. Operating income was 14.9 percent of sales,  compared
with  15.1  percent  of  sales  in 1999. Acquisition  effects  negatively
impacted 2000 profit margins.

Asia Pacific (20 percent of consolidated sales):
Sales  in  Asia Pacific totaled $3.329 billion, up about 15 percent  from
1999.  Unit sales in the Asia Pacific area increased about 18 percent  in
2000.    Selling  prices  decreased  about  4  percent,  while   currency
translation  increased sales by about 1.5 percent. Operating  income  was
28.9 percent of sales, up from 26.6 percent in 1999, led by volume growth
and  productivity  gains.  In Japan, home of 3M's  largest  international
company, volume increased about 13.5 percent. Unit sales in Asia  outside
Japan increased nearly 28 percent in 2000.

Latin America, Canada and Africa (9 percent of consolidated sales):
Sales  in  Latin  America,  Canada  and Africa  combined  totaled  $1.564
billion,  up  nearly 7 percent from 1999.  In Latin America,  unit  sales
increased 10 percent.  Currency reduced Latin America sales by about  2.5
percent.  In  Canada, unit sales increased about 5 percent.   In  Africa,
volume  increased  about 9 percent. Operating income for  Latin  America,
Canada  and  Africa was 24.0 percent of sales, up from  23.7  percent  in
1999.

Financial Condition and Liquidity
3M's  financial  condition remained strong in  2000.  The  company's  key
inventory  index was 3.4 months, up about 10 percent from year-end  1999.
This increase was partially attributable to lower-than-expected sales  in
the United States due to the significant slowdown in economic growth late
in 2000. The accounts receivable index was 60 days, down 1 day from 1999.
The  current ratio was 1.3, down from 1.6 at the end of 1999.  The  lower
current ratio is principally due to a shift in debt financing from  long-
term to short-term at year-end 2000 compared with the end of 1999.

Total  debt was $2.837 billion, up from $2.610 billion at year-end  1999.
Total  debt was 30 percent of total capital, compared with 29 percent  in
1999.  In September 2000, the company completed a three-year, 16  billion
yen  (approximately $150 million), 1.0 percent yen Eurobond offering.  In
December  2000, the company issued a $350 million security,  remarketable
annually,  which is classified as short-term debt.  On October 30,  2000,
the  company filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and
Exchange Commission providing the means to offer debt securities of up to
$1.5 billion.  3M plans to use the net proceeds from future issuances  of
debt  securities  under  this shelf registration  for  general  corporate
purposes,  including the repayment of debt, investments in or  extensions
of  credit  to the company's subsidiaries, or the financing  of  possible
acquisitions. As of December 31, 2000, no debt securities had been issued
under  this shelf registration. Of total debt outstanding at the  end  of
2000,  $333  million represented a guarantee of debt of the  3M  Employee
Stock Ownership Plan.

Various  assets and liabilities, including cash and short-term debt,  can
fluctuate  significantly  from  month to month  depending  on  short-term
liquidity  needs. Investments decreased $177 million from year-end  1999,
impacted  by  the  sale  of  a  portion of the available-for-sale  equity
securities  and  decreases in the market value of  the  remaining  equity
securities.



During  2000, cash flows provided by operating activities totaled  $2.326
billion, compared with $3.081 billion in 1999 and $2.417 billion in 1998.
In  2000, certain working capital increases, partially driven by  the  10
percent  increase  in  sales volume, reduced cash provided  by  operating
activities.   In  1999, the increase in net income,  along  with  certain
working capital improvements, drove the increase. Working capital changes
in  1999  include a $205 million use of cash for the impact  of  employee
termination benefits paid in connection with restructuring activities.

Purchases  of  property, plant and equipment totaled $1.115  billion,  an
increase of about 6 percent from 1999. This followed a decrease of  about
28  percent in 1999 compared with 1998. These investments are helping  to
meet   global   demand  for  new  products  and  increase   manufacturing
efficiency.

Cash  used  for  acquisitions of businesses totaled  $472  million,  $374
million   and   $200  million  in  2000,  1999  and  1998,  respectively.
Acquisitions in 2000 included the purchase of 91 percent of Quante AG  (a
telecommunications supplier), the purchase of the multi-layer  integrated
circuit  packaging line of W.L. Gore and Associates, and the  acquisition
of  seven  smaller businesses. Acquisitions in 1999 included  about  $340
million  related to the acquisition of the outstanding minority  interest
in  Dyneon  LLC. Acquisitions in 1998 were primarily in the  occupational
health and safety, and telecommunications areas.

Cash  proceeds  from  the  sale of businesses totaled  $1  million,  $249
million  and  $57  million  in 2000, 1999 and  1998,  respectively.   The
company received cash proceeds in 1999 related to divestitures of Eastern
Heights  Bank  and  the  cardiovascular systems  and  other  health  care
businesses.

Purchases of investments totaled $12 million, $56 million and $42 million
in  2000,  1999 and 1998, respectively.  These purchases include patents,
and equity and cost basis investments.

Cash  dividends  paid to stockholders in 2000 totaled  $918  million,  or
$2.32 per share. 3M has paid dividends since 1916.  In February 2001, the
Board of Directors increased the quarterly dividend on 3M common stock to
60  cents per share, equivalent to an annual dividend of $2.40 per share.
This marks the 43rd consecutive year of dividend increases.

Repurchases  of  3M common stock totaled $814 million in  2000,  compared
with $825 million in 1999 and $618 million in 1998. Repurchases were made
to  support  the company's stock-based compensation plans,  its  employee
stock purchase plans and for other corporate purposes.  In 2000 and 1999,
a  reduction in weighted average shares outstanding resulted in a benefit
to  earnings of 8 cents and 2 cents per diluted share, respectively.   In
1998,   the  combination  of  a  reduction  in  weighted  average  shares
outstanding  and  higher interest expense resulted in a  net  benefit  to
earnings of 3 cents per diluted share.

In  November 2000, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up
to  10  million  of  the company's shares of common  stock.   This  share
repurchase  authorization  is effective from  January  1,  2001,  through
December 31, 2001.  In 2000, under a preceding authorization, the company
purchased about 9.1 million shares.

The  company's  strong credit rating provides ready and ample  access  to
funds  in  global  capital markets.  At year-end 2000,  the  company  had
available short-term lines of credit totaling about $694 million.



Most  of  the  company's implant liabilities have been paid; accordingly,
receipt of related insurance recoveries will increase future cash  flows.
For  a  more  detailed  discussion,  refer  to  Part  I,  Item  3,  Legal
Proceedings, of this Form 10-K.

Future Outlook
The following discussion excludes the impact of non-recurring items.

While fourth quarter earnings were up only slightly, 2000 was a very good
year  for 3M. 3M increased earnings per share 11 percent, and volume more
than 10 percent.

3M  expects  to  achieve  at  least 10  percent  earnings  growth  in  an
environment  of slower economic growth with the assumption that  currency
effects  will  continue at current or slightly more  negative  levels  in
2001.

3M  is  moving forward with a more conservative set of growth assumptions
for  2001, while maintaining its growth objectives over the longer  term.
This  more  conservative plan assumes organic volume growth  of  about  6
percent  with  another 2.5 to 3 percentage points of growth  provided  by
acquisitions.  3M expects pricing to be down about 1 percent.  3M assumes
that  currency, for planning purposes, would reduce 2001 worldwide  sales
by about 3 percent.

3M is sizing costs to achieve its 2001 earnings target with significantly
lower sales growth than originally anticipated.

3M  has  in  place  strict  cost controls to hold  selling,  general  and
administrative  expenses flat compared with the first  quarter  of  2000.
This  represents a running rate improvement of $50 million, or 5 percent,
compared with the fourth quarter of 2000.

3M  expects  mid-single-digit growth in first-quarter  2001  earnings  as
these  accelerated cost-reduction efforts begin to take effect.  3M  will
aggressively address selling, general and administrative expenses for the
balance of 2001 with follow through on cost controls and initial traction
from  several  longer-term programs that are in  the  initial  stages  of
implementation.

These include:
*  An initiative to more effectively prioritize 3M's significant research
and  development commercialization investments across all  businesses  to
further strengthen returns.
* Adoption and concentration of Six Sigma across the company - one way of
doing  business across all of 3M that will particularly help direct costs
and cash.
*  E-Productivity  -  taking  full  advantage  of  web-based  IT  systems
investments to increase productivity.
*  Leveraging the critical mass of 3M to achieve significant  savings  in
sourcing and procurement.

3M  believes  that  aggressive  and  sustained  implementation  of  these
additional  initiatives over time will help ensure that  3M  consistently
meets  its  financial  objectives,  while  simultaneously  funding   3M's
existing  growth initiatives such as: re-deploying resources into  higher
growth  areas;  selective and targeted acquisitions; and  driving  global
market  penetration  to  its  full potential.  3M  expects  these  growth
initiatives,  already in place, to gain momentum as  economic  conditions
improve.



3M  believes  its  future  prospects  are  enhanced  by  the  fundamental
strengths  of  the company: A strong business portfolio;  leading  market
positions;  an  efficient  and  increasingly competitive  infrastructure;
unequalled  international  capabilities; and an  underlying  emphasis  on
innovation, creation and new product generation. 3M plans to continue  to
convert  these  strengths  into market success and  accelerated  earnings
growth.

3M  believes that all of these elements - combined with an enhanced level
of  accountability across the entire organization - will  help  meet  its
short- and long-term expectations.

In  early 2001, 3M completed the acquisition of MicroTouch Systems, Inc.,
a  manufacturer  of touch-screen products, and also combined  its  German
dental business with ESPE Dental AG, a leading German supplier of crowns,
bridges  and other dental products. In early 2001, 3M also completed  its
acquisition   of   Robinson   Nugent,  a   manufacturer   of   electronic
interconnects. 3M is actively considering other acquisitions.

The  company expects capital spending to total about $1.0 billion to $1.1
billion in 2001.  The company does not expect a significant change in its
tax rate in 2001.

Financial Instruments
The  company  enters  into  contractual derivative  arrangements  in  the
ordinary course of business to manage foreign currency exposure, interest
rate  risks  and  commodity  price risks.  A  financial  risk  management
committee,  composed of senior management, provides  oversight  for  risk
management  and  derivative activities.  This  committee  determines  the
company's financial risk policies and objectives, and provides guidelines
for  derivative  instrument utilization. This committee also  establishes
procedures for control and valuation, risk analysis, counterparty  credit
approval, and ongoing monitoring and reporting.

The  company  enters into forward contracts and swaps  to  hedge  certain
intercompany  financing  transactions, and  purchases  options  to  hedge
against   the  effect  of  exchange  rate  fluctuations  on  cash   flows
denominated in foreign currencies.  The company manages interest  expense
using  a  mix  of fixed, floating and variable rate debt. To help  manage
borrowing  costs, the company may enter into interest rate  swaps.  Under
these   arrangements,  the  company  agrees  to  exchange,  at  specified
intervals,  the  difference between fixed and floating  interest  amounts
calculated by reference to an agreed-upon notional principal amount.  The
company   manages   commodity  price  risks  through  negotiated   supply
contracts, price protection swaps and forward physical contracts.

A variance/co-variance value-at-risk model was used to test the company's
exposure to changes in currency and interest rates.  An historical value-
at-risk model was used to assess commodity risks.  All models used  a  95
percent  confidence level over a one-month time horizon.  The Riskmetrics
dataset  was  used  for  the variance/co-variance analysis.  Both  models
assessed  the  risk  of  loss in market value  of  outstanding  financial
instruments  and  derivatives. Based on a value-at-risk analysis  of  the
company's  foreign  exchange,  interest  rate  and  commodity  derivative
instruments  outstanding at December 31, 2000, 3M believes that  probable
near-term  changes in exchange rates, interest rates or commodity  prices
would   not   materially  affect  the  company's  consolidated  financial
position, results of operations or cash flows.  However, over a  one-year
period, exchange rates can significantly impact results (for example,  in
1998,  currency effects reduced net income by an estimated $141  million,
or 35 cents per diluted share).



In  June  1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
of  Financial  Accounting  Standards  (SFAS)  No.  133,  "Accounting  for
Derivative  Instruments  and  Hedging  Activities."   SFAS  No.  133,  as
amended,  was  adopted by the company on January 1, 2001.  Based  on  the
company's  analysis  of its current derivative positions,  this  standard
will  not  materially  affect  its  financial  position  or  results   of
operations.

Year 2000 Update
From  December 31, 1999, to January 14, 2000, the company operated global
information  centers to monitor the company's facilities  and  operations
during  the Year 2000 transition.  No material problems were reported  in
any  of the company's facilities or operations during this period. During
2000, the company did not experience any material Year 2000 problems with
its  IT or non-IT systems or products, nor did the company experience any
material problems with any of its key customers or suppliers.

The Euro Conversion
On  January 1, 1999, 11 of the 15 member countries of the European  Union
(EU) established fixed conversion rates through the European Central Bank
(ECB) between existing local currencies and the euro, the EU's new single
currency.  The participating countries had agreed to adopt  the  euro  as
their  common legal currency on that date.  From that date, the euro  has
been   traded   on   currency  exchanges  and  available   for   non-cash
transactions.   The  EU  agreed in June 2000 that Greece  will  join  the
European Monetary Union (EMU) and will fix its conversion rate on January
1,  2001,  adopting  the  physical  euro  currency  on  January  1,  2002
(simultaneously with the previous 11 countries).

Local  currencies will remain legal tender until December 31, 2001. Goods
and  services  may be paid for with the euro or the local currency  under
the  EU's  "no  compulsion,  no prohibition" principle.  If  cross-border
payments are made in a local currency during this transition period,  the
amount  will be converted into euros and then converted from  euros  into
the  second  local currency at rates fixed by the ECB. The  participating
countries will issue new euro-denominated bills and coins for use in cash
transactions  on or about December 31, 2001.  By no later  than  July  1,
2002,   participating  countries  will  withdraw  all  bills  and   coins
denominated in local currencies.

In  February  1997,  the  company created a EMU  Steering  Committee  and
project  teams  representing  all company business  and  staff  units  in
Europe.  The objective of these teams is to ensure a smooth transition to
EMU  for  the  company and its constituencies.  The scope of  the  teams'
efforts  includes  (i)  assessing  the euro's  impact  on  the  company's
business  and  pricing strategies for customers and suppliers,  and  (ii)
ensuring that the company's business processes and information technology
(IT)  systems  can  process transactions in euros  and  local  currencies
during  the transition period and achieve the conversion of all  relevant
local   currency  data  to  the  euro  by  December  31,  2001,  in   the
participating countries.

The  Europe and Middle East market contributed 24 percent of consolidated
sales  and  19  percent of consolidated operating  income  in  2000.  The
participating  countries accounted for 67 percent of the company's  sales
in  the Europe and Middle East market in 2000. The company believes  that
the  euro  will, over time, increase price competition for the  company's
products  across  Europe  due  to cross-border  price  transparency.  The
company  also  believes  that  the adverse  effects  of  increased  price
competition  will  be offset somewhat by new business  opportunities  and
efficiencies. The company, however, is not able to estimate the net long-
term impact of the euro introduction on the company.



The  company has made significant investments in IT systems in Europe and
these  investments already enable the company to manage customer  orders,
invoices,  payments  and  accounts  in  euros  and  in  local  currencies
according   to   customer   needs.  The  company   anticipates   spending
approximately  $35 million to $40 million to complete the  conversion  of
all  its  IT  systems  in Europe to the euro by December  31,  2001.  The
company  is  developing appropriate contingency plans in order  that  the
euro adoption does not jeopardize the operations of the company.

The  euro introduction is not expected to have a material impact  on  the
company's  overall  currency  risk.   Although  the  company  engages  in
significant  trade  within  the EU, the impact  to  date  of  changes  in
currency  exchange  rates on trade within the EU has not  been  material.
The  company anticipates the euro will simplify financial issues  related
to  cross-border  trade  in the EU and reduce the transaction  costs  and
administrative  time necessary to manage this trade  and  related  risks.
The company believes that the associated savings will not be material  to
corporate results.

The  company  has derivatives outstanding beyond December  31,  2000,  in
several   European  currencies.   Under  the  EU's  "no  compulsion,   no
prohibition" principle, the outstanding derivative positions will  either
mature  as  local currency contracts or convert to euro contracts  at  no
additional economic cost to the company. The company has modified systems
to  track  derivatives in euros. The company believes the impact  of  the
euro  introduction  on  the company's derivative positions  will  not  be
material.

Forward-Looking Statements
This  Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K contains forward-looking  statements
within  the  meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform  Act  of
1995.   These  statements may be identified by  the  use  of  words  like
"plan,"  "expect,"  "aim," "believe," "project," "anticipate,"  "intend,"
"estimate," "will," "should," "could" and other expressions that indicate
future  events  and trends. All statements that address  expectations  or
projections  about the future, including statements about  the  company's
strategy  for  growth, product development, market position, expenditures
and financial results, are forward-looking statements.

Forward-looking   statements  are  based  on  certain   assumptions   and
expectations   of   future  events  that  are  subject   to   risks   and
uncertainties.  Actual  future results and trends may  differ  materially
from  historical  results or those projected in any such  forward-looking
statements  depending on a variety of factors, including but not  limited
to the following:

*  The  effects  of, and changes in, worldwide economic  conditions.  The
company operates in more than 60 countries and derives more than half  of
its revenues from outside the United States.  The company 's business may
be  affected  by factors in other countries that are beyond its  control,
such  as  downturns in economic activity in a specific country or  region
(the  economic difficulties that occurred in Asia in 1998 as an example);
social, political or labor conditions in a specific country or region; or
potential adverse foreign tax consequences.

*  Foreign  currency exchange rates and fluctuations in those  rates  may
affect  the  company's ability to realize projected growth rates  in  its
sales and net earnings and its results of operations. Because the company
derives  more than half its revenues from outside the United States,  its
ability  to realize projected growth rates in sales and net earnings  and
results  of  operations could be adversely affected if the United  States
dollar strengthens significantly against foreign currencies.



* The company's growth objectives are largely dependent on the timing and
market  acceptance  of  its new product offerings. The  company's  growth
objectives are largely dependent on its ability to renew its pipeline  of
new products and to bring those products to market.  This ability may  be
adversely affected by difficulties or delays in product development, such
as  the inability to: identify viable new products; successfully complete
clinical   trials  and  obtain  regulatory  approvals;  obtain   adequate
intellectual  property  protection; or  gain  market  acceptance  of  new
products.

*  The  company's future results are subject to fluctuations in the costs
of raw materials due to market demand, currency exchange risks, shortages
and  other factors. The company depends on various raw materials for  the
manufacturing of its products.  Although the company has not  experienced
any difficulty in obtaining raw materials, it is possible that any of its
supplier  relationships could be terminated in the future.  Any sustained
interruption in the company's receipt of adequate supplies could  have  a
material  adverse  effect on it.  In addition, while the  company  has  a
process to minimize volatility in raw material pricing, no assurance  can
be  given  that  the  company will be able to successfully  manage  price
fluctuations due to market demand, currency risks, or shortages  or  that
future price fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on it.

* The possibility that acquisitions, divestitures and strategic alliances
may  not  meet sales and/or profit expectations. As part of the company's
strategy  for  growth,  the company has made and  may  continue  to  make
acquisitions, divestitures and strategic alliances.  However,  there  can
be  no  assurance  that  these will be completed  or  beneficial  to  the
company.

*  The  company is the subject of various legal proceedings. For  a  more
detailed  discussion of the legal proceedings involving the company,  see
the  discussion of "Legal Proceedings" in Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10-K.




Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.





                        Report of Independent Auditors

To  the  Stockholders  and  Board of Directors of  Minnesota  Mining  and
Manufacturing Company:

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in Item 8 of
this Form 10-K present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated
financial  position  of  Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing  Company  and
Subsidiaries at December 31, 2000 and 1999, and the consolidated  results
of  their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years  in
the  period  ended  December  31,  2000, in  conformity  with  accounting
principles  generally  accepted in the United States  of  America.  These
financial  statements are the responsibility of the company's management;
our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements
based  on  our  audits.  We conducted our audits of these  statements  in
accordance  with  auditing standards generally  accepted  in  the  United
States  of America, which require that we plan and perform the  audit  to
obtain  reasonable assurance about whether the financial  statements  are
free  of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on  a  test
basis,  evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the  financial
statements,  assessing  the accounting principles  used  and  significant
estimates  made  by  management,  and evaluating  the  overall  financial
statement  presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
basis for our opinion.



/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
St. Paul, Minnesota
February 12, 2001



















Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Significant Accounting Policies
Consolidation:   All  significant  subsidiaries  are  consolidated.   All
significant intercompany transactions are eliminated. As used herein, the
term  "3M"  or  "company"  refers to Minnesota Mining  and  Manufacturing
Company and subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise.

Foreign  currency translation:  Local currencies generally are considered
the  functional currencies outside the United States, except in countries
treated as highly inflationary.  Assets and liabilities for operations in
local-currency  environments are translated at year-end  exchange  rates.
Income  and  expense items are translated at average  rates  of  exchange
prevailing  during  the  year.  Cumulative  translation  adjustments  are
recorded  as  a  component of accumulated other comprehensive  income  in
stockholders' equity.

For  operations  in  countries  treated as highly  inflationary,  certain
financial statement amounts are translated at historical exchange  rates,
with  all  other  assets and liabilities translated at year-end  exchange
rates. These translation adjustments are reflected in income and are  not
material.

Reclassifications: Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to
conform  with  the current year presentation. Research,  development  and
related  expenses have been reclassified from cost of sales and  are  now
presented  separately. Pursuant to FASB Emerging Issues Task Force  Issue
No.  00-10,  Accounting for Shipping and Handling  Fees  and  Costs,  the
company  has also reclassified freight billed to customers from  selling,
general  and  administrative expenses to net sales, and has  reclassified
related  freight costs from selling, general and administrative  expenses
to cost of sales.

Use  of estimates:  The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets  and
liabilities  and the disclosure of contingent assets and  liabilities  at
the  date  of  the  financial statements, and  the  reported  amounts  of
revenues and expenses during the reporting period.  Actual results  could
differ from these estimates.

Cash and cash equivalents:  Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and
temporary  investments  with maturities of  three  months  or  less  when
purchased.

Investments:  Investments  primarily  include  debt  securities  held  by
captive  insurance operations; the cash surrender value of life insurance
policies;  and  real  estate and venture capital investments.  Unrealized
gains and losses relating to investments classified as available-for-sale
are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income  in
stockholders' equity.

Inventories:   Inventories are stated at lower of cost  or  market,  with
cost generally determined on a first-in, first-out basis.

Property,  plant  and  equipment:  Depreciation of  property,  plant  and
equipment generally is computed using the straight-line method  based  on
estimated useful lives of the assets. Estimated useful lives range from 5
to  40  years  for  buildings and improvements and  3  to  20  years  for
machinery  and  equipment.   Fully depreciated  assets  are  retained  in
property  and  accumulated  depreciation  accounts  until  removed   from
service.  Upon disposal, assets and related accumulated depreciation  are
removed  from  the  accounts  and  the net  amount,  less  proceeds  from
disposal, is charged or credited to operations.

Other   assets:   Other  assets  include  product  and  other   insurance
receivables, goodwill, patents, other intangible assets, deferred  income
taxes  and other



noncurrent assets.  Goodwill is amortized on a straight-line basis over
the periods benefited, ranging from 5 to 40 years.  Other intangible
assets  are  amortized on a straight-line  basis  over  their estimated
economic lives.

Impairment   of   long-lived   assets:   Long-lived   assets,   including
identifiable  intangibles  and  goodwill,  are  reviewed  for  impairment
whenever  events or changes in circumstances indicate that  the  carrying
amount  of an asset may not be recoverable.  An impairment loss would  be
recognized  when  the carrying amount of an asset exceeds  the  estimated
undiscounted  future cash flows expected to result from the  use  of  the
asset and its eventual disposition.  The amount of the impairment loss to
be recorded is calculated by the excess of the assets carrying value over
its  fair  value.  Fair value is determined using a discounted cash  flow
analysis.

Revenue recognition: Revenue is recognized when the risks and rewards  of
ownership  have  substantively transferred to  customers,  regardless  of
whether legal title has transferred. This condition is normally met  when
the  product  has  been delivered or upon performance of  services.   The
company sells a wide range of products to a diversified base of customers
around   the  world  and,  therefore,  believes  there  is  no   material
concentration  of  credit risk.  Prior to 2000,  the  company  recognized
revenue  upon  shipment  of goods to customers and  upon  performance  of
services (refer to "Accounting Change" that follows).

Advertising and merchandising:  These costs are charged to operations  in
the year incurred.

Internal-use software:  The company capitalizes direct costs of materials
and  services used in the development of internal-use software.   Amounts
capitalized are amortized on a straight-line basis over a period of 3  to
5 years and are reported as a component of machinery and equipment within
property, plant and equipment.

Environmental: Environmental expenditures relating to existing conditions
caused  by  past operations that do not contribute to current  or  future
revenues are expensed.  Liabilities for remediation costs are recorded on
an  undiscounted  basis when they are probable and reasonably  estimable,
generally  no  later than the completion of feasibility  studies  or  the
company's commitment to a plan of action.

Derivatives  and  hedging  activities:  The company  uses  interest  rate
swaps,  currency swaps, and forward and option contracts to manage  risks
generally  associated  with  foreign exchange  rate,  interest  rate  and
commodity market volatility.  All hedging instruments are designated  and
effective   as  hedges,  in  accordance  with  U.S.  generally   accepted
accounting  principles.   Instruments  that  do  not  qualify  for  hedge
accounting  are  marked  to  market with changes  recognized  in  current
earnings.   The  company  does  not hold or  issue  derivative  financial
instruments  for  trading  purposes and  is  not  a  party  to  leveraged
derivatives.

Realized and unrealized gains and losses for qualifying hedge instruments
are  deferred  until  offsetting  gains  and  losses  on  the  underlying
transactions  are  recognized  in  earnings.   These  gains  and   losses
generally  are  recognized either as interest expense over the  borrowing
period for interest rate and currency swaps; as an adjustment to cost  of
sales  for  inventory-related hedge transactions; or as  a  component  of
accumulated other comprehensive income in stockholders' equity for hedges
of  net  investments in international companies. If the underlying hedged
transaction  ceases to exist, all changes in fair value  of  the  related
derivatives that have not been settled are recognized in earnings.   Cash
flows  attributable to these financial instruments are included with  the
cash flows of the associated hedged items.



Accounting for stock-based compensation:  The company uses the  intrinsic
value  method  for  the Management Stock Ownership Program  (MSOP).   The
General Employees' Stock Purchase Plan is considered noncompensatory.

Comprehensive  income: Total comprehensive income and the  components  of
accumulated  other comprehensive income are presented in the Consolidated
Statement  of  Changes in Stockholders' Equity and Comprehensive  Income.
Accumulated  other comprehensive income is composed of  foreign  currency
translation effects, including hedges of net investments in international
companies,  minimum pension liability adjustments, and  unrealized  gains
and losses on available-for-sale debt and equity securities.

Earnings  per  share:   The  difference in the  weighted  average  shares
outstanding  for  calculating basic and diluted  earnings  per  share  is
attributable to the assumed exercise of MSOP stock options, if dilutive.

New  accounting  pronouncements: In June 1998, the  Financial  Accounting
Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS)
No.  133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities."
SFAS  No. 133, as amended, was adopted by the company on January 1, 2001.
Based on the company's analysis of its current derivative positions, this
standard will not materially affect its financial position or results  of
operations.

Accounting Change
During  the  fourth  quarter  of 2000, the company  changed  its  revenue
recognition  policy.  Essentially, the new policies  recognize  that  the
risks  and rewards of ownership in many transactions do not substantively
transfer to customers until the product has been delivered, regardless of
whether  legal  title  has transferred. In addition  to  this  change  in
accounting  that affects a substantial portion of its product sales,  the
company  has  revised aspects of its accounting for services provided  in
several of its smaller businesses. These new policies are consistent with
the  guidance  contained in SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No.  101.   The
effect of these changes in revenue recognition policies, as of January 1,
2000,  are  reported as the cumulative effect of an accounting change  in
the fourth quarter of 2000. This change did not have a significant effect
on previously reported 2000 quarters or on prior years.

Restructuring Charge
To  reduce  costs  and  improve productivity,  the  company  initiated  a
restructuring program in the second half of 1998 to streamline  corporate
structure, consolidate manufacturing operations and exit certain  product
lines.  Related to this, the company recorded a restructuring  charge  of
$493  million  ($313 million after tax). A portion of this  restructuring
charge ($39 million) has been classified as a component of cost of sales.
In  1999,  the  company recorded a change in estimate  that  reduced  the
restructuring charge by $28 million.  The restructuring charge  does  not
include  the  write-down of goodwill or other intangible assets.   As  of
December 31, 1999, this restructuring program was substantially complete.

Of  the  total  restructuring charge, $275 million  related  to  employee
termination  benefits for personnel reductions in each  business  segment
and  geographic area of the company and in all major functions. Under the
plan,  the company terminated 1,225 employees in the second half of  1998
and  3,288 employees in 1999, of whom about one-third were in the  United
States  and two-thirds were abroad. Because certain employees  can  defer
receipt  of  termination benefits, cash payments  lag  job  eliminations.
After  subtracting  payments of $268 million made  through  December  31,
2000,  the  company  had a remaining liability of $7 million  related  to
employee  termination benefits at year-end. This amount is classified  in
current liabilities (payroll) on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.



The  company  has  consolidated  or downsized  manufacturing  operations,
including  actions  in  seven locations in the  United  States,  nine  in
Europe,  four in the Asia Pacific area and two in Latin America. As  part
of  the  restructuring plan, the company has discontinued  product  lines
that  had  combined annual sales of less than $100 million  and  marginal
operating income.

The restructuring charge included $112 million, net of salvage value, for
the write-down of assets included in property, plant and equipment. These
assets  primarily  included  specialized 3M manufacturing  machinery  and
equipment.  Estimated salvage values are based on estimates  of  proceeds
upon sale of certain affected assets.

The  restructuring  charge  also  included  $78  million  for  losses  on
inventory  write-downs and other exit costs.  The company  has  taken  an
inventory  write-down  of $39 million, which has  been  classified  as  a
component  of  cost  of  sales,  for  certain  product  lines  that  were
discontinued primarily in 1998. Other exit costs included $39 million  in
incremental costs and contractual obligations for items such as leasehold
termination payments and other facility exit costs incurred as  a  direct
result  of  the  plan.  After subtracting $35 million  in  payments  made
through  December  31, 2000, the company had a remaining  balance  of  $4
million in other current liabilities for these exit costs at December 31,
2000.







Acquisitions and Divestitures
Year 2000 acquisitions: During 2000, 3M acquired 91 percent of Quante  AG
(a   telecommunications  supplier),  100  percent  of   the   multi-layer
integrated circuit packaging line of W.L. Gore and Associaties, and seven
smaller  businesses for a total purchase price of $472  million  in  cash
(net of cash acquired) plus 128,994 shares of 3M common stock.  The stock
had  a  fair market value of $11 million at the acquisition date and  was
previously  held  as 3M treasury stock.  All of these  transactions  were
accounted  for  using the purchase method of accounting. The  preliminary
estimated fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed relating
to these acquisitions are summarized in the table below:



The  2000  purchased  intangible assets, including  goodwill,  are  being
amortized  on  a straight-line basis over the periods benefited,  ranging
from   3  to  20  years.  In-process  research  and  development  charges
associated with these acquisitions were not significant.  Proforma
information  related  to these  acquisitions  is  not  included because
the impact of these acquisitions on the company's  results  of operations
is not considered to be significant.

Year   1999  acquisition:   On  December  28,  1999,  3M  finalized   the
acquisition of the outstanding 46 percent minority interest in Dyneon LLC
from  Celanese  AG  for  approximately $340 million  in  cash,  primarily
financed  by  debt. The purchase method of accounting was used  for  this
acquisition.  The purchase price exceeded the fair value of the  minority
interest net assets by approximately $267 million, of which approximately
$242 million represents goodwill and other intangible assets that will be
amortized over 20 years or less.  Dyneon's assets, liabilities,  revenues
and   expenses   were  already  fully  consolidated  in  3M's   financial
statements,  with  the  46 percent minority interest  eliminated  on  the
minority interest line to reflect 3M's net position.  If this acquisition
had  occurred  at  the  beginning  of 1999,  the  effect  on  results  of
operations would not have been material.

Year  1999 divestitures: On June 30, 1999, the company closed on the sale
of  Eastern Heights Bank, a subsidiary banking operation, and on the sale
of the assets of its cardiovascular systems business.  These divestitures
generated  cash  proceeds  of $203 million  and,  net  of  an  investment
valuation  adjustment, resulted in a pre-tax gain of  $104  million  ($55
million after tax) in the second quarter of 1999. 3M also recorded a pre-
tax  gain of $43 million ($26 million after tax) related to divestitures,
mainly  in  the Health Care segment, in the third quarter of 1999.  These
pre-tax  gains  are  recorded in the other expense (income)  line  within
operating income.





Research and development expenses, covering basic scientific research and
the  application  of scientific advances to the development  of  new  and
improved products and their uses, totaled $727 million, $688 million  and
$648  million  in  2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.   Related  expenses
primarily  include  technical support provided by  the  laboratories  for
existing products.







Supplemental Stockholders' Equity and Comprehensive Income Information
Common  stock  ($.01 par value per share; $.50 par value at December  31,
1999  and 1998) of 1.5 billion shares is authorized (1 billion shares  at
December  31,  1999), with 472,016,528 shares issued in  2000,  1999  and
1998.  Common  stock and capital in excess of par includes  $231  million
transferred  from common stock to capital in excess of par  value  during
2000  in connection with the change in par value of the company's  common
stock  to  $.01  per share. Preferred stock, without  par  value,  of  10
million shares is authorized but unissued.

The  following  table  shows the ending balances  of  the  components  of
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).



Reclassification adjustments in 2000 for realized gains included  in  net
income totaled $62 million ($101 million before tax). These gains related
to   the   sale   of   appreciated  equity  securities.  Reclassification
adjustments in 1999 for realized gains included in net income totaled $25
million  ($41  million  before tax). These gains related  to  appreciated
equity securities donated to the 3M Foundation in December 1999. In 2000,
1999  and  1998,  other reclassification adjustments were  not  material.
Income  tax effects for cumulative translation are not material since  no
tax  provision  has  been made for the translation  of  foreign  currency
financial statements into U.S. dollars.






As required by a third-quarter 2000 Emerging Issues Task Force concensus,
stock  option  tax benefits have been classified as a component  of  cash
flows from operating activities.  Prior period Consolidated Statement  of
Cash Flows amounts have been restated to conform with this presentation.

Individual  amounts on the Consolidated Statement of Cash  Flows  exclude
the  effects  of  acquisitions, divestitures and exchange  rate  impacts,
which  are presented separately.  The net impact of cumulative effect  of
accounting  changes  is  recorded  in  "Other  -  net"  within  operating
activities.

In 1999, 3M exchanged assets used in the business, but not held for sale,
with  a  fair  market value of $61 million plus cash of $12 million,  for
similar  assets having a fair market value of $73 million.  No  gain  was
recognized  on this nonmonetary exchange of productive assets.   Also  in
1999, 3M donated to the 3M Foundation appreciated equity securities  with
a  market  value  of  $66  million, resulting in $8  million  of  pre-tax
expense, which represented the company's cost of the securities.

In  1998,  the  3M  Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP)  refinanced  its
existing  debt by issuing new debt of $385 million.  Because the  company
has  guaranteed repayment of the ESOP debt, the debt and related unearned
compensation  are  recorded  on  the  Consolidated  Balance  Sheet.   The
repayment  of  principal and proceeds of long-term debt relating  to  the
ESOP  have been excluded from the financing activities of the company  in
the  Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows because the funds involved were
received and disbursed by the ESOP trust.







At  December 31, 2000, debt with fixed interest rates includes the  ESOP,
U.S.  dollar  6.375  percent  note, Japanese yen  Eurobond,  Sumitomo  3M
Limited  note  and  a  portion of other borrowings.   The  ESOP  debt  is
serviced  by  dividends  on  stock  held  by  the  ESOP  and  by  company
contributions.   These contributions are reported as an employee  benefit
expense  in the Consolidated Statement of Income.  At December 31,  2000,
debt  not denominated in U.S. dollars includes the Japanese yen Eurobond,
the  Sumitomo  3M  Limited  note, and most  of  other  borrowings.  Other
borrowings  includes  debt  held  by 3M's  international  companies,  and
floating  rate  notes and industrial bond issues in  the  United  States.
Other borrowings in long-term debt significantly decreased in 2000  as  a
result  of  certain  debt  securities becoming  due  in  2001,  with  the
corresponding  increase  reflected in the current  portion  of  long-term
debt.

Maturities  of  long-term debt for the next five years  are:  2001,  $646
million;  2002, $33 million; 2003, $261 million; 2004, $36  million;  and
2005, $38 million.

The company estimates that the fair value of short-term debt approximates
the  carrying  amount of this debt.  The fair value  of  long-term  debt,
based  on  third-party  quotes,  is  estimated  at  $950  million.   Debt
covenants  do  not restrict the payment of dividends.  At year-end  2000,
the  company had available short-term lines of credit totaling about $694
million.



Other Financial Instruments
Interest  rate  and currency swaps:  The company uses interest  rate  and
currency  swaps to manage interest rate risk related to borrowings.   The
notional amounts shown in the table that follows serve solely as a  basis
for  the  calculation of payment streams to be exchanged.  These notional
amounts  are not a measure of the company's exposure through its  use  of
derivatives.  These instruments generally mature in relationship to their
underlying debt and have maturities extending to 2001.  Unrealized  gains
and losses and exposure to changes in market conditions were not material
at  December 31, 2000 and 1999, for interest rate swaps.  Currency  swaps
at  December 31, 2000, had unrealized gains of $29 million and unrealized
losses  of  $47  million.   Currency swaps  at  December  31,  1999,  had
unrealized gains of $13 million and unrealized losses of $61 million.  In
both  years,  unrealized  gains and losses relating  to  underlying  debt
instruments largely offset these unrealized amounts.



Foreign  exchange forward and option contracts:  The company has  entered
into foreign exchange forward and option contracts, the majority of which
have  maturities  of  less  than one year.  The  face  amounts  represent
contracted  U.S.  dollar  equivalents of  forward  and  option  contracts
denominated in foreign currencies.  The amounts at risk are not  material
because  the  company  has  the  ability to generate  offsetting  foreign
currency  cash flows.  Unrealized gains and losses at December  31,  2000
and 1999, were not material. In 2000, realized gains totaled $132 million
and  realized  losses totaled $45 million, with most of this  net  impact
offset by underlying hedged items.



The  company engages in hedging activities to reduce exchange rate  risks
arising  from cross-border cash flows denominated in foreign  currencies.
The  company  operates on a global basis, generating more than  half  its
revenues   internationally  and  engaging  in  substantial  product   and
financial  transfers among geographic areas.  Major forward contracts  at
December 31, 2000, were denominated in European euros and Japanese yen.

Credit  risk:   The company is exposed to credit loss  in  the  event  of
nonperformance by counterparties in interest rate swaps, currency  swaps,
and option and foreign exchange contracts. However, the company's risk is
limited  to  the  fair  value of the instruments.  The  company  actively
monitors  its exposure to credit risk through the use of credit approvals
and  credit  limits,  and  by  selecting major  international  banks  and
financial institutions as counterparties. The company does not anticipate
nonperformance by any of these counterparties.



Income Taxes
At   December   31,  2000,  about  $2.6  billion  of  retained   earnings
attributable   to   international  companies  were   considered   to   be
indefinitely invested.  No provision has been made for taxes  that  might
be  payable if these earnings were remitted to the United States.  It  is
not  practical  to determine the amount of incremental taxes  that  might
arise were these earnings to be remitted.

In  2000, the company recorded a cumulative effect of accounting  change,
reducing  earnings by $75 million net of tax.  The provision  for  income
taxes  excludes  a  $42 million tax benefit related  to  this  cumulative
effect.

In  1998,  the  company  refinanced debt related to  its  Employee  Stock
Ownership Plan. The provision for income taxes excludes a $21 million tax
benefit  (classified as part of the extraordinary loss) related  to  this
refinancing.











Business Segments
Net  sales  in prior periods have been reclassified to conform  with  the
current  year  presentation.   In the first  quarter  of  2000,  business
segment  operating income for 1999 was restated for minor amounts  to  be
consistent with year 2000 management reporting practices.  Certain  costs
previously  included in Corporate and Unallocated were allocated  to  the
individual business segments.  3M's businesses are organized, managed and
internally  reported as six operating segments based  on  differences  in
products,  technologies  and services.  These  segments  are  Industrial;
Transportation,  Graphics and Safety; Health Care; Consumer  and  Office;
Electro  and Communications; and Specialty Material. These segments  have
worldwide  responsibility  for virtually all  of  the  company's  product
lines. 3M is not dependent on any single product or market.

Transactions among reportable segments are recorded at cost.   3M  is  an
integrated   enterprise   characterized   by   substantial   intersegment
cooperation,  cost  allocations  and  inventory  transfers.    Therefore,
management   does  not  represent  that  these  segments,   if   operated
independently,  would  report the operating income  and  other  financial
information  shown. The allocations resulting from the shared utilization
of  assets are not necessarily indicative of the underlying activity  for
segment assets, depreciation and amortization, and capital expenditures.

Operating  income  in  2000  includes a non-recurring  net  loss  of  $23
million.  Non-recurring  costs  include $168  million  in  the  Specialty
Material  segment related to the company's phase-out of perfluorooctanyl-
based  chemistry  products. This $168 million  includes  $56  million  of
accelerated  depreciation  (included in the  Specialty  Material  segment
depreciation  and  amortization), $48 million of impairment  losses,  and
severance  and  other  costs. Other non-recurring  costs  include  a  $20
million  write-down of corporate and unallocated assets, and $20  million
of  other non-recurring expenses ($13 million related to acquisitions  in
the  Electro and Communications segment). Non-recurring operating  income
gains  in  2000  of  $135 million were largely related to  corporate  and
unallocated  asset  dispositions, principally the sale of  available-for-
sale  equity  securities. Operating income in 2000 also  included  a  $50
million gain from the termination of a product distribution agreement  in
the Health Care segment.

Operating  income  in  1999 includes a non-recurring  net  gain  of  $100
million.  This relates to divestitures of certain health care  businesses
and  Eastern  Heights  Bank, litigation expense, an investment  valuation
adjustment,  and a change in estimate that reduced the 1998 restructuring
charge.   Of this $100 million gain, $62 million was recorded  in  Health
Care  and $38 million in Corporate and Unallocated.  Operating income  in
1998  includes  a restructuring charge of $493 million in  Corporate  and
Unallocated.



Business segments (continued):





Business segments (continued):




Geographic Areas
Information in the table below is presented on the basis the company uses
to  manage  its businesses.  Export sales and certain income and  expense
items  are reported within the geographic area where the final  sales  to
customers  are made. Prior year amounts have been retroactively  restated
to conform to the current-year presentation.

In  1999,  operating income for eliminations and other  includes  a  $100
million  non-recurring  net  benefit related to  gains  on  divestitures,
litigation expense, an investment valuation adjustment, and a  change  in
estimate  that reduced the 1998 restructuring charge. In 1998,  operating
income  for  eliminations and other includes a $493 million restructuring
charge.



Retirement and Postretirement Benefit Plans
3M  has various company-sponsored retirement plans covering substantially
all  U.S. employees and many employees outside the United States. Pension
benefits  are  based principally on an employee's years  of  service  and
compensation near retirement.  In addition to providing pension benefits,
the   company  provides  certain  postretirement  health  care  and  life
insurance benefits for substantially all of its U.S. employees who  reach
retirement  age  while  employed  by  the  company.   Most  international
employees  and  retirees are covered by government health care  programs.
The  cost  of  company-provided health care plans for these international
employees is not material.

The  company's  pension  funding policy is to  deposit  with  independent
trustees  amounts at least equal to accrued liabilities,  to  the  extent
allowed  by  law. Trust funds and deposits with insurance  companies  are
maintained  to  provide pension benefits to plan participants  and  their
beneficiaries.  In addition, the company has set aside funds for its U.S.
postretirement  plan  with  an independent  trustee  and  makes  periodic
contributions to the plan.



The company's U.S. non-qualified pension plan had an unfunded accumulated
benefit obligation of $187 million at December 31, 2000, and $171 million
at December 31, 1999.  There are no plan assets in the non-qualified plan
due to its nature.

Certain international pension plans were underfunded as of year-end  2000
and  1999.  The accumulated benefit obligations of these plans were  $499
million in 2000 and $467 million in 1999.  The assets of these plans were
$300  million  in  2000 and $353 million in 1999.   The  net  underfunded
amounts are included in current and other liabilities on the Consolidated
Balance Sheet.







The  company  expects its health care cost trend rate for  postretirement
benefits  to slow from 5.8 percent in 2001 to 5.0 percent in 2004,  after
which the rate is expected to stabilize. A one percentage point change in
the assumed health care cost trend rates would have the effects shown  in
the following table.



Leases
Rental  expense  under operating leases was $119 million  in  2000,  $113
million  in 1999 and $125 million in 1998.  The table below shows minimum
payments  under operating leases with non-cancelable terms in  excess  of
one year, as of December 31, 2000.






Employee Savings and Stock Ownership Plans
The  company sponsors employee savings plans under Section 401(k) of  the
Internal  Revenue  Code.  These plans are offered  to  substantially  all
regular  U.S.  employees. Employee contributions of up to  6  percent  of
compensation  are  matched at rates ranging from 20 to 35  percent,  with
additional company contributions depending upon company performance.

The company maintains an Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP).  This plan
was  established in 1989 as a cost-effective way of funding the  majority
of  the  company's  contributions under 401(k)  employee  savings  plans.
Total  ESOP  shares are considered to be shares outstanding for  earnings
per share calculations.

In  1998,  the ESOP refinanced its existing debt by issuing new  debt  of
$385  million  at  an  interest rate of 5.62 percent.   This  refinancing
extended  the life of the original ESOP from 2004 to 2009.   The  company
incurred a one-time charge of $59 million ($38 million net of tax), or  9
cents per diluted share, which is reported as an extraordinary loss  from
early extinguishment of debt.

Dividends  on  shares held by the ESOP are paid to the  ESOP  trust  and,
together  with  company contributions, are used  by  the  ESOP  to  repay
principal  and interest on the outstanding notes.  Over the life  of  the
notes,  shares are released for allocation to participants based  on  the
ratio  of  the current year's debt service to the remaining debt  service
prior to the current payment.

The  ESOP  has been the primary funding source for the company's employee
savings  plans.  Expenses related to the ESOP include total debt  service
on  the  notes, less dividends.  The company contributes treasury shares,
accounted  for  at  fair  value,  to  employee  savings  plans  to  cover
obligations  not  funded by the ESOP. These amounts are  reported  as  an
employee benefit expense.  Unearned compensation, shown as a reduction of
stockholders'  equity,  is  reduced  symmetrically  as  the  ESOP   makes
principal payments on the debt.







General Employees' Stock Purchase Plan
In  May 1997, shareholders approved 15 million shares for issuance  under
the   company's   General   Employees'  Stock  Purchase   Plan   (GESPP).
Substantially  all  employees are eligible to participate  in  the  plan.
Participants  are granted options at 85 percent of market  value  at  the
date  of  grant.  There are no GESPP shares under option at the beginning
or end of each year because options are granted on the first business day
and exercised on the last business day of the same month.



Management Stock Ownership Program
In  May 1997, shareholders approved 35 million shares for issuance  under
the  Management Stock Ownership Program (MSOP).  Management stock options
are granted at market value at the date of grant. These options generally
are exercisable one year after the date of grant and expire 10 years from
the  date  of grant.  In May 2000, at the time of the grant,  there  were
11,073 participants in the plan.





Management Stock Ownership Program (continued)


Stock-Based Compensation
No compensation cost has been recognized for the General Employees' Stock
Purchase  Plan (GESPP) or the Management Stock Ownership Program  (MSOP).
Pro forma amounts based on the options' estimated fair value, net of tax,
at  the  grant  dates for awards under the GESPP and MSOP  are  presented
below.



The  weighted average fair value per option granted during 2000, 1999 and
1998  was  $13.65, $12.75 and $12.34, respectively, for  the  GESPP,  and
$22.45,  $22.86 and $20.41, respectively, for the incentive MSOP  grants.
The weighted average fair value was calculated by using the fair value of
each  option  on the date of grant. The fair value of GESPP  options  was
based  on  the 15 percent purchase discount.  For MSOP options, the  fair
value was calculated utilizing the Black-Scholes option-pricing model and
the weighted average assumptions that follow.



The  MSOP options, if exercised, would have the following dilutive effect
on shares outstanding for 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively: 4.2 million,
4.5  million and 4.7 million shares. Certain MSOP options outstanding for
years   2000,  1999  and  1998  (11.5,  8.7  and  10.8  million   shares,
respectively)  were not included in the computation of  diluted  earnings
per share because they would not have a dilutive effect.



Legal  Proceedings  -  Discussion of legal  matters  is  incorporated  by
reference  from the subcaptions "General" and "Breast Implant Litigation"
under Legal Proceedings, Part I, Item 3, of this Form 10-K, and should be
considered an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements  and
Notes.





Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting  and
       Financial Disclosure.

   None.

                            PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.

Item 11. Executive Compensation.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.

The  information  required by Items 10 through  13  are  incorporated  by
reference  from the registrant's definitive proxy statement  pursuant  to
general  instruction G(3), with the exception of the  executive  officers
section  of Item 10, which is included in Item 1 of this Form 10-K.   The
registrant  will  file with the Commission a definitive  proxy  statement
pursuant to Regulation 14A by April 30, 2001.



                            PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form  8-
K.

(a)  The financial statements filed as part of this report are listed  in
   the index to financial statements on page 26.

All  financial statement schedules are omitted because of the absence  of
the  conditions  under  which they are required or because  the  required
information is included in the financial statements or the notes thereto.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K:
3M  filed  three Form 8-K's in January 2001 and four Form 8-K's  for  the
quarter ended December 31, 2000.

The  Form  8-K  dated January 24, 2001, contained unaudited  consolidated
financial  information for the quarters and years 2000  and  1999.   This
filing did not contain certain information included in the company's 2000
Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The Form 8-K dated January 17, 2001, reported 3M's unaudited consolidated
financial results for the fourth quarter of 2000.

The  Form  8-K  dated  January  11, 2001,  announced  completion  of  the
MicroTouch Systems, Inc. tender offer.

The  Form  8-K  dated  December  7, 2000, contains  the  indenture  dated
November 17, 2000, concerning senior debt securities.

The Form 8-K dated December 6, 2000, announced W. James McNerney, Jr. has
been  elected chairman and chief executive officer, effective January  1,
2001, succeeding L. D. DeSimone.

The  Form  8-K dated November 20, 2000, announced that the  3M  Board  of
Directors  authorized the repurchase of up to 10 million  shares  of  the
company's stock, effective January 1, 2001 to December 31, 2001.

The  Form  8-K dated October 23, 2000, announced 3M's unaudited quarterly
consolidated sales and earnings for the third quarter of 2000.

(c) Exhibits:




(c) Exhibits (continued):






                                 SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act
of  l934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on  its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                  MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY



                            By  /s/ Robert J. Burgstahler
                                Robert J. Burgstahler, Vice President
                                Principal  Financial  and  Accounting Officer
                                February 20, 2001

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has been signed below by the following persons on behalf  of  the
registrant and in the capacities indicated on February 20, 2001.

Signature               Title

W. James McNerney, Jr.  Chairman of the Board and
                        Chief Executive Officer, Director

Linda G. Alvarado       Director
Ronald O. Baukol        Director
Edward A. Brennan       Director
Livio D. DeSimone       Director
Edward M. Liddy         Director
Aulana L. Peters        Director
Rozanne L. Ridgway      Director
Frank Shrontz           Director
Louis W. Sullivan       Director


Roger  P.  Smith,  by  signing his name hereto,  does  hereby  sign  this
document  pursuant  to  powers of attorney duly  executed  by  the  other
persons  named,  filed  with the Securities and  Exchange  Commission  on
behalf  of  such  other persons, all in the capacities and  on  the  date
stated,  such  persons constituting a majority of the  directors  of  the
company.

                              By  /s/ Roger P. Smith
                                 Roger P. Smith, Attorney-in-Fact


