
10-K
1997 10-K



                              UNITED STATES
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                         Washington, D.C. 20549
                               FORM 10-K

       [X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                  For the year ended December 31, 1997


                    Commission file number 1-3285

              MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY

State of Incorporation: Delaware
                             I.R.S. Employer Identification No. 41-0417775
        Executive offices: 3M Center, St. Paul, Minnesota 55144
                   Telephone number: (612) 733-1110

         SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:
                                                 Name of each exchange
         Title of each class                     on which registered
     Common Stock, Par Value $.50 Per Share      New York Stock Exchange
                                                 Pacific Exchange
                                                 Chicago Stock Exchange

     Note:  The common stock of the registrant is also traded on the
     Amsterdam  Stock Exchange,  Swiss stock exchanges and the Tokyo
     Stock Exchange.

     Securities registered pursuant to section 12(g) of the Act: None

         Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1)
     has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d)
     of  the  Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding  12 
     months  (or  for  such  shorter period that  the  registrant  was
     required  to  file such reports),  and (2)  has been  subject  to
     such  filing  requirements for the past 90  days.   Yes X.  No  .

         Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent
     filers  pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is  not  contained
     herein,  and  will not be contained, to the best of  registrant's
     knowledge,   in   definitive  proxy  or  information   statements
     incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form  10-K  or  any
     amendment to this Form 10-K. [    ]

         The aggregate market value of voting stock held by
     nonaffiliates  of the registrant, based on the closing  price  of
     $83.50  per  share  as reported on the New York  Stock  Exchange-
     Composite Index on January 30, 1998, was $33.7 billion.

     Shares of common stock outstanding at January 31, 1998:  404,042,820.

                   DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
         Parts of the following documents are incorporated
     by  reference in Parts III and IV of this Form 10-K:   (1)  Proxy
     Statement for registrant's 1998 annual meeting, (2) Form 10-Q for
     period  ended  June 30, 1987; Form 8-K dated November  20,  1996;
     Form 8-K dated June 30, 1997, (3) Registration Nos. 33-48089  and
     333-30689.

                     This document contains 50 pages.
                The exhibit index is set forth on page 45.




                   MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY
                                  FORM 10-K
                      For the Year Ended December 31, 1997
                                   PART I

Item 1. Business.

Minnesota  Mining and Manufacturing Company was incorporated in 1929  under  the
laws  of  the  State of Delaware to continue operations, begun  in  1902,  of  a
Minnesota corporation of the same name.  As used herein, the term "3M"  includes
Minnesota  Mining and Manufacturing Company and subsidiaries unless the  context
otherwise indicates.

Discontinued Operations

In November 1995, the Board of Directors approved a plan to launch the company's
data  storage  and imaging businesses as an independent, publicly owned  company
and  to  discontinue 3M's audio and video business.  This is  discussed  in  the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

General

3M  is  an  integrated  enterprise  characterized  by  substantial  intercompany
cooperation in research, manufacturing and marketing of products.  3M's business
has developed from its research and technology in coating and bonding for coated
abrasives,  the company's original product.  Coating and bonding is the  process
of applying one material to another, such as abrasive granules to paper or cloth
(coated  abrasives), adhesives to a backing (pressure-sensitive tapes),  ceramic
coating  to granular mineral (roofing granules), glass beads to plastic  backing
(reflective sheeting), and low-tack adhesives to paper (repositionable notes).

3M  is  among the leading manufacturers of products for many of the  markets  it
serves. In all cases, 3M products are subject to direct or indirect competition.
Most  3M  products  involve expertise in product development, manufacturing  and
marketing, and are subject to competition from products manufactured and sold by
other technically oriented companies.

At December 31, 1997, the company employed 75,639 people.

Business Segments

Financial  information  and  other disclosures relating  to  3M's  two  business
segments  and  3M's operations in various geographic areas are provided  in  the
Notes  to Consolidated Financial Statements.  Effective with year-end 1998,  the
company  will adopt Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No.  131,
"Disclosure  about  Segments  of an Enterprise and  Related  Information."   The
company  is  reviewing the requirements of this statement and believes  that  it
will  change,  to  some  degree, the nature and extent of its  current  business
segment  disclosure.   This  statement does not impact  the  basic  consolidated
financial statements; it affects the presentation of segment information in  the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and this item of Form 10-K.

3M's  two  business  sectors bring together common or related  3M  technologies,
enhancing the development of innovative products and services and providing  for
efficient   sharing  of  business  resources.   These  sectors  have   worldwide
responsibility  for  virtually  all  3M  product  lines.   A  few  miscellaneous
businesses and staff-sponsored products, as well as various corporate assets and
corporate overhead expenses, are not assigned to the sectors.




Industrial   and  Consumer  Sector:   This  sector  provides  pressure-sensitive
adhesives,  specialty tapes, coated and nonwoven abrasives, specialty chemicals,
electronic  and  electrical  products, and  telecommunications  products.   This
sector  participates  in the following markets:  Industrial Markets;  Automotive
and  Chemical  Markets;  Electro and Communications Markets;  and  Consumer  and
Office Markets.

The Industrial Markets businesses manufacture and market a wide variety of high-
performance  and general-purpose pressure-sensitive tapes, as well as  specialty
products.  Major product categories include industrial tapes made from materials
such  as  foil,  film,  vinyl  and  polyester; specialty  tapes  and  adhesives,
including Scotch brand VHB brand Tapes, lithographic tapes, joining systems,
specialty additives, vibration control materials, liquid adhesives, and
reclosable fasteners; general-purpose tapes, such as masking, box-sealing and
filament; and labels and  other materials for identifying and marking durable
goods.   Other products  include coated abrasives for grinding, conditioning and
finishing  a wide  range  of surfaces; finishing compounds; and products for
maintaining  and repairing vehicles.

The  Automotive  and  Chemical  Markets businesses'  major  automotive  products
include   body  side-molding  and  trim;  functional  and  decorative  graphics;
corrosion-resistant   and   abrasion-resistant  films;   tapes   for   attaching
nameplates, trim and moldings; and fasteners for attaching interior  panels  and
carpeting.   Major chemical products include protective chemicals for furniture,
fabrics  and  paper products; firefighting agents; fluoroelastomers  for  seals,
tubes  and  gaskets in engines; engineering fluids; and high-performance  fluids
used  in  the  manufacture  of  computer chips and for  electronic  cooling  and
lubricating  of computer hard disk drives.  Other products include  natural  and
color-coated mineral granules for asphalt shingles.  These businesses also serve
as  a  major  resource  for other 3M divisions, supplying  specialty  chemicals,
adhesives and films used in the manufacture of many 3M products.

The  Electro  and  Communications Markets businesses provide  products  for  the
electronic,  electrical,  telecommunication, and  visual  communication  fields.
Electronic   and  electrical  products  include  packaging  and  interconnection
devices;  insulating materials, including pressure-sensitive tapes  and  resins;
and  related  items.   These products are used extensively by  manufacturers  of
electronic  and  electrical  equipment, as  well  as  in  the  construction  and
maintenance  segments of the electric utility, telephone and  other  industries.
Telecommunications products serve the world's telephone companies  with  a  wide
array  of  products for fiber-optic and copper-based telephone  systems.   These
include  many  innovative connecting, closure and splicing systems,  maintenance
products  and test equipment.  Visual communication products serve  the  world's
office  and  education markets with overhead projectors and transparency  films,
plus equipment and materials for electronic and multimedia presentations.

Major  products  in  the Consumer and Office Markets businesses  include  Scotch
brand Tapes; Post-it brand Note products, including memo pads, labels, stickers,
pop-up notes  and  dispensers;  home  care  products, including  Scotch-Brite 
brand Scouring Products,  O-Cel-O brand Sponges  and Scotchgard brand Fabric 
Protectors;  energy  control products, such as window insulation kits; nonwoven
abrasive materials for  floor maintenance  and commercial cleaning; floor
mattings; and a wide range  of  home improvement   products,   including  
surface-preparation  and  wood-finishing materials, and filters for furnaces
and air conditioners.




Life  Sciences Sector:  This sector produces products that contribute to  health
and  safety  for  people  around  the world. The Life  Sciences  Sector's  major
technologies  include  pressure-sensitive adhesives, substrates,  extrusion  and
coating,  nonwoven  materials, specialty polymers and resins,  optical  systems,
drug delivery systems, and electro-mechanical devices.  On August 15, 1997,  the
company  sold  National  Advertising Company, an outdoor  and  mall  advertising
subsidiary  that  was  part  of this sector.  This sector  participates  in  the
following  markets: Medical Markets; Pharmaceuticals, Dental and  Personal  Care
Markets; and Traffic and Personal Safety Markets.

The  Medical  Markets  businesses produce a broad  range  of  medical  supplies,
devices  and  equipment.   Medical supplies include tapes,  dressings,  surgical
drapes  and  masks,  biological  indicators, orthopedic  casting  materials  and
electrodes.   Medical  devices  and equipment include  stethoscopes,  heart-lung
machines,  sterilization equipment, blood gas monitors, and  powered  orthopedic
instruments.   These  businesses  also develop  and  market  health  information
systems.

The  Pharmaceuticals,  Dental  and Personal Care Markets  businesses  serve  the
pharmaceutical  and  dental  markets, as well  as  manufacturers  of  disposable
diapers.  Pharmaceuticals include ethical drugs and drug-delivery systems. Among
ethical  pharmaceuticals are analgesics, anti-inflammatories and  cardiovascular
and  respiratory products.  Drug-delivery systems include metered-dose inhalers,
as  well  as  transdermal skin patches and related components.  Dental  products
include  dental restoratives, adhesives, impression materials, temporary crowns,
infection  control products, and orthodontic brackets and wires.  Personal  Care
products include a broad line of closures for disposable diapers.

The  Traffic and Personal Safety Markets businesses serve the following markets:
traffic  control  materials, commercial graphics, and  occupational  health  and
safety.   In traffic control materials, reflective sheetings are used on highway
signs,  vehicle  license plates, construction workzone devices, and  trucks  and
other vehicles.  In commercial graphics, 3M supplies equipment, films, inks  and
related  products  used  to  produce graphics for  vehicles  and  signs.   Major
occupational  health and safety products include maintenance-free  and  reusable
respirators, plus personal monitoring systems.  These businesses also  market  a
variety of other products, including spill-control sorbents, Thinsulate brand
and Lite Loft brand Insulations,  traffic control devices, electronic
surveillance  products, reflective  materials  for  personal safety, and films
for  protection  against counterfeiting.

Distribution

3M  products  are  sold  directly  to users and  through  numerous  wholesalers,
retailers, jobbers, distributors and dealers in a wide variety of trades in many
countries  around  the  world.   Management  believes  that  the  confidence  of
wholesalers,  retailers,  jobbers,  distributors  and  dealers  in  3M  and  its
products,  developed through long association with skilled marketing  and  sales
representatives,  has  contributed  significantly  to  3M's  position   in   the
marketplace  and  to  its  growth.  3M has 245 sales  offices  and  distribution
centers  worldwide,  including nine major branch offices  located  in  principal
cities  throughout  the  United  States.   3M  operates  30  sales  offices  and
distribution  centers in the United States.  Internationally, 3M has  215  sales
offices and distribution centers.




Research, Patents and Raw Materials

Research  and  product  development  constitute  an  important  part   of   3M's
activities.   Products resulting from research and development have  been  major
drivers  of  3M's  growth.   Research and development  spending  totaled  $1.002
billion, $947 million and $883 million in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

Corporate research laboratories support research efforts of division and  sector
laboratories.  These corporate labs also engage in research not directly related
to  existing  3M product lines.  Most major operating divisions have  their  own
laboratories  to  improve existing products and develop new  products.  Research
staff  groups  provide specialized services in instrumentation, engineering  and
process  development.   3M  also  maintains an  organization  for  technological
development not sponsored by other units of the company.

3M  is the owner of many domestic and foreign patents derived primarily from its
research activities.  3M's business as a whole is not materially dependent  upon
any  one  patent, license or trade secret, or upon any group of related patents,
licenses or trade secrets.

The  company  experienced no significant or unusual problems in the purchase  of
raw  materials during 1997.  It is impossible to predict future shortages or the
impact such shortages would have.


Executive Officers

Following  is  a  list  of  the executive officers of 3M,  their  ages,  present
positions, the years elected to their present positions and other positions held
within  3M during the past five years.  All of these officers have been employed
full time by 3M or a subsidiary of 3M for more than five years.  All 3M officers
are  elected by the Board of Directors at its annual meeting, with vacancies and
new  positions filled at interim meetings.  No family relationships exist  among
any  of  the  executive  officers  named,  nor  is  there  any  arrangement   or
understanding pursuant to which any person was selected as an officer.








Item 2. Properties.

3M's   general   offices,   corporate  research  laboratories,   some   division
laboratories  and  certain manufacturing facilities are  located  in  St.  Paul,
Minnesota.   In  the  United  States, 3M has 30 sales offices  and  distribution
centers  in  20  states and operates 69 manufacturing facilities in  24  states.
Internationally, 3M has 215 sales offices and distribution centers.  The company
operates 96 manufacturing and converting facilities in 44 countries outside  the
United States.

3M  owns substantially all of its physical properties.  3M's physical facilities
are highly suitable for the purposes for which they were designed.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings.

The  company and certain of its subsidiaries are named as defendants in a number
of   actions,  governmental  proceedings  and  claims,  including  environmental
proceedings  and  products liability claims involving products now  or  formerly
manufactured  and  sold  by the company.  In some actions,  the  claimants  seek
damages  as  well as other relief, which, if granted, would require  substantial
expenditures.  The  company  has accrued certain  liabilities,  which  represent
reasonable estimates of its probable liabilities for these matters.  The company
also  has  recorded receivables for the probable amount of insurance recoverable
with respect to these matters.

Some of these matters raise difficult and complex factual and legal issues,  and
are  subject to many uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the facts and
circumstances  of each particular action; the jurisdiction and  forum  in  which
each  action is proceeding; and differences in applicable law. Accordingly,  the
company  is  not  always able to estimate the amount of future liabilities  with
respect to such matters.

There  can  be  no certainty that the company may not ultimately incur  charges,
whether  for  governmental  proceedings and claims, products  liability  claims,
environmental  proceedings or other actions, in excess of presently  established
accruals.  While such future charges could have a material adverse impact on the
company's  net  income in the quarterly period in which they are  recorded,  the
company believes that such additional charges, if any, would not have a material
adverse  effect  on  the consolidated financial position or  annual  results  of
operations  of  the  company.   (NOTE:  This  paragraph  applies  to  all  legal
proceedings involving the company except the breast implant litigation, which is
discussed separately in the next section.)




Breast implant litigation

As  of December 31, 1997, the company had been named as a defendant, often  with
multiple co-defendants, in 7,547 lawsuits and 285 claims in various courts,  all
seeking  damages for personal injuries from allegedly defective breast implants.
These  claims and lawsuits purport to represent 26,193 individual claimants.  It
is  not  yet  certain  how  many of these lawsuits and claims  involve  products
manufactured  and  sold by the company, as opposed to other manufacturers.   The
company  entered  the  business of manufacturing  breast  implants  in  1977  by
purchasing  McGhan Medical Corporation.  In 1984, the company sold the  business
to a corporation that also was named McGhan Medical Corporation.

The typical claim or lawsuit alleges the individual's breast implants caused one
or  more  of a wide variety of ailments and local complications, including,  but
not  limited to, non-specific autoimmune disease, scleroderma, lupus, rheumatoid
arthritis,  fibromyalgia, mixed connective tissue disease,  Sjogren's  Syndrome,
dermatomyositis, polymyositis and chronic fatigue.

Plaintiffs  in these cases typically seek monetary damages, often in unspecified
amounts,  and  also  may  seek  certain types  of  equitable  relief,  including
requiring  the company to fund the costs associated with removal of  the  breast
implants.

A  number of breast implant claims and lawsuits seek to impose liability on  the
company under various theories for personal injuries allegedly caused by  breast
implants  manufactured and sold by manufacturers other than the  company.  These
manufacturers  include, but are not limited to, McGhan Medical  Corporation  and
manufacturers that are no longer in business or that are insolvent, whose breast
implants may or may not have been used in conjunction with implants manufactured
and  sold by the company.  These claims raise many difficult and complex factual
and legal issues that are subject to many uncertainties, including the facts and
circumstances of each particular claim, the jurisdiction in which each  suit  is
brought, and differences in applicable law and insurance coverage.

A  number  of  breast  implant lawsuits seek to recover  punitive  damages.  Any
punitive  damages  that may be awarded against the company may  or  may  not  be
covered by certain insurance policies depending on the language of the insurance
policy, applicable law and agreements with insurers.

In addition to individual suits against the company, a class action on behalf of
all  women with breast implants filed against all manufacturers of such implants
has  been  conditionally certified and is pending in the United States  District
Court  for the Northern District of Alabama (the "Court")(DANTE, ET AL., V.  DOW
CORNING, ET AL., U.S.D.C., N. Dist., Ala., 92-2589; part of IN RE: SILICONE  GEL
BREAST  IMPLANT PRODUCT LIABILITY LITIGATION, U.S.D.C., N. Dist. Ala., MDL  926,
U.S.D.C.,  N.  Dist.  Ala.,  CV  92-P-10000-S;  now  held  in  abeyance  pending
settlement  proceedings in the settlement class action LINDSEY, ET AL.,  V.  DOW
CORNING  CORPORATION, ET AL., U.S.D.C., N. Dist., Ala., CV 94-P-11558-S).  Class
actions, some of which have been certified, are pending in various state courts,
including,  among others, Louisiana, Florida and Illinois, and  in  the  British
Columbia  courts  in Canada.  The Louisiana state court action  (SPITZFADEN,  ET
AL.,  v. DOW CORNING CORPORATION, ET AL., Dist. Ct., Parish of Orleans, 92-2589)
has  been  decertified by the trial court.  Plaintiffs' writ for a discretionary
appeal  from  the  decertification is pending in the  Fourth  Circuit  Court  of
Appeals for Louisiana.




The company also has been served with a purported class action brought on behalf
of  children  allegedly exposed to silicone in utero and  through  breast  milk.
(FEUER,  ET AL., V. MCGHAN, ET AL., U.S.D.C., E. Dist. NY, 93-0146.)   The  suit
names  all  breast implant manufacturers as defendants and seeks to establish  a
medical-monitoring fund.

On  December  22,  1995,  the Court approved a revised class  action  settlement
program  for  resolution  of claims seeking damages for personal  injuries  from
allegedly  defective  breast implants (the "Revised Settlement  Program").   The
Revised Settlement Program is a revision of a previous settlement pursuant to  a
Breast  Implant  Litigation  Settlement Agreement (the  "Settlement  Agreement")
reached  on  April  8,  1994, and approved by the Court on  September  1,  1994.
Appeals related to the Revised Settlement Program are pending.

The  Court  ordered  that, beginning after November 30,  1995,  members  of  the
plaintiff  class may choose to participate in the Revised Settlement Program  or
opt out, which would then allow them to proceed with separate products liability
actions.

The  Revised  Settlement Program as supplemented now includes both  foreign  and
domestic  class  members  with  implants manufactured  by  certain  manufacturer
defendants,  including Baxter International, Bristol Meyers-Squibb, the  company
and  McGhan  Medical Corporation. The company's obligations  under  the  Revised
Settlement  Program are limited to eligible claimants with implants manufactured
by  the  company  or  its predecessors ("3M implants") or manufactured  only  by
McGhan  Medical Corporation after its divestiture from the company on August  3,
1984  ("Post  8/84  McGhan implants").  With respect to  foreign  claimants  and
claimants with only Post 8/84 McGhan implants (or only Post 8/84 McGhan implants
plus  certain other manufacturers' implants), the benefits are more limited than
for  domestic claimants with 3M implants. Post 8/84 McGhan implant benefits  are
payable   by   the  company,  Union  Carbide  Corporation  and  McGhan   Medical
Corporation.

In  general, the amounts payable to individual current claimants (as defined  in
the  Court's  order)  under the Revised Settlement Program,  and  the  company's
obligations to make those payments, will not be affected by the number of  class
members  electing to opt out of the Revised Settlement Program or the number  of
class members making claims under the Revised Settlement Program. In addition to
certain miscellaneous benefits, the Revised Settlement Program provides for  two
compensation options for current claimants with 3M implants.

Under  the first option, denominated as Fixed Amount Benefits, current claimants
with  3M  implants  who  satisfy  disease  criteria  established  in  the  prior
Settlement  Agreement  will receive amounts ranging  from  $5,000  to  $100,000,
depending  on  disease severity or disability level; whether  the  claimant  can
establish that her implants have ruptured; and whether the claimant also has had
implants  manufactured by Dow Corning.  Under the second option, denominated  as
Long-Term  Benefits,  current  claimants  with  3M  implants  who  satisfy  more
restrictive disease and severity criteria specified under the Revised Settlement
Program can receive benefits ranging from $37,500 to $250,000.

In  addition, current claimants with 3M implants are eligible for (a) a one-time
payment  of  $3,000 upon removal of 3M implants during the course of  the  class
settlement,  and  (b) an advance payment of $5,000 against the above  referenced
benefits  upon  proof  of  having 3M implants and upon  waiving  or  not  timely
exercising  the  right  to opt out of the Revised Settlement  Program.   Current
claimants with only Post 8/84 McGhan implants (or only Post 8/84 McGhan implants
plus  certain  other  manufacturers' implants) are eligible  only  for  benefits
ranging from $10,000 to $50,000.




Eligible participants with 3M implants who did not file current claims  but  are
able  to  satisfy the more restrictive disease and severity criteria  during  an
ongoing  period of 15 years will be eligible for the Long-Term Benefits, subject
to  certain funding limitations.  Such participants also will be eligible for an
advance  payment of $1,000 upon proof of having 3M implants and upon waiving  or
not  timely  exercising the right to opt out of the Revised Settlement  Program.
Benefit levels for eligible participants who are not current claimants and  have
only  Post 8/84 McGhan implants (or only Post 8/84 McGhan implants plus  certain
other  manufacturers' implants) or who are current foreign claimants will  range
from  $10,000  to $50,000.  Benefits to foreign registrants other  than  current
foreign  claimants  will  be  developed by the Foreign  Claimants  Committee  in
consultation with the Court.

The company's obligations to fund Long-Term Benefits for eligible claimants with
3M  implants  are  cancelable if certain provisions of  the  Revised  Settlement
Program  are disapproved on appeal.  Pending appeal, the company will pay  Long-
Term Benefits to eligible claimants, providing it receives appropriate releases.
The company's obligations to fund any benefits for claimants with only Post 8/84
McGhan implants are currently suspended pending appeals and will be canceled  if
any  of certain provisions are disapproved on appeal. In either event, the other
benefits provided under the Revised Settlement Program would still be payable to
any claimant with 3M implants who elected to participate in the program.

As  of  the date of this filing, the company believes that approximately 88%  of
those  claimants  who filed current claims have elected to  participate  in  the
Revised Settlement Program. It is still unknown as to what disease criteria  all
claimants  have satisfied, and what options they have chosen.  As a result,  the
total  amount and timing of the company's prospective payments under the Revised
Settlement  Program  cannot be determined with precision at  this  time.  As  of
December 31, 1997, the company has paid $162 million into the court-administered
fund  as  a  reserve  against costs of claims payable by the company  under  the
Revised  Settlement Program (including a $5 million administrative  assessment).
Additional  payments  will be made as necessary.  Payments  to  date  have  been
consistent with the company's estimates of total liability for these claims.

In  the  first quarter of 1994, the company took a pre-tax charge of $35 million
($22 million after tax) in recognition of its then best estimate of its probable
liabilities  and  associated expenses, net of the probable amount  of  insurance
recoverable  from  its  carriers.  In the second quarter of  1996,  the  company
increased  its  estimate  of  the minimum probable  liabilities  and  associated
expenses  to  approximately $991 million. This amount represents  the  company's
best estimate of the cost and expense of the Revised Settlement Program and  the
cost and expense of resolving opt-out claims. After subtracting payments of $699
million  as  of  December 31, 1997, for defense and other costs and  settlements
with  litigants  and  claimants, the company had  accrued  liabilities  of  $292
million.

The  company  has  substantial primary and excess products liability  occurrence
insurance coverage and claims-made products liability insurance coverage,  which
it  believes provide coverage for substantially all of its current exposure  for
breast implant claims and defense costs. Most insurers have alleged reservations
of  rights  to deny all or part of the coverage for differing reasons, including
each  insurer's obligations in relation to the other insurers (i.e.  allocation)
and  which  claims trigger both the various occurrence and claims-made insurance
policies.  Some insurers have resolved and paid, or committed to,  their  policy
obligations.  The company believes the failure of many insurers  to  voluntarily
perform  as promised subjects them to




the company's claims for excess  liability
and damages for breach of the insurers' obligation of good faith.

On  September  22, 1994, three excess coverage occurrence insurers initiated  in
the  courts of the State of Minnesota a declaratory judgment action against  the
company and numerous insurance carriers seeking adjudication of certain coverage
issues and allocation among insurers. On December 9, 1994, the company initiated
an  action against its occurrence insurers in the Texas State Court in  and  for
Harrison  County, seeking a determination of responsibility among the  company's
various  occurrence insurers with applicable coverages. The state of  Texas  has
the  most  implant  claims.   This action has since been  removed  to  the  U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Texas, and stayed pending resolution of  the
litigation in the Minnesota courts.

The  insurers that are parties to these actions generally acknowledge that  they
issued  products  liability insurance to the company  and  that  breast  implant
claims  are  products liability claims. The trial in Minnesota  to  resolve  the
company's  insurance  coverage  and the financial responsibility  of  occurrence
insurers for breast implant claims and defense costs began on June 4, 1996,  and
is continuing in phases as scheduled by the court.

In  mid-October 1995, the occurrence insurers that are parties to the litigation
in  Minnesota filed more than 30 motions for summary judgment or partial summary
judgment.  The  insurers, through these motions, attempted to  shift  all  or  a
portion of the responsibility for those claims the company believes fall  within
the period of occurrence-based coverage (before 1986) into the period of claims-
made  coverage  (from  and  after 1986). The trial court  denied  the  insurers'
motions,  ruling that the key issues of trigger and allocation raised  in  these
motions  would  be resolved at trial. In the trial's first phase  in  1996,  the
court  granted 3M partial declaratory judgment on the question of when insurance
coverage  is  "triggered."   The court also granted  the  insurers'  motion  for
partial  declaratory  judgment on the question of the allocation  method  to  be
applied  in the case. In July 1997, the trial court ruled further on the trigger
issue and on the general allocation method.  That ruling was consistent with and
further  supported  the company's opinion as stated in the following  paragraph.
In November 1997, upon reconsideration, the court reversed a portion of its July
ruling  and  reinstated a portion of its previous ruling. The  company  believes
that  conflicting rulings now exist that need to be clarified by the  court  and
reconciled  with applicable law.  Motions to clarify the allocation  methodology
of  triggered  policies under these rulings are pending.  Court options  include
clarification,  further trial followed by additional rulings,  or  certification
for interlocutory (while the case is still pending) appeal.

The  company  believes it ultimately will prevail in this insurance  litigation.
The  company's  belief is based on an analysis of its insurance policies;  court
decisions on these and similar issues; reimbursement by insurers for these types
of  claims;  and consultation with outside counsel who are experts in  insurance
coverage  matters.  If, however, the occurrence insurers ultimately  prevail  in
this  insurance  litigation,  the  company  could  be  effectively  deprived  of
significant  and  potentially  material insurance coverage  for  breast  implant
claims.   (See  discussion of the accrued receivables for  insurance  recoveries
below.)

As  of  December  31,  1997, the company had accrued receivables  for  insurance
recoveries  of  $666  million, substantially all of which is  contested  by  the
insurance  carriers.   Various factors could affect the  timing  and  amount  of
proceeds  to  be  received  under  the  company's  various  insurance  policies,
including  (i)  the timing of payments made in settlement of  claims;  (ii)  the
outcome  of  occurrence  insurance litigation in the  courts  of  Minnesota  (as




discussed  above)  and  Texas;  (iii)  potential  arbitration  with  claims-made
insurers;  (iv)  delays  in payment by insurers; and (v)  the  extent  to  which
insurers  may become insolvent in the future. There can be no absolute assurance
that  the company will collect all amounts accrued as being probable of recovery
from its insurers.

The company's current estimates of the probable liabilities, associated expenses
and probable insurance recoveries related to the breast implant claims are based
on the facts and circumstances existing at this time. New developments may occur
that  could  affect  the company's estimates of probable liabilities  (including
associated  expenses)  and the probable amount of insurance  recoveries.   These
developments  include,  but are not limited to, (i) the  ultimate  Fixed  Amount
Benefit  distribution of claimants in the Revised Settlement Program;  (ii)  the
success  of  and  costs  to the company in defending opt-out  claims,  including
claims involving breast implants not manufactured or sold by the company;  (iii)
the  outcome  of the occurrence insurance litigation in the courts of  Minnesota
and  Texas;  and  (iv)  the  outcome of potential arbitration  with  claims-made
insurers.

The  company cannot determine the impact of these potential developments on  the
current  estimates of probable liabilities (including associated  expenses)  and
the  probable amount of insurance recoveries.  Accordingly, the company  is  not
able  to  estimate  its potential future liabilities and recoveries  beyond  the
current  estimates  of  probable  amounts.  As  new  developments  occur,  these
estimates may be revised, or additional charges may be necessary to reflect  the
impact  of  these  developments on the costs to the company of resolving  breast
implant  litigation,  claims,  and  insurance  recoveries.  Such  revisions   or
additional future charges could have a material adverse impact on the  company's
net  income  in  the quarterly period in which they are recorded.  Although  the
company considers it unlikely, such revisions or additional future charges could
also  have  a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position  or
annual results of operations of the company.

The  company conducts ongoing reviews, assisted by outside counsel, to determine
the  adequacy  and extent of insurance coverage provided by its  occurrence  and
claims-made  insurers. The company believes, based on these ongoing reviews  and
the  bases described in the fourth preceding paragraph, it is probable that  the
collectible coverage provided by its applicable insurance policies is sufficient
to cover substantially all of its current exposure for breast implant claims and
defense  costs.   Based  on  the availability of this  insurance  coverage,  the
company  believes  that  its  uninsured financial exposure  has  not  materially
changed since the first quarter of 1994. Therefore, no recognition of additional
charges has been made.

Environmental Matters

The  company  also  is  involved  in a number of  environmental  proceedings  by
governmental agencies and by private parties asserting liability for past  waste
disposal  and  other alleged environmental damage. The company conducts  ongoing
investigations, assisted by environmental consultants, to determine accruals for
the  probable,  estimable  costs of remediation.  The remediation  accruals  are
reviewed each quarter and changes are made as appropriate.




Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

None in the quarter ended December 31, 1997.

                                    Part II

Item 5. Market Price of 3M's Common Stock and Related Security Holder Matters.

At January 31, 1998, there were 138,282 shareholders of record.

3M's  stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, Pacific Exchange,  Chicago
Stock  Exchange, Amsterdam Stock Exchange, Swiss stock exchanges and Tokyo Stock
Exchange.

Stock  price comparisons are provided in the Quarterly Data section in the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements.






Item  7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations.

Operating Results
In November 1995, the Board of Directors approved a plan to launch the company's
data  storage  and imaging businesses as an independent, publicly owned  company
and to discontinue 3M's audio and video business.  As a result, these businesses
are  presented as discontinued operations in the financial statements and notes.
The following discussion represents continuing operations and basic earnings per
share, except where otherwise noted.

Sales  in 1997 rose 5.9 percent to $15.070 billion.  This followed increases  of
5.8  percent  in 1996 and 10.8 percent in 1995.  Sales growth in both  1997  and
1996 was held back by the stronger U.S. dollar.

In  the  United  States, sales totaled $7.242 billion, up about 9  percent  from
1996.   Volume  rose  9  percent, well above the growth  of  the  U.S.  economy.
Internationally, sales increased about 3 percent to $7.828 billion.  Volume rose
13  percent,  the  fourth consecutive year of double-digit  gains  abroad.   The
stronger  U.S.  dollar reduced international sales by about 9 percent.   Selling
prices worldwide were basically flat, following a 1 percent increase in 1996.



Cost  of  goods sold was 57.0 percent of sales, up slightly from 1996.  In  both
1997  and  1996, gross margins benefited from volume growth, productivity  gains
and  slightly  lower  raw material costs, but were negatively  affected  by  the
stronger  U.S. dollar. Cost of goods sold includes manufacturing,  research  and
development, and engineering expenses.

Selling,  general and administrative expenses were 25.3 percent of  sales,  down
from  25.6  percent  in both 1996 and 1995.  Solid volume gains,  together  with
continued emphasis on cost control and productivity improvement, had a  positive
effect on this spending.



In  1995, 3M recorded one-time, pre-tax charges of $653 million related  to  the
spin-off  of  the data storage and imaging businesses and the discontinuance  of
the  audio  and  video  business.   Of  this  amount,  $79  million  related  to
restructuring  in  continuing  operations and  is  reported  separately  on  the
Consolidated Statement of Income.  The remaining charges related to discontinued
operations. These charges and discontinued operations are discussed in the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Operating  income  totaled $2.675 billion, up 7.4 percent from  1996.   Negative
currency  effects  reduced profits by 7.6 percent.  Operating  income  was  17.7
percent  of sales, up from 17.5 percent in 1996 and 17.1 percent (excluding  the
$79 million restructuring charge) in 1995.




In  the  United States, operating income increased 15 percent and profit margins
improved  by  almost  one  percentage  point.   In  1996,  excluding  the   1995
restructuring  charge,  U.S. operating income increased 13  percent  and  profit
margins improved by nearly one percentage point.

Internationally,  operating  income rose about  1  percent  and  profit  margins
declined  by  three-tenths of a percentage point from 1996.   Negative  currency
effects reduced international profits by 15 percent and profit margins by  about
1.1  percentage  points.   In  1996, excluding the  1995  restructuring  charge,
operating  income rose about 5 percent and profit margins were the  same  as  in
1995.  Currency effects reduced international profits in 1996 by 9 percent.

The  company estimates that currency effects reduced worldwide operating  income
by $189 million in 1997 and by $118 million in 1996.



Interest  expense was $94 million, compared with $79 million in  1996  and  $102
million  in  1995.   The increase in 1997 was due to several factors,  including
slightly  higher debt balances and higher interest rate resets on certain  long-
term  floating-rate issues.  The decrease in 1996 reflected lower interest rates
and a reduction in debt.

Investment and other income was $56 million, compared with $67 million  in  1996
and  $49 million in 1995.  Lower levels of cash and securities resulted in  less
interest  income  in  1997.  Higher cash and securities  balances  and  improved
investment results drove the 1996 increase.

In 1997, the company realized a gain on the sale of National Advertising Company
of $803 million ($495 million after-tax).  This sale is discussed further in the
Notes  to  Consolidated Financial Statements.  The effect of this gain  on  3M's
statement of income and tax rate is summarized below.



3M's  total  effective  tax  rate  for 1997 was  36.1  percent.   Excluding  the
divestiture,  the  worldwide effective income tax rate was  35.4  percent,  down
slightly  from  1996  and  1995.  The gain on the sale of  National  Advertising
Company, a U.S. business, was taxed at a rate of 38.4 percent (federal statutory
rate of 35.0 percent and a net effective state tax rate of 3.4 percent).

Income  from  continuing operations totaled $2.121 billion, or $5.14  per  share
($1.626  billion,  or  $3.94  per share, excluding  the  gain  on  divestiture),




compared  with $1.516 billion, or $3.63 per share, in 1996.  Excluding the  gain
on  divestiture,  per-share income was up 8.5 percent.   In  1995,  income  from
continuing  operations  totaled  $1.306 billion,  or  $3.11  per  share  ($1.358
billion, or $3.23 per share, excluding the 1995 restructuring charge).  In 1996,
excluding  the  1995  restructuring charge, earnings per share  from  continuing
operations increased 12.4 percent.

Net  income totaled $2.121 billion, or $5.14 per share ($1.626 billion, or $3.94
per share, excluding the gain on divestiture), compared with $1.526 billion,  or
$3.65  per  share,  in 1996.  Excluding the gain on divestiture,  per-share  net
income  was up 7.9 percent.  In 1995, net income before one-time charges totaled
$1.390 billion, or $3.31 per share.

In  1997  and 1996, changes in the value of the U.S. dollar reduced income  from
continuing operations by an estimated $112 million and $65 million, or 27  cents
per  share  and  15  cents per share, respectively.  In 1995,  currency  effects
increased income from continuing operations by an estimated $45 million,  or  10
cents per share.  These estimates include the effect of translating profits from
local  currencies into U.S. dollars; the impact of currency fluctuations on  the
transfer  of  goods between 3M operations in the United States and  abroad;  and
transaction  gains  and  losses  in  countries  not  considered  to  be   highly
inflationary.

Economic  profit totaled $720 million, a 14 percent increase from 1996.   Return
on  invested  capital  was  18.0  percent, an  increase  of  seven-tenths  of  a
percentage point from 1996.  Economic profit equals after-tax operating  income,
less a charge for the operating capital employed in 3M's businesses.  Return  on
invested  capital  is  after-tax operating income divided by  average  operating
capital.

At  December  31, 1997, employment totaled 75,639 people, an increase  of  1,350
from  year-end 1996.  Sales per employee in local currencies increased about  10
percent.   During  the  preceding three years, 3M's  productivity  increased  an
average of about 9 percent a year.

Performance by Business Sector
Financial  information  and  other disclosures relating  to  3M's  two  business
segments is provided in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Industrial and Consumer Sector:
This  sector represented 63 percent of sales and 62 percent of operating  income
in  1997.   Sales  totaled $9.484 billion, up 6.2 percent from 1996.   Operating
income  increased  7.2  percent to $1.662 billion.  Operating  income  was  17.5
percent of sales.

This  sector develops, manufactures and markets innovative, high-value  products
for  home,  office  and industrial customers around the world.   Key  industrial
products  include  tapes,  adhesives, abrasives,  specialty  chemicals,  resins,
electrical connectors, and microflex circuits.  Many of the sector's new product
developments    serve   fast-growing   industries,   including   semiconductors,
electronics, specialty chemicals, personal computers and energy management.  Key
consumer  and  office supply products include tapes, notes,  scouring  pads  and
sponges, fabric protectors, energy-saving products and floor matting.

Life Sciences Sector:
This  sector represented 37 percent of sales and 40 percent of operating  income
in  1997.   Sales  totaled $5.496 billion, up 4.9 percent from 1996.   Operating
income  decreased  2.3  percent to $1.066 billion.  Operating  income  was  19.4
percent of sales.




This  sector produces innovative products that contribute to health  and  safety
for  people around the world.  In health care, this sector produces medical  and
surgical  supplies,  health care information systems, pharmaceuticals and  drug-
delivery systems, and dental products.  In the safety area, this sector produces
reflective  materials for traffic safety and respirators for worker  protection.
This  sector  also  produces closures for disposable diapers and  equipment  and
materials  for  premium indoor and outdoor graphics.  On August  15,  1997,  the
company  sold  National  Advertising Company, an outdoor  and  mall  advertising
subsidiary  that  was  part of this sector.  National  Advertising  Company  had
annual  sales  of about $200 million and operating income of about $35  million.
The gain on this sale is not reflected in the sector's operating income results.

Performance by Geographic Area
Financial information relating to 3M operations in various geographic  areas  is
provided in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

United States (48% of sales, 48% of operating income)
In  the United States, sales rose about 9 percent, driven by solid volume growth
and  productivity gains.  Operating income was 17.8 percent of sales, up  nearly
one percentage point from 1996.

Europe and Middle East (24% of sales, 16% of operating income)
Unit  sales in Europe and the Middle East increased about 11 percent, well above
the  rate of economic growth in the area.  Sales totaled $3.6 billion.   Selling
prices declined slightly, while currency translation reduced sales by almost  10
percent.

In Western Europe, faster commercialization of new products and a market-focused
approach to customers are driving 3M growth.  Volume rose about 10 percent, with
good  gains  in  most  countries.  In Eastern Europe and the  Middle  East,  the
company  continues to grow rapidly, with particularly strong  gains  in  Turkey,
Poland, Hungary and Russia.

Asia Pacific (18% of sales, 23% of operating income)
Continuing  a  record  of  solid gains, unit sales  in  the  Asia  Pacific  area
increased  about  12 percent in 1997.  Selling prices decreased slightly,  while
currency translation reduced sales by about 10 percent.  In Japan, home of  3M's
largest  international  company, volume rose about 8  percent,  well  above  the
country's  economic  growth rate.  3M's growth in Japan  is  benefiting  from  a
strong flow of new products.

Unit  sales in Asia, excluding Japan, rose 23 percent in 1997.  3M companies  in
Singapore,  China, Hong Kong and India paced growth.  Toward the  end  of  1997,
volume  growth  was  tempered  by  economic and  financial  turmoil  in  several
countries.   Although such turmoil may continue to affect volume growth  in  the
near-term,  the company is confident in the long-term economic strength  of  the
region.

Latin America, Canada and Africa (10% of sales, 13% of operating income)
In Latin America, unit sales increased 18 percent, continuing a record of strong
gains.   Freer  trade  in Latin America is enabling 3M to add  significantly  to
product lines and to deliver goods more efficiently.  Near the end of 1997,  the
company  felt  the  effects  of economic slowing  in  Brazil.   With  3M's  long
experience  and  strong  management in Latin America,  the  company  expects  to
minimize  the effects of economic disruptions on growth and maintain or  enhance
market positions.




In  Canada,  unit sales increased about 6 percent, driven by new products,  key-
account  relationships and a sharp customer focus.  In Africa, volume  increased
about 5 percent, led by industrial and health care products.

Financial Position
3M's  financial condition remained strong in 1997, and working capital  remained
well-controlled.  The accounts receivable index was 58 days, down two days  from
year-end 1996.  The company's key inventory index was 3.8 months, unchanged from
year-end 1996.  The current ratio was 1.5, down from 1.8 at year-end 1996.

Total  debt was $2.514 billion, up from $1.968 billion at year-end 1996.   Total
debt was 30 percent of total capital, compared with 24 percent in 1996.  Of debt
outstanding at the end of 1997, $378 million represented a guarantee of debt  of
the 3M Employee Stock Ownership Plan.

Various  assets  and  liabilities,  including  cash  and  short-term  debt,  can
fluctuate  significantly  on  a  month-to-month basis  depending  on  short-term
liquidity needs.

Legal proceedings are discussed in the Legal Proceedings section in Part I, Item
3,  of  this  Form  10-K.  There can be no certainty that the  company  may  not
ultimately  incur  charges,  whether for governmental  proceedings  and  claims,
products liability claims, environmental proceedings or other actions, in excess
of  presently  established accruals.  While such future  charges  could  have  a
material  adverse impact on the company's net income in the quarterly period  in
which  they are recorded, the company believes that such additional charges,  if
any,  would  not  have  a material adverse effect on the consolidated  financial
position  or annual results of operations of the company.  (NOTE: This paragraph
applies to all legal proceedings involving the company except the breast implant
litigation.   See discussion of breast implant litigation in Legal  Proceedings,
Part I, Item 3.)

Financial Instruments
The  company enters into contractual arrangements (derivatives) in the  ordinary
course of business to manage foreign currency exposure, interest rate risks  and
commodity  price  risks.   A financial risk management  committee,  composed  of
senior  management,  provides  oversight  for  risk  management  and  derivative
activities.  This committee determines the company's financial risk policies and
objectives and provides guidelines for derivative instrument utilization.   This
committee  also establishes procedures for control and valuation, risk analysis,
counterparty credit approval, and ongoing monitoring and reporting.

The   company  enters  into  forward  contracts  and  swaps  to  hedge   certain
intercompany financing transactions, and purchases foreign currency  options  to
hedge against the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash flows denominated
in non-U.S. dollars.

The company manages interest expense using a mix of fixed, floating and variable
rate  debt. To help manage borrowing costs, the company may enter into  interest
rate  swaps.   Under  these arrangements, the company  agrees  to  exchange,  at
specified intervals, the difference between fixed and floating interest  amounts
calculated by reference to an agreed-upon notional principal amount.

The  company manages commodity price risks through negotiated supply  contracts,
price protection swaps, and forward physical contracts.

A  variance/co-variance  value-at-risk model was  used  to  test  the  company's
exposure  to changes in currency and interest rates.  A historical value-at-risk
model  was  used  to  assess  commodity risks.  All models  used  a  95  percent
confidence  level  over  a one month time horizon.  The  JP  Morgan  Riskmetrics




dataset  was  used  for  the  variance/co-variance  analysis.   Five  years   of
historical data were used for the commodity risk analysis.  Both models assessed
the  risk  of  loss  in  market value of outstanding financial  instruments  and
derivatives.   Based  on  a  value-at-risk analysis  of  the  company's  foreign
exchange,  interest  rate  and commodity derivative instruments  outstanding  at
December 31, 1997, probable near-term changes in exchange rates, interest  rates
or  commodity  prices  would  not materially affect the  company's  consolidated
financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

Liquidity
During   1997,  cash  flows  provided  by  operating  activities  of  continuing
operations totaled $1.818 billion, down from $2.041 billion in 1996.   In  1997,
operating  cash flows were negatively impacted by $308 million of  income  taxes
paid  relating  to  the  gain  on  the  sale of  National  Advertising  Company.
Operating  cash  flows  were helped by net inflows of $35  million  relating  to
breast  implant litigation, compared with net outflows of $275 million in  1996.
In  both  1997 and 1996, cash flows were helped by solid operating  results  and
good asset management.

Capital  spending totaled $1.406 billion, an increase of about 27  percent  from
1996.  This  followed  increases of 2 percent in 1996 and 12  percent  in  1995.
These investments are helping to meet growing global demand for 3M products  and
to increase manufacturing efficiency.

Cash used for acquisitions and investments totaled $40 million, $263 million and
$49  million  in  1997,  1996  and 1995, respectively.   The  increase  in  1996
primarily  was due to acquisitions in the health care field and the purchase  of
the minority interest in 3M Korea.

Cash  proceeds from the sale of National Advertising Company totaled $1 billion,
with  net  after-tax cash proceeds of nearly $700 million.  Cash  proceeds  from
other  divestitures  and investments totaled $51 million, $62  million  and  $82
million in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

Stockholder  dividends increased 10.4 percent to $2.12 a share.   Cash  dividend
payments  totaled $876 million.  3M has paid dividends since 1916.  In  February
1998, the Board of Directors increased the quarterly dividend on 3M common stock
to  55  cents a share, equivalent to an annual dividend of $2.20 a share, a  3.8
percent increase from 1997.  This marks the 40th consecutive yearly increase.

Repurchases  of  3M common stock totaled $1.693 billion in 1997,  compared  with
$532  million in 1996 and $351 million in 1995.  Net proceeds from the  National
Advertising  Company  divestiture  were used  primarily  to  repurchase  shares.
Repurchases  were made to support employee stock purchase plans  and  for  other
corporate purposes.

In  November 1997, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to  25
million  of  the company's shares.  This share repurchase authorization  extends
through  December  31,  1998.   Under  a preceding  authorization,  the  company
purchased about 17.5 million shares.

The  company's strong credit rating provides ready and ample access to funds  in
global capital markets. In February 1998, the company issued $330 million of 30-
year,  6.375  percent debentures.  The company's net effective all-in  borrowing
cost  is  6.46  percent.   This  issuance  exhausted  3M's  $600  million  shelf
registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  At year-end 1997, the
company had available short-term lines of credit totaling about $300 million.




Timing differences between payment of implant liabilities and receipt of related
insurance recoveries could affect future cash flows.  This is discussed in  Part
I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings, of this Form 10-K.

Future Outlook
3M expects solid sales and earnings growth again in 1998, even though the strong
U.S.  dollar will continue to affect the company, particularly in the first half
of  the  year.   Based  on exchange rates at the end of January  1998,  currency
effects  could  reduce 1998 earnings by more than 25 cents per share,  with  the
largest impact expected during the first quarter of 1998.

The  company is not able to project what all the consequences of the turmoil  in
Asia  may  be.   Entering  1998, the company is monitoring  business  conditions
closely and is prepared to make adjustments in costs, pricing and investments as
appropriate.  Overall, the company does not expect any contributions to earnings
growth from Asia in 1998.  In Brazil, business activity slowed in late 1997, and
a sluggish economy is expected during the first half of 1998.

Strong  market  positions,  innovative new  products  and  successful  customer-
satisfaction efforts should set the stage for continued solid volume gains.  The
company's  results  also  will  benefit from  strong  emphasis  on  productivity
improvement, cost control and asset management.

3M  has  an 8 percent annual productivity improvement objective, as measured  by
sales  growth  per employee in local currencies.  Employment levels  within  the
company are expected to be consistent with this objective.

Through  continued repurchases, the company expects to reduce shares outstanding
to  390  million  by  year-end  1998.  The company estimates  total  debt  could
increase from an average of about $2 billion in 1997 to more than $3 billion, on
average,  in 1998.  This strategy may add up to $70 million in interest  expense
(before taxes) in 1998.  The company does not anticipate a significant change in
its tax rate in 1998.

Capital  spending is expected to remain at about $1.4 billion dollars  in  1998,
assuming  economic conditions and demand for 3M products are not  stronger  than
expected.

Impact of the Year 2000 Issue
The company recognizes the importance of the Year 2000 issue and has been giving
high  priority  to  it.  In November 1996, the company created a  corporate-wide
Year 2000 project team representing all business and staff units of the company.
The  team's  objective is to ensure an uninterrupted transition  into  the  Year
2000.   The scope of the Year 2000 readiness effort includes software, hardware,
electronic   data   interchange   (EDI),  manufacturing   and   lab   equipment,
environmental and safety systems, facilities, utilities, supplier readiness  and
3M  products  with date-sensitivity.  If necessary modifications and conversions
are  not  made  on  a timely basis, the Year 2000 issue could  have  a  material
adverse effect on the operations of the company.

The  company is utilizing both internal and external resources to remediate  and
test  millions of lines of application software code.  The target is to complete
the  most  serious Year 2000 compliance issues for U.S. information  systems  by
July  1998  and  for  international information systems by December  1998.   The
company  expects to complete all other potential Year 2000 compliance issues  by
July 1999.




In addition to internal Year 2000 software and equipment remediation activities,
the  company is in contact with its suppliers and electronic commerce  customers
to  assess their compliance.  There can be no absolute assurance that there will
not  be a material adverse effect on the company if third parties do not convert
their  systems  in  a  timely manner and in a way that is  compatible  with  the
company's  systems.   The  company  believes  that  its  diligent  actions  with
suppliers and customers will minimize these risks.

The vast majority of the company's products are not date-sensitive.  The company
is  collecting information on current and discontinued date-sensitive  products.
This information is expected to be available to customers in mid-March 1998.

Through  1997, the company had expensed incremental costs of $15 million related
to the Year 2000 issue.  The total remaining incremental cost is estimated to be
$55  million.  The  company is expensing as incurred all costs  related  to  the
assessment and remediation of the Year 2000 issue.  These costs are being funded
through operating cash flows.  The company's total cost for the Year 2000  issue
includes  estimated  costs  and  time associated  with  interfacing  with  third
parties'  Year  2000  issues.  These estimates are based on currently  available
information.

The  company's  current estimates of the amount of time and costs  necessary  to
remediate and test its computer systems are based on the facts and circumstances
existing   at  this  time.   The  estimates  were  derived  utilizing   multiple
assumptions  of  future events including the continued availability  of  certain
resources, third-party modification plans and implementation success, and  other
factors.   New developments may occur that could affect the company's  estimates
of  the  amount of time and costs necessary to modify and test its  systems  for
Year  2000 compliance.  These developments include, but are not limited to:  (i)
the availability and cost of personnel trained in this area; (ii) the ability to
locate  and  correct  all relevant computer code and equipment,  and  (iii)  the
planning and modification success attained by 3M's business partners.

Forward-Looking Statements
The  Private  Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a "safe  harbor"
for  certain  forward-looking  statements.  This  Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K
contains  forward-looking statements, which reflect the Company's current  views
with respect to future events and financial performance.

These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties,
including  those  identified below, which could cause actual results  to  differ
materially  from  historical  results or those anticipated.   The  words  "aim",
"believe",  "expect", "anticipate", "intend", "estimate" and  other  expressions
which indicate future events and trends identify forward-looking statements.

Actual  future results and trends may differ materially from historical  results
or  those  anticipated  depending on a variety of factors,  including,  but  not
limited to:  foreign exchange rates and fluctuations in those rates; the effects
of,  and  changes in, worldwide economic conditions, particularly in Brazil  and
the Asia Pacific region; raw materials, including shortages and increases in the
costs of key raw materials; impact of the Year 2000 issue (see discussion of the
Year 2000 issue in Part I, Item 7 of this Form 10-K); and legal proceedings (see
discussion of Legal Proceedings in Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10-K).




Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

        Index to Financial Statements

                                                            Reference (pages)
                                                                 Form 10-K

Data submitted herewith:
   Report of Independent Auditors ...............................  23

   Consolidated Statement of Income for the years ended
     December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995 ...........................  24

   Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 1997 and
     1996 .......................................................  25

   Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders'
     Equity for the years ended December 31, 1997,
     1996 and 1995 ..............................................  26

   Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
     for the years ended December 31,
     1997, 1996 and 1995 ........................................  27

   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ..................28-43




                        Report of Independent Auditors

To the Stockholders of Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company:

We  have  audited the consolidated financial statements of Minnesota Mining  and
Manufacturing  Company and Subsidiaries as listed in Item 8 of this  Form  10-K.
These  financial statements are the responsibility of the company's  management.
Our  responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based
on our audits.

We   conducted  our  audits  in  accordance  with  generally  accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing  the  accounting  principles used and significant  estimates  made  by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In  our  opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,  in
all  material respects, the consolidated financial position of Minnesota  Mining
and Manufacturing Company and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, and
the  consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for  each  of
the  three  years  in  the period ended December 31, 1997,  in  conformity  with
generally accepted accounting principles.




                                /s/ COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P.

                                COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P.



St. Paul, Minnesota
February 9, 1998, except for
the last paragraph under Debt
in the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements, as to which
the date is February 18, 1998.





















Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Accounting Policies
Consolidation:   All significant subsidiaries are consolidated.   Unconsolidated
subsidiaries and affiliates are included on the equity basis.

Reclassifications:   Certain reclassifications have been made  to  December  31,
1996, balance sheet amounts to conform to the current year presentation.

Foreign  currency  translation:  Local currencies generally are  considered  the
functional currencies outside the United States, except in countries treated  as
highly  inflationary.  Assets and liabilities for operations in  local  currency
environments  are  translated at year-end exchange rates.   Income  and  expense
items  are  translated at average rates of exchange prevailing during the  year.
Cumulative  translation adjustments are recorded as a component of stockholders'
equity.

For  operations  in countries treated as highly inflationary, certain  financial
statement  amounts are translated at historical exchange rates, with  all  other
assets and liabilities translated at year-end exchange rates.  These translation
adjustments are reflected in the results of operations and are not material.

Use  of  estimates:  The preparation of financial statements in conformity  with
generally  accepted accounting principles requires management to make  estimates
and  assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities  and
the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements,  and  the  reported  amounts of revenues  and  expenses  during  the
reporting period.  Actual results could differ from these estimates.

Cash  and  cash  equivalents:  Cash and cash equivalents  consist  of  cash  and
temporary investments with maturities of three months or less when purchased.

Other  securities  and  investments:  Other  securities  consist  of  marketable
securities and interest-bearing bank deposits with varied maturity dates.  These
securities  are  employed in the company's banking, captive insurance  and  cash
management  operations.  Investments primarily include debt securities  held  by
captive  insurance  and  banking  operations; individual  and  commercial  loans
receivable  held  by  banking  operations; the  cash  surrender  value  of  life
insurance policies; and real estate and venture capital investments.

Inventories:   Inventories  are stated at lower of cost  or  market,  with  cost
generally determined on a first-in, first-out basis.

Other  assets:   Other  assets  include  product  and  other  insurance  claims,
goodwill,  patents,  other  intangibles, deferred taxes,  and  other  noncurrent
assets.   Goodwill  generally  is amortized on a straight-line  basis  over  the
periods benefited, principally in the range of 10 to 40 years.  Other intangible
items  are  amortized  on  a straight-line basis over their  estimated  economic
lives.

Revenue  recognition:  Revenue is recognized upon shipment of goods to customers
and upon performance of services.  The company sells a wide range of products to
a  diversified base of customers around the world and, therefore, believes there
is no material concentration of credit risk.




Property,  plant and equipment:  Depreciation of property, plant  and  equipment
generally  is computed on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful  life.
Fully  depreciated assets are retained in property and accumulated  depreciation
accounts  until  removed  from  service.   Upon  disposal,  assets  and  related
accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts and the net amount,  less
proceeds from disposal, is charged or credited to income.

Advertising  and  merchandising:  These costs are charged to operations  in  the
year incurred.

Derivatives:  The company uses interest rate swaps, currency swaps, and  forward
and  option contracts to manage risks generally associated with foreign exchange
rate,  interest  rate and commodity market volatility.  All hedging  instruments
are  designated  as, and effective as, hedges as required by generally  accepted
accounting principles.  Instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are
marked to market with changes recognized in current earnings.  The company  does
not  hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes and  is
not a party to leveraged derivatives.

Realized  and  unrealized gains and losses for qualifying hedge instruments  are
deferred  until  offsetting gains and losses on the underlying transactions  are
recognized in earnings.  These gains and losses generally are recognized  either
as  interest  expense over the borrowing period for interest rate  and  currency
swaps;  as  an  adjustment  to  cost of goods sold for  inventory-related  hedge
transactions;  or  in  stockholders' equity for hedges  of  net  investments  in
international companies.  Cash flows attributable to these financial instruments
are included with the cash flows of the associated hedged items.

Accounting  for stock-based compensation:  The company uses the intrinsic  value
method   for  the  Management  Stock  Ownership  Program  (MSOP).   The  General
Employees' Stock Purchase Plan (GESPP) is considered noncompensatory.

Earnings  per share:  Effective December 31, 1997, the company adopted Statement
of  Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 128, "Earnings Per Share," and has
disclosed  basic  and  diluted earnings per share for all periods  presented  in
accordance with this standard.  A dilutive effect on earnings results  from  the
assumed  exercise  of stock options outstanding under the GESPP  and  the  MSOP.
Effective  July  1997, GESPP options are exercised on the last business  day  of
each month of grant, resulting in no dilutive effect.

Comprehensive income:  Effective in 1998, the company will adopt SFAS  No.  130,
"Reporting  Comprehensive Income."  Due to the significant  impact  of  currency
translation in 1997 and 1996, comprehensive income will be lower than net income
for  those  years.  The impact of translation and other adjustments is disclosed
in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders' Equity.

Business segments:  Effective at year-end 1998, the company will adopt SFAS  No.
131, "Disclosure about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information."   The
company  is  reviewing the requirements of this statement and believes  that  it
will  change,  to  some  degree, the nature and extent of its  current  business
segment  disclosure.   This  statement does not impact  the  basic  consolidated
financial statements; it affects the presentation of segment information in  the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.




Gain on Divestiture
Effective  August  15, 1997, the company sold National Advertising  Company,  an
outdoor and mall advertising subsidiary, for cash proceeds of $1 billion.  After
adjusting  for  the net cost of the assets sold and for the expenses  associated
with  the divestiture, the company realized a gain of $803 million ($495 million
after-tax)  or  $1.20  per  basic share and $1.18 per  diluted  share.  National
Advertising Company had annual sales of about $200 million and operating  income
of about $35 million.

Discontinued Operations
In November 1995, the Board of Directors approved a plan to launch the company's
data  storage  and imaging businesses as an independent, publicly owned  company
and  to  discontinue 3M's audio and video business.  In June 1996, the Board  of
Directors  approved  the  tax-free distribution by 3M of  the  common  stock  of
Imation  Corp.  (Imation) as a special dividend of one share of  Imation  common
stock  for every 10 shares of outstanding 3M common stock held of record  as  of
the  close  of  business  on June 28, 1996.  The company  recorded  the  special
dividend  of  Imation  common  stock by reducing  retained  earnings  by  $1.008
billion,  which represented the carrying value of the net assets underlying  the
common  stock distributed.  The company's consolidated financial statements  and
notes   report  Imation  and  the  audio  and  video  business  as  discontinued
operations.

Income  from operations of the discontinued businesses for 1995 includes results
through  November  30, 1995.  Income from operations of discontinued  businesses
included  interest  expense allocations (based on the ratio  of  net  assets  of
discontinued operations to consolidated net assets plus debt) of $15 million  in
1995.

The  1995 loss on disposal of $373 million included the estimated future results
of  operations  through  the  estimated  date  of  spin-off  or  closure.  Major
components of the loss on disposal include $300 million of severance  costs  and
$265 million of asset write-downs, net of deferred income taxes of $232 million.
The  loss on disposal calculation included $13 million of interest expense.  Net
cash  provided  by discontinued operations in 1995 differs from  the  loss  from
discontinued operations principally due to two factors -- the loss  on  disposal
for which no cash had been expended at December 31, 1995, and depreciation.  The
$10  million  1996 gain on disposal reflects final adjustments to the  company's
1995 estimated loss on disposal.





Restructuring Charge
The  company recorded a restructuring charge of $79 million in 1995  related  to
the  spin-off  of the data storage and imaging businesses and the discontinuance
of  the audio and video business.  Major components of this charge included  $50
million of employee severance costs and $17 million related to the write-down of
certain  assets  to  net realizable value.  In early 1997, about  1,000  people,
mainly  in corporate service functions in the United States and Europe, left  3M
through  voluntary separation programs.  Substantially all payments  related  to
employee separations were made as of December 31, 1997.









Supplemental Cash Flow Information

Income tax payments and interest payments included in the Consolidated Statement
of Cash Flows are shown below.




Income tax payments in 1997 include $308 million related to the gain on the sale
of National Advertising Company.

In  connection with the spin-off of the data storage and imaging businesses, the
company recorded cash proceeds of $79 million in 1996, primarily related to  the
sale  of  international assets to Imation.  Imation also retired $65 million  of
short-term  debt  related to its businesses as of June 30, 1996.  

In  1996,  3M increased its ownership in 3M Korea from 60 percent to 100 percent
by purchasing the remaining interest from minority shareholders.   The  purchase
price  included  the  deferral of $72 million that is being paid in installments
over the period 1997 through 1999.




Debt





Debt  with  fixed  interest rates includes the ESOP,  Canadian  Eurobond  and  a
portion  of other borrowings.  ESOP debt is serviced by dividends on stock  held
by  the ESOP and by company contributions.  These contributions are reported  as
an  employee benefit expense.  Other borrowings include floating rate notes  and
industrial  bond  issues  in  the United States and  other  borrowings  by  3M's
international companies.

Maturities  of  long-term debt for the next five years are: 1998, $163  million;
1999,  $146  million;  2000,  $53 million; 2001, $477  million;  and  2002,  $64
million.

The  company  estimates  that the fair value of short-term  and  long-term  debt
approximates  the carrying amount of this debt.  Debt covenants do not  restrict
the payment of dividends.

In  February  1998,  the company issued $330 million of 30-year,  6.375  percent
debentures.  The company's net effective all-in borrowing cost is 6.46  percent.
This issuance exhausted 3M's $600 million shelf registration with the Securities
and Exchange Commission.  At year-end 1997, the company had available short-term
lines of credit totaling about $300 million.




Other Financial Instruments
Interest  rate and currency swaps:  The company uses interest rate and  currency
swaps  to manage interest rate risk related to borrowings.  The notional amounts
set  forth  in  the table below serve solely as a basis for the  calculation  of
payment  streams to be exchanged.  These notional amounts are not a  measure  of
the  exposure of the company through its use of derivatives.  These  instruments
generally  mature in relationship to their underlying debt and  have  maturities
extending  to  2001.   Unrealized gains and losses and exposure  to  changes  in
market conditions were not material at December 31, 1997 and 1996.




Foreign  exchange forward and options contracts:  The company has  entered  into
foreign  exchange  forward and options contracts, the  majority  of  which  have
maturities  of  less than one year.  The face amounts represent contracted  U.S.
dollar  equivalents  of  forward and options contracts denominated  in  non-U.S.
dollars.   The  amounts at risk are not material because  the  company  has  the
ability  to  generate offsetting foreign currency cash flows.  Unrealized  gains
and losses at December 31, 1997 and 1996, were not material.





The  company  engages in foreign currency hedging activities to reduce  exchange
risks arising from cross-border cash flows denominated in non-U.S. dollars.  The
company operates on a global basis, generating more than half its revenues  from
international  customers  and  engaging in  substantial  product  and  financial
transfers among geographic areas.  Major forward contracts at December 31, 1997,
were  denominated in Dutch guilders, Japanese yen, Belgian francs, German  marks
and Spanish pesetas.

Credit  risk:   The  company  is  exposed  to  credit  loss  in  the  event   of
nonperformance  by  counterparties in interest rate swaps, currency  swaps,  and
option and foreign exchange contracts, but does not anticipate nonperformance by
any  of  these  counterparties.  The company actively monitors its  exposure  to
credit  risk  through  the use of credit approvals and  credit  limits,  and  by
selecting   major   international   banks   and   financial   institutions    as
counterparties.

Leases
Rental expense under operating leases was $125 million in 1997, $138 million  in
1996  and  $154  million in 1995.  The table below sets forth  minimum  payments
under  operating leases with noncancelable terms in excess of one  year,  as  of
December 31, 1997.






Income Taxes

The gain on the sale of National Advertising Company, a U.S. business, was taxed
at  a  rate  of 38.4 percent (federal statutory rate of 35.0 percent and  a  net
effective  state tax rate of 3.4 percent).  The information below  reflects  the
pre-tax  gain of $803 million on the sale and related income taxes paid of  $308
million.








At  December  31,  1997,  approximately  $2.606  billion  of  retained  earnings
attributable  to  international  companies were considered  to  be  indefinitely
invested.  No provision has been made for taxes that might be payable  if  these
earnings  were remitted to the United States.  It is not practical to  determine
the  amount  of  incremental taxes that might arise were these  earnings  to  be
remitted.






Business Segments
3M's  businesses are organized into two sectors:  Industrial and  Consumer,  and
Life Sciences.  These sectors have worldwide responsibility for virtually all of
the company's product lines.  These product lines serve a wide range of markets,
including  automotive,  communications,  consumer,  electronics,  health   care,
industrial, office, personal care and safety.  3M is not dependent on any single
product or market.

Financial  information relating to the company's business sectors for the  years
ended  December  31,  1997, 1996 and 1995 appears below.  3M  is  an  integrated
enterprise   characterized   by   substantial  intersector   cooperation,   cost
allocations  and inventory transfers.  Therefore, management does not  represent
that  these sectors, if operated independently, could earn the operating  income
shown.









Geographic Areas
Information  in  the table below is presented on the basis the company  uses  to
manage  the  business.  Export sales and certain income and  expense  items  are
reported  in  the geographic area where the final sales to customers  are  made,
rather than where the transactions originate.




Retirement Plans
3M  has  various  company-sponsored retirement plans covering substantially  all
U.S.  employees and many employees outside the United States.  Pension  benefits
are  based  principally on an employee's years of service and compensation  near
retirement.  Plan assets are invested in common stocks, fixed-income securities,
real estate and other investments.




Retirement Plans (continued)
The  company's funding policy is to deposit with an independent trustee  amounts
at  least equal to those required by law.  A trust fund is maintained to provide
pension  benefits to plan participants and their beneficiaries.  In addition,  a
number of plans are maintained by deposits with insurance companies.  The charge
to income relating to these plans was $153 million in 1997, $173 million in 1996
and $152 million in 1995.

Under  its  U.S. pension plan, 3M has elected to retain the benefit  obligations
(and  related plan assets) applicable to service provided to 3M by U.S.  Imation
employees  prior  to  the date of distribution of Imation  common  stock  to  3M
stockholders.   As  a  result of the distribution, 3M's U.S.  pension  plan  was
revalued as of July 1, 1996, to reflect certain plan changes, the effects of the
restructuring and discontinued operations, and a change in the discount rate  to
7.75 percent. The effects of these changes were not material.










Other Postretirement Benefits
The  company  provides health care and life insurance benefits for substantially
all  of  its  U.S.  employees who reach retirement age  while  employed  by  the
company.  The company has set aside funds with an independent trustee for  these
postretirement  benefits  and makes periodic contributions  to  the  plan.   The
trustee invests in common stocks and fixed-income securities.  Employees outside
the  United  States are covered principally by government-sponsored plans.   The
cost of company provided plans for these employees is not material.

3M  has  agreed to provide other postretirement benefits to certain U.S. Imation
employees  based  on  defined  eligibility  criteria.   As  a  result   of   the
distribution   of   Imation   common  stock  to  3M  stockholders,   3M's   U.S.
postretirement plans were revalued as of July 1, 1996, to reflect  certain  plan
changes,  the  effects of the restructuring and discontinued operations,  and  a
change  in the discount rate to 7.75 percent. The effects of these changes  were
not material.

The  table below shows the components of the net periodic postretirement benefit
cost  and  a  reconciliation of the funded status of the postretirement  benefit
plan for U.S. employees.






The  company  determines the accumulated postretirement benefit  obligation  and
related  benefit costs by applying relevant actuarial assumptions.  The  company
expects its health care cost trend rate to slow from 6.7 percent in 1998 to  5.0
percent in 2004, after which the rate is expected to stabilize.  The effect of a
one  percentage  point increase in the assumed health care cost trend  rate  for
each  future year would increase the benefit obligation by $91 million  and  the
current  year  benefit  expense by $12 million. Other actuarial  assumptions  at
December  31, 1997, include an expected long-term rate of return on plan  assets
of  9.0  percent  (before taxes applicable to a portion of the  return  on  plan
assets), and a discount rate of 7.0 percent.




Employee Savings and Stock Ownership Plans
The company sponsors employee savings plans under Section 401(k) of the Internal
Revenue  Code.   These  plans  are  offered to substantially  all  regular  U.S.
employees.   Employee  contributions of up to  6  percent  of  compensation  are
matched  at  rates ranging from 10 to 35 percent, with additional  contributions
depending upon company performance.

The  company maintains an Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP).  This  plan  was
established  in  1989  as  a  cost  effective  way  of  funding  the   company's
contributions  under  401(k) employee savings plans.   The  ESOP  borrowed  $548
million  to  purchase  15.4  million  shares  of  the  company's  common  stock,
previously  held in treasury.  Because the company has guaranteed  repayment  of
the  ESOP debt, the debt and related unearned compensation are recorded  in  the
Consolidated  Balance  Sheet.  Total ESOP shares are  considered  to  be  shares
outstanding for earnings per share calculations.

Dividends  on  shares held by the ESOP are paid to the ESOP trust and,  together
with company contributions, are used by the ESOP to repay principal and interest
on  the  outstanding notes.  Shares are released for allocation to  participants
based  on  the  ratio of the current year's debt service to  the  sum  of  total
principal and interest payments over the life of the notes.

Annual  expenses related to the ESOP generally represent total debt  service  on
the  notes,  less dividends.  These amounts are reported as an employee  benefit
expense.   Unearned compensation, shown as a reduction of stockholders'  equity,
is reduced by the higher of principal payments or the cost of shares allocated.

Selected information related to the ESOP for the years ended December 31,  1997,
1996 and 1995 follows.



In  July  1996, the ESOP received Imation shares from the spin-off distribution.
These  shares  were  sold and the proceeds were used to purchase  additional  3M
shares.





General Employees' Stock Purchase Plan
Substantially all employees are eligible to participate in the company's General
Employees' Stock Purchase Plan (GESPP).  Participants are granted options at  85
percent  of market value at the date of grant.  Effective July 1997, all options
are  exercised  on  the last business day of each month of  grant.   Previously,
options were exercised within 27 months from the date of grant.




Management Stock Ownership Program
In  May 1997, shareholders approved an additional 35 million shares for issuance
under  the Management Stock Ownership Program (MSOP).  Management stock  options
are  granted  at market value at the date of grant. These options generally  are
exercisable one year after the date of grant and expire 10 years from  the  date
of grant.  At year-end, there were 10,057 participants in the plan.  To preserve
the  intrinsic value of management stock options after the Imation spin-off, the
number of outstanding options and related exercise price were adjusted in  1996,
resulting in no economic impact to participants or to the company.







Management Stock Ownership Program (continued)




Stock-Based Compensation
No  compensation cost has been recognized for the GESPP or the MSOP.  Pro  forma
amounts based on the options' estimated fair value at the grant dates for awards
under the GESPP and MSOP are presented below.




The  weighted average fair value per option granted during 1997, 1996  and  1995
was  $13.67,  $10.37 and $8.60, respectively, for the GESPP, and $21.81,  $13.43
and  $12.48, respectively, for the incentive MSOP grants.  The weighted  average
fair  value was calculated by using the fair value of each option grant  on  the
date  of  grant.  The fair value of GESPP options was based on  the  15  percent
purchase  discount,  and for MSOP options was calculated  utilizing  the  Black-
Scholes option-pricing model and the assumptions that follow.



The  GESPP  and  MSOP  stock  options, if exercised, would  have  the  following
dilutive effect on shares outstanding for 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively: 6.0
million,  3.9  million and 2.7 million shares.  Effective July 1997,  all  GESPP
options are exercised on the last business day of each month of grant, resulting
in no dilutive effect.

Legal Proceedings
Discussion of legal matters is incorporated by reference from Part I, Item 3, of
this  Form  10-K, and should be considered an integral part of the  Consolidated
Financial Statements and Notes.









Item 9.  Changes  in  and  Disagreements  With  Accountants  on  Accounting  and
       Financial Disclosure.

   None.

                            PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.

Item 11. Executive Compensation.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.

The  information required by Items 10 through 13 are incorporated  by  reference
from the registrant's definitive proxy statement pursuant to general instruction
G(3).  The registrant will file with the Commission a definitive proxy statement
pursuant to Regulation 14A by April 30, 1998.


                            PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K.

(a)  The  financial statements filed as part of this report are  listed  in  the
   index to financial statements on page 45.

All  financial  statement schedules are omitted because of the  absence  of  the
conditions under which they are required or because the required information  is
included in the financial statements or the notes thereto.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K:

The company filed a report on Form 8-K dated February 18, 1998.
Item  5.  Other  Events.  3M's long-term debt was rated Aaa and AAA  by  Moody's
Investors Service, Inc. ("Moody's") and Standard and Poor's Corporation ("S&P"),
respectively.  On February 4, 1998, Moody's lowered its assigned rating to  Aa1,
and on February 10, 1998, S&P lowered its assigned rating to AA. Publications of
Moody's  indicate  that  it assigns the Aa rating to debt  securities  that  are
judged  to  be  of high quality by all standards and are considered  high  grade
bonds.   Publications of S&P indicate that an obligor rated AA has  very  strong
capacity  to meet its financial commitments.  The downgrade in ratings is  based
on   the  outlook  for  continued  growth  in  leverage  at  3M  resulting  from
management's  decision to alter 3M's capital structure through  increased  share
repurchases and debt issuances.




(c) Exhibits:

Incorporated by Reference:

                                                   Incorporated by Reference 
                                                      in the Report From

   (3)  Restated certificate of incorporation         Exhibit (3) to
        and bylaws, amended to and                    Form 10-Q
        including amendments of                       for period ended
        May 12, 1987.                                 June 30, 1987.

        Restated certificate of incorporation,        Form 8-K dated
        as amended as of May 13, 1997.                June 30, 1997.

        Bylaws, as amended as of November 11, 1996.   Form 8-K dated
                                                      November 20, 1996.

   (4)  Instruments defining the rights of security
        holders, including debentures:
        (a) common stock.                             Exhibit (3) above.
        (b) medium-term notes.                        Registration No. 33-48089
                                                      on Form S-3.

  (10)  Material contracts, management
        remuneration:
        (a) management stock ownership program.       Exhibit 4 of
                                                      Registration No. 333-30689
                                                      on Form S-8.
        (b) profit sharing plan, performance          Written description 
            unit plan and other compensation          contained in issuer's 
            arrangements.                             proxy statment for the
                                                      1998 annual shareholders'
                                                      meeting.


                                                       Reference (pages)
                                                            Form 10-K
   Submitted herewith:

        (12)  Calculation of ratio of earnings
              to fixed charges.                                  47

        (21)  Subsidiaries of the registrant.                    48

        (23)  Consent of experts.                                49

        (24)  Power of attorney.                                 50

        (27)  Financial data schedule for the year ended
              December 31, 1997 (EDGAR filing only).




                                   SIGNATURES                         

Pursuant to  the  requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange  Act  of
1934,  the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf  by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                  MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY



                                By  /s/ Giulio Agostini
                                    Giulio Agostini, Senior Vice President
                                    Principal Financial and Accounting Officer
                                    March 10, 1998

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has  been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant  and
in the capacities indicated on March 10, 1998.

Signature               Title

Livio D. DeSimone       Chairman of the Board and
                        Chief Executive Officer, Director

Ronald O. Baukol        Director
Edward A. Brennan       Director
Edward R. McCracken     Director
W. George Meredith      Director
Ronald A. Mitsch        Director
Allen E. Murray         Director
Aulana L. Peters        Director
Rozanne L. Ridgway      Director
Frank Shrontz           Director
F. Alan Smith           Director
Louis W. Sullivan       Director


Roger  P.  Smith,  by  signing his name hereto, does hereby sign  this  document
pursuant  to powers of attorney duly executed by the other persons named,  filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on behalf of such other persons, all
in  the  capacities and on the date stated, such persons constituting a majority
of the directors of the company.

                              By  /s/ Roger P. Smith
                                 Roger P. Smith, Attorney-in-Fact


