
10-K
1996 10-K




                        UNITED STATES
              SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                     Washington, D.C. 20549
                           FORM 10-K

  [X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                 SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
               For the year ended December 31, 1996

                  Commission file number 1-3285

             MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY

                State of Incorporation: Delaware
          I.R.S. Employer Identification No. 41-0417775

     Executive offices: 3M Center, St. Paul, Minnesota 55144
                Telephone number: (612) 733-1110

    SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

                                         Name of each exchange
          Title of each class            on which registered
   Common Stock, Without Par Value       New York Stock Exchange
                                         Pacific Stock Exchange
                                         Chicago Stock Exchange

Note:   The common stock of the registrant is also traded on  the
Amsterdam  Stock  Exchange, German stock exchanges,  Swiss  stock
exchanges and the Tokyo Stock Exchange.

Securities registered pursuant to section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate  by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed  all
reports  required  to be filed by Section  13  or  15(d)  of  the
Securities  Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding  12  months
(or  for such shorter period that the registrant was required  to
file  such  reports),  and (2)  has been  subject to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes X  . No    .

Indicate  by  check  mark  if  disclosure  of  delinquent  filers
pursuant  to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained  herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge,
in  definitive  proxy or information statements  incorporated  by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to  this
Form 10-K. [   ]

The  aggregate market value of voting stock held by nonaffiliates
of the registrant, based on the closing price of $85.25 per share
as  reported  on the New York Stock Exchange-Composite  Index  on
January 31, 1997, was $35.5 billion.

Shares   of  common  stock  outstanding  at  January  31,   1997:
416,787,990.

               DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Parts of the following documents are incorporated by reference in
Parts  III  and  IV of this Form 10-K:  (1) Proxy  Statement  for
registrant's 1997 annual meeting, (2) Form 10-Q for period  ended
June 30, 1987; Form 8-K dated November 20, 1996, (3) Registration
Nos. 33-48089, 33-49842 and 33-58767.
                This document contains 50 pages.
           The exhibit index is set forth on page 44.


            MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY

                          FORM 10-K

              For the Year Ended December 31, 1996

                            PART I

Item 1. Business.
Minnesota  Mining and Manufacturing Company was  incorporated  in
1929  under  the  laws  of  the State  of  Delaware  to  continue
operations, begun in 1902, of a Minnesota corporation of the same
name.   As  used herein, the term "3M" includes Minnesota  Mining
and  Manufacturing  Company and subsidiaries unless  the  context
otherwise indicates.

Discontinued Operations

In  November  1995,  the Board of Directors approved  a  plan  to
launch  the company's data storage and imaging businesses  as  an
independent, publicly owned company and to discontinue 3M's audio
and   video  business.   This  is  discussed  in  the  Notes   to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

General

3M  is  an  integrated  enterprise characterized  by  substantial
interdivision   and   intersector   cooperation   in    research,
manufacturing  and  marketing of products  incorporating  similar
component  materials  manufactured at  common  internal  sources.
3M's  business has developed from its research and technology  in
coating  and  bonding for coated abrasives,  the  company's  only
product in its early years. Coating and bonding is the process of
applying one material to another, such as adhesives to a  backing
(pressure-sensitive tapes), abrasive granules to paper  or  cloth
(coated  abrasives), ceramic coating to granular mineral (roofing
granules),  glass beads to plastic backing (reflective sheeting),
and low-tack adhesives to paper (repositionable notes).

3M is among the leading manufacturers of products for many of the
markets  it  serves.  In all cases, 3M products  are  subject  to
direct   or  indirect  competition.   Most  3M  products  involve
expertise  in  product development, manufacturing and  marketing,
and  are  subject  to competition with products manufactured  and
sold by other technically oriented companies.

At December 31, 1996, the company employed 74,289 people.

Business Segments

Financial information relating to 3M's two business segments  and
3M's  operations  in various geographic areas  of  the  world  is
provided in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Each  of  3M's  two  business sectors brings together  common  or
related  3M technologies, providing greater opportunity  for  the
development  of  products and services and efficient  sharing  of
business  strengths.  These sectors have worldwide responsibility
for  virtually  all  3M product lines.  A few  miscellaneous  and
staff-sponsored  products,  still  under  development,  are   not
assigned  to the sectors. Various corporate assets and  corporate
overhead expenses are also not assigned to the sectors.

Industrial  and  Consumer Sector:  This sector  is  a  leader  in
pressure-sensitive  adhesives,  specialty   tapes,   coated   and
nonwoven   abrasives,   specialty   chemicals,   electronic   and
electrical products, and telecommunications products.  The sector
has  strong distribution channels and logistics expertise.   This
sector   participates  in  the  following  markets:    Industrial
Markets;   Automotive   and   Chemical   Markets;   Electro   and
Communications Markets; Consumer and Office Markets.

The  Industrial Markets businesses manufacture and market a  wide
variety  of  high-performance and general-use  pressure-sensitive
tapes  and specialty products.  Major product categories  include
industrial  application  tapes  made  from  a  wide  variety   of
materials,  such  as  foil, film, vinyl and polyester;  specialty
tapes and adhesives for industrial applications, including Scotch
Brand VHB Brand Tapes, lithographic tapes, joining systems, specialty
additives,  vibration  control materials, liquid  adhesives,  and
reclosable  fasteners; general-use tapes, such as  masking,  box-
sealing  and  filament;  and  labels  and  other  materials   for
identifying  and  marking durable goods.  Other products  include
coated abrasives for grinding, conditioning and finishing a  wide
range   of  surfaces;  finishing  compounds;  and  products   for
maintaining and repairing vehicles.

The  Automotive and Chemical Markets businesses' major automotive
products  include  body  side-molding and  trim;  functional  and
decorative  graphics; corrosion-resistant and  abrasion-resistant
films;  tapes  for attaching nameplates, trim and  moldings;  and
fasteners  for  attaching interior panels and  carpeting.   Major
chemical  products  include protective chemicals  for  furniture,
fabrics     and    paper    products;    fire-fighting    agents;
fluoroelastomers  for  seals,  tubes  and  gaskets  in   engines;
engineering  fluids;  and high-performance  fluids  used  in  the
manufacture  of  computer chips and for  electronic  cooling  and
lubricating of computer hard disk drives.  Other products include
natural  and color-coated mineral granules for asphalt  shingles.
These  businesses  also serve as a major resource  for  other  3M
divisions,  supplying specialty chemicals,  adhesives  and  films
used in the manufacture of many 3M products.

The   Electro  and  Communications  Markets  businesses   provide
products  for the electronic, electrical, telecommunication,  and
visual  communication fields. Electronic and electrical  products
include   packaging   and  interconnection  devices;   insulating
materials,  including pressure-sensitive tapes  and  resins;  and
related   items.    These  products  are  used   extensively   by
manufacturers of electronic and electrical equipment, as well  as
in  the  construction and maintenance segments  of  the  electric
utility,   telephone  and  other  industries.  Telecommunications
products serve the world's telephone companies with a wide  array
of  products for fiber-optic and copper-based telephone  systems.
These  include many innovative connecting, closure  and  splicing
systems,   maintenance  products  and  test  equipment.    Visual
communication  products serve the world's  office  and  education
markets  with  overhead projectors and transparency  films,  plus
equipment   and   materials   for   electronic   and   multimedia
presentations.

Major  products  in  the Consumer and Office  Markets  businesses
include Scotch Brand Tapes; Post-it Brand Note products, including
memo pads, labels, stickers, pop-up notes and dispensers; home care
products, including Scotch-Brite Brand Scouring Products, O-Cel-O
Brand Sponges and Scotchgard Brand Fabric Protectors; energy control
products,  such  as  window insulation  kits;  nonwoven  abrasive
materials  for  floor maintenance and commercial cleaning;  floor
matting; and a wide range of home improvement products, including
surface preparation and wood finishing materials, and filters for
furnaces and air conditioners.

Life  Sciences Sector:  This sector contributes to better  health
and  safety  for  people  around the  world.  The  Life  Sciences
Sector's major technologies include pressure-sensitive adhesives,
substrates, extrusion and coating, nonwoven materials,  specialty
polymers and resins, optical systems, drug delivery systems,  and
electro-mechanical  devices.  The sector has strong  distribution
channels  in all its major markets.  This sector participates  in
the  following markets: Medical Markets; Pharmaceuticals,  Dental
and  Personal  Care  Markets;  and Traffic  and  Personal  Safety
Markets.

The  Medical Markets businesses produce a broad range of  medical
supplies, devices and equipment.  Medical supplies include tapes,
dressings,  surgical  drapes  and masks,  biological  indicators,
orthopedic casting materials and electrodes.  Medical devices and
equipment     include    stethoscopes,    heart-lung    machines,
sterilization   equipment,  blood  gas  monitors,   and   powered
orthopedic  instruments. These businesses also  develop  clinical
information systems.

The  Pharmaceuticals, Dental and Personal Care Markets businesses
serve   the  pharmaceutical  and  dental  markets,  as  well   as
manufacturers  of  disposable diapers.   Pharmaceuticals  include
ethical   drugs   and  drug  delivery  systems.   Among   ethical
pharmaceuticals    are   analgesics,   anti-inflammatories    and
cardiovascular  and respiratory products.  Drug delivery  systems
include  metered-dose  inhalers,  as  well  as  transdermal  skin
patches  and  related components. Dental products include  dental
restoratives, adhesives, impression materials, temporary  crowns,
infection  control products, and orthodontic brackets and  wires.
These  businesses  also  produce a broad  line  of  closures  for
disposable diapers.

The  Traffic and Personal Safety Markets businesses have a strong
position  in  the following markets:  traffic control  materials,
commercial graphics, occupational health and safety, and  out-of-
home  advertising.   In  traffic  control  materials,  3M  is   a
worldwide  leader in reflective sheetings.  These  materials  are
used  on  highway  signs,  vehicle license  plates,  construction
workzone  devices, and trucks and other vehicles.  In  commercial
graphics,  3M  supplies a broad line of films, inks  and  related
products  used to produce graphics for trucks and  signs.   Major
occupational  health and safety products include maintenance-free
and reusable respirators, plus personal monitoring systems.  Out-
of-home  advertising  includes outdoor  advertising,  advertising
displays  in shopping centers, and local advertising in  national
magazines.   These  businesses also market  a  variety  of  other
products, including spill-control sorbents, Thinsulate Brand and
Lite Loft Brand Insulations, traffic control devices, electronic
surveillance products, reflective materials for personal  safety,
and films for protection against counterfeiting.

Distribution

3M  products  are  sold  directly to users and  through  numerous
wholesalers,  retailers, jobbers, distributors and dealers  in  a
wide  variety  of  trades  in many countries  around  the  world.
Management   believes   that  the  confidence   of   wholesalers,
retailers,  jobbers,  distributors and  dealers  in  3M  and  its
products,   developed  through  long  association  with   trained
marketing    and    sales   representatives,   has    contributed
significantly  to  3M's position in the marketplace  and  to  its
growth.   3M  has  286  sales  offices and  distribution  centers
worldwide,  including  nine  major  branch  offices  located   in
principal  cities throughout the United States.  3M  operates  75
sales  offices  and  distribution centers in the  United  States.
Internationally, with companies in more than 60 countries, 3M has
211 sales offices and distribution centers.

Research, Patents and Raw Materials

Research and product development constitute an important part  of
3M's   activities.    Products  resulting   from   research   and
development  have  been a major driver of 3M's growth.   Spending
for  research  and development activities totaled  $947  million,
$883   million  and  $828  million  in  1996,  1995   and   1994,
respectively.

Corporate  research laboratories support the research efforts  of
division  and  sector  laboratories.  These corporate  labs  also
engage  in  research not directly related to existing 3M  product
lines.   Most major operating divisions, as well as some of  3M's
international   companies,  have  their  own   laboratories   for
improvement of existing products and development of new products.
Research   staff   groups   provide   specialized   services   in
instrumentation,  engineering and process development.   3M  also
maintains  an  organization  for  technological  development  not
sponsored by other units of the company.

3M  is  the  owner  of many domestic and foreign patents  derived
primarily from its own research activities.  3M's business  as  a
whole is not materially dependent upon any one patent, license or
trade  secret or upon any group of related patents,  licenses  or
trade secrets.

The company experienced no significant or unusual problems in the
purchase of raw materials during 1996.  While 3M has successfully
met  its  raw material requirements, it is impossible to  predict
future shortages or the impact such shortages would have.


Executive Officers

The  following is a list of the executive officers of  3M  as  of
February  1, 1997, their present position, current age, the  year
first  elected to their position and other positions held  within
3M  during  the past five years. All of these persons  have  been
employed full time by 3M or a subsidiary of 3M for more than five
years.  All officers are elected by the Board of Directors at its
annual  meeting,  with  vacancies and  new  positions  filled  at
interim meetings.  No family relationships exist among any of the
executive  officers  named,  nor  is  there  any  arrangement  or
understanding  pursuant to which any person was  selected  as  an
officer.



Item 2. Properties.

3M's  general  offices,  corporate  research  laboratories,  most
division  laboratories and certain manufacturing  facilities  are
located in St. Paul, Minnesota.  In the United States, 3M has  75
sales  offices and distribution centers in 22 states and operates
67  plants in 24 states.  Internationally, with companies in more
than  60  countries,  3M has 211 sales offices  and  distribution
centers.   The  company operates 99 manufacturing and  converting
facilities in 42 countries outside the United States.

3M  owns  substantially  all  of its physical  properties.   3M's
physical  facilities  are highly suitable for  the  purposes  for
which they were designed.


Item 3. Legal Proceedings.

The  company  and  certain  of  its  subsidiaries  are  named  as
defendants  in a number of actions, governmental proceedings  and
claims,   including   environmental  proceedings   and   products
liability  claims involving products now or formerly manufactured
and  sold  by  the company.  In some actions, the claimants  seek
damages  as well as other relief which, if granted, would require
substantial   expenditures.  The  company  has  accrued   certain
liabilities which represent reasonable estimates of its  probable
liabilities  for  these matters.  The company also  has  recorded
receivables for the probable amount of insurance recoverable with
respect to these matters.

Some  of  these matters raise difficult and complex  factual  and
legal  issues, and are subject to many uncertainties,  including,
but   not  limited  to,  the  facts  and  circumstances  of  each
particular  action;  the jurisdiction and  forum  in  which  each
action   is  proceeding;  and  differences  in  applicable   law.
Accordingly,  the  company is not always  able  to  estimate  the
amount of future liabilities with respect to such matters.

There  can  be  no certainty that the company may not  ultimately
incur  charges, whether for governmental proceedings and  claims,
products  liability  claims, environmental proceedings  or  other
actions, in excess of presently established accruals.  While such
future  charges  could  have a material  adverse  impact  on  the
company's  net income in the quarterly period in which  they  are
recorded,  the company believes that such additional charges,  if
any,  would  not have a material adverse effect on the  company's
consolidated financial position or annual results of operations.


Breast Implant Litigation

As  of  December  31,  1996, the company  had  been  named  as  a
defendant, often with multiple co-defendants, in 6,715 claims and
lawsuits  in  various  courts, all seeking damages  for  personal
injuries from allegedly defective breast implants.  These  claims
and lawsuits purport to represent 21,431 individual claimants. It
is  not yet certain how many of these lawsuits and claims involve
products  manufactured  and sold by the company,  as  opposed  to
other  manufacturers.   The  company  entered  the  business   of
manufacturing  breast  implants  in  1977  by  purchasing  McGhan
Medical Corporation.  In 1984, the company sold the business to a
corporation that also was named McGhan Medical Corporation.

The  typical  claim  or lawsuit alleges the  individual's  breast
implants  caused  one  or  more of a wide  variety  of  ailments,
including,  but not limited to, non-specific autoimmune  disease,
scleroderma,  lupus,  rheumatoid arthritis,  fibromyalgia,  mixed
connective  tissue disease, Sjogren's Syndrome,  dermatomyositis,
polymyositis and chronic fatigue.

Plaintiffs in these cases typically seek monetary damages,  often
in  unspecified amounts, and also seek certain types of equitable
relief,  including  requiring the  company  to  fund:  the  costs
associated with removal of the breast implants; medical  research
on the ailments allegedly caused by silicone gel breast implants;
and periodic medical checkups.

A  number  of breast implant claims and lawsuits seek  to  impose
liability  on  the  company under various theories  for  personal
injuries  allegedly  caused by breast implants  manufactured  and
sold by manufacturers other than the company. These manufacturers
include,  but are not limited to, McGhan Medical Corporation  and
manufacturers  that  are  no  longer  in  business  or  that  are
insolvent, whose breast implants may or may not have been used in
conjunction  with implants manufactured and sold by the  company.
These  claims raise many difficult and complex factual and  legal
issues  that  are  subject to many uncertainties,  including  the
facts   and   circumstances  of  each   particular   claim;   the
jurisdiction  in which each suit is brought; and  differences  in
applicable law and insurance coverage.

A  number  of  breast implant lawsuits seek to  recover  punitive
damages.  Any  punitive damages that may be awarded  against  the
company  may or may not be covered by certain insurance  policies
depending on the language of the insurance policy, applicable law
and agreements with insurers.

In  addition  to  individual suits against the company,  a  class
action  on behalf of all women with breast implants filed against
all   manufacturers  of  such  implants  has  been  conditionally
certified and is pending in the United States District Court  for
the Northern District of Alabama (the "Court")(DANTE, ET AL.,  V.
DOW  CORNING, ET AL., U.S.D.C., N. Dist., Ala., 92-2589; part  of
IN  RE: SILICONE GEL BREAST IMPLANT PRODUCT LIABILITY LITIGATION,
U.S.D.C., N. Dist. Ala., MDL 926, U.S.D.C., N. Dist. Ala., CV 92-
P-10000-S; now held in abeyance pending settlement proceedings in
the  settlement  class action LINDSEY, ET  AL.,  V.  DOW  CORNING
CORPORATION,  ET AL., U.S.D.C., N. Dist., Ala., CV 94-P-11558-S).
Class  actions,  some  of  which have been  certified,  also  are
pending   in  various  state  courts,  including,  among  others,
Louisiana,  Florida  and Illinois, and in  the  British  Columbia
courts in Canada.

The  company  also has been served with a purported class  action
brought  on  behalf of children allegedly exposed to silicone  in
utero  and  through breast milk.  (FEUER, ET AL., V.  MCGHAN,  ET
AL.,  U.S.D.C., E. Dist. NY, 93-0146.)  The suit names all breast
implant  manufacturers as defendants and  seeks  to  establish  a
medical-monitoring fund.

On  December 22, 1995, the Court approved a revised class  action
settlement  program for resolution of claims seeking damages  for
personal  injuries from allegedly defective breast implants  (the
"Revised Settlement Program").  The Revised Settlement Program is
a  revision of a previous settlement pursuant to a Breast Implant
Litigation  Settlement  Agreement  (the  "Settlement  Agreement")
reached  on April 8, 1994, and approved by the Court on September
1, 1994.

The  Court  ordered  that,  beginning after  November  30,  1995,
members of the plaintiff class may choose to participate  in  the
Revised  Settlement Program or opt out, which  would  then  allow
them to proceed with separate products liability actions.

The  Revised  Settlement  Program includes  only  domestic  class
members   with  implants  manufactured  by  certain  manufacturer
defendants,  including  Baxter  International,  Bristol   Meyers-
Squibb, the company and McGhan Medical Corporation. The company's
obligations under the Revised Settlement Program are  limited  to
eligible  claimants with implants manufactured by the company  or
its  predecessors ("3M implants") or manufactured only by  McGhan
Medical  Corporation after its divestiture from  the  company  on
August  3,  1984 ("Post 8/84 McGhan implants").  With respect  to
claimants with only Post 8/84 McGhan implants (or only Post  8/84
McGhan implants plus certain other manufacturers' implants),  the
benefits  are  more limited than for claimants with 3M  implants.
Such   benefits  are  payable  by  the  company,  Union   Carbide
Corporation and McGhan Medical Corporation.

In  general, the amounts payable to individual current  claimants
(as  defined  in the Court's order) under the Revised  Settlement
Program,  and  the company's obligations to make those  payments,
will  not be affected by the number of class members electing  to
opt  out of the Revised Settlement Program or the number of class
members  making claims under the Revised Settlement  Program.  In
addition   to   certain  miscellaneous  benefits,   the   Revised
Settlement  Program  provides for two  compensation  options  for
current claimants with 3M implants.

Under  the  first  option, denominated as Fixed Amount  Benefits,
current  claimants with 3M implants who satisfy disease  criteria
established  in  the  prior  Settlement  Agreement  will  receive
amounts  ranging  from $5,000 to $100,000, depending  on  disease
severity  or disability level; whether the claimant can establish
that  her  implants have ruptured; and whether the claimant  also
has  had implants manufactured by Dow Corning.  Under the  second
option, denominated as Long-Term Benefits, current claimants with
3M  implants  who satisfy more restrictive disease  and  severity
criteria  specified  under  the Revised  Settlement  Program  can
receive benefits ranging from $37,500 to $250,000.

In  addition, current claimants with 3M implants are eligible for
(a)  a  one-time  payment of $3,000 upon removal of  3M  implants
during  the  course of the class settlement, and (b)  an  advance
payment  of  $5,000  against the above referenced  benefits  upon
proof  of  having  3M  implants and upon waiving  or  not  timely
exercising  the  right  to  opt out  of  the  Revised  Settlement
Program.   Current claimants with only Post 8/84 McGhan  implants
(or   only   Post   8/84  McGhan  implants  plus  certain   other
manufacturers'  implants) are eligible only for benefits  ranging
from $10,000 to $50,000.

Eligible  participants with 3M implants who did not file  current
claims  but are able to satisfy the more restrictive disease  and
severity  criteria during an ongoing period of 15 years  will  be
eligible  for the Long-Term Benefits, subject to certain  funding
limitations.   Such  participants also will be  eligible  for  an
advance  payment of $1,000 upon proof of having 3M  implants  and
upon waiving or not timely exercising the right to opt out of the
Revised   Settlement  Program.   Benefit  levels   for   eligible
participants  who are not current claimants and  have  only  Post
8/84  McGhan  implants  (or only Post 8/84 McGhan  implants  plus
certain other manufacturers' implants) will range from $10,000 to
$50,000.

The company's obligations to fund Long-Term Benefits for eligible
claimants  with 3M implants are cancelable if certain  provisions
of  the  Revised  Settlement Program are disapproved  on  appeal.
Pending  appeal,  the  company will  pay  Long-Term  Benefits  to
eligible  claimants, providing it receives appropriate  releases.
The company's obligations to fund any benefits for claimants with
only  Post  8/84 McGhan implants are currently suspended  pending
appeals  and  will be canceled if any of certain  provisions  are
disapproved  on  appeal.  In  either event,  the  other  benefits
provided  under  the Revised Settlement Program  would  still  be
payable  to  any  claimant  with  3M  implants  who  elected   to
participate in the program.

As  of  the date of this filing, it is still uncertain  how  many
plaintiffs  will choose to participate in the Revised  Settlement
Program,  or  what disease criteria they will satisfy,  and  what
options  they  will choose.  As a result, the  total  amount  and
timing  of  the company's prospective payments under the  Revised
Settlement  Program cannot be determined with precision  at  this
time.   The  company, however, paid $125 million in January  1996
into  a  court-administered fund as an  initial  reserve  against
costs  of  claims  payable  by  the  company  under  the  Revised
Settlement  Program  (along  with  a  $5  million  administrative
assessment).

In  the  first quarter of 1994, the company took a pre-tax charge
of $35 million ($22 million after tax) in recognition of its then
best   estimate  of  its  probable  liabilities  and   associated
expenses,  net  of  the probable amount of insurance  recoverable
from  its  carriers.  In the second quarter of 1996, the  company
increased  its  estimate of the minimum probable liabilities  and
associated  expenses to approximately $991 million.  This  amount
represents the company's best estimate of the cost and expense of
the  Revised  Settlement  Program and the  cost  and  expense  of
resolving  opt-out  claims. After subtracting  payments  of  $525
million as of December 31, 1996 (which includes the January  1996
payment of $130 million under the Revised Settlement Program) for
defense  costs and settlements with litigants and claimants,  the
company had accrued liabilities of $466 million at year-end 1996.

The company has substantial primary and excess products liability
occurrence insurance coverage and claims-made products  liability
insurance  coverage,  which  it  believes  provide  coverage  for
substantially  all  of its current exposure  for  breast  implant
claims and defense costs. Most insurers have alleged reservations
of  rights  to  deny  all or part of the coverage  for  differing
reasons, including each insurer's obligations in relation to  the
other  insurers (i.e., allocation) and which claims trigger  both
the  various occurrence and claims-made insurance policies.  Some
insurers  have resolved and paid, or committed to,  their  policy
obligations. The company believes the failure of many insurers to
voluntarily  perform as promised subjects them to  the  company's
claims  for  excess  liability and  damages  for  breach  of  the
insurers' obligation of good faith.

On  September 22, 1994, three excess coverage occurrence insurers
initiated  in the courts of the State of Minnesota a  declaratory
judgment  action  against  the  company  and  numerous  insurance
carriers  seeking  adjudication of certain  coverage  issues  and
allocation  among  insurers. On December  9,  1994,  the  company
initiated an action against its occurrence insurers in the  Texas
State  Court  in and for Harrison County, seeking a determination
of responsibility among the company's various occurrence insurers
with  applicable  coverages. The state  of  Texas  has  the  most
implant  claims.  This action has since been removed to the  U.S.
District  Court,  Eastern District of Texas, and  stayed  pending
resolution of the litigation in the Minnesota courts.

The   insurers  that  are  parties  to  these  actions  generally
acknowledge that they issued products liability insurance to  the
company  and  that  breast implant claims are products  liability
claims. The trial in Minnesota to resolve the company's insurance
coverage  and the financial responsibility of occurrence insurers
for  breast  implant claims and defense costs began  on  June  4,
1996, and is continuing in phases as scheduled by the court.

In  mid-October 1995, the occurrence insurers that are parties to
the  litigation  in  Minnesota filed more  than  30  motions  for
summary  judgment  or  partial summary  judgment.  The  insurers,
through these motions, attempt to shift all or a portion  of  the
responsibility for those claims the company believes fall  within
the  period of occurrence-based coverage (before 1986)  into  the
period  of claims-made coverage (from and after 1986). The  trial
court denied the insurers' motions, ruling that the key issues of
"trigger"  and  allocation  raised  in  these  motions  would  be
resolved at trial.

In  the  trial's  first  phase,  the  court  granted  3M  partial
declaratory  judgment on the question of when insurance  coverage
is  "triggered." The court also granted the insurers' motion  for
partial  declaratory judgment on the question of  the  allocation
method  to be applied in the case.  The trial will continue  with
further  developments expected on the allocation issue, including
the   specific  application  of  the  court-selected  method   of
allocation  to  particular policies. If the  occurrence  insurers
ultimately  prevail  in  this insurance litigation,  the  company
could  be  effectively deprived of significant insurance coverage
for  breast implant claims, the amount of which is not  presently
determinable.  (See  discussion of the  accrued  receivables  for
insurance recoveries below.)

The company believes it ultimately will prevail in this insurance
litigation. The company's belief is based on an analysis  of  its
insurance   policies;   court  decisions   on   similar   issues;
reimbursement  by  insurers  for  these  types  of  claims;   and
consultation  with outside counsel who are experts  in  insurance
coverage matters.

As  of December 31, 1996, the company had accrued receivables for
insurance  recoveries  of $864 million.   Various  factors  could
affect the timing and amount of proceeds to be received under the
company's various insurance policies, including (i) the timing of
payments  made  in  settlement of claims,  (ii)  the  outcome  of
occurrence  insurance litigation in the courts of  Minnesota  (as
discussed  above)  and  Texas, (iii) potential  arbitration  with
claims-made insurers, (iv) delays in payment by insurers and  (v)
the  extent to which insurers may become insolvent in the future.
There  can be no absolute assurance that the company will collect
all  amounts  accrued  as being probable  of  recovery  from  its
insurers.

The  company's  current  estimate of  the  probable  liabilities,
associated expenses and probable insurance recoveries related  to
the breast implant claims is based on the facts and circumstances
existing  at  this  time. New developments may occur  that  could
affect the company's estimates of probable liabilities (including
associated  expenses)  and  the  probable  amount  of   insurance
recoveries.  These developments include, but are not limited  to,
(i)  the  number  of plaintiffs who elect to opt out  and  pursue
individual  claims against the company, (ii) the success  of  and
costs  to the company in defending such opt-out claims, including
claims involving breast implants not manufactured or sold by  the
company, (iii) the outcome of the occurrence insurance litigation
in  the  courts of Minnesota and Texas, and (iv) the  outcome  of
potential arbitration with claims-made insurers.

The  company  cannot  determine the  impact  of  these  potential
developments  on  the  current estimate of  probable  liabilities
(including  associated  expenses)  and  the  probable  amount  of
insurance  recoveries.  Accordingly, the company is not  able  to
estimate  its  potential future liabilities  beyond  the  current
estimate of probable liabilities.  As new developments occur, the
estimates  may be revised, or additional charges may be necessary
to  reflect the impact of these developments on the costs to  the
company of resolving breast implant litigation and claims.  While
such revisions or additional future charges could have a material
adverse  impact  on  the company's net income  in  the  quarterly
period in which they are recorded, the company believes that such
revisions  or  additional  charges, if  any,  would  not  have  a
material  adverse effect on the company's consolidated  financial
position or annual results of operations.

The   company  conducts  ongoing  reviews,  assisted  by  outside
counsel,  to  determine  the adequacy  and  extent  of  insurance
coverage provided by its occurrence and claims-made insurers. The
company  believes, based on these ongoing reviews and  the  bases
described in the fourth preceding paragraph, that the collectible
coverage  provided  by  its  applicable  insurance  policies   is
sufficient to cover substantially all of its current exposure for
breast   implant  claims  and  defense  costs.   Based   on   the
availability  of  this insurance coverage, the  company  believes
that  its uninsured financial exposure has not materially changed
since  the  first quarter of 1994. Therefore, no  recognition  of
additional charges has been made as of December 31, 1996.

Environmental Matters

The  company  also  is  involved in  a  number  of  environmental
proceedings  by  governmental agencies  and  by  private  parties
asserting  liability for past waste disposal  and  other  alleged
environmental    damage.    The    company    conducts    ongoing
investigations,   assisted  by  environmental   consultants,   to
determine   accruals  for  the  probable,  estimable   costs   of
remediation.  The remediation accruals are reviewed each  quarter
and changes are made as appropriate.



Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

None in the quarter ended December 31, 1996.

                            Part II

Item  5.  Market Price of 3M's Common Stock and Related  Security
Holder Matters.
At January 31, 1997, there were 133,108 shareholders of record.

3M's  stock  is  listed on the New York Stock  Exchange,  Pacific
Stock Exchange, Chicago Stock Exchange, Amsterdam Stock Exchange,
German  stock  exchanges, Swiss stock exchanges and  Tokyo  Stock
Exchange.

Stock  price  comparisons  (New  York  Stock  Exchange  Composite
Transactions) are as follows:

Quarter             First   Second    Third   Fourth     Year
1996        High   $69.88   $70.75   $71.75   $85.88   $85.88
            Low     62.00    63.50    61.25    68.63    61.25
1995        High    58.88    62.13    60.13    69.88    69.88
            Low     50.75    56.50    53.88    55.13    50.75

Stock  prices have not been adjusted for the distribution of  the
commmon stock of Imation Corp.

Item 6. Selected Financial Data.

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

Year Ended December 31:        1996     1995     1994     1993     1992

  Net Sales................ $14,236  $13,460  $12,148  $11,053  $10,817
  Income from
    Continuing Operations.....1,516    1,306*   1,207    1,133    1,116
  Per Share of Common Stock:
    Continuing Operations......3.63     3.11*    2.85     2.61     2.55
    Cash Dividends Declared
      and Paid..............$  1.92  $  1.88  $  1.76  $  1.66  $  1.60
  Ratio of Earnings to
    Fixed Charges.............16.59    12.41    13.96    15.93    13.11
At December 31:
  Total Assets**............$13,364  $14,183  $13,068  $11,795  $11,528
  Long-Term Debt (excluding
    portion due within
    one year)...................851    1,203    1,031      796      687

Amounts   are   presented  on  a  continuing  operations   basis.
Discontinued   operations  and  the  restructuring   charge   are
discussed in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

* 1995 includes a pre-tax restructuring charge of $79 million, or
 12 cents per share.

**Periods  prior  to  1996  include net  assets  of  discontinued
 operations.

Item   7.  Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Financial
Condition and Results of Operations.

Operating Results
In  November  1995,  the Board of Directors approved  a  plan  to
launch  the company's data storage and imaging businesses  as  an
independent, publicly owned company and to discontinue 3M's audio
and  video business.  As a result, these businesses are presented
as discontinued operations in the financial statements and notes.
The following discussion is on a continuing operations basis.

Net  sales  in  1996 rose 5.8 percent to $14.236  billion.   This
followed  increases of 10.8 percent in 1995 and  9.9  percent  in
1994.  Growth in 1996 was held back by the stronger U.S. dollar.

Sales  in  the United States totaled $6.655 billion, up  about  7
percent from 1995.  Volume rose 6 percent, well above the  growth
of  the  U.S. economy.  Internationally, sales increased about  5
percent  to  $7.581 billion.  Volume rose 10 percent,  the  third
consecutive year of double-digit gains abroad.  The stronger U.S.
dollar reduced international sales by about 6 percent.

Selling prices worldwide increased about 1 percent, following a 2
percent   increase  in  1995.   These  increases  helped   offset
significant raw material inflation in 1995.

Components of Sales Change
                        1996                       1995
                 U.S.  Intl.  Worldwide    U.S.  Intl.  Worldwide
Volume            6%     10%      8%        3%     10%      7%
Price             1       1       1         1       2       2
Translation       -      (6)     (3)        -       5       2
Total             7%      5%      6%        4%     17%     11%

Cost of goods sold was 56.9 percent of sales, down nearly half  a
percentage point from 1995.  Solid volume growth, higher  selling
prices,  productivity gains and a slight decline in raw  material
costs  drove this improvement. Cost of goods sold was  negatively
affected  by  the stronger U.S. dollar.  In 1995, cost  of  goods
sold  was  elevated by a 7.5 percent rise in raw material  costs,
the  largest increase in many years.  Cost of goods sold includes
manufacturing,   research   and  development,   and   engineering
expenses.

Selling, general and administrative expenses were 25.6 percent of
sales  in both 1996 and 1995, down nearly a full percentage point
from  1994.   This spending benefited from continued emphasis  on
cost control and productivity improvement.

(Percent of sales)                     1996       1995       1994
Cost of goods sold                     56.9       57.3       56.3
Selling, general and
  administrative expenses              25.6       25.6       26.5

In  1995,  3M recorded one-time, pre-tax charges of $653  million
related   to  the  spin-off  of  the  data  storage  and  imaging
businesses  and  the  discontinuance  of  the  audio  and   video
business.   Of  this amount, $79 million related to restructuring
in  continuing  operations  and is  reported  separately  on  the
Consolidated Statement of Income.  The remainder of  the  charges
related   to   discontinued   operations.   These   charges   and
discontinued   operations  are  discussed   in   the   Notes   to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

Operating  income  totaled $2.491 billion, up 12.2  percent  from
1995.  Excluding the $79 million charge in 1995, operating income
rose 8.3 percent.

In  the  United States, excluding the one-time charges  in  1995,
operating  income  increased  13  percent,  and  profit   margins
improved by nearly one percentage point.

Internationally,   excluding  restructuring  charges,   operating
income  rose  about 5 percent, and profit margins were  unchanged
from  1995.   Negative  currency  effects  reduced  international
profits  by  9  percent  and  profit  margins  by  about  half  a
percentage point.

In  1995,  excluding the one-time charge, operating  income  rose
about  10 percent.  International operations paced this increase,
helped  by  solid  volume  growth, productivity  improvement  and
positive currency effects.

The  company  estimates that currency effects  reduced  operating
income by $118 million in 1996 and increased operating income  by
$79 million in 1995.

(Percent of sales)                       1996    1995    1994
Operating income                         17.5    17.1*   17.2
* Excludes restructuring charge

Interest  expense was $79 million, compared with $102 million  in
1995  and  $70  million in 1994.  The decrease in 1996  reflected
lower  interest rates and a reduction in debt.  The  increase  in
1995  was  due to a planned increase in debt and higher  interest
rates.

Investment  and other income was $67 million, compared  with  $49
million  in  1995  and  $21 million in  1994.   Higher  cash  and
securities  balances and improved investment  results  drove  the
increases in both years.

In  1994, 3M recorded a pre-tax charge of $35 million related  to
breast  implant  litigation.  Other income and  expense  in  1994
includes  this  amount,  which  is  reported  separately  on  the
Consolidated Statement of Income.

The  effective tax rate was 35.8 percent of pre-tax income,  down
slightly from 1995 and 1994.

Income  from  continuing operations totaled  $1.516  billion,  or
$3.63  per  share.  In  1995, income from  continuing  operations
totaled  $1.306 billion, or $3.11 per share ($1.358  billion,  or
$3.23  a  share, excluding the restructuring charge).   Excluding
the  1995  restructuring charge and the 1994  implant  litigation
charge,  earnings per share from continuing operations  increased
12.4 percent in 1996 and 11.4 percent in 1995.

Net  income  in 1996 totaled $1.526 billion, or $3.65 per  share.
In  1995,  net  income  before one-time  charges  totaled  $1.390
billion,  or  $3.31 per share.  Including 1995 one-time  charges,
net income was $976 million, or $2.32 per share.

In  1996, changes in the value of the U.S. dollar reduced  income
from  continuing operations by an estimated $65  million,  or  15
cents per share.  In 1995, currency effects increased income from
continuing  operations by an estimated $45 million, or  10  cents
per  share.   Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar had  little
impact on profits in 1994.  These estimates include the effect of
translating profits from local currencies into U.S. dollars;  the
costs  in  local  currencies of transferring  goods  between  the
parent  company  in  the  United  States  and  its  international
companies;  and  transaction gains and losses  in  countries  not
considered to be highly inflationary.

Return on average stockholders' equity was 24.4 percent, up  from
19.2 percent in 1995.  Adjusting for the restructuring charge and
the  impact of discontinued operations, return on equity in  1995
was  basically  the same as in 1996.  Return on capital  employed
was  24.9  percent, up from 23.4 percent in 1995.  Adjusting  for
the continuing operations restructuring charge, return on capital
employed was 24.3 percent in 1995.

At December 31, 1996, employment totaled 74,289 people, a decline
of about 11,000 from year-end 1995.  This reduction primarily was
due  to  the  spin-off of the data storage and imaging businesses
and the discontinuance of the audio and video business.  In early
1997,  about  1,000  additional people left 3M through  voluntary
separation programs.

Performance by Business Sector

Industrial and Consumer Sector:
Sales   totaled  $8.891  billion,  up  6.3  percent  from   1995.
Operating  income  increased  15.6  percent  to  $1.543  billion.
Operating income was 17.4 percent of sales.

This  sector develops, manufactures and markets innovative, high-
value  products for home, offices and industrial customers around
the  world.   Key  industrial products include tapes,  adhesives,
abrasives,  specialty  chemicals, resins, electrical  connectors,
and flexible circuits.  Many of the sector's new product programs
serve    fast-growing   industries,   including   semiconductors,
electronics, specialty chemicals, personal computers  and  energy
management.   Key  consumer and office  supply  products  include
tapes,  notes,  scouring  pads  and sponges,  fabric  protectors,
energy-saving products and floor matting.

Effective August 1, 1996, 3M and Hoechst AG, Frankfurt,  Germany,
formed  a joint venture company, Dyneon L.L.C.  This new  company
produces   and   markets   fluoropolymers,   fluoroplastics   and
processing   additives   for  demanding   applications   in   the
automotive, aerospace, semiconductor and other industries. As  54
percent  majority  owner, 3M has consolidated Dyneon's  financial
results as part of this sector.

Life Sciences Sector:
Sales   totaled  $5.242  billion,  up  4.4  percent  from   1995.
Operating  income  increased  2.5  percent  to  $1.091   billion.
Operating income was 20.8 percent of sales.

This  sector  produces  innovative products  that  contribute  to
better  health  and safety for people around the world.   In  the
health  care  market,  this sector is a  leader  in  medical  and
surgical  supplies, clinical information systems,  drug  delivery
technologies  and  dental products.  In  the  safety  area,  this
sector  is  a  global leader in reflective materials for  traffic
safety  and respirators for worker protection.  This sector  also
is  a  leader  in closures for disposable diapers,  graphics  for
trucks and signs, and out-of-home advertising.

Performance by Geographic Area

United States
In  the  United States, volume rose about 6 percent  and  selling
prices increased about 1 percent, for a total sales gain of about
7  percent.   Operating income was 16.9 percent of  sales,  up  2
percentage   points   from   1995.   Adjusting   for   the   1995
restructuring charge, the operating income margin was  up  nearly
one  percentage  point  from 1995.  Solid volume  growth,  higher
selling prices and productivity gains drove U.S. results.

Europe and Middle East
Unit  sales  in  Europe  and the Middle East  increased  about  7
percent,  more  than double the rate of economic  growth  in  the
area.   Sales  totaled  $3.6 billion.   Selling  prices  declined
slightly,  while currency translation reduced sales by  almost  3
percent.

In  Western  Europe, a market-centered approach to  customers  is
driving  3M  growth.   The company also is  benefiting  from  new
products,  as well as from key-account programs with  major  Pan-
European customers and with many regional customers.  In  Eastern
Europe  and  the  Middle  East, the  company  continues  to  grow
rapidly,  with  particularly strong gains in  Poland,  the  Czech
Republic  and  Turkey.   To help sustain  strong  growth  in  the
region's emerging economies, more than 600 people have been added
during  the past seven years.  Sales offices recently were opened
in  Croatia,  Romania,  Bulgaria,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Belarus,
Ukraine, Kazakhstan and four cities in Russia.

Asia Pacific
Continuing  a  record  of solid gains, unit  sales  in  the  Asia
Pacific area increased about 12 percent in 1996.  Selling  prices
were  down  about 1 percent, while currency translation   reduced
sales  by  about  9  percent.  In Japan,  home  of  3M's  largest
international company, volume rose about 12 percent,  well  above
the  country's  economic growth rate.  3M's growth  in  Japan  is
benefiting  from  a strong flow of new products and  emphasis  on
fast-growing  industries,  including personal  computers,  health
care and earthquake damping materials.

Sales in Asia rose more than 15 percent in 1996.  3M companies in
Singapore, Korea and the Philippines led growth.  To sustain this
momentum,  3M  is  expanding production in Taiwan,  Malaysia  and
China; enlarging the technical support facility in Singapore; and
building a new distribution center in Korea.

Latin America, Canada and Africa
In  Latin  America, unit sales increased more  than  20  percent,
continuing  a  record  of strong gains.   Freer  trade  in  Latin
America  is   enabling 3M to add significantly to  product  lines
there  and  is  allowing  the  company  to  deliver  goods   more
efficiently.

In  Canada, unit sales increased about 2 percent.  The company is
building upon two platforms for growth: a responsive organization
to  serve Canadian customers across all 3M product lines, and  an
efficient manufacturing operation to leverage 3M resources across
North America and on a worldwide basis.

In  Africa,  volume increased more than 10 percent.  Sales  there
are  benefiting  from the removal of trade sanctions,  which  has
boosted  exports to neighboring countries and stimulated  overall
economic growth.

Financial Position

3M's  financial condition remained strong in 1996.  The company's
borrowings  continued  to  maintain  AAA/Aaa  long-term  ratings.
Working  capital  remained well controlled.   The  company's  key
inventory index was 3.8 months, compared with 3.9 months  at  the
end  of  1995.  The accounts receivable index was 60  days,  down
four  days from 1995.  The current ratio was 1.7, unchanged  from
the end of 1995.

Total  debt was $1.968 billion, down slightly from $2.025 billion
at  the  end  of 1995.  Long-term debt declined by $352  million,
primarily  due  to  the reclassification to  short-term  debt  of
certain Eurobond and other debt due in 1997.  Long-term debt that
matures  in  1997  is  expected to  be  replaced  with  new  debt
issuances.   Of debt outstanding at year-end 1996,  $412  million
represented  a  guarantee  of  debt  of  the  3M  Employee  Stock
Ownership  Plan.   Total debt was 24 percent  of  total  capital,
compared with 23 percent in 1995.

Various  assets  and liabilities, including cash  and  short-term
debt,  can  fluctuate  significantly on  a  month-to-month  basis
depending on short-term liquidity needs.

Legal  proceedings are discussed in the Legal Proceedings section
in  Part I, Item 3, of this Form 10-K.  There can be no certainty
that  the  company may not ultimately incur charges, whether  for
governmental  proceedings and claims, products liability  claims,
environmental  proceedings  or  other  actions,  in   excess   of
presently established accruals.  While such future charges  could
have a material adverse impact on the company's net income in the
quarterly period in which they are recorded, the company believes
that  such additional charges, if any, would not have a  material
adverse  effect on the consolidated financial position or  annual
results of operations of the company.


Financial Instruments

The company enters into contractual arrangements (derivatives) in
the  ordinary  course of business to hedge its  foreign  currency
exposure,  interest rate risks and commodity  price  risks.   The
company  has a Financial Risk Management Committee that  provides
oversight  for  risk management and derivative activities.   This
committee   sets   forth  senior  management's   financial   risk
management philosophy and objectives through a corporate  policy.
This committee also provides guidelines for derivative instrument
usage  and  establishes  procedures for  control  and  valuation,
counterparty   credit  approval,  and  routine   monitoring   and
reporting.

The  company  manages  interest expense using  a  mix  of  fixed,
floating  and variable rate debt. To manage this mix efficiently,
the  company  may  enter into interest rate swaps.   Under  these
arrangements,  the  company  agrees  to  exchange,  at  specified
intervals,  the  difference between fixed and  floating  interest
amounts  calculated  by  reference  to  an  agreed-upon  notional
principal amount.

The  company  enters into forward contracts and  swaps  to  hedge
intercompany   financing  transactions  and   purchases   foreign
currency  options  to hedge against the effect of  exchange  rate
fluctuations on cash flows denominated in non-U.S. dollars.



Liquidity

During  1996,  cash  flows  provided by operating  activities  of
continuing  operations  totaled $2.041 billion,  up  from  $1.935
billion  in  1995.  In both years, cash provided from  continuing
operations  was driven by solid operating results  and  effective
asset  management,  and  cash flows  more  than  covered  capital
expenditures and dividend payments.

Capital  spending  totaled $1.109 billion,  an  increase  of  1.9
percent  from  1995. This followed increases of 11.9  percent  in
1995  and  8.2  percent  the prior year.  These  investments  are
helping  to  meet  growing global demand for 3M products  and  to
increase manufacturing efficiency.

Cash  used  for acquisitions and other investments  totaled  $263
million,  $49  million and $92 million in 1996,  1995  and  1994,
respectively.   The  increase  in  1996  primarily  was  due   to
acquisitions  in  the health care field and the purchase  of  the
minority interest in 3M Korea.

Stockholder dividends increased to $1.92 a share.  Cash  dividend
payments totaled $803 million.  3M has paid dividends since 1916.
In  February 1997, the Board of Directors increased the quarterly
dividend on 3M common stock to 53 cents a share, equivalent to an
annual  dividend of $2.12 a share, a 10.4 percent  increase  from
1996.  This marks the 39th consecutive yearly increase.

Repurchases  of  3M common stock totaled $532  million  in  1996,
compared  with  $351 million in 1995 and $689  million  in  1994.
Repurchases  were made to support employee stock  purchase  plans
and for other corporate purposes.

In   November  1996,  the  Board  of  Directors  authorized   the
repurchase  of  up to 10 million of the company's  shares.   This
share repurchase authorization extends through December 31, 1997.

The  company's  strong  credit rating provides  ready  and  ample
access to funds in global capital markets.  3M maintains a  shelf
registration  with  the Securities and Exchange  Commission  that
provides the means to offer medium-term notes not to exceed  $601
million.   At  December 31, 1996, $402 million was available  for
future financial needs.

Timing  differences  between payment of implant  liabilities  and
receipt  of  related insurance recoveries could affect  the  cash
flows  of future periods. At this time, the amount and timing  of
prospective  payments cannot be determined  with  precision.   3M
believes  that these timing differences will not have a  material
adverse  effect on the company's consolidated financial  position
or  liquidity.  This potential cash flow impact is discussed more
fully in the Legal Proceedings section in Part I, Item 3, of this
Form 10-K.


Future Outlook

3M  expects solid sales and earnings growth again in  1997.   The
company  expects  to benefit from major new product  programs,  a
sharp  focus  on  customer satisfaction, further  expansion  into
international  markets, efforts to streamline 3M's supply  chain,
and continued productivity improvement.

The  company has an 8 percent annual productivity objective based
on  sales per employee.  Employment levels within the company are
expected to be consistent with that objective.

Raw  material  costs are expected to be down  slightly  in  1997,
providing  a small benefit to cost of goods sold.  However,  this
impact  could  be  more than offset by negative currency  effects
relating to the purchases 3M's international companies make  from
the  United  States.  For 1997, capital spending is  expected  to
increase  to  around  $1.3  billion  dollars.   The  company   is
investing capital to support important growth initiatives.

Based  on  exchange  rates at the end of January  1997,  currency
could  reduce  1997 earnings by about 15 cents a  share.   Shares
outstanding are expected to decrease by about 4 million shares in
1997.

The  company does not anticipate a significant change in its  tax
rate in 1997.

Over the period 1997 to 1999, 3M aims to increase sales about  10
percent  a  year; operating income 12 to 13 percent a  year;  and
earnings per share 13 to 14 percent a year.

Forward-Looking Statements

The  Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides  a
safe  harbor for certain forward-looking statements.  This Annual
Report  on  Form  10-K contains forward-looking  statements  that
reflect the company's current views with respect to future events
and financial performance.

These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and
uncertainties   that  could  cause  actual  results   to   differ
materially  from  historical results or those  anticipated.   The
words   "aim,"   "believe,"  "expect,"  "anticipate,"   "intend,"
"estimate" and other expressions that indicate future events  and
trends   identify  forward-looking  statements.   Actual   future
results  and trends may differ materially from historical results
or   those   anticipated  depending  on  a  variety  of  factors,
including,  but  not  limited  to,  foreign  exchange  rates  and
fluctuations  in  those rates; the effects of,  and  changes  in,
worldwide economic conditions; raw materials, including shortages
and  increases  in  the  costs of key raw  materials;  and  legal
proceedings (see discussion of Legal Proceedings in Part I,  Item
3 of this Form 10-K).


Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

        Index to Financial Statements

                                                Reference (pages)
                                                      Form 10-K

Data submitted herewith:
   Report of Independent Accountants.....................  22

   Consolidated Statement of Income for the years ended
     December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994  ..................  23

   Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 1996 and
     1995 .............................. ................  24

   Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders'
     Equity for the years ended December 31, 1996,
     1995 and 1994 .....................................   25

   Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
    for the years ended December 31,
    1996, 1995 and 1994 ................... ......... ...  26

   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ..........27-42


                Report of Independent Auditors

To   the  Stockholders  of  Minnesota  Mining  and  Manufacturing
Company:

We   have  audited  the  consolidated  financial  statements   of
Minnesota  Mining and Manufacturing Company and  Subsidiaries  as
listed  in  Item 8 of this Form 10-K. These financial  statements
are   the   responsibility  of  the  company's  management.   Our
responsibility  is  to  express an  opinion  on  these  financial
statements based on our audits.

We  conducted  our  audits in accordance with generally  accepted
auditing  standards.  Those standards require that  we  plan  and
perform  the  audit to obtain reasonable assurance about  whether
the  financial statements are free of material misstatement.   An
audit  includes  examining, on a test basis, evidence  supporting
the  amounts  and  disclosures in the financial  statements.   An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used  and
significant  estimates made by management, as well as  evaluating
the  overall  financial statement presentation.  We believe  that
our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In  our  opinion,  the  financial statements  referred  to  above
present  fairly,  in  all  material  respects,  the  consolidated
financial position of Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing  Company
and  Subsidiaries  as  of December 31, 1996  and  1995,  and  the
consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1996, in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.




                                /s/ COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P.

                                COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P.



St. Paul, Minnesota
February 10, 1997


Consolidated Statement of Income

Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company and Subsidiaries
Years ended December 31                         1996     1995     1994
(Amounts in millions, except per-share amounts)

Net sales                                    $14,236  $13,460  $12,148
_______________________________________________________________________

Operating expenses
  Cost of goods sold                           8,099    7,720    6,829
  Selling, general and administrative expenses 3,646    3,440    3,224
  Restructuring charge                            --       79       --
_______________________________________________________________________
          Total                               11,745   11,239   10,053
_______________________________________________________________________
Operating income                               2,491    2,221    2,095
_______________________________________________________________________
Other income and expense
  Interest expense                                79      102       70
  Investment and other income - net              (67)     (49)     (21)
  Implant litigation - net                        --       --       35
_______________________________________________________________________
          Total                                   12       53       84
_______________________________________________________________________
Income from continuing operations before income taxes
  and minority interest                        2,479    2,168    2,011
Provision for income taxes                       886      785      731
Minority interest                                 77       77       73
_______________________________________________________________________

Income from continuing operations              1,516    1,306    1,207

Discontinued operations
  Income from operations of discontinued businesses,
    net of income taxes                           --       43      115
  Gain (loss) on disposal of discontinued businesses,
    net of income taxes                           10     (373)      --
_______________________________________________________________________
Net income                                   $ 1,526   $  976  $ 1,322
_______________________________________________________________________

Per-share amounts
  Continuing operations                      $  3.63  $  3.11  $  2.85
  Discontinued operations                        .02     (.79)     .28
_______________________________________________________________________
  Net income                                 $  3.65  $  2.32  $  3.13
_______________________________________________________________________
Average shares outstanding                     418.2    419.8    423.0

The  accompanying  Notes  to Consolidated Financial  Statements  are  an
integral part of this statement.


Consolidated Balance Sheet

Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company and Subsidiaries
At December 31                                   1996       1995
(Dollars in millions)
Assets
Current assets
  Cash and cash equivalents                   $   583    $   485
  Other securities                                161        287
  Accounts receivable - net                     2,504      2,398
  Inventories                                   2,264      2,206
  Other current assets                            974      1,019
_________________________________________________________________
          Total current assets                  6,486      6,395

Investments                                       585        565
Property, plant and equipment - net             4,844      4,638
Other assets                                    1,449      1,177
Net assets of discontinued operations              --      1,408
_________________________________________________________________
          Total                               $13,364    $14,183



Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity
Current liabilities
  Accounts payable                            $   895    $   762
  Payroll                                         300        298
  Income taxes                                    201        214
  Short-term debt                               1,117        822
  Other current liabilities                     1,276      1,628
_________________________________________________________________
          Total current liabilities             3,789      3,724

Other liabilities                               2,440      2,372
Long-term debt                                    851      1,203
Stockholders' equity - net                      6,284      6,884
  Shares outstanding - 1996: 416,836,008
                       1995: 418,702,754
_________________________________________________________________
          Total                               $13,364    $14,183


The  accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  are  an
integral part of this statement.


Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders' Equity

Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company and Subsidiaries
Years ended December 31                       1996      1995      1994
(Dollars in millions, except per-share amounts)

Common stock at beginning and end of year  $   296   $   296   $   296

Retained earnings
  Balance at beginning of year               9,164     9,039     8,500
  Net income                                 1,526       976     1,322
  Dividends paid
    (per share: $1.92, $1.88, $1.76)          (803)     (790)     (744)
  Special dividend of Imation Corp.
    common stock                            (1,008)       --        --
  Effects of stock option and benefit plans   (123)      (61)      (39)
Balance at end of year                       8,756     9,164     9,039

Unearned compensation - ESOP
  Balance at beginning of year                (437)     (460)     (479)
  Amortization                                  25        23        19
Balance at end of year                        (412)     (437)     (460)

Cumulative translation - net
  Balance at beginning of year                (102)     (163)     (331)
  Translation adjustments                     (122)       61       168
  Adjustment for Imation Corp.
    special dividend                            46        --        --
Balance at end of year                        (178)     (102)     (163)

Debt and equity securities, unrealized gain(loss) - net
  Balance at beginning of year                  16        (3)       --
  Fair value adjustments                        (1)       19        (3)
Balance at end of year                          15        16        (3)

Treasury stock, at cost
  Balance at beginning of year              (2,053)   (1,975)   (1,474)
  Reacquired stock (millions of
    shares: 7.6, 5.9, 13.1)                   (532)     (351)     (689)
  Issuances pursuant to stock option and
    benefit plans (millions of
    shares: 5.7, 4.8, 3.4)                     392       273       188
Balance at end of year                      (2,193)   (2,053)   (1,975)
  (millions of shares: 55.2, 53.3, 52.2)

Stockholders' equity - net                 $ 6,284   $ 6,884   $ 6,734

Common  stock,  without  par value,  of  500  million  shares  is
authorized,  with  472,016,528 shares issued in  1996,  1995  and
1994.   Preferred stock, without par value, of 10 million  shares
is authorized but unissued.  All share and per-share data reflect
a two-for-one common stock split effective March 15, 1994.

The  accompanying  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  are  an
 integral part of this statement.


Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company and Subsidiaries
Years ended December 31                       1996      1995      1994
(Dollars in millions)

Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Net income                                 $ 1,526    $  976    $1,322
Less income (loss) from discontinued
  operations                                    10      (330)      115
_______________________________________________________________________
Income from continuing operations            1,516     1,306     1,207

Adjustments to reconcile income from
    continuing operations to net cash
    provided by operating activities
  Implant litigation - net                    (275)     (112)      (62)
  Depreciation                                 825       795       793
  Amortization                                  58        64        79
  Accounts receivable                         (170)      (90)     (225)
  Inventories                                  (75)      (51)     (240)
  Other                                        162        23       103
_______________________________________________________________________
Net cash provided by continuing operations   2,041     1,935     1,655
Net cash provided by discontinued operations   170       325       274
_______________________________________________________________________
Net cash provided by operating activities    2,211     2,260     1,929

Cash Flows from Investing Activities
Capital expenditures                        (1,109)   (1,088)     (972)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant
   and equipment                                66        54        54
Acquisitions and other investments            (263)      (49)      (92)
Proceeds from divestitures and investments      62        82        22
Discontinued operations - net                  (17)     (207)     (183)
_______________________________________________________________________
Net cash used in investing activities       (1,261)   (1,208)   (1,171)

Cash Flows from Financing Activities
Change in short-term debt - net                (76)      (41)      216
Repayment of long-term debt                    (15)     (156)      (62)
Proceeds from long-term debt                   173       223       401
Purchases of treasury stock                   (532)     (351)     (689)
Reissuances of treasury stock                  268       214       138
Payment of dividends                          (803)     (790)     (744)
Discontinued operations                         79        --        --
_______________________________________________________________________
Net cash used in financing activities         (906)     (901)     (740)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash         54        37         5
______________________________________________________________________
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents       98       188        23
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 485       297       274
______________________________________________________________________
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year    $  583    $  485    $  297
______________________________________________________________________

The  accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  are  an
 integral part of this statement.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

    Accounting Policies
Consolidation:   All significant subsidiaries  are  consolidated.
Unconsolidated  subsidiaries and affiliates are included  on  the
equity basis.

Foreign  currency  translation:  Local currencies  generally  are
considered  the functional currencies outside the United  States,
except  in countries treated as highly inflationary.  Assets  and
liabilities  for  operations in local currency  environments  are
translated at year-end exchange rates.  Income and expense  items
are translated at average rates of exchange prevailing during the
year.   Cumulative  translation adjustments  are  recorded  as  a
component of stockholders' equity.

For  operations  in  countries treated  as  highly  inflationary,
certain  financial statement amounts are translated at historical
exchange  rates, with all other assets and liabilities translated
at  year-end  exchange rates.  These translation adjustments  are
reflected in the results of operations and are not material.

Use  of  estimates:  The preparation of financial  statements  in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires
management  to  make estimates and assumptions  that  affect  the
reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure  of
contingent  assets and liabilities at the date of  the  financial
statements,  and  the reported amounts of revenues  and  expenses
during  the  reporting period.  Actual results could differ  from
these estimates.

Cash and cash equivalents:  Cash and cash equivalents consist  of
cash and temporary investments with maturities of three months or
less when purchased.

Other  securities and investments:  Other securities  consist  of
marketable  securities and interest-bearing  bank  deposits  with
varied  maturity  dates.  These securities are  employed  in  the
company's   banking,  captive  insurance  and   cash   management
operations.   Investments primarily include debt securities  held
by  captive  insurance  and  banking operations;  individual  and
commercial loans receivable held by banking operations; the  cash
surrender  value of life insurance policies; and real estate  and
venture capital investments.

Inventories:  Inventories are stated at lower of cost or  market,
with cost generally determined on a first-in, first-out basis.

Other  assets:  Other assets include product and other  insurance
claims, goodwill, patents, other intangibles, deferred taxes, and
other  noncurrent assets.  Goodwill generally is amortized  on  a
straight-line  basis over the periods benefited,  principally  in
the  range  of  10  to  40  years.  Other  intangible  items  are
amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated  economic
lives.

Revenue  recognition:   Revenue is recognized  upon  shipment  of
goods to customers and upon performance of services.  The company
sells a wide range of products to a diversified base of customers
around  the  world and, therefore, believes there is no  material
concentration of credit risk.

Property,  plant and equipment:  Depreciation of property,  plant
and equipment generally is computed on a straight-line basis over
its  estimated useful life. Fully depreciated assets are retained
in  property and accumulated depreciation accounts until  removed
from  service.   Upon  disposal, assets and  related  accumulated
depreciation  are removed from the accounts and the  net  amount,
less proceeds from disposal, is charged or credited to income.

Advertising:    Advertising  costs  generally  are   charged   to
operations in the year incurred.

Derivatives:   The company uses derivative financial  instruments
to  manage risks generally associated with foreign exchange rate,
interest rate and commodity market volatility.  The company  does
not  hold  or issue derivative financial instruments for  trading
purposes.   The company is not a party to leveraged  derivatives.
Realized  and unrealized gains and losses are deferred until  the
underlying  transactions are realized.  These  gains  and  losses
generally  are  recognized either as interest  expense  over  the
borrowing  period  for interest rate and currency  swaps;  as  an
adjustment  to  cost  of  goods sold for inventory-related  hedge
transactions;  or  in  stockholders' equity  for  hedges  of  net
investments  in international companies.  Cash flows attributable
to  these financial instruments are included with the cash  flows
of the associated hedged items.

Accounting  for stock-based compensation:  The company  uses  the
intrinsic   value  method  for  the  Management  Stock  Ownership
Program.    The  General  Employees'  Stock  Purchase   Plan   is
considered noncompensatory.


    Discontinued Operations
In  November  1995,  the Board of Directors approved  a  plan  to
launch  the company's data storage and imaging businesses  as  an
independent, publicly owned company and to discontinue 3M's audio
and  video  business.   In  June 1996,  the  Board  of  Directors
approved  the tax-free distribution by 3M of the common stock  of
Imation  Corp. (Imation) as a special dividend of  one  share  of
Imation common stock for every 10 shares of outstanding 3M common
stock  held  of record as of the close of business  on  June  28,
1996.   The  company  recorded the special  dividend  of  Imation
common  stock  by  reducing retained earnings by $1.008  billion,
which represented the carrying value of the net assets underlying
the   common   stock  distributed.   The  company's  consolidated
financial  statements and notes report Imation and the audio  and
video business as discontinued operations.

Income  from operations of the discontinued businesses  for  1995
include   results  through  November  30,  1995.    Income   from
operations  of discontinued businesses included interest  expense
allocations  (based  on the ratio of net assets  of  discontinued
operations  to consolidated net assets plus debt) of $15  million
and $17 million in 1995 and 1994, respectively.

The  1995 loss on disposal of $373 million included the estimated
future  results of operations through the estimated date  of  the
spin-off  or  closure. Major components of the loss  on  disposal
include $300 million of severance costs and $265 million of asset
write-downs,  net of deferred income taxes of $232 million.   The
loss  on  disposal calculation included $13 million  of  interest
expense.   Net cash provided by discontinued operations  in  1995
differs  from  the loss from discontinued operations  principally
due  to two factors -- the loss on disposal for which no cash had
been  expended at December 31, 1995, and depreciation.   The  $10
million 1996 gain on disposal reflects final adjustments  to  the
company's 1995 estimated loss on disposal.


Discontinued Operations
(Millions)                                1996     1995      1994
Net sales                                  $--   $2,645    $2,931
Income before income taxes and
  minority interest                         --       59       143
Provision for income taxes                  --       23        40
Minority interest                           --       (7)      (12)
Income from operations, net of income taxes --       43       115
Gain (loss) on disposal,
  net of income taxes                       10     (373)       --
  Total discontinued operations,
    net of income taxes                    $10   $ (330)   $  115


Net Assets of Discontinued Operations
(Millions)                                 1996     1995
Current assets                              $--   $1,212
Property, plant and equipment - net          --      456
Other assets                                 --      192
Current liabilities                          --     (357)
Other liabilities                            --      (95)
  Net assets of discontinued operations     $--   $1,408


    Restructuring Charge
The  company  recorded a restructuring charge of $79  million  in
1995  related  to  the spin-off of the data storage  and  imaging
businesses  and  the  discontinuance  of  the  audio  and   video
business.   Major components of this charge included $50  million
of employee severance costs and $17 million related to the write-
down  of certain assets to net realizable value.  In early  1997,
about 1,000 people, mainly in corporate service functions in  the
United  States  and Europe, left 3M through voluntary  separation
programs.  About $19 million in cash payments related to employee
separations  were  made as of December 31, 1996.   The  remaining
liability for employee separations and other items is included in
other current liabilities.


    Supplemental Income Statement Information
_________________________________________________________________

(Millions)                            1996       1995       1994
Research and development costs        $947       $883       $828
Advertising costs                      459        423        422


  Supplemental Balance Sheet Information
_________________________________________________________________
(Millions)                                      1996        1995
Accounts receivable
Accounts receivable                          $ 2,609     $ 2,492
Less allowances                                  105          94
  Accounts receivable - net                  $ 2,504     $ 2,398

Inventories                                                     
Finished goods                               $ 1,195     $ 1,164
Work in process                                  591         565
Raw materials and supplies                       478         477
  Total inventories                          $ 2,264     $ 2,206

Other current assets
Product and other insurance claims           $   419     $   334
Deferred income taxes                            161         307
Other                                            394         378
  Total other current assets                 $   974     $ 1,019

Other securities and investments*
Held-to-maturity (amortized cost)            $    68     $   168
Available-for-sale (fair value)                  195         225
Other (cost, which approximates fair value)      483         459
  Total other securities and investments     $   746     $   852

Property, plant and equipment - at cost                       
Land                                         $   299     $   296
Buildings and leasehold improvements           2,885       2,814
Machinery and equipment                        8,449       7,673
Construction in progress                         417         451
                                             $12,050     $11,234
Less accumulated depreciation                  7,206       6,596
  Property, plant and equipment - net        $ 4,844     $ 4,638

Other assets
Product and other insurance claims           $   859     $   781
Deferred income taxes                            132         105
Other                                            458         291
  Total other assets                         $ 1,449     $ 1,177

*Unrealized  gains  and losses relating to other  securities  and
investments  classified as available-for-sale are included  as  a
component of stockholders' equity.  Realized gains and losses  in
1996 and 1995 were not material.


Supplemental Balance Sheet Information (continued)

(Millions)                                      1996        1995
Other current liabilities                                       
Product and other liabilities                $   256     $   369
Severance and other restructuring liabilities    234         379
Deposits - banking operations**                  301         290
Deferred income taxes                             11          10
Other                                            474         580
  Total other current liabilities            $ 1,276     $ 1,628

Other liabilities                                             
Product and other liabilities                $   876     $   923
Minority interest in subsidiaries                373         483
Nonpension postretirement benefits               465         423
Deferred income taxes                             97          90
Other                                            629         453
  Total other liabilities                    $ 2,440     $ 2,372

**Primarily  demand  deposits and, as such, the  carrying  amount
approximates fair value.

    Supplemental Cash Flow Information
In  connection with the spin-off of the data storage and  imaging
businesses,  the company recorded cash proceeds of $79 million in
1996,  primarily related to the sale of international  assets  to
Imation.   Imation  also retired $65 million of  short-term  debt
related to its businesses as of June 30, 1996.

In  1996, 3M increased its ownership in 3M Korea from 60  percent
to  100  percent  by purchasing the remaining interest  from  its
minority  shareholders.  The purchase price included the deferral
of  $72  million  that  will be paid in installments  over  three
years.

_________________________________________________________________
(Millions)                            1996       1995       1994
Interest payments                     $ 78       $104       $ 72
Income tax payments                    761        793        865


    Debt

Short-Term Debt                    Effective
(Millions)                      Interest Rate*      1996    1995
Long-term debt - current portion      5.36%       $  555  $   47
Commercial paper                      4.79%          353     574
Other borrowings                      4.44%          209     201
  Total short-term debt                           $1,117  $  822
_________________________________________________________________
Long-Term Debt           Effective     Maturity
(Millions)             Interest Rate*    Date       1996    1995
ESOP debt guarantee         8.22%     1998-2004   $  378  $  412
German Mark 5% Euronote     5.44%          2001      165      --
Canadian 6.5% Eurobond      4.81%          1998      114     114
Medium-term 6.25% note      5.32%          1999      100     100
Other borrowings            5.12%     1998-2025       94      79
U.S. 7.75% Eurobond           --           1997       --     200
U.S. 6.375% Eurobond          --           1997       --     200
Swiss Franc 5.5% note         --           1997       --      98
  Total long-term debt                            $  851  $1,203

*Effective  interest rates reflect the effects of  interest  rate
and currency swaps at December 31, 1996.


Debt  with  fixed  interest  rates includes  the  ESOP,  Canadian
Eurobond  and  a  portion  of other  borrowings.   ESOP  debt  is
serviced  by dividends on stock held by the ESOP and  by  company
contributions.  These contributions are reported as  an  employee
benefit   expense.   Other  borrowings  primarily  are  by   3M's
international  companies and from industrial bond issues  in  the
United States.

Maturities  of  long-term debt for the next  five  years  are  as
follows:  1997,  $555  million; 1998, $200  million;  1999,  $144
million; 2000, $44 million; and 2001, $227 million.

The company estimates that the fair value of short-term and long-
term  debt  approximates the carrying amount of this debt.   Debt
covenants do not restrict the payment of dividends.

  Other Financial Instruments
Interest  rate and currency swaps:  To manage interest  rate  and
foreign  exchange rate risk and to lower its cost  of  borrowing,
the  company  has entered into interest rate and currency  swaps.
The notional amounts set forth in the table below serve solely as
a  basis  for the calculation of payment streams to be exchanged.
These  notional amounts are not a measure of the exposure of  the
company  through  its  use  of  derivatives.   These  instruments
generally  mature  in relationship to their underlying  debt  and
have  maturities extending to 2001.  Unrealized gains and  losses
and exposure to changes in market conditions were not material at
December 31, 1996 and 1995.

Notional Amounts
(Millions)                              1996    1995
Interest rate swaps                     $829    $836
Currency swaps                           426     306

Foreign exchange forward and options contracts:  The company  has
entered into foreign exchange forward and options contracts,  the
majority  of  which have maturities of less than one  year.   The
face  amounts  represent contracted U.S.  dollar  equivalents  of
forward  and  options contracts denominated in non-U.S.  dollars.
The  amounts at risk are not material because the company has the
ability  to  generate  offsetting foreign  currency  cash  flows.
Unrealized  gains and losses at December 31, 1996 and 1995,  were
not material.

Face Amounts
(Millions)                              1996    1995
Forward contracts                       $869  $1,178
Options purchased                         --     196
Options sold                              --     137

The  company  engages in foreign currency hedging  activities  to
reduce  exchange  risks  arising  from  cross-border  cash  flows
denominated in non-U.S. dollars. The company operates on a global
basis,  generating more than half its revenues from international
customers  and  engaging  in substantial  product  and  financial
transfers  among  geographic areas.  Major forward  contracts  at
December  31, 1996, were denominated in Dutch guilders,  Japanese
yen, German marks, French francs and British pound sterling.

Credit risk:  The company is exposed to credit loss in the  event
of  nonperformance  by  counterparties in  interest  rate  swaps,
currency  swaps  and  foreign exchange contracts,  but  does  not
anticipate  nonperformance by any of these  counterparties.   The
company actively monitors its exposure to credit risk through the
use of credit approvals and credit limits, and by selecting major
international banks and financial institutions as counterparties.

    Leases
Rental  expense under operating leases was $138 million in  1996,
$154  million in 1995 and $140 million in 1994.  The table  below
sets   forth   minimum  payments  under  operating  leases   with
noncancelable terms in excess of one year, at December 31, 1996.
_________________________________________________________________

                                                    After
(Millions)             1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2001  Total
Minimum lease payments  $74   $53   $40   $29   $19   $70   $285


    Income Taxes
_________________________________________________________________
Income  From  Continuing  Operations  Before  Income  Taxes   and
Minority Interest
(Millions)                          1996        1995        1994
United States                     $1,534      $1,274      $1,284
International                        945         894         727
  Total                           $2,479      $2,168      $2,011

_________________________________________________________________
Provision for Income Taxes
(Millions)                          1996        1995        1994
Currently payable
  Federal                         $  331      $  346      $  306
  State                               63          58          60
  International                      405         380         306
Deferred
  Federal                             76          21          48
  State                                7           2           4
  International                        4         (22)          7
  Total                           $  886      $  785      $  731


Components of Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities
(Millions)                       1996        1995
Accruals currently not deductible
  Benefit costs                  $235        $265
  Severance and other
    restructuring costs            89         144
  Product and other liabilities   431         492
Product and other
  insurance claims               (487)       (425)
Accelerated depreciation         (304)       (350)
Other                             221         186
  Net deferred tax asset         $185        $312


At  December  31, 1996, approximately $3.244 billion of  retained
earnings  attributable to international companies were considered
to be permanently invested.  No provision has been made for taxes
that  might  be  payable if these earnings were remitted  to  the
United  States.  It is not practical to determine the  amount  of
incremental  taxes  that might arise were these  earnings  to  be
remitted.

_________________________________________________________________
Reconciliation of Effective Income Tax Rate  1996    1995    1994
Statutory U.S. tax rate                      35.0%   35.0%   35.0%
State income taxes - net                      1.8     1.8     2.1
International income taxes - net               .5      .5     1.2
All other - net                              (1.5)   (1.1)   (1.9)
  Effective worldwide tax rate               35.8%   36.2%   36.4%



    Business Segments
3M's  businesses are organized into two sectors:  Industrial  and
Consumer,  and  Life  Sciences.   These  sectors  have  worldwide
responsibility for virtually all of the company's product  lines.
These  product  lines  serve a wide range of  markets,  including
automotive,  communications, consumer, electronics, health  care,
industrial,  office,  personal  care  and  safety.   3M  is   not
dependent on any single product or market.

Financial information relating to the company's business  sectors
for  the  years  ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994,  appears
below.    3M   is  an  integrated  enterprise  characterized   by
substantial   intersector  cooperation,  cost   allocations   and
inventory  transfers.  Therefore, management does  not  represent
that  these  sectors, if operated independently, could  earn  the
operating income shown.

                Industrial      Life   Corporate and      Total
(Millions)    and Consumer  Sciences     Unallocated    Company

Net sales     1996  $8,891    $5,242          $  103    $14,236
              1995   8,364     5,019              77     13,460
              1994   7,574     4,505              69     12,148
Operating     1996  $1,543    $1,091          $ (143)*  $ 2,491
income        1995   1,336     1,065            (180)*    2,221
              1994   1,219       955             (79)*    2,095
Identifiable  1996  $5,681    $3,669          $4,014    $13,364
assets **     1995   5,476     3,278           5,429     14,183
              1994   5,240     3,032           4,796     13,068
Depreciation  1996  $  480    $  262          $   83    $   825
              1995     471       253              71        795
              1994     475       261              57        793
Capital       1996  $  643    $  445          $   21    $ 1,109
expenditures  1995     623       443              22      1,088
              1994     605       357              10        972

*   Operating  income  includes  unallocated  corporate  overhead
expenses,   some   of  which  historically  were   allocated   to
discontinued  operations.  Operating income for 1995  includes  a
$79 million restructuring charge.
**  Identifiable  assets for business sectors  primarily  include
accounts   receivable;  inventory;  net   property,   plant   and
equipment;  and other miscellaneous assets.  Assets  included  in
the  Corporate and Unallocated column principally  are  cash  and
cash   equivalents;  other  securities;  insurance   receivables;
deferred income taxes; certain investments and other assets;  net
assets   of  discontinued  operations;  and  certain  unallocated
property, plant and equipment.

Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to
the current presentation.


Revenue by Classes of Similar Products or Services (Unaudited)
(Millions)                           1996        1995        1994
Tape products                     $ 2,096     $ 2,042     $ 1,801
Abrasive products                   1,270       1,220       1,117
Automotive and chemical products    1,460       1,328       1,195
Connecting and insulating products  1,564       1,470       1,362
Consumer and office products        2,460       2,272       2,069
Health care products                2,356       2,221       2,002
Safety and personal care products   1,301       1,220       1,067
All other products                  1,729       1,687       1,535
  Total                           $14,236     $13,460     $12,148



    Geographic Areas
Information  in  the table below is presented on  the  basis  the
company  uses to manage the business.  Export sales  and  certain
income  and  expense  items are reported in the  geographic  area
where the final sale to customers is made, rather than where  the
transaction originates.

                                           Latin
                          Europe         America, Elimina-
                             and          Africa   tions
                  United  Middle    Asia     and     and    Total
(Millions)        States    East Pacific  Canada   Other  Company
Net sales to 1996 $6,655  $3,620  $2,577  $1,359  $   25  $14,236
customers    1995  6,207   3,489   2,533   1,201      30   13,460
             1994  5,944   2,937   2,174   1,059      34   12,148

Transfers    1996 $1,531  $  173  $   34  $  206 $(1,944)  $   --
between      1995  1,382     153      43     188  (1,766)      --
geographic   1994  1,227     149      31     152  (1,559)      --
areas

Operating    1996 $1,125  $  463  $  617  $  304 $   (18) $ 2,491
income       1995    925     456     617     247     (24)   2,221
             1994  1,035     346     525     222     (33)   2,095

Identifiable 1996 $7,825 $ 2,917 $ 1,761  $  861 $    --  $13,364
assets*      1995  7,337   2,782   1,802     854   1,408   14,183
             1994  6,462   2,420   1,734     783   1,669   13,068

*Net  assets  of  discontinued operations  are  reported  in  the
Eliminations and Other column.

Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to
the current presentation.

    Retirement Plans
3M   has  various  company-sponsored  retirement  plans  covering
substantially all U.S. employees and many employees  outside  the
United  States.   Pension benefits are based  principally  on  an
employee's  years  of service and compensation  near  retirement.
Plan   assets   are  invested  in  common  stocks,   fixed-income
securities, real estate and other investments.

Retirement Plans (continued)

The  company's  funding policy is to deposit with an  independent
trustee amounts at least equal to those required by law.  A trust
fund   is   maintained  to  provide  pension  benefits  to   plan
participants and their beneficiaries.  In addition, a  number  of
plans  are maintained by deposits with insurance companies.   The
charge  to  income relating to these plans was  $173  million  in
1996, $152 million in 1995 and $153 million in 1994.

Under its U.S. pension plan, 3M has elected to retain the benefit
obligations  (and  related  plan assets)  applicable  to  service
provided  to  3M by U.S. Imation employees prior to the  date  of
distribution  of Imation common stock to 3M stockholders.   As  a
result  of the distribution, 3M's U.S. pension plan was  revalued
as  of July 1, 1996, to reflect certain plan changes, the effects
of the restructuring and discontinued operations, and a change in
the  discount rate to 7.75 percent. The effects of these  changes
were not material.

Net Pension Cost            U.S. Plan        International Plans
(Millions)             1996    1995    1994  1996    1995   1994
Service cost           $121    $ 96    $117  $ 77    $ 86    $85
Interest cost           332     304     280    94      92     89
Return on plan
  assets - actual      (584)   (846)     70   (87)   (124)    (2)
Net amortization
  and deferral          230     532    (377)  (10)     39    (79)
Discontinued operations  --     (14)    (16)   --     (13)   (14)
  Net pension cost     $ 99    $ 72    $ 74  $ 74    $ 80    $79


Funded Status of Pension Plans
                                U.S. Plan     International Plans
(Millions)                    1996     1995        1996     1995
Plan assets at fair value   $4,642   $4,134      $1,369   $1,293
Accrued(prepaid) pension cost   77       97          (4)     110
Amount provided for
  future benefits           $4,719   $4,231      $1,365   $1,403
Actuarial present value
  Vested benefit obligation  3,939    3,666       1,007    1,051
  Non vested benefit
   obligation                  436      521         110      108
Accumulated benefit
  obligation                $4,375   $4,187      $1,117   $1,159
Amount provided for future
  benefits less accumulated
  benefit obligation           344       44         248      244
Projected benefit obligation 4,800    4,696       1,439    1,482
Plan assets at fair value
  less projected benefit
  obligation                $ (158)  $ (562)     $  (70)  $ (189)
Unrecognized net transition
  (asset) obligation          (112)    (149)         23       22
Other unrecognized items       193      614          51       57
  (Accrued)prepaid
  pension cost              $  (77)  $ ( 97)     $    4   $ (110)


                             U.S. Plan        International Plans
Assumptions at Year End  1996   1995   1994    1996   1995   1994
Discount rate           7.50%  7.00%  8.25%   7.10%  7.10%  7.45%
Compensation rate
  increase              4.85%  5.00%  5.00%   5.60%  5.38%  5.71%
Long-term rate of
  return on assets      9.00%  9.00%  9.00%   7.68%  7.59%  7.65%
Net pension cost is determined using assumptions at the beginning
of  the  year (adjusted July 1, 1996, for 1996 net pension cost).
Funded status is determined using assumptions at year-end.

    Other Postretirement Benefits
The  company provides health care and life insurance benefits for
substantially all of its U.S. employees who reach retirement  age
while  employed by the company.  The company has set aside  funds
with an independent trustee for these postretirement benefits and
makes periodic contributions to the plan.  The trustee invests in
common stocks and fixed-income securities.  Employees outside the
United  States  are  covered principally by  government-sponsored
plans.  The cost of company-provided plans for these employees is
not material.

3M has agreed to provide other postretirement benefits to certain
U.S. Imation employees based on defined eligibility criteria.  As
a  result  of  the  distribution of Imation common  stock  to  3M
stockholders, 3M's U.S. postretirement plans were revalued as  of
July 1, 1996, to reflect certain plan changes, the effects of the
restructuring  and discontinued operations, and a change  in  the
discount rate to 7.75 percent. The effects of these changes  were
not material.

The  table  below  shows  the  components  of  the  net  periodic
postretirement benefit cost and a reconciliation  of  the  funded
status of the postretirement benefit plan for U.S. employees.

Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost
(Millions)                      1996         1995          1994
Service cost                    $ 29         $ 26          $ 28
Interest cost                     66           63            55
Return on plan assets - actual   (50)         (76)           16
Net amortization and deferral     16           51           (40)
Discontinued operations           --          (11)          (10)
  Total                         $ 61         $ 53          $ 49


Funded Status of Postretirement Benefit Plan
(Millions)                                 1996            1995
Fair value of plan assets                 $ 449           $ 398
Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation
  Retirees                                $ 305           $ 286
  Fully eligible active plan participants   333             201
  Other active plan participants            305             468
  Benefit obligation                      $ 943           $ 955
Plan assets less benefit obligation       $(494)          $(557)
Adjustments and unrecognized items           29             134
  Accrued postretirement cost             $(465)          $(423)

The  company  determines  the accumulated postretirement  benefit
obligation  and  related  benefit  costs  by  applying   relevant
actuarial assumptions.  The company expects its health care  cost
trend  rate  to slow from 6.9 percent in 1997 to 5.0  percent  in
2004,  after which the rate is expected to stabilize.  The effect
of  a  one  percentage point increase in the assumed health  care
cost  trend rate for each future year would increase the  benefit
obligation by $92 million and the current year benefit expense by
$11  million. Other actuarial assumptions at December  31,  1996,
include  an expected long-term rate of return on plan  assets  of
9.0  percent (before taxes applicable to a portion of the  return
on plan assets), and a discount rate of 7.5 percent.

    Employee Savings and Stock Ownership Plans
The  company sponsors employee savings plans under Section 401(k)
of  the  Internal  Revenue  Code.  These  plans  are  offered  to
substantially  all regular U.S. employees.  The  company  matches
employee contributions of up to 6 percent of compensation with  a
basic  match  at  rates  ranging from  10  to  35  percent,  with
additional contributions depending upon company performance.

The company maintains an Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) for
substantially   all  regular  U.S.  employees  not   covered   by
collective  bargaining agreements.  This plan was established  in
1989  as  a  cost  effective  way  of  funding  certain  employee
retirement  savings  benefits, including the  company's  matching
contributions  under  401(k) employee savings  plans.   The  ESOP
borrowed  $548  million to purchase 15.4 million  shares  of  the
company's common stock, previously held in treasury.  Because the
company  has guaranteed repayment of the ESOP debt, the debt  and
related  unearned  compensation are recorded in the  Consolidated
Balance Sheet.

Dividends  on shares held by the ESOP are paid to the ESOP  trust
and, together with company contributions, are used by the ESOP to
repay  principal and interest on the outstanding  notes.   Shares
are  released for allocation to participants based upon the ratio
of  the current year's debt service to the sum of total principal
and interest payments over the life of the notes.

Annual  expenses  related to the ESOP generally  represent  total
debt  service  on  the  notes, less dividends,  and  totaled  $36
million  in  1996, $30 million in 1995 and $32 million  in  1994.
These  amounts  are  reported  as an  employee  benefit  expense.
Unearned  compensation,  shown as a  reduction  of  stockholders'
equity,  is  reduced by the higher of principal payments  or  the
cost of shares allocated.

Interest  incurred  on the ESOP's notes totaled  $34  million  in
1996,  $37 million in 1995 and $39 million in 1994.  The  company
paid  dividends on the stock held by the ESOP of $28  million  in
1996,  $28  million  in 1995 and $26 million  in  1994.   Company
contributions to the ESOP were $37 million in 1996,  $40  million
in 1995 and $35 million in 1994.

In  July 1996, the ESOP received Imation shares from the spin-off
distribution. These shares were sold, and the proceeds were  used
to purchase additional 3M shares.

ESOP Shares                  1996         1995          1994
Allocated               5,202,188    5,116,265     4,236,925
Committed to be released  399,220           --            --
Unreleased              9,103,730    9,892,575    10,941,944
  Total                14,705,138   15,008,840    15,178,869


    General Employees' Stock Purchase Plan
Substantially  all U.S. employees are eligible to participate  in
the   company's   General   Employees'   Stock   Purchase   Plan.
Participants are granted options at 85 percent of market value at
the  date  of grant.  Options must be exercised within 27  months
from date of grant.

                     1996                1995                1994
                       Weighted            Weighted            Weighted
                        Average             Average             Average
                       Exercise            Exercise            Exercise
                 Shares   Price      Shares   Price      Shares   Price
Under option-
January 1       350,805  $50.21     369,200  $44.21     472,898  $44.86
Granted       1,498,538   58.78   1,778,647   48.72   1,711,898   44.28
Exercised    (1,501,011)  55.67  (1,741,794)  47.56  (1,750,579)  44.52
Canceled        (55,837)  52.07     (55,248)  45.75     (65,017)  42.30
December 31     292,495  $62.35     350,805  $50.21     369,200  $44.21
Options exercisable-
December 31      84,893  $63.87     112,495  $51.58     118,050  $46.67
Shares available for grant-
December 31  12,793,449          14,236,150          15,959,549
The  exercise prices of options outstanding at December 31, 1996,
ranged  from $40.36 to $70.13, with an average remaining life  of
23 months.

    Management Stock Ownership Program
Management stock options are granted at market value at the  date
of  grant. These options are exercisable one year after the  date
of  grant  and  expire 10 years from the date of  grant.   During
1996,  the plan was extended to about 6,000 additional management
employees,  bringing the number of participants at year  end   to
10,296.  To preserve the intrinsic value of the management  stock
options  after  the Imation spin-off, the number  of  outstanding
options  and the related exercise price were adjusted,  resulting
in no economic impact to participants or to the company.

                      1996                1995                1994     
                        Weighted            Weighted            Weighted
                         Average             Average             Average
                        Exercise            Exercise            Exercise
                  Shares   Price      Shares   Price      Shares   Price
Under option-
January 1     23,974,715  $47.93  22,715,941  $44.82  20,182,694  $42.96
Granted        5,810,480   65.54   4,300,298   59.21   4,228,789   50.52
Imation Corp.
  Adjustment   1,097,520   50.07
Exercised     (4,225,544)  43.11  (3,001,292)  40.56  (1,656,146)  36.57
Canceled        (169,836)  53.17     (40,232)  47.25     (39,396)  43.25
December 31   26,487,335  $52.61  23,974,715  $47.93  22,715,941  $44.82
Options exercisable-
December 31   20,462,410  $49.54  20,219,581  $45.72  18,960,735  $43.77
Shares available for grant-
December 31    6,555,234          13,323,715          17,595,213



Management Stock Ownership Program (continued)

Options Outstanding and Exercisable at December 31, 1996
                      Options Outstanding           Options Exercisable
                              Weighted
                               Average  Weighted               Weighted
Range of       Number of     Remaining   Average    Number of   Average
Exercise         Options   Contractual  Exercise      Options  Exercise
Prices       Outstanding  Life (months)    Price  Exercisable     Price
$30.60-46.00   7,041,348      44          $38.66    7,041,348    $38.66
 46.10-66.49  19,445,987      96           57.67   13,421,062     55.26

    Stock-Based Compensation
No   compensation  cost  has  been  recognized  for  the  General
Employees'  Stock  Purchase Plan (GESPP) or the Management  Stock
Ownership  Program  (MSOP).   Pro  forma  amounts  based  on  the
options' fair value at the grant dates for awards under the GESPP
and MSOP are presented below.

Pro Forma Net Income and Net Income Per Share
(Millions)                    1996        1995 
Net income
  As reported               $1,526       $ 976
  Pro forma                  1,439         911
Net income per share
  As reported               $ 3.65       $2.32
  Pro forma                   3.44        2.17

The  weighted average fair value per option granted  during  1996
and 1995 was $10.37 and $8.60 for the GESPP and $13.43 and $12.48
for  the  incentive  MSOP  grants,  respectively.   The  weighted
average fair value was calculated by using the fair value of each
option  grant  on  the date of grant.  The fair  value  of  GESPP
options  was based on the 15 percent purchase discount,  and  for
MSOP  options was calculated utilizing the Black-Scholes  option-
pricing model and the following key assumptions:

MSOP Assumptions         1996    1995
Risk-free interest rate  6.4%    5.9%
Dividend growth          4.3%    5.2%
Volatility              14.2%   14.4%
Expected life (months)    66      66



    Legal Proceedings
Discussion  of  legal matters is incorporated by  reference  from
Part  I,  Item 3, of this Form 10-K, and should be considered  an
integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes.





  Quarterly Data (Unaudited)

 (Millions, except per-share data)
                  First    Second      Third    Fourth      Year
Net sales
1996             $3,468    $3,522     $3,623    $3,623   $14,236
1995              3,361     3,424      3,370     3,305    13,460
Cost of goods sold
1996             $1,990    $1,986     $2,069    $2,054   $ 8,099
1995              1,886     1,949      1,942     1,943     7,720
Income from continuing operations
1996             $  362    $  381     $  398    $  375   $ 1,516
1995                355       346        339       266*    1,306*
Discontinued operations
1996             $   --    $   --     $   --    $   10   $    10
1995                 21         7          5      (363)     (330)
Net income (loss)
1996             $  362    $  381     $  398    $  385   $ 1,526
1995                376       353        344       (97)      976
Per share - continuing operations
1996             $  .87    $  .91     $  .95    $  .90   $  3.63
1995                .85       .82        .81       .63*     3.11*
Per share - discontinued operations
1996             $   --    $   --     $   --    $  .02   $   .02
1995                .05       .02        .01      (.87)     (.79)
Per share - net income (loss)
1996             $  .87    $  .91     $  .95    $  .92   $  3.65
1995                .90       .84        .82      (.24)     2.32

Stock price comparisons (NYSE composite transactions)**
1996 High        $69.88    $70.75     $71.75    $85.88   $ 85.88
1996 Low          62.00     63.50      61.25     68.63     61.25
1995 High         58.88     62.13      60.13     69.88     69.88
1995 Low          50.75     56.50      53.88     55.13     50.75

*  Includes a pre-tax restructuring charge of $79 million, or  12
cents a share.

**Not  adjusted  for  the distribution of the  commmon  stock  of
Imation Corp.


Item 9.   Changes  in  and  Disagreements  With  Accountants   on
       Accounting and Financial Disclosure.

None.

                             PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.

Item 11. Executive Compensation.

Item 12. Security  Ownership of Certain Beneficial  Owners  and
Management.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.

The  information required by Items 10 through 13 are incorporated
by  reference  from the registrant's definitive  proxy  statement
pursuant  to general instruction G(3).  The registrant will  file
with  the  Commission  a definitive proxy statement  pursuant  to
Regulation 14A before April 30, 1997.


                              PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports  on
Form 8-K.

(a)  The  financial statements filed as part of this  report  are
   listed in the index to financial statements on page 44.

All  financial  statement schedules are omitted  because  of  the
absence  of  the  conditions under which  they  are  required  or
because  the  required information is included in  the  financial
statements or the notes thereto.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K:

The company filed a report on Form 8-K dated November 20, 1996.

Item 7, Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and
Exhibits.  An exhibit was attached to this Form 8-K that contains
the  Bylaws  of  Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing  Company,  as
amended as of November 11, 1996.  A significant amendment to  the
Bylaws  is  the addition of 90 day advance notice procedures  for
any  shareholder nominations of directors or other matters to  be
brought up at the annual meeting.


(c) Exhibits:

Incorporated by Reference:

                                      Incorporated by Reference in the
                                                  Report From

(3)  Restated certificate of incorporation           Exhibit (3) to
     and bylaws, amended to and                      Form 10-Q
     including amendments of                         for period ended
     May 12, 1987.                                   June 30, 1987.

     Bylaws, as amended as of November 11, 1996.     Form 8-K dated
                                                     November 20, 1996.

(4)  Instruments defining the rights of security
     holders, including debentures:
     (a) common stock.                        Exhibit (3) above.
     (b) medium-term notes.                   Registration No. 33-48089
                                              on Form S-3.

(10)  Material contracts, management
      remuneration:
     (a) management stock ownership program.  Exhibit 4 of
                                              Registration Nos. 33-49842
                                              and 33-58767 on Form S-8.
     (b) profit sharing plan, performance     Written description
         unit plan and other compensation     contained in issuer's
         arrangements.                        proxy statement for the
                                              1997 annual shareholders'
                                              meeting.


                                              Reference (pages)
                                                   Form 10-K
   Submitted herewith:

        (11)  Computation of per share earnings.           45

        (12)  Calculation of ratio of earnings
              to fixed charges.                            46

        (21)  Subsidiaries of the registrant.              47

        (23)  Consent of experts.                          48

        (24)  Power of attorney.                           49

        (27)  Financial data schedule for the year ended
              December 31, 1996 (EDGAR filing only).

SIGNATURES

Pursuant  to  the  requirements of Section 13 of  the  Securities
Exchange Act of l934, the registrant has duly caused this  report
to  be  signed  on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto  duly
authorized.

                  MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY



                    By  /s/ Giulio Agostini
                       Giulio Agostini, Senior Vice President
                       Principal Financial and Accounting Officer
                       March 10, 1997

Pursuant  to the requirements of the Securities Exchange  Act  of
1934,  this report has been signed below by the following persons
on  behalf  of the registrant and in the capacities indicated  on
March 10, 1997.

Signature               Title

LIVIO D. DeSIMONE       Chairman of the Board and
                        Chief Executive Officer, Director

RONALD O. BAUKOL        Director
EDWARD A. BRENNAN       Director
ALLEN F. JACOBSON       Director
W. GEORGE MEREDITH      Director
RONALD A. MITSCH        Director
ALLEN E. MURRAY         Director
AULANA L. PETERS        Director
ROZANNE L. RIDGWAY      Director
FRANK SHRONTZ           Director
F. ALAN SMITH           Director
LOUIS W. SULLIVAN       Director


Roger P. Smith, by signing his name hereto, does hereby sign this
document  pursuant  to powers of attorney duly  executed  by  the
other  persons  named,  filed with the  Securities  and  Exchange
Commission on behalf of such other persons, all in the capacities
and  on the date stated, such persons constituting a majority  of
the directors of the company.

                              By  /s/ Roger P. Smith
                                 Roger P. Smith, Attorney-in-Fact


