
10-K
0001.txt


================================================================================

                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

             [ X ] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF
                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                   FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000
                                       OR
            [ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF
                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                       FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM TO
                           COMMISSION FILE NO. 1-2217

                      [THE COCA-COLA COMPANY LOGO PASTEUP]

             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

                  DELAWARE                        58-0628465
       (State or other jurisdiction of          (IRS Employer
        incorporation or organization)         Identification No.)

            ONE COCA-COLA PLAZA                      30313
              ATLANTA, GEORGIA                     (Zip Code)
   (Address of principal executive offices)

   REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: (404) 676-2121

        SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:

                                                NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE ON
      TITLE OF EACH CLASS                           WHICH REGISTERED
      -------------------                       ------------------------
   COMMON STOCK, $.25 PAR VALUE                 NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

     SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT: NONE

INDICATE  BY CHECK  MARK  WHETHER  THE  REGISTRANT  (1) HAS FILED  ALL  REPORTS
REQUIRED TO BE FILED BY SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE  SECURITIES  EXCHANGE  ACT OF
1934  DURING THE  PRECEDING  12 MONTHS AND (2) HAS BEEN  SUBJECT TO SUCH  FILING
REQUIREMENTS FOR THE PAST 90 DAYS.

                        YES [X]           NO [ }

INDICATE BY CHECK MARK IF DISCLOSURE OF DELINQUENT  FILERS PURSUANT TO ITEM 405
OF REGULATION  S-K IS NOT CONTAINED  HEREIN,  AND WILL NOT BE CONTAINED,  TO THE
BEST OF REGISTRANT'S  KNOWLEDGE,  IN DEFINITIVE PROXY OR INFORMATION  STATEMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN PART III OF THIS FORM 10-K OR ANY AMENDMENT TO THIS
FORM 10-K.  [ ]

THE AGGREGATE MARKET VALUE OF THE COMMON EQUITY HELD BY  NON-AFFILIATES  OF THE
REGISTRANT  (ASSUMING  FOR  THESE  PURPOSES,  BUT  WITHOUT  CONCEDING,  THAT ALL
EXECUTIVE  OFFICERS AND  DIRECTORS ARE  "AFFILIATES"  OF THE  REGISTRANT)  AS OF
FEBRUARY  20, 2001 (BASED ON THE CLOSING SALE PRICE OF THE  REGISTRANT'S  COMMON
STOCK AS REPORTED  ON THE NEW YORK STOCK  EXCHANGE  ON  FEBRUARY  20,  2001) WAS
$126,595,639,441.

THE  NUMBER  OF  SHARES  OUTSTANDING  OF THE  REGISTRANT'S  COMMON  STOCK AS OF
FEBRUARY 20, 2001, WAS 2,487,036,532.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

PORTIONS  OF THE  COMPANY'S  ANNUAL  REPORT TO SHARE  OWNERS FOR THE YEAR ENDED
DECEMBER 31, 2000, ARE INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN PARTS I, II AND IV.


PORTIONS  OF THE  COMPANY'S  PROXY  STATEMENT  FOR THE ANNUAL  MEETING OF SHARE
OWNERS TO BE HELD ON APRIL 18, 2001, ARE INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN PART III.

================================================================================
                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS
- ----------------

     The Coca-Cola  Company  (together with its  subsidiaries,  the "Company" or
"our Company") was incorporated in September 1919 under the laws of the State of
Delaware and  succeeded to the business of a Georgia  corporation  with the same
name that had been organized in 1892.  Our Company is the largest  manufacturer,
distributor  and  marketer of soft drink  concentrates  and syrups in the world.
Finished beverage products bearing the Company's trademarks,  sold in the United
States since 1886,  are now sold in nearly 200 countries and include the leading
soft drink  products in most of these  countries.  The Company  also markets and
distributes  juice and  juice-drink  products.

     Our  Company is one of numerous  competitors  in the  commercial  beverages
market.  Of the approximately 48 billion beverage servings of all types consumed
worldwide  every day,  beverages  bearing  the  Company's  trademarks  ("Company
Trademark  Beverages")  account for more than one  billion.

     The  business of our Company is nonalcoholic beverages -- principally  soft
drinks but also a variety of  noncarbonated  beverages.  As used in this report,
the term "soft drinks" refers to nonalcoholic  carbonated  beverages  containing
flavorings  and  sweeteners,   excluding   flavored  waters  and  carbonated  or
noncarbonated  teas,  coffees and sports drinks.

     Our Company believes that its success  ultimately depends on its ability to
build and nurture  relationships with others:  consumers,  customers,  bottlers,
partners,  governmental  authorities  and other  constituencies  touched  by our
business.  To this end, the Company has adopted an overriding  business strategy
of "Think  local,  act  local,"  applicable  to  virtually  all  aspects  of its
business. This strategy is designed to put the responsibility and accountability
for ensuring local relevance and maximizing business performance in the hands of
those closest to the market, locale by locale.

     For the year ended  December 31, 2000,  the Company's  operating  structure
included the following  operating  segments:  the North America Group (including
The Minute  Maid  Company);  the Africa and Middle  East  Group;  the Europe and
Eurasia Group;  the Latin America Group;  the Asia Pacific Group; and Corporate.
The North America Group includes the United States and Canada. Effective January
1,  2000,  two  of  the  Company's   operating   segments  were   geographically
reconfigured  and renamed.  The Middle East & North Africa Division was added to
the Africa Group, which changed its name to the Africa and Middle East Group. At
the same time the Middle & Far East  Group,  less the  relocated  Middle  East &
North Africa Division, changed its name to the Asia Pacific Group. In the fourth
quarter of 2000,  the  Greater  Europe  Group was renamed the Europe and Eurasia
Group.

     On March 4,  2001,  our  Company  announced  a new  operational  management
structure.  Four strategic  business units are being  created:  Americas,  Asia,
Europe/Africa,  and  Coca-Cola  Ventures.  The heads of of these four  strategic
business units will be as follows:  Jeffrey T. Dunn (Americas),  A.R.C.  "Sandy"
Allan (Asia), Charles S. Frenette (Europe/Africa) and Steven J. Heyer (Coca-Cola
Ventures).  See "Item X. -- Executive Officers of the Company." These executives
will  report to Douglas N. Daft,  Chairman of the Board of  Directors  and Chief
Executive  Officer of the Company.  All other corporate  functions will maintain
their current reporting responsibilities.

     Except to the  extent  that  differences  between  operating  segments  are
material to an  understanding  of our Company's  business taken as a whole,  the
description  of  the  Company's  business  in  this  report  is  presented  on a
consolidated  basis.

     In the following table,  prior period amounts have been restated to conform
to the current period presentation.  Of the Company's consolidated net operating
revenues and operating  income for each of the past three years,  the percentage
represented by each operating segment (excluding Corporate) is as follows:





     For additional financial information about the Company's operating segments
and  geographic  areas,  see  Notes 1, 14 and 18 to the  Consolidated  Financial
Statements,  set forth on pages  51-52,  62-63 and 65-67,  respectively,  of the
Company's  Annual  Report to Share Owners for the year ended  December 31, 2000,
incorporated herein by reference.

     Our Company  manufactures and sells soft drink and  noncarbonated  beverage
concentrates and syrups, including fountain syrups, some finished beverages, and
certain juice and juice-drink products. Syrups are composed of sweetener,  water
and flavoring  concentrate.  The  concentrates and syrups for bottled and canned
beverages are sold by the Company to authorized bottling and canning operations.
The  bottlers or canners of soft drink  products  either  combine the syrup with
carbonated water or combine the concentrate with sweetener, water and carbonated
water to produce finished soft drinks.  The finished soft drinks are packaged in
authorized containers bearing our Company's  trademarks -- cans,  refillable and
non-refillable glass and plastic  bottles -- for sale to  retailers  or, in some
cases,  wholesalers.  Fountain syrups are  manufactured and sold by the Company,
principally in the United States,  to authorized  fountain  wholesalers and some
fountain  retailers.  (Outside the United States,  fountain syrups typically are
manufactured  by  authorized  bottlers  from  concentrates  sold  to them by the
Company.)   Authorized  fountain   wholesalers   (including  certain  authorized
bottlers) sell fountain syrups to fountain retailers. The fountain retailers use
dispensing  equipment to mix the syrup with  carbonated  or still water and then
sell  finished soft drinks or  noncarbonated  beverages to consumers in cups and
glasses.  Finished  beverages  manufactured  by our  Company  are  sold by it to
authorized  bottlers  or  distributors,  who in  turn  sell  these  products  to
retailers or, in some cases, wholesalers. Both directly and through a network of
business   partners  that  includes  certain  Coca-Cola   bottlers,   juice  and
juice-drink  products  manufactured  by the  Company  are sold by our Company to
retailers and wholesalers in the United States and numerous other countries.

     The Company's  beverage  products,  including  bottled and canned beverages
produced by independent and Company-owned  bottling and canning  operations,  as
well as concentrates and syrups, include Coca-Cola,  Coca-Cola classic, caffeine
free  Coca-Cola,  caffeine  free  Coca-Cola  classic,  diet Coke (sold under the
trademark Coca-Cola light in many countries outside the United States), caffeine
free diet Coke, Cherry Coke, diet Cherry Coke, Fanta brand soft drinks,  Sprite,
diet Sprite,  Mr. Pibb,  Mello Yello,  TAB,  Fresca,  Barq's root beer and other
flavors,  Surge,  Citra,  POWERaDE,  Fruitopia,  Minute Maid flavors,  Aquarius,
Sokenbicha,  Ciel, Bonaqa,  Dasani,  Lift, Thums Up and other products developed
for specific  countries,  including Georgia brand  ready-to-drink  coffees,  and
numerous  other brands.  In many countries  (excluding the United States,  among
others) our Company's beverage products also include  Schweppes,  Canada Dry, Dr
Pepper and Crush. The Minute Maid Company, a division with operations  primarily
in the United States and Canada,  produces,  distributes and markets principally
juice and juice-drink products, including Minute Maid brand products, Five Alive
brand refreshment beverages,  Bright & Early brand breakfast beverages,  Bacardi
brand  tropical  fruit mixers  (manufactured  and marketed  under a license from
Bacardi  &  Company  Limited),  and  Hi-C  brand  ready-to-serve  fruit  drinks.
Additionally,  Coca-Cola  Nestle Refreshments,  the Company's joint venture with
Nestle S.A., markets ready-to-drink teas and coffees in certain countries.

     Ultimately,  consumer demand determines the optimal menu of Company product
offerings. Consumer demand often varies from one locale to another, and can also
change over time within a single locale.  Employing the "Think local, act local"
business strategy, and with special focus on brand Coca-Cola,  the Company seeks
to build its existing  brands and, at the same time,  to broaden its  historical
portfolio  of brands,  products  and  services  in order to create  and  satisfy
consumer demand locale by locale.




     In 2000,  concentrates  and  syrups for  beverages  bearing  the  trademark
"Coca-Cola" or including the trademark "Coke" accounted for approximately 62% of
the Company's total gallon sales {1}.

     In  2000,  gallon  sales  in  the  United  States  ("U.S.   gallon  sales")
represented  approximately 30% of the Company's worldwide gallon sales. In 2000,
our  Company's  principal  markets  outside the United  States,  based on gallon
sales,  were Mexico,  Brazil,  Japan and Germany,  which together  accounted for
approximately 26% of the Company's worldwide gallon sales.

     Approximately  57%  of  our  Company's  U.S.  gallon  sales  for  2000  was
attributable to sales of beverage  concentrates  and syrups to  approximately 84
authorized  bottler ownership groups in approximately 396 licensed  territories.
Those  bottlers  prepare  and sell  finished  beverages  bearing  the  Company's
trademarks for the food store and vending machine distribution  channels and for
other   distribution   channels   supplying  home  and  immediate   consumption.
Approximately  35% of 2000 U.S. gallon sales was attributable to fountain syrups
sold  to  fountain  retailers  and  to  approximately  525  authorized  fountain
wholesalers, some of whom are authorized bottlers. These fountain wholesalers in
turn sell the syrups or deliver them on the Company's  behalf to restaurants and
other fountain  retailers.  The remaining  approximately  8% of 2000 U.S. gallon
sales was  attributable  to juice and juice-drink  products  sold by The Minute
Maid Company.  Coca-Cola  Enterprises Inc., including its bottling  subsidiaries
and divisions ("Coca-Cola Enterprises"),  accounted for approximately 48% of the
Company's  U.S.  gallon sales in 2000. At December 31, 2000, our Company held an
ownership interest of approximately 40% in Coca-Cola  Enterprises,  which is the
world's  largest  bottler  of  Company  Trademark  Beverages.

     In addition to conducting  its own  independent  advertising  and marketing
activities,  our Company may provide  promotional and marketing  services and/or
funds and consultation to its bottlers and to fountain and bottle/can retailers,
usually but not always on a discretionary  basis. Also on a discretionary basis,
in most cases, the Company may develop and introduce new products,  packages and
equipment  to assist its  bottlers,  fountain  syrup  wholesalers  and  fountain
beverage  retailers.

     The  profitability  of our Company's  business outside the United States is
subject to many factors,  including  governmental trade regulations and monetary
policies,  economic  and  political  conditions  in the  countries in which such
business is  conducted  and the risk of changes in currency  exchange  rates and
regulations.

     BOTTLER'S AGREEMENTS AND DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENTS

     Separate contracts ("Bottler's Agreements") between our Company and each of
its bottlers  regarding  the  manufacture  and sale of soft  drinks,  subject to
specified terms and conditions and certain  variations,  generally authorize the
bottler to prepare particular designated Company Trademark Beverages, to package
the same in particular  authorized  containers,  and to distribute  and sell the
same  in (but  generally  only  in) an  identified  territory.  The  bottler  is
obligated to purchase its entire  requirement of  concentrates or syrups for the
designated  Company Trademark  Beverages from the Company or  Company-authorized
suppliers.  Our Company typically agrees to refrain from selling or distributing
or from authorizing  third parties to sell or distribute the designated  Company
Trademark  Beverages  throughout  the  identified  territory  in the  particular
authorized containers; however, the

- ---------------

{1} Our Company  measures sales volume in two ways: (1) gallon sales and (2)
unit cases of finished products.  "Gallon sales" represents the primary business
of the Company and means the sum of (a) the volume of concentrates (converted to
their  equivalents  in gallons of syrup) and syrups  sold by the  Company to its
bottling partners or customers directly or through wholesalers and distributors,
and (b) the gallon sales  equivalent of the juice and juice-drink  products sold
by The Minute Maid  Company.  Most of the  Company's  revenues are based on this
measure of "wholesale" activity. Our Company also measures volume in unit cases.
As used in this  report,  "unit case" means a unit of  measurement  equal to 192
U.S. fluid ounces of finished beverage (24 eight-ounce servings); and "unit case
volume" of the Company means the sum of (i) the number of unit cases sold by the
Coca-Cola  bottling system and by our Company to customers,  including  fountain
syrups  sold by our Company to  customers  directly  or through  wholesalers  or
distributors,  and (ii) the volume of juice and juice-drink  products (expressed
in equivalent  unit cases) sold by The Minute Maid Company.  Component (i) above
primarily  includes unit case  equivalents of products  reported as gallon sales
and other key products owned by Coca-Cola bottling system bottlers.  Our Company
believes unit case volume more  accurately  measures the underlying  strength of
its business system because it measures trends at the retail level.




Company  typically  reserves  for itself or its  designee  the right (i) to
prepare and package such beverages in such  containers in the territory for sale
outside the territory  and (ii) to prepare,  package,  distribute  and sell such
beverages in the territory in any other manner or form.

     The Bottler's Agreements between our Company and its authorized bottlers in
the United States differ in certain  respects from those in the other  countries
in which Company  Trademark  Beverages are sold. As hereinafter  discussed,  the
principal  differences involve the duration of the agreements;  the inclusion or
exclusion of canned beverage  production  rights;  the inclusion or exclusion of
authorizations to manufacture and distribute fountain syrups; in some cases, the
degree of  flexibility  on the part of the Company to  determine  the pricing of
syrups and concentrates;  and the extent, if any, of the Company's obligation to
provide marketing support.

     OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES. The Bottler's Agreements between our Company and
its  authorized  bottlers  outside  the United  States  generally  are of stated
duration,  subject in some cases to possible  extensions or renewals of the term
of the contract.  Generally,  these  contracts are subject to termination by the
Company following the occurrence of certain designated events, including defined
events of default and certain changes in ownership or control of the bottler.

     In certain  parts of the world outside the United  States,  the Company has
not granted  comprehensive  beverage production rights to the bottlers.  In such
instances,  our Company or its designee typically sells canned (or in some cases
bottled) Company  Trademark  Beverages to the bottlers for sale and distribution
throughout the designated  territory under distribution  agreements,  often on a
non-exclusive basis. A majority of the Bottler's Agreements in force between the
Company  and  bottlers  outside  the  United  States  authorize  the  bottler to
manufacture and distribute  fountain syrups,  usually on a non-exclusive  basis.

     Our Company  generally has complete  flexibility to determine the price and
other terms of sale of  concentrates  and syrups to bottlers  outside the United
States and,  although in its  discretion  it may determine to do so, the Company
typically (but not always) has no obligation under such Bottler's  Agreements to
provide  marketing  support to the bottlers.

     WITHIN THE UNITED STATES.  In the United States,  with certain very limited
exceptions,  the Bottler's  Agreements  for  Coca-Cola  and other  cola-flavored
beverages have no stated expiration date and the contracts for other flavors are
of stated duration,  subject to bottler renewal rights. The Bottler's Agreements
in  the  United   States  are  subject  to   termination   by  the  Company  for
nonperformance or upon the occurrence of certain defined events of default which
may vary from contract to contract. The hereinafter described "1987 Contract" is
terminable by the Company upon the occurrence of certain events  including:  (1)
the  bottler's  insolvency,  dissolution,  receivership  or the  like;  (2)  any
disposition by the bottler or any of its  subsidiaries of any voting  securities
of any bottler subsidiary  without the consent of the Company;  (3) any material
breach of any obligation of the bottler under the 1987  Contract;  or (4) except
in the case of certain  bottlers,  if a person or affiliated  group  acquires or
obtains any right to acquire beneficial  ownership of more than 10% of any class
or series of voting  securities  of the  bottler  without  authorization  by the
Company.

     Under the terms of the Bottler's Agreements,  bottlers in the United States
are authorized to  manufacture  and distribute  Company  Trademark  Beverages in
bottles and cans,  but generally  are not  authorized  to  manufacture  fountain
syrups.   Rather,  our  Company   manufactures  and  sells  fountain  syrups  to
approximately 525 authorized fountain wholesalers  (including certain authorized
bottlers) and some fountain  retailers.  The wholesalers in turn sell the syrups
or deliver them on the Company's behalf to restaurants and other retailers.  The
wholesaler  typically  acts pursuant to a  non-exclusive  letter of  appointment
which neither  restricts  the pricing of fountain  syrups by our Company nor the
territory in which the wholesaler may resell in the United States.

     In the United  States,  the form of Bottler's  Agreement for  cola-flavored
soft drinks that covers the largest amount of U.S. volume (the "1987  Contract")
gives the Company complete flexibility to determine the price and other terms of
sale of soft drink  concentrates and syrups for cola-flavored  Company Trademark
Beverages   ("Coca-Cola   Trademark  Beverages")  and  other  Company  Trademark
Beverages.   Bottlers   operating   under  the  1987   Contract   accounted  for
approximately  82% of our Company's total United States gallon sales for bottled
and canned  beverages,  excluding juice and  juice-drink  products of The Minute
Maid Company,  ("U.S.  bottle/can gallon sales") in 2000. Certain other forms of
the U.S. Bottler's Agreement, entered into prior to 1987, provide for soft drink
concentrates or syrups for certain  Coca-Cola  Trademark  Beverages to be priced
pursuant to a stated  formula.  The




oldest  such  form of  contract,  applicable  to  bottlers  accounting  for
approximately 1% of U.S.  bottle/can gallon sales in 2000,  provides for a fixed
price for  Coca-Cola  syrup  used in  bottles  and cans,  subject  to  quarterly
adjustments to reflect changes in the quoted price of sugar. Bottlers accounting
for the remaining approximately 17% of U.S. bottle/can gallon sales in 2000 have
contracts  for certain  Coca-Cola  Trademark  Beverages  with  pricing  formulas
generally  providing for a baseline price that may be adjusted  periodically  by
the  Company,  up to a  maximum  indexed  ceiling  price,  and that is  adjusted
quarterly  based  upon  changes  in  certain  sugar  or  sweetener   prices,  as
applicable.

     Standard  contracts  with  bottlers  in the  United  States for the sale of
concentrates  and syrups for non-cola-flavored soft drinks in bottles and cans
permit flexible pricing by the Company.

     Under the 1987 Contract,  our Company has no obligation to participate with
bottlers  in  expenditures  for  advertising  and  marketing,  but  may,  at its
discretion,  contribute  toward such  expenditures and undertake  independent or
cooperative advertising and marketing activities. Some U.S. Bottler's Agreements
that pre-date the 1987 Contract  impose  certain  marketing  obligations  on the
Company with respect to certain Company Trademark Beverages.


     SIGNIFICANT EQUITY  INVESTMENTS AND COMPANY BOTTLING  OPERATIONS

     Our Company maintains business  relationships with three types of bottlers:
(1)  independently  owned  bottlers,  in  which  the  Company  has no  ownership
interest;   (2)   bottlers  in  which  the  Company  has   invested  and  has  a
noncontrolling  ownership  interest;  and (3)  bottlers in which the Company has
invested and has a controlling ownership interest. In 2000,  independently owned
bottling operations produced and distributed  approximately 25% of the Company's
worldwide unit case volume; cost or equity method investee bottlers in which the
Company  owns a  noncontrolling  ownership  interest  produced  and  distributed
approximately  59% of such  worldwide  unit  case  volume;  and  controlled  and
consolidated  bottling  and  fountain  operations,  including  The  Minute  Maid
Company,  produced and distributed approximately 16% of such worldwide unit case
volume.

     Our Company makes equity  investments in selected bottling  operations with
the  intention  of  maximizing  the  strength and  efficiency  of the  Coca-Cola
business  system's  production,  distribution  and marketing  systems around the
world.  These  investments  are  intended  to result in  increases  in unit case
volume,  net revenues and profits at the bottler  level,  which in turn generate
increased gallon sales for the Company's concentrate business. When this occurs,
both the Company  and the  bottlers  benefit  from  long-term  growth in volume,
improved cash flows and increased share-owner value.

     The level of our Company's  investment  generally  depends on the bottler's
capital  structure  and its available  resources at the time of the  investment.
Historically,  in certain situations,  the Company has viewed it as advantageous
to  acquire a  controlling  interest  in a  bottling  operation.  Owning  such a
controlling  interest has allowed the Company to  compensate  for limited  local
resources  and has  enabled the  Company to help focus the  bottler's  sales and
marketing  programs and assist in the development of the bottler's  business and
information systems and the establishment of appropriate capital structures.  In
separate  transactions  during the first half of 2000, our Company purchased the
entire  equity  interest  in  two  bottlers  in  Brazil,  Companhia  Mineira  de
Refrescos,  S.A., and Refrigerantes Minas Gerais Limitada.  In October 2000, the
Company purchased a 58% equity interest in Paraguay Refrescos S.A. ("Paresa"), a
bottler  located in Paraguay.  This interest in Paresa was increased from 58% to
approximately  95% as a result of  additional  purchases of Paresa shares by our
Company in January 2001.

     In line with its  long-term  bottling  strategy,  our Company  periodically
considers  options for reducing its  ownership  interest in a bottler.  One such
option  is to  combine  the  Company's  bottling  interests  with  the  bottling
interests of others to form strategic business  alliances.  Another option is to
sell the  Company's  interest in a bottling  operation  to one of the  Company's
equity investee  bottlers.  In both of these  situations,  our Company continues
participating  in the bottler's  results of operations  through its share of the
equity investee's earnings or losses.

     In  cases  where  the   Company's   investments   in   bottlers   represent
noncontrolling  interests,  our Company's  intention is to provide expertise and
resources to strengthen  those  businesses.  During 2000,  the Company and China
National Oils and Foodstuffs Imports/Exports  Corporation ("COFCO") entered into
the COFCO  Bottling  Joint  Venture in China,  completion of which is subject to
satisfaction  of  certain  conditions  as of the date of this  report.  COFCO is
contributing  to the joint venture its minority  equity  interests in 11 Chinese
bottlers.  Our  Company is




contributing  its equity  interests  in two Chinese  bottlers  plus cash in
exchange for a 35% equity interest in the joint venture.

     Our Company  views certain  bottling  operations in which the Company has a
noncontrolling  ownership  interest as key or anchor bottlers due to their level
of responsibility and performance.  The strong commitment of both key and anchor
bottlers  to their own  profitable  volume  growth  helps our  Company  meet its
strategic  goals  and  furthers  the  interests  of  its  worldwide  production,
distribution  and  marketing  systems.  These  bottlers  tend  to be  large  and
geographically diverse, with strong financial resources for long-term investment
and strong  management  resources.  These  bottlers  give the Company  strategic
business  partners on every major  continent.  During the third quarter of 2000,
Coca-Cola Beverages plc and Hellenic Bottling Company S.A. merged,  resulting in
a decrease of our Company's equity ownership interest from  approximately  50.5%
of  Coca-Cola  Beverages  plc  to  approximately  24% of  the  combined  entity,
Coca-Cola HBC S.A.

     Our  Company  has  substantial   equity   positions  in   approximately  51
unconsolidated  bottling,  canning and distribution  operations for its products
worldwide,  including bottlers  representing  approximately 54% of the Company's
total U.S. unit case volume in 2000.  Of these,  significant  investee  bottlers
accounted for by the equity method include the following:

     COCA-COLA  ENTERPRISES INC. Our Company's  ownership  interest in Coca-Cola
Enterprises was approximately 40% at December 31, 2000. Coca-Cola Enterprises is
the world's largest  bottler of the Company's  beverage  products.  In 2000, net
sales of concentrates  and syrups by the Company to Coca-Cola  Enterprises  were
approximately $3.5 billion,  or approximately 17% of our Company's net operating
revenues.  Coca-Cola Enterprises also purchases high fructose corn syrup through
the  Company;  however,  related  collections  from  Coca-Cola  Enterprises  and
payments to suppliers are not included in the Company's consolidated  statements
of income.  Coca-Cola  Enterprises  estimates  that the  territories in which it
markets beverage products to retailers (which include portions of 46 states, the
District  of  Columbia,   the  U.S.  Virgin  Islands,   Canada,  Great  Britain,
continental  France,  the Netherlands,  Luxembourg,  Belgium and Monaco) contain
approximately  69% of the United  States  population,  97% of the  population of
Canada,  and 100% of the populations of Great Britain,  continental  France, the
Netherlands, Luxembourg, Belgium and Monaco.

     Excluding products in post-mix (fountain) form, in 2000,  approximately 62%
of the unit  case  volume  of  Coca-Cola  Enterprises  was  Coca-Cola  Trademark
Beverages, approximately 30% of its unit case volume was other Company Trademark
Beverages, and approximately 8% of its unit case volume was beverage products of
other  companies.  Coca-Cola  Enterprises'  net sales of beverage  products were
approximately $14.8 billion in 2000.

     COCA-COLA HBC S.A. (CCHBC).  At December 31, 2000, our Company's  ownership
interest in CCHBC was  approximately  24%.  CCHBC has bottling and  distribution
rights,  through  direct  ownership  or joint  ventures,  in  Armenia,  Austria,
Belarus, Bosnia, Bulgaria,  Croatia, Czech Republic,  Greece, Hungary,  Northern
Ireland,  Republic of  Ireland,  Italy,  Macedonia,  Moldova,  Nigeria,  Poland,
Romania, Russia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Switzerland,  Ukraine and Yugoslavia. CCHBC
estimates that the  territories in which it markets  beverage  products  contain
approximately  67% of the  population of Italy,  31% of the population of Russia
and 100% of the  populations of the other  countries  named above in which CCHBC
has bottling and distribution rights.

     In 2000, CCHBCs net sales of beverage products were approximately  U.S.$2.2
billion.  In  2000,  approximately  55% of the unit  case  volume  of CCHBC  was
Coca-Cola  Trademark  Beverages,  approximately  37% of its unit case volume was
other Company  Trademark  Beverages and approximately 8% of its unit case volume
was beverage products of CCHBC or other companies.

     COCA-COLA  AMATIL LIMITED  ("COCA-COLA  AMATIL" OR "CCA").  At December 31,
2000, our Company's  ownership  interest in Coca-Cola  Amatil was  approximately
38%.  Coca-Cola Amatil is the largest bottler of the Company's beverage products
in Australia  and also has  bottling and  distribution  rights,  through  direct
ownership or joint ventures, in New Zealand, Fiji, Papua New Guinea,  Indonesia,
the Philippines and South Korea. Coca-Cola Amatil estimates that the territories
in  which  it  markets  beverage  products  contain  approximately  99%  of  the
population of Australia,  100% of the  populations of New Zealand,  Fiji,  South
Korea and the Philippines,  83% of the population of Papua New Guinea and 97% of
the population of Indonesia.




     In  2000,   Coca-Cola   Amatil's  net  sales  of  beverage   products  were
approximately  U.S.$2.4  billion.  In 2000,  approximately  66% of the unit case
volume of Coca-Cola Amatil was Coca-Cola Trademark Beverages,  approximately 25%
of its unit case volume was other Company Trademark Beverages,  approximately 5%
of  its  unit  case  volume  was  beverage  products  of  Coca-Cola  Amatil  and
approximately  4% of its  unit  case  volume  was  beverage  products  of  other
companies.

     PANAMERICAN BEVERAGES, INC. ("PANAMCO").  At December 31, 2000, our Company
owned an equity interest of approximately 24% in Panamco,  a Panamanian  holding
company with bottling  subsidiaries  operating in a substantial  part of central
Mexico (excluding  Mexico City),  greater Sao Paulo, Campinas, Santos and Matto
Grosso do Sul, Brazil, central Guatemala,  most of Colombia,  and all of Costa
Rica,  Venezuela and Nicaragua.  Panamco estimates that the territories in which
it markets  beverage  products  contain  approximately  19% of the population of
Mexico, 16% of the population of Brazil, 94% of the population of Colombia,  47%
of the  population  of  Guatemala  and 100% of the  populations  of Costa  Rica,
Venezuela and Nicaragua.

     In 2000,  Panamco's  net  sales of  beverage  products  were  approximately
U.S.$2.6 billion. In 2000,  approximately 51% of the unit case volume of Panamco
was Coca-Cola Trademark Beverages, approximately 22% of its unit case volume was
other Company Trademark  Beverages and approximately 27% of its unit case volume
was beverage products of Panamco or other companies.

     COCA-COLA FEMSA, S.A. DE C.V.  ("COCA-COLA  FEMSA").  At December 31, 2000,
our Company owned a 30% equity  interest in Coca-Cola  FEMSA, a Mexican  holding
company  with  bottling   subsidiaries   in  the  Valley  of  Mexico,   Mexico's
southeastern  region  and  Greater  Buenos  Aires,  Argentina.  Coca-Cola  FEMSA
estimates that the  territories in which it markets  beverage  products  contain
approximately  30% of the  population  of Mexico  and  approximately  31% of the
population of Argentina.

     In  2000,   Coca-Cola   FEMSA's  net  sales  of  beverage   products   were
approximately  U.S.$1.7  billion.  In 2000,  approximately  76% of the unit case
volume of Coca-Cola FEMSA was Coca-Cola Trademark  Beverages,  approximately 23%
of its unit case volume was other Company Trademark Beverages, and approximately
1% of its unit case volume was beverage products of other companies.

     OTHER  INTERESTS.  Under the  terms of the  Coca-Cola  Nestle  Refreshments
("CCNR")  joint  venture   involving  our  Company,   Nestle  S.A.  and  certain
subsidiaries  of Nestle S.A.,  the Company  manages  CCNR's  ready-to-drink  tea
business and Nestle S.A.  manages CCNR's  ready-to-drink  coffee  business.  Our
Company owns a 50% equity  interest in the joint  venture,  which  currently has
sales in the United States and approximately 34 other countries.

     On January 30, 2001, our Company and Nestle S.A. announced plans to further
develop the joint venture,  which will be renamed  Beverage  Partners  Worldwide
("BPW").  Under the  proposed  restructuring,  which is subject to  approval  by
regulatory  authorities,  BPW will function as an entrepreneurial unit dedicated
to tapping the growth  potential  of emerging  beverage  segments,  particularly
ready-to-drink  coffee, teas and certain beverages with a healthful positioning.
BPW will be based in Zurich, Switzerland.

     Brands already within the joint venture  include Nestea and Nescafe for the
ready-to-drink  categories.  In  addition,  our Company will add the Planet Java
coffee  business and the Yang Guang tea businesses,  among others,  while Nestle
will be  contributing  its Belte tea business.  BPW also will focus on expanding
its geographical reach, seeking to enter new markets (excluding Japan) with both
new and existing products.


OTHER DEVELOPMENTS
- ------------------
     In January 2000, our Company announced a major  organizational  realignment
(the  "Realignment")  intended to put more  responsibility,  accountability  and
resources in the hands of local business units of the Company located around the
world. Fully implemented during calendar year 2000, the Realignment  reduced the
Company's  workforce  while  transferring  responsibilities  from  corporate  to
revenue-generating  operating units. Under the Realignment,  approximately 5,200
employees  were separated from the Company,  of which  approximately  1,750 were
based  within  the  United  States.  The  total  workforce  reduction  under the
Realignment  included  employees  separated  from  the  Company  as  well as the
elimination of open positions and contract labor.





     Following the structural  changes,  roles and  responsibilities  within our
Company were redefined and certain  corporate  activities were  outsourced.  The
Company's corporate headquarters retained  responsibility for setting policy and
strategy  for the  Company as a whole,  while the  Company's  revenue-generating
units generally assumed all other responsibilities.

   In  February  2001,  our Company  and The  Procter & Gamble  Company  ("P&G")
announced  plans  pursuant  to a  non-binding  letter  of  intent  to  create  a
stand-alone  enterprise focused on developing and marketing juices,  juice-based
beverages and salted  snacks on a global basis.  Under the terms of the proposed
transaction,  our  Company  and  P&G  each  will  own  50%  of  the  stand-alone
enterprise, which will be named at a later date. Our Company will contribute its
juice beverages  business,  and P&G will contribute its juice beverages business
and its salted snack products business. The transaction has been approved by the
boards  of  directors  of both  companies,  and the  stand-alone  enterprise  is
expected to begin operations  following regulatory approvals and satisfaction of
certain other conditions. Until then, the two companies will continue to operate
independently.

     In  February  2001,  our Company  announced  it had  reached  agreement  in
principle with Coca-Cola Amatil and San Miguel Corporation ("SMC") regarding the
ownership and management of bottling  operations in the  Philippines.  Under the
agreement, CCA will sell Coca-Cola Bottlers Philippines,  Inc. ("CCBPI") to SMC,
which will acquire a 65% equity interest, and to the Company, which will acquire
a 35% equity interest,  in a share,  cash and debt transaction  valued at A$2.25
billion  (U.S.$1.24   billion).   The  consideration  for  CCBPI  comprises  the
cancellation  of  approximately  149  million CCA shares held by our Company and
219.4  million  CCA  shares  held by SMC at a price of  A$4.75  (U.S.$2.62)  and
additional  consideration  of  approximately  A$495 million  (U.S.$273  million)
comprising  cash and debt.  The number of CCA shares  held by our  Company to be
cancelled and the cash and debt component may vary depending on future movements
of the  AUD/PHP  exchange  rate.  Completion  of the  transaction  is subject to
certain conditions, including approval by CCA's shareholders not associated with
our Company or SMC.

     In February 2001,  our Company  reached an agreement with Carlsberg A/S for
the  dissolution of  Coca-Cola Nordic  Beverages  (CCNB),  a joint venture
anchor  bottler  which  presently is 51%-owned by Carlsberg and 49%-owned by the
Company.  CCNB  currently has bottling  operations in Sweden,  Norway,  Denmark,
Finland,  and  Iceland.  Under the terms of the  agreement,  subject to required
regulatory approvals, our Company will acquire CCNB's Sweden and Norway bottling
operations,  which will  increase the Company's  ownership in those  bottlers to
100%.  Carlsberg will acquire CCNB's  Denmark and Finland  bottling  operations,
which will  increase  Carlsberg's  ownership in those  bottlers to 100%.  CCNB's
Iceland bottling operation will be sold to a third-party group of investors.  It
is anticipated that these bottler ownership  restructurings will be completed by
the end of second quarter,  2001. The CCNB holding company will  subsequently be
dissolved.


SEASONALITY
- -----------
     Sales of ready-to-drink  nonalcoholic beverages are somewhat seasonal, with
the second and third calendar quarters  accounting for the highest sales volumes
in the Northern Hemisphere. The volume of sales in the beverages business may be
affected by weather conditions.


COMPETITION
- -----------
     Our  Company  competes  in  the  nonalcoholic   beverages  segment  of  the
commercial beverages industry. That segment is highly competitive, consisting of
numerous firms. These include firms that compete,  like the Company, in multiple
geographical  areas as well as  firms  that are  primarily  local in  operation.
Competitive  products include  carbonates,  packaged water,  juices and nectars,
fruit drinks and dilutables  (including syrups and powdered drinks),  sports and
energy drinks,  coffee and tea, still drinks and other  beverages.  Nonalcoholic
beverages are sold to consumers in both  ready-to-drink  and  not-ready-to-drink
form.

     Most of our Company's  beverages  business  currently is in soft drinks, as
that term is defined in this report.  The soft drink business,  which is part of
the nonalcoholic beverages segment, is itself highly competitive. Our Company is
the leading seller of soft drink concentrates and syrups in the world.  Numerous
firms,  however,  compete in that  business.  These consist of a range of firms,
from local to  international,  that  compete  against  the  Company in  numerous
geographical areas.




     In many parts of the world in which our Company does  business,  demand for
soft drinks is growing at the expense of other commercial beverages. Competitive
factors with respect to the Company's business include pricing,  advertising and
sales promotion programs, product innovation, increased efficiency in production
techniques,  the  introduction  of new  packaging,  new vending  and  dispensing
equipment and brand and trademark development and protection.


RAW MATERIALS
- -------------
     The principal  raw material  used by our  Company's  business in the United
States is high fructose  corn syrup,  a form of sugar,  which is available  from
numerous  domestic  sources and is  historically  subject to fluctuations in its
market price. The principal raw material used by the Company's  business outside
the  United  States  is  sucrose.  Our  Company  has  a  specialized   sweetener
procurement  staff and has not  experienced  any  difficulties  in obtaining its
requirements.  In the United States and certain other countries, the Company has
authorized  the use of high fructose corn syrup in syrup for Coca-Cola and other
Company  Trademark  Beverages  for  use in  both  fountain  syrup  and  finished
beverages in bottles and cans.

     Generally,  raw  materials  utilized  by our  Company in its  business  are
readily available from numerous sources.  However,  aspartame,  which is usually
used alone or in combination  with either  saccharin or acesulfame  potassium in
the Company's  low-calorie  soft drink products,  is currently  purchased by the
Company  primarily  from The  NutraSweet  Company  and from  Holland  Sweetener.
Acesulfame potassium is currently purchased from Nutrinova Nutrition Specialties
& Food Ingredients GmbH.

     With  regard to juice and  juice-drink  products,  the citrus  industry  is
subject to the variability of weather conditions,  in particular the possibility
of  freezes  in central  Florida,  which may  result in higher  prices and lower
consumer demand for orange juice  throughout the industry.  Due to our Company's
long-standing  relationship  with a supplier of  high-quality  Brazilian  orange
juice  concentrate,  the  supply of juice  available  that  meets the  Company's
standards is normally adequate to meet demand.


PATENTS, TRADE SECRETS, TRADEMARKS AND COPYRIGHTS
- -------------------------------------------------
     Our Company is the owner of numerous patents, copyrights and trade secrets,
as well as substantial know-how and technology (herein collectively  referred to
as  "technology"),  relating  to  its  products  and  the  processes  for  their
production,  the packages  used for its  products,  the design and  operation of
various  processes  and  equipment  used in its  business  and  certain  quality
assurance  and  financial  software.  Some  of the  technology  is  licensed  to
suppliers  and other  parties.  The  Company's  soft  drink  and other  beverage
formulae are among the important trade secrets of the Company.

     Our  Company  owns  numerous  trademarks  which are very  important  to its
business. Depending upon the jurisdiction,  trademarks are valid as long as they
are in use and/or their  registrations are properly maintained and they have not
been found to have become generic.  Registrations of trademarks can generally be
renewed  indefinitely  as long as the trademarks are in use. The majority of our
Company's  trademark license agreements are included in the Company's  Bottler's
Agreements.  The  Company  has  registered  and  licenses  the  right to use its
trademarks  in  conjunction  with  certain  merchandise  other than soft drinks.


GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION
- -----------------------
     The production,  distribution  and sale in the United States of many of the
Company's  products are subject to the Federal Food,  Drug and Cosmetic Act; the
Occupational  Safety  and Health  Act;  the Lanham  Act;  various  environmental
statutes;  and various other federal,  state and local statutes and  regulations
applicable  to  the  production,   transportation,  sale,  safety,  advertising,
labeling and ingredients of such products.

     A California  law requires  that a specific  warning  appear on any product
that  contains  a  component  listed by the State as having  been found to cause
cancer or birth defects.  The law exposes all food and beverage producers to the
possibility  of having to provide  warnings  on their  products  because the law
recognizes no generally applicable quantitative thresholds below which a warning
is not  required.  Consequently,  even trace  amounts of listed  components  can
expose affected products to the prospect of warning labels.  Products containing
listed substances that occur naturally in the product or that are contributed to
the product  solely by a municipal  water supply are





generally  exempt from the warning  requirement.  While no Company beverage
products are currently  required to display warnings under this law, our Company
is unable to predict  whether an important  component of a Company product might
be added to the  California  list in the  future.  Our Company is also unable to
predict  whether or to what extent a warning under this law would have an impact
on costs or sales of Company beverage products.

     Bottlers of the Company's beverage products presently offer non-refillable,
recyclable  containers  in all areas of the United  States and  Canada.  Some of
these  bottlers also offer  refillable  containers,  which are also  recyclable.
Measures have been enacted in various localities and states which require that a
deposit be charged for certain non-refillable beverage containers.  The precise
requirements imposed by these measures vary. Other deposit, recycling or product
stewardship  proposals have been  introduced in states and localities and in the
Congress,  and the Company  anticipates that similar  legislation or regulations
may be proposed in the future at the local,  state and federal  levels,  both in
the United States and elsewhere.

     All of our  Company's  facilities  in the  United  States  are  subject  to
federal,  state and local  environmental  laws and regulations.  Compliance with
these provisions has not had, and the Company does not expect such compliance to
have, any material adverse effect upon our Company's capital  expenditures,  net
income or competitive position.


EMPLOYEES
- ---------
     As of December 31, 2000, our Company employed approximately 36,900 persons,
compared  to  approximately  37,400  at the end of  1999.  The  differential  is
primarily  due to  the  organizational  Realignment,  offset  by  the  Company's
acquisition of certain bottlers in Latin America and the final  consolidation of
our bottler in Southeast Asia. At the end of 2000,  approximately  9,130 Company
employees were located in the United States. Our Company,  through its divisions
and subsidiaries,  has entered into numerous collective  bargaining  agreements,
and the Company has no reason to believe it will not be able to renegotiate  any
such agreements on satisfactory  terms.  The Company believes that its relations
with its employees are generally satisfactory.


ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
- ------------------
     Our Company's worldwide headquarters is located on a 35-acre office complex
in Atlanta,  Georgia. The complex includes the approximately 621,000 square foot
headquarters  building,  the  approximately  870,000  square foot  Coca-Cola USA
building and the  approximately  264,000 square foot Coca-Cola  Plaza  building.
Also located in the complex are several other buildings, including the technical
and engineering facilities,  learning center and the Company's Reception Center.
The Company  leases  approximately  278,000  square feet of office  space at Ten
Peachtree Place, Atlanta, Georgia, owned by a joint venture of which an indirect
subsidiary  of the Company is a partner;  the Company plans to vacate this space
prior to expiration of the lease in November 2001. In the first quarter of 2001,
the Company began leasing  approximately  250,000 square feet of office space at
10 Glenlake  Parkway,  Atlanta,  Georgia,  as the main office for the  Company's
Coca-Cola Fountain business unit, which is responsible for fountain sales in the
United States. In addition, the Company leases approximately 150,000 square feet
of office space at Northridge  Business  Park,  Dunwoody,  Georgia,  for some of
Coca-Cola Fountain's  operations.  The Company has facilities for administrative
operations,   manufacturing,   processing,   packaging,   packing,  storage  and
warehousing throughout the United States.

     Our Company  owns and  operates 32 principal  beverage  concentrate  and/or
syrup  manufacturing  plants located throughout the world. The Company currently
owns or holds a majority  interest in 24 operations  with 71 principal  beverage
bottling and canning plants located outside the United States.

     The Minute Maid Company, whose business headquarters is located in Houston,
Texas,  occupies its own office building,  which contains  approximately 330,000
square  feet.  The Minute Maid  Company  operates  eight  production  facilities
throughout  the  United  States and  Canada  and  utilizes a system of  contract
packers to produce  and  distribute  certain  products in areas where The Minute
Maid Company does not have its own manufacturing  centers or during periods when
it experiences shortfalls in manufacturing capacity.

     Our  Company  owns  or  leases   additional   real   estate,   including  a
Company-owned  office and retail  building at 711 Fifth Avenue in New York,  New
York and approximately 315,000 square feet of Company-owned office and technical
space in  Brussels,  Belgium.  Additional  owned or leased real  estate  located
throughout  the world is used




by  the  Company  as  office  space,  for  bottling,  warehouse  or  retail
operations or, in the case of some owned property, is leased to others.

     Management  believes that the facilities for the production of its products
are suitable and adequate  for the  business  conducted  therein,  that they are
being  appropriately  utilized in line with past  experience  and that they have
sufficient  production capacity for their present intended purposes.  The extent
of  utilization  of such  facilities  varies based upon the seasonal  demand for
product.  While it is not  possible to measure  with any degree of  certainty or
uniformity  the   productive   capacity  and  extent  of  utilization  of  these
facilities,  management  believes that additional  production can be obtained at
the existing  facilities by the addition of personnel and capital equipment and,
in some  facilities,  the  addition of shifts of  personnel or expansion of such
facilities.  Our Company continuously  reviews its anticipated  requirements for
facilities  and,  on the basis of that  review,  may from  time to time  acquire
additional facilities and/or dispose of existing facilities.


ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
- -------------------------

     On January 30, 1997, the Brazilian  Federal  Revenue Service issued Notices
of  Assessment  to  Recofarma  Industrias  do Amazonas  Ltda.  ("Recofarma"), an
indirect wholly owned subsidiary of the Company,  for the period from January 1,
1992 to February 28, 1994. The  assessments  alleged that Recofarma  should have
paid a Brazilian excise tax on intra-company  transfers of product  manufactured
at its Manaus  plant to its  warehouse  in Rio de Janeiro.  Assessments  of tax,
interest  and  penalties  totaled  approximately  U.S.  $302  million  as of the
assessment  date  (based on  exchange  rates as of  February 4, 2000) and accrue
interest from the assessment date. The transfer of product from the plant to the
warehouse,  which was  discontinued  in  February  1994,  was the  subject  of a
favorable  advance ruling issued by the Federal Revenue Service on September 24,
1990. In the Company's opinion, the ruling has continuing effect and Recofarma's
operations  conformed with the ruling. On March 3, 1997, Recofarma filed appeals
with the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service contesting the assessments.

     On September 30, 1997, the Rio de Janeiro  Branch of the Brazilian  Federal
Revenue Service dismissed the assessments against Recofarma.  This determination
was subject to an automatic ex officio  appeal  ("recurso  ex-officio") on the
Federal Revenue Service's behalf to the Taxpayers Council in Brazilia. On August
16, 2000, the case was heard by the Taxpayers Council, which unanimously decided
in Recofarma's  favor.  The Federal  Revenue Service did not appeal the decision
within the required  period and the decision is therefore  final in  Recofarma's
favor.

     On October 27, 2000, a class action  lawsuit was filed in the United States
District Court for the Northern  District of Georgia  alleging that the Company,
M.  Douglas  Ivester,  Jack L. Stahl and James E.  Chestnut  violated  antifraud
provisions  of the  federal  securities  laws by  making  misrepresentations  or
material omissions relating to the Companys financial condition and prospects in
late 1999 and early  2000 (the  Carpenters  Health &  Welfare  Fund  Action).  A
second,  largely  identical  lawsuit  was filed in the same court on November 9,
2000 (the  LaValla  Action).  The  Complaints  allege  that the  Company and the
individual  named  officers:  (1) forced certain  Coca-Cola  system  bottlers to
accept  excessive,  unwanted and unneeded sales of concentrate  during the third
and fourth quarters of 1999, thus creating a misleading  sense of improvement in
our Companys  performance in those quarters;  (2) failed to write down the value
of impaired  assets in Russia,  Japan and  elsewhere  on a timely  basis,  again
resulting in the  presentation of misleading  interim  financial  results in the
third and fourth  quarters of 1999; and (3)  misrepresented  the reasons for Mr.
Ivesters  departure  from  the  Company  and  then  misleadingly  reassured  the
financial community that there would be no changes in the Companys core business
strategy  or  financial  outlook   following  that  departure.   Damages  in  an
unspecified amount are sought in both Complaints.

     On January 8, 2001,  an order was entered by Judge  Willis B. Hunt,  Jr. of
the  United  States  District  Court  for  the  Northern   District  of  Georgia
consolidating  the two cases for all  purposes.  Judge  Hunt  also  ordered  the
plaintiffs  to file a  Consolidated  Amended  Complaint.  Our  Companys  initial
response to these lawsuits will be due 60 days after service of the Consolidated
Amended  Complaint.  The Company  believes it has meritorious  legal and factual
defenses and intends to defend the consolidated action vigorously.

     The Company is involved in various other legal  proceedings.  Management of
the Company  believes  that any  liability  to the Company  which may arise as a
result of these proceedings,  including the proceedings  specifically  discussed
above, will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of the
Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole.





ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
- -----------------------------------------------------------

     Not applicable.


ITEM X. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY
- -----------------------------------------

The following are the executive officers of our Company:

     Douglas  N.  Daft,  57, is  Chairman  of the Board of  Directors  and Chief
Executive  Officer of the  Company.  In November  1984,  Mr. Daft was  appointed
President of the Central  Pacific  Division.  In October  1987, he was appointed
Senior Vice President of the Pacific Group of the International Business Sector.
In December 1988, he was named President of Coca-Cola  (Japan) Company,  Limited
and  President  of the North  Pacific  Division  of the  International  Business
Sector.  Effective  1991 he was elected Senior Vice President of the Company and
named President of the Pacific Group of the  International  Business Sector.  He
was  appointed  President  of the Middle and Far East Group in January  1995 and
served  in  that  capacity  until  October  1999  when  he  was  given  expanded
responsibilities  for the  Middle and Far East  Group,  the  Africa  Group,  the
Schweppes  Beverages  Division and the Japan Division.  He was elected President
and Chief Operating  Officer and a Director of the Company in December 1999. Mr.
Daft was elected to his current positions in February 2000.

     James E. Chestnut,  50, is Executive Vice President,  Operations Support of
the Company.  Mr. Chestnut joined the Company in 1972 in London. In 1984, he was
named Finance Manager for the Philippine Region in Manila and, in 1987,  Manager
of  International  Treasury  Services,  Pacific Group, in Atlanta.  He was named
Finance  Manager for the North Pacific  Division of the  International  Business
Sector in 1989 before being elected Vice President and Controller of the Company
in 1993. He was elected  Senior Vice  President and Chief  Financial  Officer in
July 1994 and was appointed Senior Vice President, Operations Support in October
1999. Mr. Chestnut was elected Executive Vice President in January 2000.

     Charles S. Frenette,  48, is Executive  Vice President of the Company.  Mr.
Frenette joined the Company in 1974. In 1983, he was appointed Vice President of
Coca-Cola  USA. In 1986,  he was  appointed  Senior Vice  President  and General
Manager of Coca-Cola USA Fountain.  In 1992,  he was  appointed  Executive  Vice
President,  Operations,  of Coca-Cola  USA. He was elected Vice President of the
Company in 1995 and was appointed  President of the Southern  Africa Division in
1996.  He was  elected  Senior Vice  President  of the Company in April 1998 and
became Chief Marketing  Officer in May 1998. Mr. Frenette was elected  Executive
Vice President of the Company and appointed  President of the Europe and Eurasia
Group in January  2000.  On March 4, 2001,  Mr.  Frenette  was named head of the
newly created Europe/Africa strategic business unit of the Company.

     Joseph R. Gladden, Jr., 58, is Executive Vice President and General Counsel
of the Company. In October 1985, Mr. Gladden was elected Vice President.  He was
named Deputy  General  Counsel in October 1987 and served in that capacity until
he was elected Vice President and General  Counsel in April 1990. He was elected
Senior Vice  President  in April 1991 and  Executive  Vice  President in January
2000. On January 24, 2001, Mr. Gladden announced his plans to resign his offices
effective  April 18, 2001.

     Carl Ware,  57, is Executive  Vice  President of the Company and in January
2000  was   appointed   head  of  the  Company's   Global  Public   Affairs  and
Administration division. In 1979, Mr. Ware was appointed Vice President, Special
Markets,  Coca-Cola USA. In March 1982, he was appointed Vice  President,  Urban
Affairs,  of the Company.  He was elected  Senior Vice  President  and Director,
Corporate  External  Affairs in 1986 and became  Deputy  Group  President of the
Northeast Europe/Africa Group of the International Business Sector in July 1991.
In January 1993 he was  appointed  President of the Africa  Group.  Mr. Ware was
elected Executive Vice President in January 2000.

     Gary P. Fayard, 48, is Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
the Company.  Mr.  Fayard joined the Company in April 1994. In July 1994, he was
elected Vice President and Controller.  Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Fayard
was a partner with Ernst & Young. Mr. Fayard was elected to his current position
in December 1999.





     Stephen C. Jones,  45, is Senior  Vice  President  and in January  2000 was
appointed Chief  Marketing  Officer of the Company.  Mr. Jones joined  Coca-Cola
Canada in 1986 as Brand Manager for Sprite.  In 1988, he joined Coca-Cola USA as
Brand Manager for diet Coke and Sprite.  Mr. Jones was named  Marketing  Manager
for  Coca-Cola  Great  Britain in 1990 and was  promoted  to  Regional  Manager,
Coca-Cola  Great  Britain in 1991 and to  Marketing  Director,  Coca-Cola  Great
Britain and Ireland  Division in 1992.  In 1994,  he was  appointed  Senior Vice
President,  Consumer Marketing for Coca-Cola (Japan) Co., Ltd. ("CCJC"), and was
named Deputy  Division  Manager and Executive Vice President of CCJC in 1997. He
was appointed  President and Chief Executive  Officer of The Minute Maid Company
in October 1999. Mr. Jones was elected to his current position in January 2000.

     Alexander  R.C.  Allan,  56, is Senior Vice  President of the Company.  Mr.
Allan joined  Coca-Cola  Bottling Company of Johannesburg in 1968 as an Internal
Auditor.  He was  appointed  the financial  Controller  for the Southern  Africa
Division of  The Coca-Cola Company  in 1978 and Assistant  Division  Manager and
Finance  Manager of the Southern and Central Africa Division in 1986. In January
1993, he was appointed  President of the Middle East  Division  (renamed  Middle
East & North Africa Division in 1998). Mr. Allan was appointed  President of the
Middle & Far East Group in October 1999 and was elected to his current  position
in  December  1999.  On March 4,  2001,  Mr.  Allan was named  head of the newly
created Asia strategic business unit of the Company.

     Jeffrey T. Dunn,  43, is Senior Vice  President  of the  Company.  Mr. Dunn
joined  the  Company  in 1981.  From 1985 to 1990,  Mr.  Dunn  served in various
positions in Coca-Cola USA Fountain. In 1990, Mr. Dunn was named Vice President,
Presence  Marketing,  Coca-Cola USA. In 1994, he rejoined Coca-Cola USA Fountain
as Vice President,  Marketing and in May 1996, was named Vice  President,  Field
Sales and Marketing. He was named Vice President and General Manager,  Coca-Cola
USA Fountain in February 1998, and Senior Vice President, Coca-Cola USA Fountain
in June 1998. In January 2000,  Mr. Dunn was appointed  Senior Vice President of
The Coca-Cola North America Marketing  Division.  Mr. Dunn was elected to Senior
Vice  President  of the  Company and  President  of the North  America  Group in
October  2000.  On March 4, 2001,  Mr. Dunn was named head of the newly  created
Americas strategic business unit of the Company.

     Steven J. Heyer, 48, was named head of the newly created Coca-Cola Ventures
strategic  business unit of the Company on March 7, 2001. On April 18, 2001, Mr.
Heyer will be  considered  for  election  as  Executive  Vice  President  of the
Company. Mr. Heyer joins our Company from AOL Time Warner, where he served since
1996 as President and Chief  Operating  Officer of Turner  Broadcasting  System,
Inc.  Mr. Heyer  joined TBS,  Inc. in 1994 as  President of Turner  Broadcasting
Sales,  Inc. Prior to that, Mr. Heyer was President and Chief Operating  Officer
of Young & Rubicam Advertising Worldwide, as well as Executive Vice President of
Young & Rubicam, Inc.

     Deval L. Patrick, 45. On April 18, 2001, Mr. Patrick will be considered for
election as Executive  Vice  President and General  Counsel of the Company.  Mr.
Patrick's  employment  with the Company will commence on April 2, 2001. In 1999,
Mr.  Patrick  joined  Texaco Inc. as Vice  President  and General  Counsel.  Mr.
Patrick  had been a partner  with the  Boston law firm of Day Berry & Howard LLP
since 1997. Mr. Patrick was also Assistant Attorney General of the United States
and Chief of the U.S. Justice Department's Civil Rights Division from 1994 until
1997,   where  he  was  responsible  for  enforcing   federal  laws  prohibiting
discrimination.

     The Executive  Committee is responsible for setting policy and establishing
strategic direction for the Company. On March 7, 2001, the Company announced the
expansion  of the  Executive  Committee,  which  will  consist of Mr.  Daft,  as
chairman, and Messrs. Allan, Chestnut, Dunn, Frenette, Heyer, Patrick and Ware.

     All  executive  officers  serve at the pleasure of the Board of  Directors.
There is no family  relationship  between any of the  executive  officers of the
Company.

     On March 4,  2001,  our  Company  announced  a new  operational  management
structure.  See "Item 1. - Business".  As part of this new management structure,
the  Company  also  announced  that Jack L. Stahl had decided to resign from his
position as President  and Chief  Operating  Officer of the  Company,  effective
immediately, in order to explore other career interests and opportunities.




                                    PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED SHARE-OWNER
        MATTERS
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------

     "Financial Review  Incorporating  Management's  Discussion and Analysis" on
pages 33 through 43,  "Selected  Financial  Data" for the years 1999 and 2000 on
page 44, "Stock  Prices" on page 69 and "Common  Stock",  "Stock  Exchanges" and
"Dividends"  under  the  heading  "Share-Owner  Information"  on  page 72 of the
Company's  Annual  Report to Share  Owners for the year ended  December 31, 2000
(the "Company's 2000 Annual Report to Share Owners"), are incorporated herein by
reference.

     During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000, no equity securities of the
Company were sold by the Company which were not registered  under the Securities
Act of 1933, as amended.


ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
- -------------------------------

     "Selected  Financial Data" for the years 1996 through 2000, on pages 44 and
45 of the Company's 2000 Annual Report to Share Owners,  is incorporated  herein
by reference.


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
        RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------

     "Financial Review  Incorporating  Management's  Discussion and Analysis" on
pages 33 through 43 of the  Company's  2000 Annual  Report to Share  Owners,  is
incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
- -------------------------------------------------------------------

     "Financial Risk  Management" on page 36 of the Company's 2000 Annual Report
to Share Owners, is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
- ---------------------------------------------------

     The  following  consolidated  financial  statements  of the Company and its
subsidiaries,  included in the Company's 2000 Annual Report to Share Owners, are
incorporated herein by reference:

        Consolidated Balance Sheets --  December 31, 2000 and 1999.

        Consolidated Statements of Income -- Years ended December 31, 2000,
        1999 and 1998.

        Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows -- Years ended December 31, 2000,
        1999 and 1998.

        Consolidated Statements of Share-Owners' Equity -- Years ended
        December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998.

        Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

        Report of Independent Auditors.

     "Quarterly Data (Unaudited)" on page 69 of the Company's 2000 Annual Report
to Share Owners, is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
        Not applicable.




                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
- -----------------------------------------------------------

     For  information  on  Directors of the Company,  the  subsection  under the
heading "Election of Directors" entitled "Board of Directors" on pages 5 through
9  and  under  the  heading  "Section  16(a)  Beneficial   Ownership   Reporting
Compliance" on page 12 of the Company's  Proxy  Statement for the Annual Meeting
of  Share  Owners  to  be  held  April  18,  2001  (the  "Company's  2001  Proxy
Statement"),  is  incorporated  herein  by  reference.  See Item X in Part I for
information regarding executive officers of the Company.


ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
- -------------------------------

     The  subsection  under  the  heading   "Election  of  Directors"   entitled
"Information about Committees,  Meetings and Compensation of Directors" on pages
13 and 14, the  portion of the section  entitled  "Executive  Compensation"  set
forth  on  pages  16  through  23,  and the  subsection  entitled  "Compensation
Committee  Interlocks  and  Insider  Participation"  on  pages  31 and 32 of the
Company's 2001 Proxy Statement, are incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------

     The  subsections  under  the  heading  "Election  of  Directors"   entitled
"Ownership  of Equity  Securities  in the  Company"  on pages 10  through 12 and
"Principal  Share  Owners"  on pages 12 and 13,  and the  subsection  under  the
heading "Certain Investee  Companies"  entitled  "Ownership of Securities in the
Investee  Companies"  on page 33 of the  Company's  2001  Proxy  Statement,  are
incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
- -------------------------------------------------------

     The  subsections  under  the  heading  "Election  of  Directors"   entitled
"Information  about  Committees,  Meetings and  Compensation  of Directors"  and
"Certain  Transactions and Relationships" on pages 13 through 15, the subsection
under the heading  "Executive  Compensation"  entitled  "Compensation  Committee
Interlocks and Insider  Participation"  on pages 31 and 32 and the section under
the heading  "Certain  Investee  Companies"  on pages 32 and 33 of the Company's
2001 Proxy Statement, are incorporated herein by reference.







                                    PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
(a) 1.  Financial Statements

        The following  consolidated  financial  statements of The Coca-Cola
        Company and subsidiaries,  included in the Company's 2000 Annual Report
        to Share Owners, are  incorporated by reference in Part II, Item 8:

        Consolidated Balance Sheets -- December 31, 2000 and 1999.

        Consolidated Statements of Income -- Years ended December 31, 2000,
        1999 and 1998.

        Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows -- Years ended December 31, 2000,
        1999 and 1998.

        Consolidated Statements of Share-Owners'Equity -- Years ended
        December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998.

        Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

        Report of Independent Auditors.

     2. The following consolidated financial statement schedule of The Coca-Cola
        Company and subsidiaries is included in Item 14(d):

        Schedule II -- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts.  All other schedules
        for which provision is made in the applicable accounting regulations
        of the Securities and Exchange Commission are not required under the
        related instructions or are inapplicable and, therefore, have been
        omitted.

     3. Exhibits

EXHIBIT NO.
- -----------

3.1             Certificate of  Incorporation of the Company,  including
                Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation,  effective May 1,
                1996 -- incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 3 of the
                Company's  Form 10-Q Quarterly Report  for the  quarter  ended
                March  31,  1996. (With  regard  to applicable cross references
                in this report, the Company's Current, Quarterly and Annual
                Reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
                under File No.  1-2217.)

3.2             By-Laws of the Company, as amended and restated through
                February 17, 2000 -- incorporated herein by reference to
                Exhibit 3.2 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the
                year ended  December 31, 1999.

4.1             The Company agrees to furnish to the Securities and Exchange
                Commission, upon request, a copy of any instrument defining the
                rights of holders of long-term debt of the Company and all of
                its consolidated  subsidiaries and unconsolidated subsidiaries
                for which  financial  statements are required to be filed with
                the Securities and Exchange Commission.

10.1.1          The Key Executive Retirement Plan of the Company, as amended --
                incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the
                Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December
                31, 1995.*




EXHIBIT NO.
- -----------

10.1.2          Third Amendment to the Key Executive Retirement Plan of the
                Company, dated as of July 9, 1998 -- incorporated herein by
                reference to Exhibit 10.1.2 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
                Report for the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.1.3          Fourth Amendment to the Key Executive Retirement Plan of the
                Company, dated as of February 16, 1999 -- incorporated herein
                by reference to Exhibit 10.1.3 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
                Report for the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.1.4          Fifth Amendment to the Key Executive Retirement Plan of the
                Company, dated as of January 25, 2000 -- incorporated herein by
                reference to Exhibit 10.1.4 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
                Report for the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.2            Supplemental Disability Plan of the Company, as amended --
                incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the
                Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December
                31, 1991.*

10.3            Annual Performance Incentive Plan of the Company, as amended --
                incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the
                Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December
                31, 1995.*

10.4            1987 Stock Option Plan of the Company, as amended and restated
                through April 20, 1999 -- incorporated herein by reference to
                Exhibit 10.1 of the Company's Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for
                the quarter ended March 31, 1999*

10.5            1991 Stock Option Plan of the Company, as amended and restated
                through April 20, 1999 -- incorporated herein by reference to
                Exhibit 10.2 of the Company's Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for
                the quarter ended March 31, 1999.*

10.6            1999 Stock Option Plan of the Company, as amended and restated
                through April 18, 2000 - incorporated herein by reference to
                Exhibit 10 of the Company's Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the
                quarter ended March 31, 2000.*

10.7            1983 Restricted Stock Award Plan of the Company, as amended
                through February 17, 2000 -- incorporated herein by reference
                to Exhibit 10.7 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for
                the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.8            1989 Restricted Stock Award Plan of the Company, as amended
                through February 17, 2000 -- incorporated herein by reference
                to Exhibit 10.8 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for
                the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.9.1          Compensation Deferral & Investment Program of the Company, as
                amended, including Amendment Number Four dated November 28,
                1995 -- incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.13 of
                the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended
                December 31, 1995.*

10.9.2          Amendment Number 5 to the Compensation Deferral & Investment
                Program of the Company, effective as of January 1, 1998 --
                incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.8.2 of the
                Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December
                31, 1997.*

10.10           Special Medical Insurance Plan of the Company, as amended --
                incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.16 of the
                Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December
                31, 1995.*

10.11.1         Supplemental Benefit Plan of the Company, as amended --
                incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.17 of the
                Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December
                31, 1993.*




EXHIBIT NO.
- -----------

10.11.2         Amendment Number Five to the Supplemental Benefit Plan of the
                Company -- incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.17.2
                of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended
                December 31, 1996.*

10.11.3         Amendment Number Six to the Supplemental Benefit Plan of the
                Company, dated as of July 1, 1998 -- incorporated herein by
                reference to Exhibit 10.11.3 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
                Report for the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.11.4         Amendment Number Seven to the Supplemental Benefit Plan of the
                Company, dated January 24, 2000 -- incorporated herein by
                reference to Exhibit 10.11.4 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
                Report for the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.11.5         Amendment Number Eight to the Supplemental Benefit Plan of the
                Company, dated January 25, 2000 -- incorporated herein by
                reference to Exhibit of 10.11.5 of the Company's Form 10-K
                Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.12           Retirement Plan for the Board of Directors of the Company, as
                amended -- incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.22 of
                the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended
                December 31, 1991.*

10.13           Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors of the
                Company, adopted as of October 16, 1997 -- incorporated herein
                by reference to Exhibit 10.12 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
                Report for the year ended December 31, 1997.*

10.14           Deferred Compensation Agreement for Officers or Key Executives
                of the Company -- incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
                10.20 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year
                ended December 31, 1993.*

10.15           Long Term Performance Incentive Plan of the Company, as amended
                and restated effective April 21, 1999 -- incorporated herein by
                reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the Company's Form 10-Q Quarterly
                Report for the quarter ended March 31, 1999.*

10.16           Executive Performance Incentive Plan of the Company, as amended
                and restated effective April 21, 1999 -- incorporated herein by
                reference to Exhibit 10.5 of the Company's Form 10-Q Quarterly
                Report for the quarter ended March 31, 1999.*

10.17.1         Letter Agreement, dated December 6, 1999, between the Registrant
                and M. Douglas Ivester -- incorporated herein by reference to
                Exhibit 10.17.1 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for
                the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.17.2         Letter Agreement, dated December 15, 1999, between the
                Registrant and M. Douglas Ivester -- incorporated herein by
                reference to Exhibit 10.17.2 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
                Report for the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.17.3         Letter Agreement, dated February 17, 2000, between the
                Registrant and M. Douglas Ivester -- incorporated herein by
                reference to Exhibit 10.17.3 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
                Report for the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.18           Group Long-Term Performance Incentive Plan of the Company, as
                amended and restated effective February 17, 2000 -- incorporated
                herein by reference to Exhibit 10.18 of the Company's Form 10-K
                Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.19           Executive Incentive Plan of the Company, adopted as of February
                14, 2001.*




Exhibit No.
- ----------

10.20           Restricted Stock Agreement, dated December 20, 2000, between the
                Company and Charles S. Frenette.*

10.21           Form of United States Master Bottle Contract, as amended,
                between the Company and Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. ("Coca-Cola
                Enterprises") or its subsidiaries  incorporated herein by
                reference to Exhibit 10.24 of Coca-Cola Enterprises' Annual
                Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 1988
                (File No. 01-09300).

12.1            Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges for the years
                ended December 31, 2000, 1999, 1998, 1997 and 1996.

13.1            Portions of the Company's 2000 Annual Report to Share Owners
                expressly incorporated by reference herein:  Pages 33 through
                67, 69, 72 and the inside back cover (definitions of "Dividend
                Payout Ratio," "Economic Profit," "Free Cash Flow," "Interest
                Coverage Ratio," "Net Capital," "Net Debt," "Return on Capital,"
                "Return on Common Equity," "Total Capital" and "Total Market
                Value of Common Stock").

21.1            List of subsidiaries of the Company as of December 31, 2000.

23.1            Consent of Independent Auditors.

24.1            Powers of Attorney of Officers and Directors signing this
                report.

99.1            Cautionary Statement Relative to Forward-Looking Statements.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Management contracts and compensatory plans and arrangements required to be
filed as exhibits pursuant to Item 14(c) of this report.

(b)     Reports on Form 8-K -- The Company did not file any reports on Form 8-K
during the last quarter of the period covered by this report.

(c)     Exhibits -- The response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted as a
separate section of this report.

(d)     Financial Statement Schedule -- The response to this portion of Item 14
is submitted as a separate section of this report.




                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant  to the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                        THE COCA-COLA COMPANY
                                             (Registrant)



                                        By:  /s/ DOUGLAS N. DAFT
                                        -------------------------
                                        DOUGLAS N. DAFT
                                        Chairman, Board of Directors, Chief
                                        Executive Officer and a Director

                                        Date:  March 7, 2001


     Pursuant to the  requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


/s/ DOUGLAS N. DAFT                                     *
- -----------------------------------     ---------------------------------
DOUGLAS N. DAFT                         CATHLEEN P. BLACK
Chairman, Board of Directors, Chief     Director
Executive Officer and a Director
(Principal Executive Officer)


March 7, 2001                           March 7, 2001


/s/ GARY P. FAYARD                                      *
- -----------------------------------     ------------------------------------
GARY P. FAYARD                          WARREN E. BUFFETT
Senior Vice President and Chief         Director
Financial Officer
(Principal Financial Officer)


March 7, 2001                           March 7, 2001


/s/ CONNIE D. McDANIEL                                  *
- -----------------------------------     ------------------------------------
CONNIE D. McDANIEL                      SUSAN B. KING
Vice President and Controller           Director
(Principal Accounting Officer)


March 7, 2001                           March 7, 2001

                *                                       *
- -----------------------------------     ----------------------------------
HERBERT A. ALLEN                        DONALD F. McHENRY
Director                                Director

March 7, 2001                           March 7, 2001

                *                                       *
- -----------------------------------     -----------------------------------
RONALD W. ALLEN                         SAM NUNN
Director                                Director

March 7, 2001                           March 7, 2001





                *                                       *
- -----------------------------------     -----------------------------------
PAUL F. OREFFICE                        PETER V. UEBERROTH
Director                                Director

March 7, 2001                           March 7, 2001

                *                                       *
- -----------------------------------     -----------------------------------
JAMES D. ROBINSON III                   JAMES B. WILLIAMS
Director                                Director

March 7, 2001                           March 7, 2001







* By: /s/ CAROL C. HAYES
      ----------------------------
      CAROL C. HAYES
      Attorney-in-fact



      March 7, 2001



























































[This Page Intentionally Left Blank]

























                           ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

                                   ITEM 14(d)

                          FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE
                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000
                     THE COCA-COLA COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES






                  SCHEDULE II -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                     THE COCA-COLA COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
                          Year ended December 31, 2000
                                  (in millions)



- --------------
[FN]

Note 1 -  The amounts shown in Column D consist of the following:






                                      F-1



                SCHEDULE II -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                     THE COCA-COLA COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999
                                  (IN MILLIONS)



- --------------------------
[FN]

Note 1 -  The amounts shown in Column D consist of the following:





                                      F-2



                SCHEDULE II -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                     THE COCA-COLA COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998
                                  (IN MILLIONS)




- --------------------------
[FN]

Note 1 -  The amounts shown in Column D consist of the following:










                                      F-3


                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
                                 -------------


EXHIBIT NO.     DESCRIPTION
- -----------     -----------

3.1             Certificate of  Incorporation of the Company,  including
                Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation,  effective May 1,
                1996 -- incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 3 of the
                Company's  Form 10-Q Quarterly Report  for the  quarter  ended
                March  31,  1996. (With  regard  to applicable cross references
                in this report, the Company's Current, Quarterly and Annual
                Reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
                under File No.  1-2217.)

3.2             By-Laws of the Company, as amended and restated through
                February 17, 2000 -- incorporated herein by reference to
                Exhibit 3.2 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the
                year ended  December 31, 1999.

4.1             The Company agrees to furnish to the Securities and Exchange
                Commission, upon request, a copy of any instrument defining the
                rights of holders of long-term debt of the Company and all of
                its consolidated  subsidiaries and unconsolidated subsidiaries
                for which  financial  statements are required to be filed with
                the Securities and Exchange Commission.

10.1.1          The Key Executive Retirement Plan of the Company, as amended
                --  incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the
                Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December
                31, 1995.*


10.1.2          Third Amendment to the Key Executive Retirement Plan of the
                Company, dated as of July 9, 1998 -- incorporated herein by
                reference to Exhibit 10.1.2 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
                Report for the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.1.3          Fourth Amendment to the Key Executive Retirement Plan of the
                Company, dated as of February 16, 1999 -- incorporated herein
                by reference to Exhibit 10.1.3 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
                Report for the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.1.4          Fifth Amendment to the Key Executive Retirement Plan of the
                Company, dated as of January 25, 2000 -- incorporated herein by
                reference to Exhibit 10.1.4 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
                Report for the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.2            Supplemental Disability Plan of the Company, as amended --
                incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the
                Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December
                31, 1991.*

10.3            Annual Performance Incentive Plan of the Company, as amended --
                incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the
                Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December
                31, 1995.*

10.4            1987 Stock Option Plan of the Company, as amended and restated
                through April 20, 1999 -- incorporated herein by reference to
                Exhibit 10.1 of the Company's Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for
                the quarter ended March 31, 1999*

10.5            1991 Stock Option Plan of the Company, as amended and restated
                through April 20, 1999 -- incorporated herein by reference to
                Exhibit 10.2 of the Company's Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for
                the quarter ended March 31, 1999.*


EXHIBIT NO.     DESCRIPTION
- -----------     -----------

10.6            1999 Stock Option Plan of the Company, as amended and restated
                through April 18, 2000 - incorporated herein by reference to
                Exhibit 10 of the Company's Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the
                quarter ended March 31, 2000.*

10.7            1983 Restricted Stock Award Plan of the Company, as amended
                through February 17, 2000 -- incorporated herein by reference
                to Exhibit 10.7 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for
                the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.8            1989 Restricted Stock Award Plan of the Company, as amended
                through February 17, 2000 -- incorporated herein by reference
                to Exhibit 10.8 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for
                the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.9.1          Compensation Deferral & Investment Program of the Company, as
                amended, including Amendment Number Four dated November 28,
                1995 -- incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.13 of
                the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended
                December 31, 1995.*

10.9.2          Amendment Number 5 to the Compensation Deferral & Investment
                Program of the Company, effective as of January 1, 1998 --
                incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.8.2 of the
                Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December
                31, 1997.*

10.10           Special Medical Insurance Plan of the Company, as amended --
                incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.16 of the
                Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December
                31, 1995.*

10.11.1         Supplemental Benefit Plan of the Company, as amended --
                incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.17 of the
                Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December
                31, 1993.*

10.11.2         Amendment Number Five to the Supplemental Benefit Plan of the
                Company -- incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.17.2
                of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended
                December 31, 1996.*

10.11.3         Amendment Number Six to the Supplemental Benefit Plan of the
                Company, dated as of July 1, 1998 -- incorporated herein by
                reference to Exhibit 10.11.3 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
                Report for the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.11.4         Amendment Number Seven to the Supplemental Benefit Plan of the
                Company, dated January 24, 2000 -- incorporated herein by
                reference to Exhibit 10.11.4 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
                Report for the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.11.5         Amendment Number Eight to the Supplemental Benefit Plan of the
                Company, dated January 25, 2000 -- incorporated herein by
                reference to Exhibit of 10.11.5 of the Company's Form 10-K
                Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.12           Retirement Plan for the Board of Directors of the Company, as
                amended -- incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.22 of
                the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended
                December 31, 1991.*

10.13           Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors of the
                Company, adopted as of October 16, 1997 -- incorporated herein
                by reference to Exhibit 10.12 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
                Report for the year ended December 31, 1997.*



EXHIBIT NO.     DESCRIPTION
- -----------     -----------

10.14           Deferred Compensation Agreement for Officers or Key Executives
                of the Company -- incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
                10.20 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year
                ended December 31, 1993.*

10.15           Long Term Performance Incentive Plan of the Company, as amended
                and restated effective April 21, 1999 -- incorporated herein by
                reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the Company's Form 10-Q Quarterly
                Report for the quarter ended March 31, 1999.*

10.16           Executive Performance Incentive Plan of the Company, as amended
                and restated effective April 21, 1999 -- incorporated herein by
                reference to Exhibit 10.5 of the Company's Form 10-Q Quarterly
                Report for the quarter ended March 31, 1999.*

10.17.1         Letter Agreement, dated December 6, 1999, between the Registrant
                and M. Douglas Ivester -- incorporated herein by reference to
                Exhibit 10.17.1 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for
                the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.17.2         Letter Agreement, dated December 15, 1999, between the
                Registrant and M. Douglas Ivester -- incorporated herein by
                reference to Exhibit 10.17.2 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
                Report for the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.17.3         Letter Agreement, dated February 17, 2000, between the
                Registrant and M. Douglas Ivester -- incorporated herein by
                reference to Exhibit 10.17.3 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
                Report for the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.18           Group Long-Term Performance Incentive Plan of the Company, as
                amended and restated effective February 17, 2000 -- incorporated
                herein by reference to Exhibit 10.18 of the Company's Form 10-K
                Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.19           Executive Incentive Plan of the Company, adopted as of February
                14, 2001.*

10.20           Restricted Stock Agreement, dated December 20, 2000, between the
                Company and Charles S. Frenette.*

10.21           Form of United States Master Bottle Contract, as amended,
                between the Company and Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. ("Coca-Cola
                Enterprises") or its subsidiaries  incorporated herein by
                reference to Exhibit 10.24 of Coca-Cola Enterprises' Annual
                Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 1988
                (File No. 01-09300).

12.1            Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges for the years
                ended December 31, 2000, 1999, 1998, 1997 and 1996.

13.1            Portions of the Company's 2000 Annual Report to Share Owners
                expressly incorporated by reference herein:  Pages 33 through
                67, 69, 72 and the inside back cover (definitions of "Dividend
                Payout Ratio," "Economic Profit," "Free Cash Flow," "Interest
                Coverage Ratio," "Net Capital," "Net Debt," "Return on Capital,"
                "Return on Common Equity," "Total Capital" and "Total Market
                Value of Common Stock").

21.1            List of subsidiaries of the Company as of December 31, 2000.

23.1            Consent of Independent Auditors.

24.1            Powers of Attorney of Officers and Directors signing this
                report.

99.1            Cautionary Statement Relative to Forward-Looking Statements.



