
10-K




- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                    FORM 10-K
                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

          [ X ]    ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF
                          THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                     FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999
                                       OR
          [     ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF
                           THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                       FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM        TO

                            COMMISSION FILE NO. 001-02217

                                 THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

                  (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

                         DELAWARE                        58-0628465
               (State or other jurisdiction of          (IRS Employer
                incorporation or organization)        Identification No.)

                    ONE COCA-COLA PLAZA                     30313
                     ATLANTA, GEORGIA                    (Zip Code)
          (Address of principal executive offices)

         REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: (404) 676-2121

           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:
                                                NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE ON
                TITLE OF EACH CLASS                 WHICH REGISTERED
                -------------------             ------------------------
             COMMON STOCK, $.25 PAR VALUE       NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

         SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT: NONE

INDICATE BY CHECK MARK WHETHER THE REGISTRANT (1) HAS FILED ALL REPORTS REQUIRED
TO BE FILED BY SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 DURING
THE PRECEDING 12 MONTHS AND (2) HAS BEEN SUBJECT TO SUCH FILING REQUIREMENTS FOR
THE PAST 90 DAYS.
                            YES [X]            NO [ ]

INDICATE BY CHECK MARK IF DISCLOSURE OF DELINQUENT  FILERS  PURSUANT TO ITEM 405
OF REGULATION  S-K IS NOT CONTAINED  HEREIN,  AND WILL NOT BE CONTAINED,  TO THE
BEST OF REGISTRANT'S  KNOWLEDGE,  IN DEFINITIVE PROXY OR INFORMATION  STATEMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN PART III OF THIS FORM 10-K OR ANY AMENDMENT TO THIS
FORM 10-K.  [ ]

THE AGGREGATE  MARKET VALUE OF THE COMMON EQUITY HELD BY  NON-AFFILIATES  OF THE
REGISTRANT  (ASSUMING  FOR  THESE  PURPOSES,  BUT  WITHOUT  CONCEDING,  THAT ALL
EXECUTIVE  OFFICERS AND  DIRECTORS ARE  "AFFILIATES"  OF THE  REGISTRANT)  AS OF
FEBRUARY  21, 2000 (BASED ON THE CLOSING SALE PRICE OF THE  REGISTRANT'S  COMMON
STOCK AS REPORTED ON THE NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE ON FEBRUARY 18, 2000) WAS
$110,590,808,060.

THE NUMBER OF SHARES OUTSTANDING OF THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AS OF FEBRUARY
21, 2000, WAS 2,472,450,605.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

PORTIONS  OF THE  COMPANY'S  ANNUAL  REPORT TO SHARE  OWNERS  FOR THE YEAR ENDED
DECEMBER 31, 1999, ARE INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN PARTS I, II AND IV.

PORTIONS OF THE COMPANY'S PROXY STATEMENT FOR THE ANNUAL MEETING OF SHARE OWNERS
TO BE HELD ON APRIL 19, 2000, ARE INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN PART III.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



                                     PART I

ITEM 1.       BUSINESS

      The Coca-Cola Company (together with its subsidiaries,  the "Company") was
incorporated  in  September  1919  under the laws of the State of  Delaware  and
succeeded to the business of a Georgia  corporation  with the same name that had
been organized in 1892. The Company is the largest manufacturer, distributor and
marketer of soft drink  concentrates and syrups in the world.  Finished beverage
products bearing the Company's trademarks, sold in the United States since 1886,
are now sold in nearly 200 countries and include the leading soft drink products
in most of these countries.  The Company also markets and distributes  juice and
juice-drink products.

      The Company is one of numerous  competitors  in the  commercial  beverages
market.  Of the approximately 48 billion beverage servings of all types consumed
worldwide  every day,  beverages  bearing  the  Company's  trademarks  ("Company
Trademark Beverages") account for more than one billion.

      The business of the Company is nonalcoholic  beverages -- principally soft
drinks but also a variety of  noncarbonated  beverages.  As used in this report,
the term "soft drinks" refers to nonalcoholic  carbonated  beverages  containing
flavorings  and  sweeteners,   excluding   flavored  waters  and  carbonated  or
noncarbonated teas, coffees and sports drinks.

      During the three years ended December 31, 1999,  the Company's  operating
structure  included the following  operating  segments:  the North America Group
(including The Minute Maid Company); the Africa Group; the Greater Europe Group;
the Latin America Group; the Middle & Far East Group;  and Corporate.  The North
America Group includes the United States and Canada.  Effective January 1, 2000,
two  of  the  Company's  operating  segments  were  renamed  and  geographically
reconfigured.  The Middle & Far East Group was renamed the Asia  Pacific  Group,
while the Africa Group became known as the Africa and Middle East Group.  At the
same time, the Middle East & North Africa  Division  (comprising 22 countries in
the Middle East) ceased to be part of the Asia Pacific  Group and became part of
the expanded Africa and Middle East Group.

       Except to the extent that  differences  between  operating  segments  are
material to an  understanding  of the Company's  business taken as a whole,  the
description  of  the  Company's  business  in  this  report  is  presented  on a
consolidated basis.

      Of the Company's  consolidated net operating revenues and operating income
for each of the past three years,  the percentage  represented by each operating
segment (excluding Corporate) is as follows:


                         North                 Greater      Latin       Middle &
                        America     Africa     Europe      America      Far East
                        -------     ------     -------     -------      --------
Net Operating Revenues
              1999         38%         3%        23%         10%           26%
              1998         37%         3%        26%         12%           22%
              1997         35%         3%        29%         11%           22%

Operating Income
              1999         32%         4%        23%         18%           23%
              1998         25%         4%        29%         18%           24%
              1997         22%         3%        31%         19%           25%

For additional financial  information about the Company's operating segments and
geographic  areas,  see  Notes  1,  14  and  16 to  the  Consolidated  Financial
Statements,  set forth on pages 49-50, 59-60 and 60-62,  respectively,  of the
Company's  Annual  Report to Share Owners for the year ended  December 31, 1999,
incorporated herein by reference.




      The Company  manufactures and sells soft drink and noncarbonated  beverage
concentrates and syrups, including fountain syrups, some finished beverages, and
certain juice and juice-drink products. Syrups are composed of sweetener,  water
and flavoring  concentrate.  The  concentrates and syrups for bottled and canned
beverages are sold by the Company to authorized bottling and canning operations.
The  bottlers or canners of soft drink  products  either  combine the syrup with
carbonated water or combine the concentrate with sweetener, water and carbonated
water to produce finished soft drinks.  The finished soft drinks are packaged in
authorized  containers bearing the Company's trademarks -- cans,  refillable and
non-refillable  glass and plastic  bottles -- for sale to retailers  or, in some
cases,  wholesalers.  Fountain syrups are  manufactured and sold by the Company,
principally in the United States,  to authorized  fountain  wholesalers and some
fountain  retailers.  (Outside the United States,  fountain syrups typically are
manufactured  by  authorized  bottlers  from  concentrates  sold  to them by the
Company.)   Authorized  fountain   wholesalers   (including  certain  authorized
bottlers) sell fountain syrups to fountain retailers. The fountain retailers use
dispensing  equipment to mix the syrup with  carbonated  or still water and then
sell  finished soft drinks or  noncarbonated  beverages to consumers in cups and
glasses.  Finished  beverages  manufactured  by the  Company  are  sold by it to
authorized  bottlers  or  distributors,  who in  turn  sell  these  products  to
retailers or, in some cases, wholesalers. Both directly and through a network of
business   partners  that  includes  certain  Coca-Cola   bottlers,   juice  and
juice-drink products are sold by the Company to retailers and wholesalers in the
United States and numerous other countries.

      The Company's  beverage  products,  including bottled and canned beverages
produced by independent and Company-owned  bottling and canning  operations,  as
well as concentrates and syrups, include Coca-Cola,  Coca-Cola classic, caffeine
free  Coca-Cola,  caffeine  free  Coca-Cola  classic,  diet Coke (sold under the
trademark Coca-Cola light in many countries outside the United States), caffeine
free diet Coke, Cherry Coke, diet Cherry Coke, Fanta brand soft drinks,  Sprite,
diet Sprite,  Mr. Pibb,  Mello Yello,  TAB,  Fresca,  Barq's root beer and other
flavors, Surge, Citra, POWERaDE,  Fruitopia,  Minute Maid flavors,  Saryusaisai,
Aquarius,  Bonaqa,  Dasani, Lift, Thums Up, Hit and other products developed for
specific countries, including Georgia brand ready-to-drink coffees, and numerous
other brands. In many countries  (excluding the United States, among others) the
Company's  beverage products also include  Schweppes,  Canada Dry, Dr Pepper and
Crush. The Minute Maid Company,  with operations  primarily in the United States
and Canada, produces,  distributes and markets principally juice and juice-drink
products,  including  Minute Maid brand products,  Five Alive brand  refreshment
beverages,  Bright & Early brand  breakfast  beverages,  Bacardi brand  tropical
fruit mixers  (manufactured  and marketed under a license from Bacardi & Company
Limited),  and Hi-C brand ready-to-serve fruit drinks.  Additionally,  Coca-Cola
Nestle  Refreshments,  the  Company's  joint  venture with Nestle S.A.,  markets
ready-to-drink teas and coffees in certain countries.

      In 1999,  concentrates  and syrups for  beverages  bearing  the  trademark
"Coca-Cola" or including the trademark "Coke" accounted for approximately 63% of
the Company's total gallon sales (1).

      In  1999,  gallon  sales  in  the  United  States  ("U.S.  gallon  sales")
represented  approximately 30% of the Company's worldwide gallon sales. In 1999,
the  Company's  principal  markets  outside the United  States,  based on

- ----------------------------
(1) The Company measures sales volume in two ways:  (1) gallon sales and (2)
unit cases of finished products.  "Gallon sales" represents the primary
business of the Company and means the sum of (a) the volume of concentrates
(converted to their equivalents in gallons of syrup) and syrups sold by the
Company to its bottling partners or customers directly or through wholesalers
and distributors, and (b) the gallon sales equivalent of the juice and juice-
drink products sold by The Minute Maid Company.  Historically, Company gallon
sales data excluded item (b) above; however, effective with this report, all
historical gallon sales data in this report reflects the new definition set
forth above.  Most of the Company's revenues are based on this measure of
"wholesale" activity.  The Company also measures volume in unit cases.  As
used in this report, the term "unit case" means a unit of measurement equal
to 192 U.S. fluid ounces of finished beverage (24 eight-ounce servings); and
"unit case volume" of the Company means the sum of (i) the number of unit
cases sold by the Coca-Cola bottling system and by the Company to customers,
including fountain syrups sold by the Company to customers directly or through
wholesalers or distributors, and (ii) the volume of juice and juice-drink
products (expressed in equivalent unit cases) sold by The Minute Maid Company.
Item (i) above primarily includes products reported as gallon sales and other
key products owned by Coca-Cola bottling system bottlers.  Historically,
Company unit case volume data excluded item (ii) above; however, effective
with this report, all historical unit case volume data in this report reflects
the new definition set forth above.  The Company believes unit case volume more
accurately measures the underlying strength of its business system because it
measures trends at the retail level.




gallon sales,  were Mexico,  Brazil,  Japan and Germany,  which together
accounted for approximately 25% of the Company's worldwide gallon sales.

      Approximately  59% of  the  Company's  U.S.  gallon  sales  for  1999  was
attributable to sales of beverage  concentrates  and syrups to  approximately 89
authorized  bottler ownership groups in approximately 397 licensed  territories.
Those  bottlers  prepare  and sell  finished  beverages  bearing  the  Company's
trademarks for the food store and vending machine distribution  channels and for
other   distribution   channels   supplying  home  and  immediate   consumption.
Approximately  33% of 1999 U.S. gallon sales was attributable to fountain syrups
sold  to  fountain  retailers  and  to  approximately  589  authorized  fountain
wholesalers, some of whom are authorized bottlers. These fountain wholesalers in
turn sell the syrups or deliver them on the Company's  behalf to restaurants and
other fountain  retailers.  The remaining  approximately  8% of 1999 U.S. gallon
sales was attributable to juice and juice-drink products sold by The Minute Maid
Company.  Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. ("Coca-Cola  Enterprises") and its bottling
subsidiaries and divisions accounted for approximately 48% of the Company's U.S.
gallon  sales in 1999.  At  February  15,  2000 the  Company  held an  ownership
interest of approximately 40% in Coca-Cola  Enterprises,  which is the world's
largest bottler of Company Trademark Beverages.

      In addition to conducting its own  independent  advertising  and marketing
activities,  the Company may provide  promotional and marketing  services and/or
funds and consultation to its bottlers and to fountain and bottle/can retailers,
usually but not always on a discretionary  basis. Also on a discretionary basis,
in most cases, the Company may develop and introduce new products,  packages and
equipment  to assist its  bottlers,  fountain  syrup  wholesalers  and  fountain
beverage retailers.

      The  profitability of the Company's  business outside the United States is
subject to many factors,  including  governmental trade regulations and monetary
policies,  economic  and  political  conditions  in the  countries in which such
business is  conducted  and the risk of changes in currency  exchange  rates and
regulations.

      BOTTLER'S AGREEMENTS AND DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENTS

      Separate contracts  ("Bottler's  Agreements") between the Company and each
of its bottlers  regarding the manufacture  and sale of soft drinks,  subject to
specified terms and conditions and certain  variations,  generally authorize the
bottler to prepare particular designated Company Trademark Beverages, to package
the same in particular  authorized  containers,  and to distribute  and sell the
same  in (but  generally  only  in) an  identified  territory.  The  bottler  is
obligated to purchase its entire  requirement of  concentrates or syrups for the
designated  Company Trademark  Beverages from the Company or  Company-authorized
suppliers.  The Company typically agrees to refrain from selling or distributing
or from authorizing  third parties to sell or distribute the designated  Company
Trademark  Beverages  throughout  the  identified  territory  in the  particular
authorized containers; however, the Company typically reserves for itself or its
designee the right (i) to prepare and package such beverages in such  containers
in the territory  for sale outside the  territory and (ii) to prepare,  package,
distribute and sell such beverages in the territory in any other manner or form.

      The Bottler's  Agreements between the Company and its authorized  bottlers
in the  United  States  differ  in  certain  respects  from  those in the  other
countries  in  which  Company  Trademark  Beverages  are  sold.  As  hereinafter
discussed, the principal differences involve the duration of the agreements; the
inclusion or exclusion of canned beverage  production  rights;  the inclusion or
exclusion of  authorizations  to manufacture and distribute  fountain syrups; in
some cases,  the degree of  flexibility  on the part of the Company to determine
the pricing of syrups and concentrates; and the extent, if any, of the Company's
obligation to provide marketing support.

      OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES.  The Bottler's  Agreements  between the Company
and its authorized  bottlers  outside the United States  generally are of stated
duration,  subject in some cases to possible  extensions or renewals of the term
of the contract.  Generally,  these  contracts are subject to termination by the
Company following the occurrence of certain designated events, including defined
events of default and certain changes in ownership or control of the bottler.

      In certain parts of the world outside the United  States,  the Company has
not granted  comprehensive  beverage production rights to the bottlers.  In such
instances,  the Company or its designee typically sells canned (or in some cases
bottled) Company  Trademark  Beverages to the bottlers for sale and distribution
throughout the designated  territory under distribution  agreements,  often on a
non-exclusive basis. A majority of the Bottler's Agreements in




force between the Company  and  bottlers  outside  the  United  States authorize
the  bottler to manufacture and distribute fountain syrups, usually on a non-
exclusive basis.

      The Company generally has complete  flexibility to determine the price and
other terms of sale of  concentrates  and syrups to bottlers  outside the United
States and,  although in its  discretion  it may determine to do so, the Company
typically (but not always) has no obligation under such Bottler's  Agreements to
provide marketing support to the bottlers.

      WITHIN THE UNITED STATES. In the United States,  with certain very limited
exceptions,   the  Company's  Bottler's   Agreements  for  Coca-Cola  and  other
cola-flavored  beverages  have no stated  expiration  date and the contracts for
other flavors are of stated  duration,  subject to bottler renewal  rights.  The
Bottler's  Agreements  in the United  States are subject to  termination  by the
Company for  nonperformance  or upon the occurrence of certain defined events of
default  which may vary from  contract to contract.  The  hereinafter  described
"1987  Contract" is  terminable  by the Company upon the  occurrence  of certain
events including: (1) the bottler's insolvency, dissolution, receivership or the
like;  (2) any  disposition  by the  bottler or any of its  subsidiaries  of any
voting securities of any bottler  subsidiary without the consent of the Company;
(3) any  material  breach  of any  obligation  of the  bottler  under  the  1987
Contract;  or (4)  except  in the  case of  certain  bottlers,  if a  person  or
affiliated group acquires or obtains any right to acquire  beneficial  ownership
of more than 10% of any class or series  of  voting  securities  of the  bottler
without authorization by the Company.

      Under the terms of the Bottler's Agreements, bottlers in the United States
are authorized to  manufacture  and distribute  Company  Trademark  Beverages in
bottles and cans,  but generally  are not  authorized  to  manufacture  fountain
syrups.   Rather,  the  Company   manufactures  and  sells  fountain  syrups  to
approximately 589 authorized fountain wholesalers  (including certain authorized
bottlers) and some fountain  retailers.  The wholesalers in turn sell the syrups
or deliver them on the Company's behalf to restaurants and other retailers.  The
wholesaler  typically  acts pursuant to a  non-exclusive  letter of  appointment
which neither  restricts  the pricing of fountain  syrups by the Company nor the
territory in which the wholesaler may resell in the United States.

      In the United States,  the form of Bottler's  Agreement for  cola-flavored
soft drinks that covers the largest amount of U.S. volume (the "1987  Contract")
gives the Company complete flexibility to determine the price and other terms of
sale of soft drink  concentrates and syrups for cola-flavored  Company Trademark
Beverages   ("Coca-Cola   Trademark  Beverages")  and  other  Company  Trademark
Beverages.   Bottlers   operating   under  the  1987   Contract   accounted  for
approximately  81% of the Company's total United States gallon sales for bottled
and canned  beverages,  excluding juice and  juice-drink  products of The Minute
Maid Company,  ("U.S.  bottle/can gallon sales") in 1999. Certain other forms of
the U.S. Bottler's Agreement, entered into prior to 1987, provide for soft drink
concentrates or syrups for certain  Coca-Cola  Trademark  Beverages to be priced
pursuant to a stated  formula.  The oldest such form of contract,  applicable to
bottlers  accounting for  approximately  1% of U.S.  bottle/can  gallon sales in
1999,  provides for a fixed price for Coca-Cola  syrup used in bottles and cans,
subject  to  quarterly  adjustments  to reflect  changes in the quoted  price of
sugar.  Bottlers  accounting  for  the  remaining   approximately  18%  of  U.S.
bottle/can gallon sales in 1999 have contracts for certain  Coca-Cola  Trademark
Beverages with pricing  formulas  generally  providing for a baseline price that
may be adjusted  periodically  by the Company,  up to a maximum  indexed ceiling
price,  and that is adjusted  quarterly  based upon changes in certain  sugar or
sweetener prices, as applicable.

      Standard  contracts  with  bottlers  in the United  States for the sale of
concentrates  and syrups for  non-cola-flavored  soft drinks in bottles and cans
permit flexible pricing by the Company.

      Under the 1987 Contract, the Company has no obligation to participate with
bottlers  in  expenditures  for  advertising  and  marketing,  but  may,  at its
discretion,  contribute  toward such  expenditures and undertake  independent or
cooperative advertising and marketing activities. Some U.S. Bottler's Agreements
that pre-date the 1987 Contract  impose  certain  marketing  obligations  on the
Company with respect to certain Company Trademark Beverages.

      SIGNIFICANT EQUITY INVESTMENTS AND COMPANY BOTTLING OPERATIONS

      The Company maintains business relationships with three types of bottlers:
(1)  independently  owned  bottlers,  in  which  the  Company  has no  ownership
interest; (2) bottlers in which the Company has invested and has a




noncontrolling  ownership  interest;  and (3)  bottlers in which the Company has
invested and has a controlling ownership interest. In 1999,  independently owned
bottling operations produced and distributed  approximately 27% of the Company's
worldwide unit case volume; cost or equity method investee bottlers in which the
Company  owns a noncontrolling  ownership  interest  produced  and  distributed
approximately 58% of such  worldwide  unit  case  volume;  and  controlled  and
consolidated bottling and fountain operations including The Minute Maid Company
produced and distributed approximately 15% of such worldwide unit case volume.

      The Company makes equity investments in selected bottling  operations with
the  intention  of  maximizing  the  strength and  efficiency  of the  Coca-Cola
business  system's  production,  distribution  and marketing  systems around the
world.  These  investments  are  intended  to result in  increases  in unit case
volume,  net revenues and profits at the bottler  level,  which in turn generate
increased gallon sales for the Company's concentrate business. When this occurs,
both the Company  and the  bottlers  benefit  from  long-term  growth in volume,
improved cash flows and increased share-owner value.

      The level of the Company's  investment  generally depends on the bottler's
capital  structure  and its available  resources at the time of the  investment.
Historically,  in certain situations,  the Company has viewed it as advantageous
to  acquire a  controlling  interest  in a  bottling  operation.  Owning  such a
controlling  interest has allowed the Company to  compensate  for limited  local
resources  and has  enabled the  Company to help focus the  bottler's  sales and
marketing  programs and assist in the development of the bottler's  business and
information systems and the establishment of appropriate capital structures.  In
July 1999, the Company purchased from Fraser and Neave Limited its 75% ownership
interest in F & N Coca-Cola Pte Limited  ("F&NCC") in exchange for approximately
57 million shares of Coca-Cola Amatil Limited ("Coca-Cola Amatil") stock and the
assumption of debt, thus giving the Company 100% ownership in F&NCC. F&NCC holds
a majority ownership interest in bottling operations in Brunei, Cambodia, Nepal,
Pakistan,  Sri  Lanka,  Singapore  and  Vietnam.  Also in  1999,  as part of the
Company's  strategy  to  achieve an  integrated  bottling  system in India,  the
Company purchased 12 independent Indian bottling operations,  bringing the total
number purchased by the Company since January 1997 to 31.

      In line with its long-term  bottling  strategy,  the Company  periodically
considers  options for reducing its  ownership  interest in a bottler.  One such
option  is to  combine  the  Company's  bottling  interests  with  the  bottling
interests of others to form strategic business  alliances.  Another option is to
sell the  Company's  interest in a bottling  operation  to one of the  Company's
equity investee  bottlers.  In both of these  situations,  the Company continues
participating  in the bottler's  results of operations  through its share of the
equity investee's earnings or losses.

      In  cases  where  the   Company's   investments   in  bottlers   represent
noncontrolling  interests,  the Company's  intention is to provide expertise and
resources to  strengthen  those  businesses.  In 1999 the Company  increased its
equity interest in Embotelladora  Arica S.A., a bottler  headquartered in Chile,
from approximately 17% to approximately 45%.

      The Company views certain  bottling  operations in which the Company has a
noncontrolling  ownership  interest as key or anchor bottlers due to their level
of responsibility and performance.  The strong commitment of both key and anchor
bottlers  to their own  profitable  volume  growth  helps the  Company  meet its
strategic  goals  and  furthers  the  interests  of  its  worldwide  production,
distribution  and  marketing  systems.  These  bottlers  tend  to be  large  and
geographically diverse, with strong financial resources for long-term investment
and strong  management  resources.  These  bottlers  give the Company  strategic
business partners on every major continent.

      In January 1999, two Japanese  bottlers,  Kita Kyushu  Coca-Cola  Bottling
Company, Ltd. and Sanyo Coca-Cola Bottling Company,  Ltd., announced plans for a
merger to become a new, publicly traded bottling  company,  Coca-Cola West Japan
Company,  Ltd. The transaction,  which was completed in July 1999 and was valued
at approximately  $2.2 billion,  created  Japan's first anchor  bottler.  As of
December 31, 1999, the Company had an ownership  interest of approximately 5% in
the new anchor bottler.

     The Company has substantial equity positions in approximately 50
unconsolidated bottling, canning and distribution operations for its products
worldwide, including bottlers representing approximately 55% of the Company's
total U.S. unit case volume in 1999. Of these, significant investee bottlers
accounted for by the equity method include the following:





      COCA-COLA  ENTERPRISES INC. The Company's  ownership interest in Coca-Cola
Enterprises was approximately 40% at December 31, 1999. Coca-Cola Enterprises is
the world's largest  bottler of the Company's  beverage  products.  In 1999, net
sales of concentrates  and syrups by the Company to Coca-Cola  Enterprises  were
approximately $3.3 billion,  or approximately 17% of the Company's net operating
revenues.  Coca-Cola Enterprises also purchases high fructose corn syrup through
the  Company;  however,  related  collections  from  Coca-Cola  Enterprises  and
payments to suppliers are not included in the Company's consolidated  statements
of income.  Coca-Cola  Enterprises  estimates  that the  territories in which it
markets beverage products to retailers (which include portions of 46 states, the
District  of  Columbia,   the  U.S.  Virgin  Islands,   Canada,  Great  Britain,
continental  France,  the Netherlands,  Luxembourg,  Belgium and Monaco) contain
approximately  69% of the United  States  population,  96% of the  population of
Canada,  and 100% of the populations of Great Britain,  continental  France, the
Netherlands, Luxembourg, Belgium and Monaco.

      Excluding products in post-mix (fountain) form, in 1999, approximately 62%
of the unit  case  volume  of  Coca-Cola  Enterprises  was  Coca-Cola  Trademark
Beverages, approximately 29% of its unit case volume was other Company Trademark
Beverages, and approximately 9% of its unit case volume was beverage products of
other  companies.  Coca-Cola  Enterprises'  net sales of beverage  products were
approximately $14.4 billion in 1999.

      COCA-COLA  AMATIL LIMITED.  At December 31, 1999, the Company's  ownership
interest in Coca-Cola  Amatil was  approximately  37%.  Coca-Cola  Amatil is the
largest  bottler of the  Company's  beverage  products in Australia and also has
bottling and distribution rights, through direct ownership or joint ventures, in
New Zealand, Fiji, Papua New Guinea, Indonesia, the Philippines and South Korea.
Net  concentrate  sales by the Company to  Coca-Cola  Amatil were  approximately
U.S.$431  million in 1999.  Coca-Cola  Amatil  estimates that the territories in
which it markets beverage  products contain  approximately 99% of the population
of Australia,  100% of the populations of New Zealand, Fiji, South Korea and the
Philippines, 83% of the population of Papua New Guinea and 97% of the population
of Indonesia.

      In  1999,   Coca-Cola   Amatil's  net  sales  of  beverage  products  were
approximately  U.S.$2.4  billion.  In 1999,  approximately  68% of the unit case
volume of Coca-Cola Amatil was Coca-Cola Trademark Beverages,  approximately 22%
of its unit case volume was other Company Trademark Beverages,  approximately 5%
of  its  unit  case  volume  was  beverage  products  of  Coca-Cola  Amatil  and
approximately  5% of its  unit  case  volume  was  beverage  products  of  other
companies.

      PANAMERICAN BEVERAGES, INC. ("PANAMCO"). At December 31, 1999, the Company
owned an equity interest of approximately 24% in Panamco,  a Panamanian  holding
company with bottling  subsidiaries  operating in a substantial  part of central
Mexico (excluding Mexico City),  greater Sao Paulo,  Campinas,  Santos and Matto
Grosso do Sul, Brazil,  central  Guatemala,  most of Colombia,  and all of Costa
Rica,  Venezuela and Nicaragua.  Panamco estimates that the territories in which
it markets  beverage  products  contain  approximately  19% of the population of
Mexico, 16% of the population of Brazil, 92% of the population of Colombia,  47%
of the  population  of  Guatemala  and 100% of the  populations  of Costa  Rica,
Venezuela and Nicaragua.

      In 1999,  Panamco's  net sales of  beverage  products  were  approximately
U.S.$2.4 billion. In 1999,  approximately 52% of the unit case volume of Panamco
was Coca-Cola Trademark Beverages, approximately 24% of its unit case volume was
other Company Trademark  Beverages and approximately 24% of its unit case volume
was beverage products of Panamco or other companies.

      COCA-COLA FEMSA, S.A. DE C.V.  ("COCA-COLA  FEMSA"). At December 31, 1999,
the Company owned a 30% equity  interest in Coca-Cola  FEMSA, a Mexican  holding
company  with  bottling   subsidiaries   in  the  Valley  of Mexico,   Mexico's
southeastern  region  and  Greater  Buenos  Aires, Argentina.  Coca-Cola
FEMSA estimates that the  territories in which it markets  beverage products
contain approximately 24% of the  population  of Mexico  and approximately 38%
of the population of Argentina.

      In  1999,   Coca-Cola   FEMSA's  net  sales  of  beverage   products  were
approximately  U.S.$1.5  billion.  In 1999,  approximately  76% of the unit case
volume of Coca-Cola FEMSA was Coca-Cola Trademark  Beverages,  approximately 23%
of its unit case volume was other Company Trademark Beverages, and approximately
1% of its unit case volume was beverage products of other companies.




     OTHER INTERESTS. Under the terms of the Coca-Cola Nestle Refreshments
("CCNR") joint venture involving the Company, Nestle S.A. and certain
subsidiaries of Nestle S.A., the Company manages CCNR's ready-to-drink tea
business and Nestle S.A. manages CCNR's ready-to-drink coffee business. The
joint venture has sales in the United States and approximately 33 other
countries.

OTHER DEVELOPMENTS

         In  July  1999,  the  Company  completed  the  acquisition  of  Cadbury
Schweppes plc beverage brands in 155 countries for  approximately  $700 million.
These  brands  included  Schweppes,  Canada  Dry,  Dr Pepper,  Crush and certain
regional  brands.  Among the countries  excluded from this  transaction were the
United States, South Africa,  Norway,  Switzerland and the European Union member
nations (other than the United Kingdom,  Ireland and Greece). Also, ownership of
the brands in Poland,  Hungary  and the Czech and Slovak  Republics  will remain
with the seller for the  foreseeable  future.  In  September  1999,  the Company
acquired Cadbury Schweppes  beverage brands in New Zealand for approximately $20
million.   Also  in  September  1999,  in  a  separate   transaction  valued  at
approximately  $250  million,  the Company  acquired the  carbonated  soft drink
business of Cadbury Schweppes (South Africa) Limited in South Africa,  Botswana,
Namibia, Lesotho and Swaziland. Company acquisitions of Cadbury Schweppes brands
are still pending in several countries,  subject to certain conditions including
regulatory review.

         In  January  2000,  the  Company   announced  a  major   organizational
realignment that will put more  responsibility,  accountability and resources in
the hands of local business units of the Company  located around the world.  The
realignment   will   reduce   the   Company's   workforce   while   transferring
responsibilities from corporate to revenue-generating operating units. Under the
realignment, approximately 6,000 positions worldwide, consisting of employees of
the Company,  open positions and contract  labor,  will be eliminated.  Of these
identified positions, approximately 3,300 are based within the United States and
approximately 2,700 are based outside of the United States. The entire reduction
will take place during  calendar year 2000.  Following the  structural  changes,
roles and responsibilities  within the Company will be redefined.  The Company's
corporate  headquarters  will  retain  responsibility  for  setting  policy  and
strategy  for the  Company as a whole,  while the  Company's  revenue-generating
units generally will assume all other responsibilities.

SEASONALITY

      Sales of  ready-to-drink  non-alcoholic  beverages are somewhat  seasonal,
with the second and third  calendar  quarters  accounting  for the highest sales
volumes  in the  Northern  Hemisphere.  The  volume  of sales  in the  beverages
business may be affected by weather conditions.

COMPETITION

      The  Company  competes  in  the  nonalcoholic  beverages  segment  of  the
commercial beverages industry. That segment is highly competitive, consisting of
numerous firms. These include firms that compete,  like the Company, in multiple
geographical  areas as well as  firms  that are  primarily  local in  operation.
Competitive  products include  carbonates,  packaged water,  juices and nectars,
fruit drinks and dilutables  (including syrups and powdered drinks),  sports and
energy drinks, coffee and tea, still drinks and other beverages. Nonalcoholic
beverages  are  sold  to  consumers  in  both  ready-to-drink  and not-ready-
to-drink form.

      Most of the Company's  beverages  business currently is in soft drinks, as
that term is defined in this report.  The soft drink business,  which is part of
the nonalcoholic beverages segment, is itself highly competitive. The Company is
the leading seller of soft drink concentrates and syrups in the world.  Numerous
firms,  however,  compete in that  business.  These consist of a range of firms,
from local to  international,  that  compete  against  the  Company in  numerous
geographical areas.

      In many parts of the world in which the Company does business,  demand for
soft drinks is growing at the expense of other commercial beverages. Competitive
factors with respect to the Company's business include pricing,  advertising and
sales promotion programs, product innovation, increased efficiency in production
techniques,  the  introduction  of new  packaging,  new vending  and  dispensing
equipment and brand and trademark development and protection.





RAW MATERIALS

      The principal  raw material  used by the Company's  business in the United
States is high fructose  corn syrup,  a form of sugar,  which is available  from
numerous  domestic  sources and is  historically  subject to fluctuations in its
market price. The principal raw material used by the Company's  business outside
the  United  States  is  sucrose.  The  Company  has  a  specialized   sweetener
procurement  staff and has not  experienced  any  difficulties  in obtaining its
requirements.  In the United States and certain other countries, the Company has
authorized  the use of high fructose corn syrup in syrup for Coca-Cola and other
Company  Trademark  Beverages  for  use in  both  fountain  syrup  and  finished
beverages in bottles and cans.

      Generally,  raw  materials  utilized  by the Company in its  business  are
readily available from numerous sources.  However,  aspartame,  which is usually
used alone or in combination  with either  saccharin or acesulfame  potassium in
the Company's  low-calorie  soft drink products,  is currently  purchased by the
Company  primarily from The NutraSweet  Kelco Company,  a subsidiary of Monsanto
Company, and from Holland Sweetener. Acesulfame potassium is currently purchased
from Nutrinova Nutrition Specialties & Food Ingredients GmbH.

      With  regard to juice and  juice-drink  products,  the citrus  industry is
subject to the variability of weather conditions,  in particular the possibility
of  freezes  in central  Florida,  which may  result in higher  prices and lower
consumer demand for orange juice  throughout the industry.  Due to the Company's
long-standing  relationship  with a supplier of  high-quality  Brazilian  orange
juice  concentrate,  the  supply of juice  available  that  meets the  Company's
standards is normally adequate to meet demand.

PATENTS, TRADE SECRETS, TRADEMARKS AND COPYRIGHTS

      The  Company  is the  owner of  numerous  patents,  copyrights  and  trade
secrets,  as well as substantial  know-how and technology  (herein  collectively
referred to as "technology"), which relate to its products and the processes for
their production,  the packages used for its products,  the design and operation
of various  processes  and  equipment  used in its business and certain  quality
assurance  and  financial  software.  Some  of the  technology  is  licensed  to
suppliers  and other  parties.  The  Company's  soft  drink  and other  beverage
formulae are among the important trade secrets of the Company.

      The Company  owns  numerous  trademarks  which are very  important  to its
business. Depending upon the jurisdiction,  trademarks are valid as long as they
are in use and/or their  registrations are properly maintained and they have not
been found to have become generic.  Registrations of trademarks can generally be
renewed  indefinitely  as long as the trademarks are in use. The majority of the
Company's  trademark  license  agreements are included in the Company's  bottler
agreements.  The  Company  has  registered  and  licenses  the  right to use its
trademarks in conjunction with certain merchandise other than soft drinks.

GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION

      The production,  distribution and sale in the United States of many of the
Company's  products are subject to the Federal Food,  Drug and Cosmetic Act; the
Occupational  Safety  and Health  Act;  the Lanham  Act;  various  environmental
statutes;  and various other federal,  state and local  statutes  regulating the
production,  transportation, sale, safety, advertising, labeling and ingredients
of such products.

      A California  law requires that a specific  warning  appear on any product
that  contains  a  component  listed by the State as having  been found to cause
cancer or birth defects.  The law exposes all food and beverage producers to the
possibility  of having to provide  warnings  on their  products  because the law
recognizes no generally applicable quantitative thresholds below which a warning
is not  required.  Consequently,  even trace  amounts of listed  components  can
expose affected products to the prospect of warning labels.  Products containing
listed substances that occur naturally in the product or that are contributed to
the product  solely by a municipal  water supply are  generally  exempt from the
warning  requirement.  While no Company beverage products are currently required
to display  warnings under this law, the Company is unable to predict whether an
important  component of a Company  product might be added to the California list
in the future. The Company is also unable to predict whether or to what extent a
warning  under  this law  would  have an  impact  on  costs or sales of  Company
beverage products.





      Bottlers   of   the   Company's    beverage   products   presently   offer
non-refillable,  recyclable  containers  in all areas of the  United  States and
Canada. Some of these bottlers also offer refillable containers,  which are also
recyclable.  Measures have been enacted in various  localities  and states which
require  that  a  deposit  be  charged  for  certain   non-refillable   beverage
containers.  The precise  requirements  imposed by these measures vary.  Deposit
proposals  have been  introduced in other states and localities and in Congress,
and the Company  anticipates  that similar  legislation may be introduced in the
future at both the state and the federal level.

      All of the  Company's  facilities  in the  United  States  are  subject to
federal,  state and local  environmental  laws and regulations.  Compliance with
these provisions has not had, and the Company does not expect such compliance to
have, any material adverse effect upon the Company's capital  expenditures,  net
income or competitive position.

EMPLOYEES

      As of  December  31,  1999,  the  Company  employed  approximately  37,400
persons,  up from  approximately  28,600  at the end of  1998  primarily  due to
Company  acquisitions  of bottling  operations in India,  Vietnam and Russia and
vending operations in Japan. Approximately 10,400 of these employees are located
in the United States. As previously  disclosed in this report (see,  "Business -
Other  Developments"),  the Company has  announced  an  intention  to reduce its
workforce during the Year 2000.

      The Company,  through its  divisions  and  subsidiaries,  has entered into
numerous  collective  bargaining  agreements,  and the  Company has no reason to
believe it will not be able to renegotiate  any such  agreements on satisfactory
terms.  The Company believes that its relations with its employees are generally
satisfactory.

ITEM 2.       PROPERTIES

      The  Company's  worldwide  headquarters  is  located  on a 35-acre  office
complex in Atlanta,  Georgia.  The complex  includes the  approximately  621,000
square  foot  headquarters  building,  the  approximately  870,000  square  foot
Coca-Cola USA building and the approximately 264,000 square foot Coca-Cola Plaza
building. Also located in the complex are several other buildings, including the
technical  and  engineering  facilities,   learning  center  and  the  Company's
Reception Center. The Company leases approximately 278,000 square feet of office
space at Ten  Peachtree  Place,  Atlanta,  Georgia,  owned by a joint venture of
which an  indirect  subsidiary  of the Company is a partner.  The  Company  also
leases approximately 219,000 square feet of office space at One Atlantic Center,
Atlanta,  Georgia.  The Company has  facilities for  administrative  operations,
manufacturing,   processing,   packaging,   packing,   storage  and  warehousing
throughout the United States.

      The Company  owns and operates 32 principal  beverage  concentrate  and/or
syrup  manufacturing  plants located throughout the world. The Company currently
owns or holds a majority  interest in 29 operations  with 45 principal  beverage
bottling and canning plants located outside the United States.

      The  Minute  Maid  Company,  whose  business  headquarters  is  located in
Houston,  Texas, occupies its own office building,  which contains approximately
330,000  square  feet.  The  Minute  Maid  Company   operates  seven  production
facilities  throughout  the United  States  and Canada and  utilizes a system of
contract  packers to produce and distribute  certain products in areas where The
Minute  Maid  Company  does not have its own  manufacturing  centers  or  during
periods when it experiences shortfalls in manufacturing capacity.

      The Company owns or leases  additional  real estate  throughout the world,
including a wholly owned  office and retail  building at 711 Fifth Avenue in New
York,  New York.  This real estate is used by the Company as office  space,  for
bottling, warehouse or retail operations or, in the case of some owned property,
is leased to others.

      Management believes that the facilities for the production of its products
are suitable and adequate  for the  business  conducted  therein,  that they are
being  appropriately  utilized in line with past  experience  and that they have
sufficient  production capacity for their present intended purposes.  The extent
of  utilization  of such  facilities  varies based upon the seasonal  demand for
product.  While it is not  possible to measure  with any degree of  certainty or
uniformity  the   productive   capacity  and  extent  of  utilization  of  these
facilities,  management  believes that additional  production can be obtained at
the existing  facilities by the addition of personnel and capital equipment and,
in some  facilities,  the  addition of shifts of  personnel or expansion of such
facilities.  The Company continuously reviews its





anticipated  requirements for facilities  and,  on the basis of that  review,
may from  time to time  acquire additional facilities and/or dispose of existing
facilities.

ITEM 3.       LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

      On January 30, 1997, the Brazilian  Federal Revenue Service issued Notices
of  Assessment  to Recofarma  Industrias  do Amazonas  Ltda.  ("Recofarma"),  an
indirect wholly owned subsidiary of the Company,  for the period from January 1,
1992 to February 28, 1994. The  assessments  allege that  Recofarma  should have
paid a Brazilian excise tax on intra-company  transfers of product  manufactured
at its Manaus  plant to its  warehouse  in Rio de Janeiro.  Assessments  of tax,
interest  and  penalties  totaled  approximately U.S.  $302  million  as of the
assessment  date  (based on  exchange  rates as of  February 4, 2000) and accrue
interest from the assessment date. The transfer of product from the plant to the
warehouse,  which was  discontinued in  February  1994,  was the  subject  of a
favorable  advance ruling issued by the Federal Revenue Service on September 24,
1990. In the Company's opinion, the ruling has continuing effect and Recofarma's
operations  conformed with the ruling. On March 3, 1997, Recofarma filed appeals
with the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service contesting the assessments.

      On September 30, 1997, the Rio de Janeiro Branch of the Brazilian  Federal
Revenue Service dismissed the assessments against Recofarma.  This determination
is subject to an  automatic  ex officio  appeal  ("recurso  ex-officio")  on the
Federal  Revenue  Service's  behalf to the Taxpayers  Council in Brazilia.  On
January 25, 2000, based on procedural  grounds, the Taxpayers Council returned
the case to the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service for further  action that must
occur before any appeal will be  considered by the Taxpayers  Council.   Pending
further  action  by  the  Revenue  Service,   the assessments  remain valid;
however,  enforceability of the assessments  remains suspended pending final
determination of the appeal by the Taxpayers Council.

      The Company is involved in various  other legal  proceedings.  The Company
believes  that any liability to the Company which may arise as a result of these
proceedings,  including the proceeding  specifically  discussed above,  will not
have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of the Company and its
subsidiaries taken as a whole.

ITEM 4.       SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

      Not applicable.

ITEM X.       EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

      The following are the executive officers of the Company:

           DOUGLAS N. DAFT, 56, is Chief  Executive  Officer and Chairman of the
      Board  of  Directors  of the  Company.  In  November  1984,  Mr.  Daft was
      appointed  President of the Central Pacific Division.  In October 1987, he
      was  appointed   Senior  Vice  President  of  the  Pacific  Group  of  the
      International Business Sector. In December 1988, he was named President of
      Coca-Cola  (Japan)  Company,  Limited and  President of the North  Pacific
      Division  of the  International  Business  Sector.  Effective  1991 he was
      elected  Senior Vice  President of the Company and named  President of the
      Pacific  Group of the  International  Business  Sector.  He was  appointed
      President  of the Middle and Far East Group in January  1995 and served in
      that   capacity   until   October   1999  when  he  was   given   expanded
      responsibilities  for the Middle and Far East Group, the Africa Group, the
      Schweppes  Beverages  Division  and the  Japan  Division.  He was  elected
      President  and Chief  Operating  Officer  and a Director of the Company in
      December 1999.  Mr. Daft was elected to his current  positions in February
      2000.

           JACK L. STAHL,  46, is President and Chief  Operating  Officer of the
      Company. In March 1985, Mr. Stahl was named Manager, Planning and Business
      Development  and was appointed  Assistant Vice President in April 1985. He
      was elected Vice  President and  Controller in February 1988 and served in
      that  capacity  until he was  elected  Senior  Vice  President  and  Chief
      Financial  Officer in June 1989. He was  appointed  President of the North
      America Group in July 1994 and served in that capacity  until October 1999
      when he was given management  responsibility  for the North America Group,
      the Latin  America  Group and The  Minute  Maid  Company.  He was  elected
      Executive  Vice  President  in January 2000 and was elected to his current
      positions in February 2000.





           JAMES E.  CHESTNUT,  49,  is  Executive  Vice  President,  Operations
      Support of the Company. Mr. Chestnut joined the Company in 1972 in London.
      In 1984, he was named Finance Manager for the Philippine  Region in Manila
      and, in 1987, Manager of International  Treasury Services,  Pacific Group,
      in Atlanta. He was named Finance Manager for the North Pacific Division of
      the  International  Business  Sector in 1989  before  being  elected  Vice
      President and  Controller  of the Company in 1993.  He was elected  Senior
      Vice President and Chief Financial  Officer in July 1994 and was appointed
      Senior Vice President, Operations Support in October 1999.  Mr.  Chestnut
      was elected Executive Vice President in January 2000.

           CHARLES S.  FRENETTE,  47, is Executive Vice President of the Company
      and in January 2000 was appointed  President of the Greater  Europe Group.
      Mr.  Frenette  joined the Company in 1974. In 1983, he was appointed  Vice
      President  of  Coca-Cola  USA.  In  1986,  he was  appointed  Senior  Vice
      President and General  Manager of Coca-Cola USA Fountain.  In 1992, he was
      appointed Executive Vice President,  Operations,  of Coca-Cola USA. He was
      elected Vice President of the Company in 1995 and was appointed  President
      of the  Southern  Africa  Division  in 1996.  He was  elected  Senior Vice
      President of the Company in April 1998 and became Chief Marketing  Officer
      in May 1998. Mr. Frenette was elected  Executive Vice President in January
      2000.

           JOSEPH R. GLADDEN,  JR., 57, is Executive  Vice President and General
      Counsel of the  Company.  In October  1985,  Mr.  Gladden was elected Vice
      President.  He was named Deputy General Counsel in October 1987 and served
      in that capacity until he was elected Vice  President and General  Counsel
      in April 1990.  He was elected  Senior  Vice  President  in April 1991 and
      Executive Vice President in January 2000.

           CARL WARE,  56, is  Executive  Vice  President  of the Company and in
      January 2000 was appointed head of the Company's Global Public Affairs and
      Administration  division.  In 1979, Mr. Ware was appointed Vice President,
      Special  Markets,  Coca-Cola  USA. In March 1982,  he was  appointed  Vice
      President,  Urban  Affairs,  of the  Company.  He was elected  Senior Vice
      President  and  Director,  Corporate  External  Affairs in 1986 and became
      Deputy  Group  President  of  the  Northeast  Europe/Africa  Group  of the
      International  Business  Sector  in  July  1991.  In  January  1993 he was
      appointed  President of the Africa Group.  Mr. Ware was elected  Executive
      Vice President in January 2000.

           GARY P. FAYARD,  47, is Senior Vice  President  and Chief  Financial
      Officer of the Company.  Mr.  Fayard joined the Company in April 1994.  In
      July 1994,  he was elected Vice  President  and  Controller.  Prior to
      joining the Company,  Mr. Fayard was a partner with Ernst & Young.  Mr.
      Fayard was elected to his current position in December 1999.

           STEPHEN C. JONES,  44, is Senior Vice President and in January 2000
      was appointed  Chief Marketing  Officer of the Company.  Mr. Jones joined
      Coca-Cola  Canada in 1986 as Brand Manager for Sprite.  In 1988, he joined
      Coca-Cola USA as Brand Manager for diet Coke and Sprite.  Mr.  Jones was
      named  Marketing  Manager  for  Coca-Cola  Great  Britain in 1990 and was
      promoted to Regional  Manager, Coca-Cola  Great Britain in 1991 and to
      Marketing  Director,  Coca-Cola  Great Britain and Ireland  Division in
      1992. In 1994, he was appointed Senior Vice President,  Consumer Marketing
      for Coca-Cola (Japan) Co., Ltd. ("CCJC"),  and was named Deputy Division
      Manager and Executive Vice President of CCJC in 1997. He was appointed
      President and Chief  Executive  Officer of The Minute Maid Company in
      October 1999.  Mr. Jones was elected to his current position in January
      2000.

      Mr. Daft is chairman and Messrs. Stahl, Chestnut,  Frenette,  Gladden and
Ware are members of the Company's Executive Committee.  The Executive Committee
is responsible for setting policy and establishing strategic direction for the
Company.

      All  executive  officers  serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.
There is no family  relationship  between any of the  executive  officers of the
Company.






                                     PART II

ITEM 5.      MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED SHARE-OWNER
             MATTERS

     "Financial Review  Incorporating  Management's  Discussion and Analysis" on
pages 31 through 41,  "Selected  Financial Data" for the years 1998 and 1999
on page 42, "Stock Prices" on page 65 and "Common Stock",  "Stock Exchanges"
and "Dividends" under the heading "Share-Owner  Information" on page 68 of the
Company's  Annual  Report to Share  Owners for the year ended  December 31, 1999
(the "Company's 1999 Annual Report to Share Owners"), are incorporated herein by
reference.

     During the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999, no equity securities of the
Company were sold by the Company which were not registered  under the Securities
Act of 1933, as amended.

ITEM 6.      SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     "Selected  Financial  Data" for the years 1995  through  1999,  on pages
42 and 43 of the  Company's  1999 Annual  Report to Share Owners, is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7.      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
             RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     "Financial Review  Incorporating  Management's  Discussion and Analysis" on
pages 31 through 41 of the Company's 1999 Annual Report to Share Owners,  is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7A.     QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

     "Financial  Risk  Management"  on pages 33 and 34 of the Company's  1999
Annual Report to Share Owners,  is  incorporated  herein by reference.

ITEM 8.      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     The  following  consolidated  financial  statements  of the Company and its
subsidiaries,  included in the Company's 1999 Annual Report to Share Owners, are
incorporated herein by reference:

         Consolidated Balance Sheets -- December 31, 1999 and 1998.

         Consolidated  Statements  of Income -- Years ended  December  31, 1999,
         1998 and 1997.

         Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows -- Years ended December 31, 1999,
         1998 and 1997.

         Consolidated Statements of Share-Owners' Equity -- Years ended December
         31, 1999, 1998 and 1997.

         Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

         Report of Independent Auditors.

     "Quarterly  Data  (Unaudited)"  on page 65 of the  Company's  1999 Annual
Report to Share Owners, is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 9.      CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
             FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     Not applicable.






                                    PART III

ITEM 10.     DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     For  information  on  Directors of the Company,  the  subsection  under the
heading  "Election of  Directors"  entitled  "Board of  Directors"  on pages 5
through 9 and under the heading "Section 16(a) Beneficial  Ownership Reporting
Compliance" on page 12 of the Company's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting
of  Share  Owners  to  be  held  April  19,  2000  (the  "Company's  2000  Proxy
Statement"),  is incorporated  herein by reference.  See Item X in Part I hereof
for information regarding executive officers of the Company.

ITEM 11.     EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     The  subsection  under  the  heading   "Election  of  Directors"   entitled
"Information about Committees,  Meetings and Compensation of Directors" on pages
13 and 14, the portion of the section entitled "Executive  Compensation" set
forth  on  pages  16  through  23,  the  subsection  entitled  "Compensation
Committee Interlocks and Insider  Participation" on page 30 and the subsection
entitled  "Other  Compensation  Matters" on pages 30 and 31 of the Company's
2000 Proxy Statement, are incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12.     SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     The  subsections  under  the  heading  "Election  of  Directors"   entitled
"Ownership  of Equity  Securities in the Company" on pages 10 through 12 and
"Principal  Share Owners" on pages 12 and 13, and the  subsection  under the
heading "Certain Investee  Companies"  entitled  "Ownership of Securities in the
Investee  Companies"  on  pages  32  and  33  of the  Company's  2000  Proxy
Statement, are incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.     CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     The  subsections  under  the  heading  "Election  of  Directors"   entitled
"Information  about  Committees,  Meetings and  Compensation  of Directors"  and
"Certain  Transactions  and  Relationships"  on pages  13  through  15,  the
subsection under the heading  "Executive  Compensation"  entitled  "Compensation
Committee  Interlocks  and Insider  Participation"  on page 30 and the section
under the heading "Certain Investee Companies" on pages 31 through 33 of the
Company's 2000 Proxy Statement, are incorporated herein by reference.







                                     PART IV

ITEM 14.          EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)  1.  Financial Statements

                The following consolidated financial statements of The Coca-Cola
                Company and subsidiaries,  included in the Company's 1999 Annual
                Report to Share Owners,  are  incorporated  by reference in Part
                II, Item 8:

                Consolidated Balance Sheets -- December 31, 1999 and 1998.

                Consolidated  Statements  of Income -- Years ended  December 31,
                1999, 1998 and 1997.

                Consolidated  Statements  of Cash Flows -- Years ended  December
                31, 1999, 1998 and 1997.

                Consolidated  Statements of Share-Owners'  Equity -- Years ended
                December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997.

                Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

                Report of Independent Auditors.

     2. The following consolidated financial statement schedule of The Coca-Cola
Company and subsidiaries is included in Item 14(d):

                Schedule II -- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts.



                All  other   schedules  for  which  provision  is  made  in  the
                applicable accounting regulations of the Securities and Exchange
                Commission  are not required under the related  instructions  or
                are inapplicable and, therefore, have been omitted.

     3.  Exhibits

EXHIBIT NO.
- ----------
   3.1          Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, including Amendment
                of  Certificate  of  Incorporation,  effective  May 1,  1996  --
                incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 3 of the  Company's
                Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the quarter ended March 31, 1996.
                (With regard to applicable cross references in this report,  the
                Company's  Current,  Quarterly and Annual Reports are filed with
                the Securities and Exchange Commission under File No. 1-2217.)

   3.2          By-Laws of the Company, as amended and restated through
                February 17, 2000.

   4.1          The Company agrees to furnish to the Securities and Exchange
                Commission,  upon request, a copy of any instrument  defining
                the rights of holders of long-term debt of the Company and all
                of its consolidated  subsidiaries and unconsolidated
                subsidiaries for which financial  statements are required to
                be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.




EXHIBIT NO.
- ----------
   10.1.1       The Key Executive  Retirement Plan of the Company, as amended --
                incorporated   herein  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.2  of  the
                Company's  Form 10-K Annual  Report for the year ended  December
                31, 1995.*

   10.1.2       Third Amendment to the Key Executive Retirement Plan of the
                Company, dated as of July 9, 1998.*

   10.1.3       Fourth Amendment to the Key Executive Retirement Plan of the
                Company, dated as of February 16, 1999.*

   10.1.4       Fifth Amendment to the Key Executive Retirement Plan of the
                Company, dated as of January 25, 2000.*

   10.2         Supplemental  Disability  Plan of the  Company,  as amended
                -- incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the
                Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December
                31, 1991.*

   10.3         Annual  Performance  Incentive Plan of the Company,  as amended
                -- incorporated  herein by reference to  Exhibit 10.4 of the
                Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December
                31, 1995.*

   10.4         1987 Stock Option Plan of the  Company,  as amended and restated
                through  April 20, 1999 --  incorporated  herein by reference to
                Exhibit 10.1 of the Company's Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the
                quarter ended March 31, 1999*

   10.5         1991 Stock Option Plan of the  Company,  as amended and restated
                through  April 20, 1999 --  incorporated  herein by reference to
                Exhibit 10.2 of the Company's Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the
                quarter ended March 31, 1999.*

   10.6         1999 Stock  Option Plan of the Company--  incorporated  herein
                by  reference  to Exhibit  10.3 of the  Company's  Form 10-Q
                Quarterly Report for the quarter ended March 31, 1999.*

   10.7         1983 Restricted Stock Award Plan of the Company, as amended
                through February 17, 2000.*

   10.8         1989 Restricted Stock Award Plan of the Company, as amended
                through February 17, 2000.*

   10.9.1       Compensation  Deferral & Investment  Program of the Company,  as
                amended, including Amendment Number Four dated November 28, 1995
                --  incorporated  herein by  reference  to Exhibit  10.13 of the
                Company's  Form 10-K Annual  Report for the year ended  December
                31, 1995.*

   10.9.2       Amendment  Number 5 to the Compensation  Deferral & Investment
                Program of the Company,  effective as of January 1,  1998 --
                incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.8.2 of the
                Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December
                31, 1997.*

   10.10        Special  Medical  Insurance Plan of the Company,  as amended --
                incorporated  herein by reference to  Exhibit 10.16  of the
                Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December
                31, 1995.*

   10.11.1      Supplemental   Benefit  Plan  of  the  Company,  as  amended  --
                incorporated  herein  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.17  of  the
                Company's  Form 10-K Annual  Report for the year ended  December
                31, 1993.*




EXHIBIT NO.
- ----------

   10.11.2      Amendment  Number Five to the  Supplemental  Benefit Plan of the
                Company --  incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 10.17.2
                of the  Company's  Form 10-K  Annual  Report  for the year ended
                December 31, 1996.*

   10.11.3      Amendment Number Six to the Supplemental Benefit Plan of the
                Company, dated as of July 1, 1998.*

   10.11.4      Amendment Number Seven to the Supplemental Benefit Plan of the
                Company, dated January 24, 2000.*

   10.11.5      Amendment Number Eight to the Supplemental Benefit Plan of the
                Company, dated January 25, 2000.*

   10.12        Retirement Plan for the Board of Directors of the Company,  as
                amended-- incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 10.22
                of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended
                December 31, 1991.*

   10.13        Deferred  Compensation  Plan for  Non-Employee  Directors of the
                Company,  adopted as of October 16, 1997 -- incorporated  herein
                by reference to Exhibit 10.12 of the Company's  Form 10-K Annual
                Report for the year ended December 31, 1997.*

   10.14        Deferred  Compensation  Agreement for Officers or Key Executives
                of the Company --  incorporated  herein by  reference to Exhibit
                10.20 of the  Company's  Form 10-K  Annual  Report  for the year
                ended December 31, 1993.*

   10.15        Long Term Performance  Incentive Plan of the Company, as amended
                and restated effective April 21, 1999 -- incorporated  herein by
                reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the Company's  Form 10-Q  Quarterly
                Report for the quarter ended March 31, 1999.*

   10.16        Executive  Performance Incentive Plan of the Company, as amended
                and restated effective April 21, 1999 -- incorporated  herein by
                reference to Exhibit 10.5 of the Company's  Form 10-Q  Quarterly
                Report for the quarter ended March 31, 1999.*

   10.17.1      Letter Agreement, dated December 6, 1999, between the Registrant
                and M. Douglas Ivester.*

   10.17.2      Letter Agreement, dated December 15, 1999, between the
                Registrant and M. Douglas Ivester.*

   10.17.3      Letter Agreement, dated February 17, 2000, between the
                Registrant and M. Douglas Ivester.*

   10.18        Group Long-Term Performance Incentive Plan of the Company, as
                amended and restated effective February 17, 2000.*

   10.19        Form of  United  States  Master  Bottle  Contract,  as  amended,
                between the Company and Coca-Cola  Enterprises Inc.  ("Coca-Cola
                Enterprises")  or its  subsidiaries  --  incorporated  herein by
                reference  to Exhibit  10.24 of  Coca-Cola  Enterprises'  Annual
                Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  December 30, 1988
                (File No. 01-09300).




EXHIBIT NO.
- ----------

   12.1         Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges for the years
                ended December 31, 1999, 1998, 1997, 1996 and 1995.

   13.1         Portions of the  Company's  1999 Annual  Report to Share  Owners
                expressly  incorporated by reference herein:  Pages 31 through
                63, 65, 68 and 69  (definitions  of "Dividend  Payout  Ratio,"
                "Economic  Profit," "Free Cash Flow," "Interest Coverage Ratio,"
                "Net  Capital,"  "Net  Debt,"  "Return on  Capital,"  "Return on
                Common  Equity,"  "Total  Capital"  and "Total  Market  Value of
                Common Stock").

   21.1         List of subsidiaries of the Company as of December 31, 1999.

   23.1         Consent of Independent Auditors.

   24.1         Powers of Attorney of Officers and Directors signing this
                report.

   27.1         Financial  Data Schedule for the year ended  December 31,  1999,
                submitted to the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission in
                electronic format.

   99.1         Cautionary Statement Relative to Forward-Looking Statements.

- -------------------

* Management  contracts and compensatory  plans and arrangements  required to be
filed as exhibits pursuant to Item 14(c) of this report.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K.

     During the fourth  quarter of 1999,  the Company filed a report on Form 8-K
     on December 6, 1999.

     Item 5.      Other Events -- On December 5, 1999, the Company's Board of
                  Directors  accepted the decision of M.  Douglas  Ivester,  the
                  Company's  Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive  Officer,
                  to retire in April 2000; elected Douglas N. Daft President and
                  Chief Operating Officer, effective immediately;  and indicated
                  that it intends to elect Mr.  Daft  Chairman  of the Board and
                  Chief  Executive  Officer  upon Mr.  Ivester's  retirement  in
                  April.

     Item 7.      Financial Statements and Exhibits -- Exhibit 99:  Press
                  release of the Company issued December 6, 1999.

     Also during the fourth  quarter of 1999, the Company filed a report on Form
     8-K on December 21, 1999.

     Item         5. Other  Events -- On December  21,  1999,  Standard & Poor's
                  lowered  its ratings for The  Coca-Cola  Company,  among other
                  entities.

     Item 7.      Financial Statements and Exhibits -- Exhibit 99:  Press
                  release of Standard & Poor's issued December 21, 1999.

(c)  Exhibits-- The response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted as a
     separate section of this report.

(d)  Financial Statement Schedule-- The response to this portion of Item 14 is
     submitted as a separate section of this report.






                                   SIGNATURES

      Pursuant  to the  requirements  of Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                       THE COCA-COLA COMPANY
                                            (Registrant)


                                       By:  /s/ DOUGLAS N. DAFT
                                            --------------------
                                            DOUGLAS N. DAFT
                                            Chairman, Board of Directors, Chief
                                            Executive Officer and a Director

                                       Date: March 9, 2000

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


/s/ DOUGLAS N. DAFT                                                *
- --------------------------------------------        ----------------------------
DOUGLAS N. DAFT                                     CATHLEEN P. BLACK
Chairman, Board of Directors, Chief                 Director
Executive Officer and a Director
(Principal Executive Officer)

March 9, 2000                                       March 9, 2000


/s/ GARY P. FAYARD                                                 *
- --------------------------------------------        ----------------------------
GARY P. FAYARD                                      WARREN E. BUFFETT
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   Director
(Principal Financial Officer)

March 9, 2000                                       March 9, 2000


/s/ CONNIE D. MCDANIEL                                             *
- --------------------------------------------        ---------------------------
CONNIE D. MCDANIEL                                  SUSAN B. KING
Vice President and Controller                       Director
(Principal Accounting Officer)

March 9, 2000                                       March 9, 2000


                 *                                                 *
- -------------------------------                     ---------------------------

HERBERT A. ALLEN                                    DONALD F. MCHENRY
Director                                            Director

March 9, 2000                                       March 9, 2000


                 *                                                 *
- -------------------------------                     ---------------------------
RONALD W. ALLEN                                     SAM NUNN
Director                                            Director

March 9, 2000                                       March 9, 2000






                 *                                                 *
- -------------------------------                     --------------------------
PAUL F. OREFFICE                                    PETER V. UEBERROTH
Director                                            Director

March 9, 2000                                       March 9, 2000


                 *                                                 *
- -------------------------------                     ---------------------------
JAMES D. ROBINSON III                               JAMES B. WILLIAMS
Director                                            Director

March 9, 2000                                       March 9, 2000








* By: /s/ CAROL C. HAYES
- -------------------------------
       CAROL C. HAYES
       Attorney-in-fact

       March 9, 2000
















                              ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

                                      ITEM 14(D)

                            FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE
                            YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999
                        THE COCA-COLA COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES








                      SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

                           THE COCA-COLA COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999
                                         (IN MILLIONS)


- ------------------------

Note 1 -  The amounts shown in Column D consist of the following:




                                          F-1





                      SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

                           THE COCA-COLA COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998
                                        (IN MILLIONS)


- ----------------------
Note 1 -  The amounts shown in Column D consist of the following:




                                          F-2




                      SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                           THE COCA-COLA COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997
                                         (IN MILLIONS)


- ----------------
Note 1 -  The amounts shown in Column D consist of the following:




                                          F-3




                                     EXHIBIT INDEX
                                     -------------

EXHIBIT NO.                           DESCRIPTION
- ----------                            -----------

   3.1          Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, including Amendment
                of  Certificate  of  Incorporation,  effective  May 1,  1996  --
                incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 3 of the  Company's
                Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the quarter ended March 31, 1996.
                (With regard to applicable cross references in this report,  the
                Company's  Current,  Quarterly and Annual Reports are filed with
                the Securities and Exchange Commission under File No. 1-2217.)

   3.2          By-Laws of the Company, as amended and restated through
                February 17, 2000.

   4.1          The Company agrees to furnish to the Securities and Exchange
                Commission,  upon request, a copy of any instrument  defining
                the rights of holders of long-term debt of the Company and all
                of its consolidated  subsidiaries and unconsolidated
                subsidiaries for which financial  statements are required to
                be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

   10.1.1       The Key Executive  Retirement Plan of the Company, as amended --
                incorporated   herein  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.2  of  the
                Company's  Form 10-K Annual  Report for the year ended  December
                31, 1995.*

   10.1.2       Third Amendment to the Key Executive Retirement Plan of the
                Company, dated as of July 9, 1998.*

   10.1.3       Fourth Amendment to the Key Executive Retirement Plan of the
                Company, dated as of February 16, 1999.*

   10.1.4       Fifth Amendment to the Key Executive Retirement Plan of the
                Company, dated as of January 25, 2000.*

   10.2         Supplemental  Disability  Plan of the  Company,  as amended
                -- incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the
                Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December
                31, 1991.*

   10.3         Annual  Performance  Incentive Plan of the Company,  as amended
                -- incorporated  herein by reference to  Exhibit 10.4 of the
                Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December
                31, 1995.*

   10.4         1987 Stock Option Plan of the  Company,  as amended and restated
                through  April 20, 1999 --  incorporated  herein by reference to
                Exhibit 10.1 of the Company's Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the
                quarter ended March 31, 1999*

   10.5         1991 Stock Option Plan of the  Company,  as amended and restated
                through  April 20, 1999 --  incorporated  herein by reference to
                Exhibit 10.2 of the Company's Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the
                quarter ended March 31, 1999.*

   10.6         1999 Stock  Option Plan of the Company--  incorporated  herein
                by  reference  to Exhibit  10.3 of the  Company's  Form 10-Q
                Quarterly Report for the quarter ended March 31, 1999.*

   10.7         1983 Restricted Stock Award Plan of the Company, as amended
                through February 17, 2000.*

   10.8         1989 Restricted Stock Award Plan of the Company, as amended
                through February 17, 2000.*




EXHIBIT NO.                           DESCRIPTION
- ----------                            -----------

   10.9.1       Compensation  Deferral & Investment  Program of the Company,  as
                amended, including Amendment Number Four dated November 28, 1995
                --  incorporated  herein by  reference  to Exhibit  10.13 of the
                Company's  Form 10-K Annual  Report for the year ended  December
                31, 1995.*

   10.9.2       Amendment  Number 5 to the Compensation  Deferral & Investment
                Program of the Company,  effective as of January 1,  1998--
                incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.8.2 of the
                Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December
                31, 1997.*

   10.10        Special  Medical  Insurance Plan of the Company,  as amended--
                incorporated  herein by reference to  Exhibit 10.16  of the
                Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December
                31, 1995.*

   10.11.1      Supplemental   Benefit  Plan  of  the  Company,  as  amended  --
                incorporated  herein  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.17  of  the
                Company's  Form 10-K Annual  Report for the year ended  December
                31, 1993.*

   10.11.2      Amendment  Number Five to the  Supplemental  Benefit Plan of the
                Company --  incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 10.17.2
                of the  Company's  Form 10-K  Annual  Report  for the year ended
                December 31, 1996.*

   10.11.3      Amendment Number Six to the Supplemental Benefit Plan of the
                Company, dated as of July 1, 1998.*

   10.11.4      Amendment Number Seven to the Supplemental Benefit Plan of the
                Company, dated January 24, 2000.*

   10.11.5      Amendment Number Eight to the Supplemental Benefit Plan of the
                Company, dated January 25, 2000.*

   10.12        Retirement Plan for the Board of Directors of the Company,  as
                amended-- incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 10.22
                of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended
                December 31, 1991.*

   10.13        Deferred  Compensation  Plan for  Non-Employee  Directors of the
                Company,  adopted as of October 16, 1997 -- incorporated  herein
                by reference to Exhibit 10.12 of the Company's  Form 10-K Annual
                Report for the year ended December 31, 1997.*

   10.14        Deferred  Compensation  Agreement for Officers or Key Executives
                of the Company --  incorporated  herein by  reference to Exhibit
                10.20 of the  Company's  Form 10-K  Annual  Report  for the year
                ended December 31, 1993.*

   10.15        Long Term Performance  Incentive Plan of the Company, as amended
                and restated effective April 21, 1999 -- incorporated  herein by
                reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the Company's  Form 10-Q  Quarterly
                Report for the quarter ended March 31, 1999.*

   10.16        Executive  Performance Incentive Plan of the Company, as amended
                and restated effective April 21, 1999 -- incorporated  herein by
                reference to Exhibit 10.5 of the Company's  Form 10-Q  Quarterly
                Report for the quarter ended March 31, 1999.*

   10.17.1      Letter Agreement, dated December 6, 1999, between the Registrant
                and M. Douglas Ivester.*

   10.17.2      Letter Agreement, dated December 15, 1999, between the
                Registrant and M. Douglas Ivester.*

   10.17.3      Letter Agreement, dated February 17, 2000, between the
                Registrant and M. Douglas Ivester.*




EXHIBIT NO.                           DESCRIPTION
- ----------                            -----------

   10.18        Group Long-Term Performance Incentive Plan of the Company, as
                amended and restated effective February 17, 2000.*

   10.19        Form of  United  States  Master  Bottle  Contract,  as  amended,
                between the Company and Coca-Cola  Enterprises Inc.  ("Coca-Cola
                Enterprises")  or its  subsidiaries  --  incorporated  herein by
                reference  to Exhibit  10.24 of  Coca-Cola  Enterprises'  Annual
                Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  December 30, 1988
                (File No. 01-09300).

   12.1         Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges for the years
                ended December 31, 1999, 1998, 1997, 1996 and 1995.

   13.1         Portions of the  Company's  1999 Annual  Report to Share  Owners
                expressly  incorporated by reference herein:  Pages 31 through
                63, 65, 68 and 69  (definitions  of "Dividend  Payout  Ratio,"
                "Economic  Profit," "Free Cash Flow," "Interest Coverage Ratio,"
                "Net  Capital,"  "Net  Debt,"  "Return on  Capital,"  "Return on
                Common  Equity,"  "Total  Capital"  and "Total  Market  Value of
                Common Stock").

   21.1         List of subsidiaries of the Company as of December 31, 1999.

   23.1         Consent of Independent Auditors.

   24.1         Powers of Attorney of Officers and Directors signing this
                report.

   27.1         Financial  Data Schedule for the year ended  December 31,  1999,
                submitted to the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission in
                electronic format.

   99.1         Cautionary Statement Relative to Forward-Looking Statements.

- -----------------

*Management contracts and compensatory plans and arrangements required to be
filed as exhibits pursuant to Item 14(c) of this report.






