ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



You should carefully consider each of the risks described below relating to Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL, together with all of the other information contained in this combined Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment decision with respect to our securities.  If any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and you may lose all or part of your investment.



Our business is significantly impacted by government regulation and legislation -



In addition, our utility financial condition is influenced by how these regulatory authorities establish the rates we can charge our customers, our authorized rates of return and common equity levels, and the amount of deferred costs that may be recovered from customers.  Our ability to obtain rate adjustments to earn authorized rates of return depends upon timely regulatory action under applicable statutes and regulations, and we cannot assure that rate adjustments will be obtained or









authorized rates of return on capital will be earned.  In pending and future rate cases, IPL and WPL may not receive an adequate amount of rate relief, rates may be reduced, rate refunds may be required, rate adjustments may not be approved on a timely basis, costs may not be otherwise recovered through rates, future rates may be temporarily frozen (as is the case for IPL’s retail electric base rates through 2013 and WPL’s retail electric and gas base rates through 2014) and authorized rates of return on capital may be reduced.  As a result, we may experience adverse impacts on our financial condition and results of operations.  We are unable to predict the impact on our business and operating results from future regulatory activities of any of these agencies.



We are subject to a wide variety of regulations, including and in addition to those described above, which are constantly changing.  Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations may require us to incur additional costs or change business operations or our business plan, which may have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.  While we believe we comply with all laws and regulations governing us, state or federal agencies may not agree and may find that our compliance programs are inadequate.  Such a finding could cause fines or penalties or could require us to implement new compliance programs, which could increase our costs of compliance and may adversely impact our financial condition.



Provisions of theWisconsin Utility Holding Company Act (WUHCA)limit our ability to invest in non-utility activities.  Takeover attempts by potential purchasers who might be willing to pay a premium for our stock are also limited by certain provisions of WUHCA and the delays and conditions that generally result from the requirement that regulatory authorities approve such a transaction.



Large construction projects are subject to delays and cost increases that may not be recovered from customers -



We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations, compliance with which could be difficult and costly -



Although we believe we comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations, we may receive notices of violation from state or federal agencies, as occurred when the EPA issued a notice of violation to WPL in 2009 alleging non-compliance with various permitting requirements under the Clean Air Act.  Citizen groups or private individuals that feel environmental regulations are not being sufficiently enforced by regulatory agencies may bring legal action against those regulatory agencies or bring citizen enforcement actions against us.  We may be subject to litigation over environmental issues, including claims for property damage or personal injury, or suits by citizen groups alleging violations of









environmental requirements.  For example, WPL is currently involved in matters in which the Sierra Club is alleging various violations of the Clean Air Act.  If we are unsuccessful defending litigation from governmental agencies or citizen groups, we could be subject to restrictions or prohibitions on operating our generation facilities, costly upgrades to our generating facilities, payment of damages or fines, requirements to complete other beneficial environmental projects, and litigation costs, all of which could be material.  An adverse result in such legal actions could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.



We are also subject to existing and potential future governmental mandates to provide customers with clean energy, renewable energy and energy conservation offerings.  These mandates are designed in part to mitigate the potential environmental impacts of utility operations.  Failure to meet the requirements of these mandates may result in fines or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  If our regulators do not allow us to recover all or a part of the costs incurred to comply with the mandates, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.



Existing environmental laws or regulations may be revised and new laws or regulations seeking to protect the environment may be adopted or become applicable to us.  These revised and new laws or regulations may include regulation of mercury, nitrogen oxide, sulfur dioxide,carbon dioxide (CO2)and other greenhouse gas emissions, particulates, coal ash and other coal combustion products, and cooling water intake structures.  Such changes could materially increase our cost of compliance.  Our strategic plan was developed in part to comply with certain expected environmental laws and regulations as we anticipate they will be finally adopted.  Revision of existing environmental laws or regulations may cause: (1) state utility commissions to not approve our plans to install environmental emission control equipment at our existing generating facilities or not allow us to recover costs of such projects; (2) state utility commissions to not approve costs of emission allowances purchased to comply with environmental regulations that are no longer applicable to our operations; (3) co-owners in our jointly-owned facilities to not agree with our decision to move forward with these projects; or (4) our current plans to not meet new requirements.  These outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.



Actions related to global climate change and reducinggreenhouse gases (GHG)emissions could negatively impact us -The primary GHG emitted from our utility operations is CO2 from combustion of fossil fuels at our generating facilities, which are primarily coal-fired facilities.  We could incur costs or other obligations to comply with any GHG regulations that are adopted in the future, and could become the target of legal claims or challenges, because generating electricity using fossil fuels emits CO2 and other GHGs.  Due to the uncertainty of what form CO2 emissions regulations could take, control technologies available to reduce GHG emissions, including CO2, and the unknown nature of potential compliance obligations should climate change regulations be enacted, we cannot provide any assurance regarding the potential impacts any future regulations would have on our operations.  The impacts of such proposals could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.



Demand for energy may decrease -Adverse economic conditions in our service territories, such as the most recent recession, reduce the demand for electricity and natural gas.  We lost certain customers after plants closed due to the most recent recession and could lose additional customers due to economic conditions, customers constructing their own generation facilities, or loss of service territory or franchises.  Further, the energy conservation and technological advances that increase energy efficiency may temporarily or permanently reduce the demand for energy products.  In addition, state and/or federal regulations require mandatory conservation measures, which would reduce the demand for energy.  We may also lose wholesale customers to competitors.  Future economic growth may not create enough growth for us to replace the lost energy demand from these customers.  The loss of customers, the inability to replace those customers with new customers, and the decrease in demand for energy could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.



Our operating results may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis and can be adversely affected by the impacts of weather -Our electric and gas utility businesses are seasonal businesses and weather patterns can have a material impact on their operating performance.  Demand for electricity is greater in the summer months associated with higher air conditioning needs.  In addition, market prices for electricity generally peak in the summer due to the higher demand.  Conversely, demand for natural gas depends significantly upon weather patterns in winter months due to heavy use in residential and commercial heating.  As a result, our overall operating results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis.  In addition, we have historically generated less revenues and income when weather conditions are warmer in the winter and cooler in the summer.  Thus, unusually mild winters and summers could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.











Threats of terrorism, cyber attacks, and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism and cyber attacks may impact our operations in unpredictable ways -



In connection with our business, we collect and retain personally identifiable information of our customers, shareowners and employees.  Our customers, shareowners and employees expect that we will adequately protect their personal information, and the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding.  A significant theft, loss or fraudulent use of customer, shareowner, employee or other data by cyber attack or otherwise could result in significant costs, fines or litigation, could adversely impact our reputation, and could adversely impact our financial condition.



We may not be able to fully recover costs related to commodity and transmission prices -The prices that we may obtain for electric energy may not compensate for changes in delivered coal, natural gas or electric energy spot-market costs, or changes in the relationship between such costs and the market prices of electric energy.  As a result, we may be unable to pass on the changes in costs to our customers, especially at WPL where we do not have a retail electric automatic fuel cost adjustment clause, which allows more consistent and timely cost recovery.  We are heavily exposed to changes in the price and availability of coal because the majority of the electricity generated by us is from our coal-fired generating facilities.  We have contracts of varying durations for the supply and transportation of coal for most of our existing generating capability, but as these contracts end or otherwise are not honored, we may not be able to purchase coal on terms as favorable as the current contracts.  Further, we currently rely on coal primarily from the Powder River Basin in Wyoming and any disruption of coal production in, or transportation from, that region may cause us to incur additional costs and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.



We also have responsibility to supply natural gas to certain natural gas-fired electric generating facilities that we own, which increases our exposure to volatile market prices of natural gas.  We have natural gas supply contracts in place, which are generally short-term in duration.  The natural gas supply commitments are either fixed price in nature or market-based.  As some of the contracts are market-based, and all of the contracts are short-term, we may not be able to purchase natural gas on terms as favorable as the current contracts when the current contracts expire.  Further, any disruption of production or transportation of natural gas may cause us to incur additional costs to purchase natural gas that may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.



Both IPL and WPL pay for the use of the interstate electric transmission system based upon FERC-regulated rates.  The prices that we charge for electric energy may not compensate for changes in transmission costs.  As a result, we may be unable to pass on the changes in transmission costs to our customers, especially at WPL where we do not have a retail automatic transmission rider.  If the transmission rider at IPL is amended or removed, we may not be able to recover the full transmission costs.  Inability to fully recover transmission costs in a timely manner may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.



We face risks related to non-regulated operations -We rely on our non-regulated operations for a portion of our earnings.  If our non-regulated investments do not perform at expected levels, we could experience diminished earnings.  In particular, Franklin County Wind LLC is a non-regulated subsidiary that operates a non-regulated 100 MW wind project in Franklin County, Iowa, referred to as the Franklin County wind project.  The Franklin County wind project does not currently have a buyer of its electrical output and its electrical output is being sold into the general market at prevailing market prices.  Failure to find a buyer for the output, or selling the output at disadvantageous market prices, may cause the project to lose money or









cause an impairment of its assets.  Such losses or impairments could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.



We are dependent on the capital markets and could be negatively impacted by disruptions in the capital markets -



We are subject to employee workforce factors that could affect our businesses -We are subject to employee workforce factors, including loss or retirement of key personnel, availability of and our ability to recruit qualified personnel that could affect our businesses and our financial condition and results of operations.  Further, our workforce includes employees who are nearing retirement.  We need employees with specialized and technical skills in order to achieve our strategic plan.  It may be difficult to retain current employees with these specialized skills, especially as they near retirement, and it may be difficult to find new employees with the necessary skills.  We are also subject to collective bargaining agreements with approximately 2,200 employees.  Our contract with one union representing over 700 of our employees is due to expire in August 2013.  Any work stoppage experienced in connections with negotiations of collective bargaining agreements could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to implement our strategic plan.



We face risks associated with operating electric and natural gas infrastructure -

The operation of electric generating facilities involves many risks, including start-up risks, breakdown or failure of equipment, the dependence on a specific fuel source, including the supply and transportation of fuel, the risk of performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency, operator error and compliance with mandatory reliability standards.  The operation of our energy delivery infrastructure involves many risks including breakdown or failure of equipment and forest or prairie fires developing from vegetation around our power lines.  In addition, the North American transmission grid is highly interconnected and, in extraordinary circumstances, disruptions at particular points within the grid could cause an extensive power outage in our delivery systems.  Further, the transmission system in our utilities’ service territories is constrained, limiting the ability to transmit electric energy within our service territories.  The transmission constraints could result in an inability to deliver energy from generating facilities, particularly wind generating facilities, to the national grid, or not being able to access lower cost sources of electric energy.  We also have obligations to provide electrical service under regulatory requirements and contractual commitments.  Failure to meet our service obligations could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.



The operation of our natural gas distribution activities also involves many risks, such as leaks, explosions and mechanical problems, which could cause substantial financial losses.  These risks could result in loss of human life, particularly in highly populated areas, significant damage to property, environmental emissions, impairment of our operations and substantial losses to us.  We are also responsible for compliance with new and changing mandatory reliability and safety standards.  Failure to meet these standards could result in substantial fines.  We also have obligations to provide service under regulatory requirements and contractual commitments.  Failure to meet our service obligations could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.



Storms or other natural disasters may impact our operations in unpredictable ways -Storms and other natural disasters, including events such as floods, tornadoes, blizzards, ice storms, or droughts may adversely impact our ability to generate, purchase or distribute electric energy or obtain fuel sources and may significantly slow growth or cause a decline in the economy within our service territories.  Storms and natural disasters may prevent our customers from being able to operate, causing lower sales and revenues, which may not be replaced or recovered in rates.  In addition, we could incur large costs to repair damage to our generating facilities and infrastructure, or costs related to environmental remediation, due to storms or natural disasters.  The restoration costs may not be fully covered by insurance policies.  Damage to assets could also require









us to take impairments, such as occurred with our damaged Sixth Street Generating Station after a flood.  Some costs may not be recovered in rates, or there could be significant delays in cost recovery.  Any of these items could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.



We may incur material post-closing adjustments related to past asset and business divestitures -We recently sold RMT, Inc. (RMT), a non-regulated subsidiary.  Pursuant to the terms of that sale, we may face unfavorable post-closing adjustments that could be material.  In addition, we might be required to make payments on liabilities that we retained pursuant to the terms of the sale.  In addition, Alliant Energy continues to guarantee RMT’s performance obligations related to certain of RMT’s projects that were commenced prior to Alliant Energy’s sale of RMT.  Required material post-closing adjustments or payments on retained liabilities or guarantees with respect to RMT or other future asset or business divestitures could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.



We are subject to limitations on our ability to pay dividends -Alliant Energy is a holding company with no significant operations of its own.  Accordingly, the primary sources of funds for Alliant Energy to pay dividends to its shareowners are dividends and distributions from its subsidiaries, primarily its utility subsidiaries.  Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts to us, whether by dividends, loans or other payments.  The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions to us and, accordingly, our ability to pay dividends on Alliant Energy common stock will depend on regulatory limitations and the earnings, cash flows, capital requirements and general financial condition of our subsidiaries.  Our utilities each have dividend payment restrictions based on the terms of their outstanding preferred stock and regulatory limitations applicable to them.  If we do not receive adequate dividends and distributions from our subsidiaries, then we may not be able to make, or may have to reduce, dividend payments on Alliant Energy common stock.



Changes to certain tax elections, tax regulations and future taxable income could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations -We have significantly reduced our federal and state income tax obligations for the past few years through tax planning strategies.  These tax planning strategies have generated large annual taxable losses and tax credits over the past few years that have resulted in significant federal and state net operating losses (NOL) and federal tax credit carryforwards.  We plan to utilize these NOL and tax credit carryforwards in the future to reduce our income tax obligations.  If we cannot generate enough taxable income in the future to utilize all of the NOL and tax credit carryforwards before they expire, we may incur material charges to earnings.  If the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) does not agree with the deductions resulting from our tax planning strategies, our results of operations may be adversely impacted.  We are also expecting the IRS will publish guidance in the future which may compel us to change our tax methods of accounting related to certain of these tax planning strategies.  Changes in our tax methods of accounting to comply with updated guidance could result in fewer deductions and material charges to our earnings due to the accounting impacts of rate making practices in Iowa, which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.



Our utility business currently operates wind generating facilities which generate material production tax credits for us to use to reduce our federal tax obligations.  The amount of production tax credits we earn is dependent on the level of electricity output generated by our wind projects.  Significant transmission constraints, adverse weather conditions and breakdown or failure of equipment could significantly reduce the production tax credits generated by our wind projects resulting in a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.



Lastly, if corporate tax rates were changed with future federal or state legislation, we may be required to take material charges against earnings.



Poor performance of pension and other postretirement plan investments could negatively impact our financial condition -We have pension and other postretirement benefits plans that provide benefits to a large portion of our employees and retirees.  Costs of providing benefits and related funding requirements of these plans are subject to changes in the market value of the assets that fund the plans.  The funded status of the plans and the related costs reflected in our financial statements are affected by various factors that are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty, particularly in the current economic environment.  The recent recession and volatility in the domestic and international financial markets have affected the asset values of our pension plans.  Future losses of asset values may necessitate accelerated funding of the plans in the future to meet minimum federal government requirements.  Downward pressure on the asset values of our pension plans may require us to fund obligations earlier than originally planned, which would have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.



Energy industry changes could have a negative effect on our businesses -We operate in a highly regulated business environment.  The advent of new and unregulated markets has the potential to significantly impact our financial condition









and results of operations.  The evolution of the wholesale and transmission markets has the potential to significantly increase costs of transmission, costs associated with inefficient generation dispatching, costs of participation in the new markets and costs stemming from estimated payment settlements.  Competitive pressures, including advances in technology that reduce the costs of alternative methods of producing electric energy to a level that is competitive with that of current electric production methods, could result in our utilities losing market share and customers and incurring stranded costs (i.e., assets and other costs rendered unrecoverable through customer rates as a result of competitive pricing), which would be borne by our shareowners.  Increased competition from any restructuring efforts in our primary retail electric service territories may have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.





