ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



You should carefully consider each of the risks described below relating to Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL, together with all of the other information contained in this combined report, before making an investment decision with respect to our securities.  If any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, and you may lose all or part of your investment.



Risks Related to Laws and Regulations

Our utility business is significantly impacted by government legislation, regulation and oversight-Our utility financial condition is influenced by how regulatory authorities, including the IUB, the PSCW and FERC, establish the rates we can charge our customers, our authorized rates of return and common equity levels, and the costs that may be recovered from customers.  Our ability to timely obtain rate adjustments to earn authorized rates of return depends upon timely regulatory action under applicable statutes and regulations, and cannot be guaranteed.  In future rate reviews, IPL and WPL may not receive an adequate amount of rate relief to recover all costs and earn their authorized rates of return, rates may be reduced, rate refunds may be required, rate adjustments may not be approved on a timely basis, costs may not be otherwise recovered through rates, future rates may be temporarily frozen, certain rate base items may not receive a full weighted average cost of capital, and authorized rates of return on capital may be reduced.  As a result, we may experience adverse impacts on our financial condition and results of operations.



In addition, our operations are subject to extensive regulation primarily by the IUB, the PSCW and FERC.  We are also subject to oversight and monitoring by organizations such as the North American Electric Reliability Corporation, the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, and the Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc. (MISO).  The impacts on our operations include: our ability to site and construct new generating facilities, such as renewable energy projects, and recover associated costs, including our ability to continue to use a renewable energy rider in Iowa; our ability to decommission generating facilities and recover related costs and the remaining carrying value of these facilities; the rates paid to transmission operators and how those costs are recovered from customers, including our ability to use a transmission rider in Iowa; our ability to site, construct and recover costs for new natural gas pipelines; our ability to recover costs to










upgrade our electric and gas distribution systems; the amount of certain sources of energy we must use, such as renewable sources; our ability to purchase generating facilities and recover the costs associated therewith; our ability to sell utility assets and any conditions placed upon the sale of such assets; our ability to enter into purchased power agreements and recover the costs associated therewith; resource adequacy requirements, energy capacity standards, and when new facilities such as WPL’s West Riverside Energy Center, and IPL’s and WPL’s planned additional wind and solar generation may be fully accredited with energy capacity; the allocation of expenditures by transmission companies on transmission network upgrades and our ability to recover costs associated therewith; reliability; safety; the issuance of securities; accounting matters; and transactions between affiliates.  These regulatory authorities and organizations are also empowered to impose financial penalties and other sanctions, including requirements to implement new compliance programs.  Failure to obtain approvals for any of these matters in a timely manner, or receipt of approvals with uneconomical conditions, may cause us not to pursue the construction of such projects or to record an impairment of our assets and may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.



Provisions of the Wisconsin Utility Holding Company Act may limit our ability to invest in or grow our non-utility activities and may deter potential purchasers who might be willing to pay a premium for our stock.



Changes to certain tax elections, tax regulations and future taxable income could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations -We have significantly reduced our federal and state income tax obligations through tax planning strategies and the extension of bonus depreciation deductions for certain expenditures for property.  These tax planning strategies and extensions of bonus depreciation deductions have generated large taxable losses and tax credits that have resulted in significant federal and state net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards.  We plan to utilize substantially all of these net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards in the future to reduce our income tax obligations.  If we cannot generate enough taxable income in the future to utilize all of the net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards before they expire due to lower than expected financial performance or changes to tax regulations, we may incur material charges to earnings.  If the IRS does not agree with the tax positions resulting from our tax planning strategies or our position on the qualification of production tax credits from wind generating facilities and investment tax credits from solar generating facilities, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted.





Our utility businesses are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations -












Actions related to global climate change and reducing greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions could negatively impact us -



Risks Related to Business Operations

Demand for energy may decrease -Our results of operations are affected by the demand for energy in our service territories.  Energy demand may decrease due to many things, including proliferation of customer and third party-owned generation, loss of service territory or franchises, energy efficiency measures, technological advances that increase energy efficiency, third-party disrupters, loss of wholesale customers, the adverse impact of tariffs on our customers, and economic conditions.  The loss of sales due to lower demand for energy may increase our rates for remaining customers, as our rates must cover our fixed costs.  Increased customer rates may cause decreased demand for energy as customers move to customer and third party-owned generation and implement energy efficiency measures to reduce costs.  The loss of customers, the inability to replace those customers with new customers, and the decrease in demand for energy could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.



Our strategy includes large construction projects, which are subject to risks -



A cyber attack may disrupt our operations or lead to a loss or misuse of confidential and proprietary information or potential liability -We operate in an industry that requires the continuous use and operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure.  We face threats from use of malicious code (such as malware, viruses and ransomware), employee theft or misuse, advanced persistent threats, and phishing attacks.  Cyber attacks targeting electronic control systems used at our generating facilities and for electric and gas distribution systems could result in a full or partial disruption of our electric and/or gas operations.  Any disruption of these operations could result in a loss of service to customers and a significant decrease in revenues, as well as significant expense to repair system damage and remedy security breaches.  Due to the evolving nature of cyber attacks and cyber security, our current safeguards to protect our operating systems and information technology assets may not always be effective.  If the technology systems were to fail or be breached by a cyber attack or a computer virus, and not be recovered in a timely fashion, we may be unable to fulfill critical business functions and confidential data could be compromised, adversely impacting our financial condition and results of operation.












In addition, we may collect and retain sensitive information, including personal information about our customers, shareowners and employees.  In some cases, we outsource administration of certain functions to vendors that could be targets of cyber attacks.  For example, we outsource administration of our employee health insurance to Anthem, which was the target of a cyber attack in 2014.  Any theft, loss and/or fraudulent use of customer, shareowner, employee or proprietary data as a result of a cyber attack could subject us to significant litigation, liability and costs, as well as adversely impact our reputation with customers and regulators, among others.



Our utility business is seasonal and may be adversely affected by the impacts of weather -Electric and gas utility businesses are seasonal businesses.  Demand for electricity is greater in the summer months associated with higher air conditioning needs and winter months associated with higher heating needs.  Demand for natural gas depends significantly upon temperature patterns in winter months due to heavy use in residential and commercial heating.  As a result, our overall operating results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis.  In addition, we have historically generated less revenues and income when temperatures are warmer in the winter and/or cooler in the summer.  Thus, mild winters and/or summers could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.



Threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism may impact our operations in unpredictable ways -We are subject to direct and indirect effects of terrorist threats and activities.  Generation, transmission and distribution facilities, in general, have been identified as potential targets of physical or cyber attacks.  Physical attacks on transmission and distribution facilities that appeared to be terrorist-style attacks have occurred.  Our gas distribution system could also be the target of terrorist threats and activities.  The risks posed by such attacks could include, among other things, the inability to generate, purchase or distribute electric energy or obtain fuel sources, the increased cost of security and insurance, the disruption of, volatility in, or other effects on capital markets, and a decline in the economy and/or energy usage within our service territories, all of which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, the cost of repairing damage to our facilities and infrastructure caused by acts of terrorism, and the loss of revenue if such events prevent us from providing utility service to our customers, could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.



We face risks associated with operating electric and natural gas infrastructure -



The operation of our gas transmission and distribution infrastructure also involves many risks, such as leaks, explosions, mechanical problems and employee and public safety, which could cause substantial financial losses.  These risks could result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental emissions, impairment of our operations and substantial losses to us.  We are also responsible for compliance with new and changing mandatory reliability and safety standards, including new regulations under the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration.  Our infrastructure is aging, which could impact safety and compliance with current and new regulations.  Failure to meet these standards could result in substantial fines.  We also have obligations to provide natural gas service to customers under regulatory requirements and contractual commitments.  Failure to meet our service obligations could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.












Storms or other natural disasters may impact our operations in unpredictable ways -Storms and other natural disasters, including events such as floods, tornadoes, blizzards, ice storms, extreme hot temperatures, extreme cold temperatures, fires, solar flares or pandemics may adversely impact our ability to generate, purchase or distribute electric energy and gas or obtain fuel or other critical supplies.  In addition, we could incur large costs to repair damage to our generating facilities and electric and gas infrastructure, or costs related to environmental remediation, due to storms or other natural disasters.  The restoration costs may not be fully covered by insurance policies and may not be fully recovered in rates, or recovery in rates may be delayed.  Storms and natural disasters may impact our customers and the resulting reduced demand for energy could cause lower sales and revenues, which may not be replaced or recovered in rates, or rate recovery may be delayed.  Any of these items could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.



We may not be able to fully recover costs related to commodity prices -



Energy industry changes could have a negative effect on our businesses -We operate in a highly regulated business environment.  The advent of new and unregulated markets has the potential to significantly impact our financial condition and results of operations.  Further, competitors may not be subject to the same operating, regulatory and financial requirements that we are, potentially causing a substantial competitive disadvantage for us.  Changes in public policy, such as new tax incentives that we cannot take advantage of, could provide an advantage to competitors.  Changes in technology could also alter the channels through which electric customers buy or utilize power, which could reduce the revenues or increase the expenses of our utility companies.  Increased competition in our primary retail electric service territories may have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.



We face risks related to non-utility operations -We rely on our non-utility operations for a portion of our earnings.  If our non-utility holdings do not perform at expected levels, we could experience an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.



Risks Related to Economic, Financial and Labor Market Conditions

We are subject to limitations on our ability to pay dividends -Alliant Energy is a holding company with no significant operations of its own.  The primary sources of funds for Alliant Energy to pay dividends to its shareowners are dividends and distributions from its subsidiaries, primarily its utility subsidiaries.  Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts to Alliant Energy, whether by dividends, distributions, loans or other payments.  The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions to Alliant Energy and, accordingly, our ability to pay dividends on Alliant Energy common stock will depend on regulatory limitations, earnings, cash flows, capital requirements and general financial condition of our subsidiaries.  Our utilities have dividend payment restrictions based on the terms of any outstanding preferred stock and regulatory limitations applicable to them.  If we do not receive adequate dividends and distributions from our subsidiaries, then we may not be able to make, or may have to reduce, dividend payments on Alliant Energy common stock.












We may incur material post-closing adjustments related to past asset and business divestitures -We have sold certain non-utility subsidiaries such as Whiting Petroleum Corporation (Whiting Petroleum), as well as regulated assets such as our Minnesota electric and natural gas distribution assets.  We may continue to incur liabilities relating to our previous ownership of, or the transactions pursuant to which we disposed of, these subsidiaries and assets.  Any potential liability depends on a number of factors outside of our control, including the financial condition of Whiting Petroleum and/or its assignees.  Any required payments on retained liabilities, guarantees or indemnification obligations with respect to Whiting Petroleum, the sales of our Minnesota electric and natural gas distribution assets, or other future asset or business divestitures, could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.



We are subject to employee workforce factors that could affect our businesses -We operate in an industry that requires specialized technical skills.  Further, we must build a work force that is innovative, customer-focused and competitive to thrive in the future in order to successfully implement our strategy.  It may be difficult to hire and retain such a skilled workforce due to labor market conditions, such as low unemployment rates in our service territories, the length of time employees need to acquire the skills, and general competition for talent.  We are also subject to collective bargaining agreements covering approximately 2,000 employees.  Any work stoppage experienced in connection with negotiations of collective bargaining agreements could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations as well as our ability to implement our strategy.



We are dependent on the capital markets and could be negatively impacted by disruptions in the capital markets -Successful implementation of our strategy is dependent upon our ability to access the capital markets.  We have forecasted capital expenditures of approximately $5 billion over the next four years.  Disruption, uncertainty or volatility in the capital markets could increase our cost of capital or limit our ability to raise funds needed to operate our businesses.  Disruptions could be caused by Federal Reserve policies and actions, currency concerns, economic downturn or uncertainty, monetary policies, a negative view of the utility industry or our company, failures of financial institutions, U.S. debt management concerns, U.S. debt limit and budget debates, including government shutdowns, European and worldwide sovereign debt concerns, other global or geopolitical events, or other factors.  Increases in interest rates may cause the price of our equity securities to decline.  Any disruptions in capital markets could adversely impact our ability to implement our strategy.



We rely on our strong credit ratings to access the credit markets.  If our credit ratings are downgraded for any reason, such as worsening credit metric impacts or general negative outlook for the utility industry, we could pay higher interest rates in future financings, the pool of potential lenders could be reduced, borrowing costs under existing credit facilities could increase, our access to the commercial paper market could be limited, or we could be required to provide additional credit assurance, including cash collateral, to contract counterparties.  If our access to capital were to become significantly constrained or costs of capital increased significantly due to lowered credit ratings, prevailing industry conditions, regulatory constraints, volatility of the capital markets or other factors, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.



Our pension and other postretirement benefits plans are subject to investment and interest rate risk that could negatively impact our financial condition -We have pension and other postretirement benefits plans that provide benefits to many of our employees and retirees.  Costs of providing benefits and related funding requirements of these plans are subject to changes in the liabilities of the plans and market value of the assets that fund the plans.  The funded status of the plans and the related costs reflected in our financial statements are affected by various factors, which are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty, including economic conditions, financial market performance, interest rates, life expectancies and demographics.  Recessions and volatility in the domestic and international financial markets have negatively affected the asset values of our pension plans at various times in the past.  Poor investment returns or lower interest rates may necessitate accelerated funding of the plans to meet minimum federal government requirements, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.





