ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

You should carefully consider each of the risks described below relating to Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL, together with all of the other information
contained in this combined Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment decision with respect to our securities. If any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be
materially and adversely affected and you may lose all or part of your investment.

Risks related to the regulation of our business could
impact the rates we are able to charge, our costs and our profitability

We are exposed to risks related to economic conditions- Our utility operations are impacted by the economic conditions in our service
territories. The most recent recession in our service territories caused our sales and revenues to decline. If economic conditions decline further in our service territories, we may experience additional reduced demand for electricity or natural
gas. If future demand declines are not reflected in our rates, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. In addition, adverse economic conditions in our service territories could negatively impact our
collections of receivables. We lost certain customers as a result of the most recent recession and could lose additional customers due to economic conditions, customers constructing their own generation facilities, and loss of service territory or
franchises. The current economic climate, and future economic growth, may not create enough growth for us to replace the lost energy demand from these customers. The loss of customers, and the inability to replace those customers with new customers,
could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.







Risks related to implementing our strategic plan -

Our operating results may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis and can be adversely affected by the impacts of weather -Our electric and gas utility businesses are seasonal businesses and weather patterns can have a material impact on their operating performance. Demand for electricity is greater in the summer months associated with air conditioning requirements.
In addition, market prices for electricity generally peak in the summer due to higher demand. Demand for natural gas depends significantly upon weather patterns in winter months due to heavy use for residential and commercial heating. As a result,
our overall operating results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, we have historically generated less revenues and income when weather conditions are warmer in the winter and cooler in the summer. Unusually
mild winters and summers could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

Changes in commodity prices or
the availability of commodities may increase the cost of producing electric energy or change the amount we receive from selling electric energy, harming our financial performance -







that is expected to allow utilities to continue trading derivatives “over-the-counter” without having to make such trades through cleared exchanges with collateral requirements. If, as
a result of the rulemaking associated with the Dodd-Frank Act, we do not qualify for the end-user exemption, we could be subject to higher collateral requirements, which could adversely impact our cash flows.

Risks related to wind generation- Our strategic plan includes our utility subsidiaries building and operating wind generating facilities. Our
subsidiary, RMT, is also dependent on growth in the wind development market. The health of, and growth of, the wind market depends on tax incentives, such as the production tax credit, and other incentives included in the American Recovery and
Reinvestment Act of 2009, the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization and Job Creation Act of 2010, and other laws and regulations. The strategic plan also depends on the state of the economy and credit markets. The failure of tax
incentives to work as expected, the elimination of or changes to these incentives, or continued economic and credit market weakness, could adversely impact our ability to achieve our strategic plan and could adversely impact our financial condition
and results of operations. Growth at RMT requires RMT to maintain and grow its current market share in the wind construction market as the market grows, while growing its market share in other renewable energy construction markets, such as solar.
RMT’s inability to maintain and grow its market share of the wind and other renewable energy markets could adversely impact our ability to achieve our strategic plan and could adversely impact our results of operations.

Risks related to large construction projects- Large construction projects, such as the building of renewable energy generating facilities or
adding large-scale environmental control equipment to generating facilities, are subject to various risks that could cause costs to increase or delays in completion. These risks include shortages of, the inability to obtain, the cost of, and the
consistency of, labor, materials and equipment; the inability of the general contractor or subcontractors to perform under their contracts; the inability to agree to terms of contracts or disputes in contract terms; work stoppages; adverse weather
conditions; the inability to obtain necessary permits in a timely manner; changes in applicable laws or regulations; adverse interpretation or enforcement of permit conditions; governmental actions; legal action; and unforeseen engineering or
technology issues. If the construction project is over budget, we may not be able to recover those excess costs. Inability to recover excess costs, or inability to complete the project in a timely manner, could adversely impact our financial
condition and results of operations.

Costs of compliance with existing and future laws and the incurrence of liabilities, particularly
related to the environment, could adversely affect our profitability -







We have developed our generation plan, which includes investments in renewable energy, natural gas and coal
generation and environmental control equipment at existing generating facilities, based on our expectations regarding these environmental regulations. If the regulations change, we may not be able to carry out our strategic plan. We also purchased
emission allowances to comply with the Clean Air Interstate Rule. State utility commissions may not approve our generation projects because the current requirements for them are in question, or may not allow us to recover costs of the projects and
emission allowances if future regulations are not adopted or changed as we expected. Co-owners in our jointly-owned facilities may not agree with our decision to move forward with these projects. Further, more stringent environmental regulations
could be adopted in the future, requiring controls in addition to those currently planned. Failure to obtain utility commission approvals, inability to fully recover costs or failure to obtain co-owner approval could adversely impact our financial
condition and results of operations.

Citizen groups or others may bring litigation over environmental issues including claims of various
types, such as property damage and personal injury. Citizen legal challenges to compliance decisions on the enforcement of environmental requirements, such as approval of air permits, opacity and other air quality standards may be brought against
us. WPL is currently involved in matters in which the Sierra Club is alleging various violations of the Clean Air Act. Specifically, the Sierra Club alleged that WPL violated the Clean Air Act by not obtaining permits for various projects at its
owned and co-owned generating facilities, by violating opacity limits at a generating facility, and by changing the permitted operation of a generating facility. If we are unsuccessful defending such litigation, we could be subject to restrictions
or prohibitions to operating our generation facilities, costly upgrades to our generation facilities, payment of damages or fines, and litigation costs, all of which could be material. An adverse result in such legal actions could have a material
adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.

Actions related to global climate change and reducing GHG emissions
could impact us- The primary GHG emitted from our utility operations is carbon dioxide (CO2) from combustion of fossil fuels at our generating facilities. Our generating facilities are primarily coal-fired facilities. Various regulations
addressing climate change are being considered at the federal and state levels. The Supreme Court has ruled that CO2 may be regulated by the EPA. The EPA has determined that CO2 threatens the public health and welfare and may now regulate all CO2
emissions under the Clean Air Act. The Governors of all of the states in our service territories have signed on to the Midwestern Governors Association GHG Accord (GHG Accord). The stated goal of the GHG Accord’s platform is to “maximize
the energy resources and economic advantages and opportunities of Midwestern states while reducing emissions of atmospheric CO2 and other GHG.” We could be subject to any regulations that are adopted in the future, and could become the target
of challenges, because generating electricity using fossil fuels emits CO2. The impacts of such proposals could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.

Furthermore, state regulators may consider future climate change policy implications in proceedings related to making environmental upgrades to existing
facilities. Future regulation of CO2 emissions could make some of our electric generating facilities uneconomic to maintain or operate. The cost to comply with future potential CO2 emissions regulations could be very high. There is no guarantee that
we will be allowed to fully recover compliance costs or that cost recovery will not be delayed or otherwise conditioned. Due to the uncertainty of what form CO2 emissions regulations could take, control technologies available to reduce GHG
emissions, including CO2, and the unknown nature of potential compliance obligations should climate change regulations be enacted, we cannot provide any assurance regarding the potential impacts these future regulations would have on our operations.
In addition, we cannot predict if, or how, state regulators may factor this issue into approvals and permits for us to modify our existing coal-fired generation. All such regulatory results could adversely impact our ability to implement our
strategic plan and our financial condition and results of operations.

Risks related to capital markets -







ratings, prevailing industry conditions, regulatory constraints, the volatility of the capital markets or other factors, our financial condition and results of operations could be significantly
adversely affected.

We are subject to employee workforce factors that could affect our businesses- We are subject to employee
workforce factors, including loss or retirement of key personnel, availability of and our ability to recruit qualified personnel, collective bargaining agreements with employees and work stoppage that could affect our businesses and financial
condition and results of operations. Further, our workforce is dominated by members of the baby boomer generation who are nearing retirement. As a large portion of our workforce prepares to retire, we must recruit and train new employees to replace
them. Costs of recruitment are expected to increase and may not be recovered in rates, and the ability to find qualified employees is expected to become more difficult as our workforce retires. These factors could adversely affect our business and
financial condition.

Failure to provide reliable service to our utility customers could adversely affect our operating results -

Operation of electric generating facilities or capital improvement of utility facilities may involve unanticipated changes or delays in operations
that could negatively impact our business -The operation of electric generating facilities involves many risks, including start-up risks, breakdown or failure of equipment, transmission lines or pipelines, use of technology, the dependence on a
specific fuel source, including the supply and transportation of fuel, as well as the risk of performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency. These risks could negatively impact our business through asset degradation, lost
revenues or increased costs, including the cost of replacement power. The distribution of natural gas involves many risks, including leaks, explosions and mechanical problems. Additionally, our ability to successfully and timely complete planned
capital improvements to existing facilities within established budgets is contingent upon many variables and may be subject to substantial risks. Should such efforts be unsuccessful, we could be subject to additional costs and increased risk of
non-recovery of construction or improvement costs through rates, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.

Storms or other natural disasters may impact our operations in unpredictable ways -Storms and other natural disasters, such as the flood of 2008 and the ice storms of 2007, may adversely impact
our ability to generate, purchase or distribute electric energy or obtain fuel sources and may significantly slow growth, or cause a decline, in the economy within our service territories. Storms and natural disasters may prevent our customers from
being able to operate, causing lower sales and revenues. In addition, we could incur large costs of repairing damage to our generating facilities and infrastructure due to storms or natural disasters. The loss of revenues may not be recovered. The
restoration costs may not be fully covered by insurance policies. Damage to assets could also require us to take impairments, such as occurred with our damaged Sixth Street Generating Station. Some costs may not be recovered in rates, or there could
be significant delays in cost recovery. Any of these items could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.







We are subject to limitations on our ability to pay dividends -Alliant Energy is a holding company
with no significant operations of its own. Accordingly, the primary sources of funds for Alliant Energy to pay dividends to its shareowners are dividends and distributions from its subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal
entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts to us, whether by dividends, loans or other payments. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions to us and, accordingly, our ability to pay dividends on Alliant Energy
common stock will depend on regulatory limitations and the earnings, cash flows, capital requirements and general financial condition of our subsidiaries. Our utilities each have dividend payment restrictions based on the terms of their outstanding
preferred stock and regulatory limitations applicable to them. If we do not receive adequate dividends and distributions from our subsidiaries, then we may not be able to make, or may have to reduce, dividend payments on Alliant Energy common stock.

Threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism may impact our operations in unpredictable ways -We are
subject to direct and indirect effects of terrorist threats and activities. Generation and transmission facilities, in general, have been identified as potential targets. The effects of terrorist threats and activities include, among other things,
terrorist actions or responses to such actions or threats, the inability to generate, purchase or transmit electric energy, the risk of significant slowdown in growth or a decline in the U.S. economy, disruption or volatility in, or other effects on
capital markets, and the increased cost and adequacy of security and insurance. Terrorist threats and activities may adversely impact our ability to generate, purchase or distribute electric energy or obtain fuel sources and may significantly slow
growth, or cause a decline, in the economy within our service territories, which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the cost of repairing damage to our generating facilities and infrastructure due
to acts of terrorism, and the loss of revenue if such events prevent us from providing utility service to our customers, could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.

Energy industry changes could have a negative effect on our businesses -As a public utility company with significant utility assets, we conduct
our utility operations in a regulated business environment. The advent of new and unregulated markets has the potential to significantly impact our financial condition and results of operations. The evolution of the wholesale and transmission
markets has the potential to significantly increase costs of transmission, costs associated with inefficient generation dispatching, costs of participation in the new markets and costs stemming from estimated payment settlements. Competitive
pressures, including advances in technology that reduce the costs of alternative methods of producing electric energy to a level that is competitive with that of current electric production methods, could result in our utilities losing market share
and customers and incurring stranded costs (i.e., assets and other costs rendered unrecoverable through customer rates as a result of competitive pricing), which would be borne by our shareowners. Increased competition from any restructuring efforts
in our primary retail electric service territories may have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.



