
10-K405
0001.txt
FORM 10-K405



                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                               -----------------

                                    FORM 10-K

 [ X ]   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                           For the year ended December 30, 2000
                                       or
 [   ]   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                           For the transition period from _______ to_______
                           Commission file number 0-31983
                                ----------------
                                   GARMIN LTD.
               (Exact name of Company as specified in its charter)

          CAYMAN ISLANDS                               98-0229227
 -------------------------------          -----------------------------------
   (State or other jurisdiction           (I.R.S. Employer identification no.)
of incorporation or organization)

 QUEENSGATE HOUSE, P.O. BOX 30464SMB,
         113 SOUTH CHURCH STREET
GEORGE TOWN, GRAND CAYMAN, CAYMAN ISLANDS                N/A
- -----------------------------------------             ----------
 (Address of principal executive offices)             (Zip Code)

        Company's telephone number, including area code: (345) 946-5203*

Securities  registered  pursuant to Section  12(b) of the Act:  NONE
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                    COMMON SHARES, $0.01 PER SHARE PAR VALUE
                    ----------------------------------------
                                (Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the Company (1) has filed all reports required to
be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934 during
the  preceding  12 months  (or for such  shorter  period  that the  Company  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days. YES [ X ] NO [  ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of Company's  knowledge,  in a definitive  proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ X ]

     Aggregate  market  value  of the  voting  and  non-voting  shares  held  by
non-affiliates  of the Company as of March 26, 2001,  based on the closing price
of the Registrant's common shares on the Nasdaq Stock Market for that date.

                 Common Shares, $.01 par value - $1,056,895,958
       Number of shares outstanding of the Company's common shares as of
                                 March 26, 2001:
                   Common Shares, $.01 par value - 108,242,111



DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:
Portions of the following  documents are  incorporated  herein by reference into
Part III of the Form 10-K as indicated:






                                   GARMIN LTD.

                          2000 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT

                                
         Cautionary Statement With Respect To Forward-Looking Comments.........1

                                     PART I

Item 1.  Business..............................................................1
Item 2.  Properties...........................................................10
Item 3.  Legal Proceedings....................................................10
Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders..................10
         Executive Officers and Significant Employees of the Company..........11

                                     PART II

Item 5.  Market for the Company's Common Stock and Related Stockholder
              Matters.........................................................12
Item 6.  Selected Consolidated Financial Data.................................13
Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
              and Results of Operations.......................................14
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk...........30

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data..........................31
Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
              and Financial Disclosure........................................54

                                    PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Company......................54
Item 11. Executive Compensation...............................................54
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.......54
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.......................54

                                     PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on
              Form 8-K........................................................55
         Signatures...........................................................58

GARMIN,  the GARMIN logo, the GARMIN globe design,  the GARMIN "swoosh"' design,
STREETPILOT,  ETREX, TRACBACK,  DCG, GPSMAP, GPS II, GPS III, GPSCOM,  PHASETRAC
12, TRACPAK, G CHART, GPS 40, PERSONAL NAVIGATOR,  GUIDANCE BY GARMIN, MULTITRAC
8,  AUTOLOCATE,  NAVTALK  and  SEE-THRU  are  registered  trademarks  of  Garmin
Corporation,  and EMAP, ETREX SUMMIT,  ETREX CAMO, ETREX LEGEND,  ETREX VENTURE,
ETREX VISTA, METROGUIDE and MAPSOURCE are trademarks of Garmin Corporation.  All
other registered trademarks and tradenames referred to in this Form 10-K are the
property of their respective owners.



          CAUTIONARY STATEMENT WITH RESPECT TO FORWARD-LOOKING COMMENTS

The discussions set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain  statements
concerning  potential future events. Such  forward-looking  statements are based
upon  assumptions  by the  Company's  management,  as of the date of this Annual
Report,  including  assumptions  about  risks  and  uncertainties  faced  by the
Company. In addition,  management may make forward-looking  statements orally or
in other  writings,  including,  but not limited to, in press  releases,  in the
annual  report to  shareholders  and in the  Company's  other  filings  with the
Securities  and Exchange  Commission.  Readers are  cautioned not to place undue
reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their date.
Readers can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of such verbs
as expects,  anticipates,  believes  or similar  verbs or  conjugations  of such
verbs.   If  any  of   management's   assumptions   prove  incorrect  or  should
unanticipated circumstances arise, the Company's actual results could materially
differ  from  those  anticipated  by  such   forward-looking   statements.   The
differences  could be caused by a number of  factors or  combination  of factors
including,  but not limited to, those factors  identified in Item 7 of this Form
10-K under the heading "Company-Specific Trends and Risks". Readers are strongly
encouraged  to  consider  those  factors  when  evaluating  any  forward-looking
statements   concerning   the   Company.   The  Company   will  not  update  any
forward-looking  statements  in this Annual  Report to reflect  future events or
developments.

                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

This  discussion  of the  business of Garmin Ltd.  ("Garmin"  or the  "Company")
should  be  read  in  conjunction  with,  and  is  qualified  by  reference  to,
Management's  Discussion and Analysis of the Company's  Financial  Condition and
Results of Operations  ("MD&A")  under Item 7 herein.  In addition,  pursuant to
Rule 12b-23 under the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,  the segment
information  included in Item 8, Note 10 is incorporated  herein by reference in
partial response to this Item 1.

RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS

     REORGANIZATION

     The Company was  incorporated  in the Cayman  Islands on July 24, 2000 as a
holding company for Garmin  Corporation in order to facilitate a public offering
of Garmin shares in the United States.

     As a result of a corporate  reorganization  completed in 2000,  the Company
owns,  directly or  indirectly,  all of the  operating  companies  in the Garmin
group,  except  for one  share of Garmin  Corporation  held of  record,  but not
beneficially,  by each of six  shareholders  as  nominees  to satisfy the Taiwan
requirement that Garmin Corporation have at least seven shareholders,  and 4,000
shares  of  Garmin  Corporation  held by two  related  shareholders  who did not
convert their Garmin  Corporation  shares to shares of the Company.  These 4,006
shares  represent  approximately  0.004%  of the  outstanding  shares  of Garmin
Corporation.

     INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING

     The Company  completed an initial  public  offering of its common shares on
December 8, 2000 (the "IPO").  Of the  12,075,000  common shares sold in the IPO
(including  shares sold pursuant to the  underwriters'  over-allotment  option),
8,242,111  shares  were sold by the Company  and  3,832,889  shares were sold by
certain selling shareholders.  The Company raised net proceeds of $104.4 million
in the IPO.


COMPANY OVERVIEW

     Garmin is a leading,  worldwide provider of navigation,  communications and
information  devices,  most of which are  enabled by Global  Positioning  System
("GPS") technology. Garmin designs, develops, manufactures and markets under the
GARMIN brand a diverse family of hand-held, portable and fixed mount GPS-enabled
products and other navigation,  communications and information products. Each of
Garmin's GPS products utilizes its proprietary  integrated  circuit and receiver
designs to collect,  calculate and display location,  direction, speed and other
information in forms optimized for specific uses.


OVERVIEW OF THE GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM

     The Global Positioning  System first made available by the U.S.  government
for commercial use in 1983, is a worldwide  navigation  system which enables the
precise   determination  of  geographic  location  using  established  satellite
technology.  The system consists of a constellation of orbiting satellites.  The
satellites and their ground  control and monitoring  stations are maintained and
operated by the United States Department of Defense,  which maintains an ongoing
satellite  replenishment  program to ensure  continuous  global system coverage.
Access to the system is provided free of charge by the U.S. government.

     Reception  of  GPS  signals  from  the  satellites  requires  line-of-sight
visibility between the satellites and the receiver.  GPS receivers  generally do
not work  indoors  and when a receiver is  outside,  buildings,  hills and dense
foliage can block  reception.  GPS receivers can be very compact,  and it is not
necessary to have a large dish antenna to receive GPS signals.

     Prior to May 2000, the U.S.  Department of Defense  intentionally  degraded
the  accuracy  of  civilian  GPS  signals  in  a  process   known  as  Selective
Availability  ("SA") for national  security  purposes.  SA variably degraded GPS
position accuracy to a radius of 100 meters. On May 2, 2000, the U.S. Department
of Defense  discontinued  SA. With SA removed,  a GPS receiver can calculate its
position  to an  accuracy  of 10 meters  or less,  significantly  enhancing  the
utility of GPS for most applications.

     The  accuracy  and  utility of GPS can be  enhanced  even  further  through
augmentation  techniques  which compute any  remaining  errors in the signal and
broadcast these  corrections to a GPS device.  The FAA is developing a Wide Area
Augmentation System ("WAAS") comprising ground reference stations and additional
satellites  which will improve the accuracy of GPS positioning  available in the
United States and portions of Canada and Mexico to approximately 3 meters.  WAAS
is intended to support the use of GPS as the primary means of enroute,  terminal
and  approach  navigation  for  aviation  in the United  States.  The  increased
accuracy  offered by WAAS will also  enhance  the  utility of  WAAS-enabled  GPS
receivers for consumer applications. The FAA has stated that it expects the WAAS
system to have initial operating capability in 2002.


PRODUCTS

     Garmin has  achieved a leading  market  position  and a record of growth in
revenues and profits by offering ergonomically  designed, user friendly products
with innovative  features and designs covering a broad range of applications and
price points.

     Garmin's target markets currently  consist of the consumer  segment,  which
primarily includes marine and recreational  products,  and the aviation segment,
which consists of panel mount and portable products for use in aircraft.

     While the  marine/recreational  and aviation product lines will continue to
be the core of Garmin's business in the near-term, GPS capabilities are becoming
increasingly  commercially  viable  in a wide  range of  consumer  products  and
services,  including  automotive  navigation  systems and wireless  consumer and
mobile  information  devices (such as phones and personal  digital  assistants).
Garmin's goal is to take advantage of its brand name and its product development
experience to expand its product line in many of these  potentially  high-growth
GPS markets.


CONSUMER

     Garmin  currently  offers a wide  range  of  consumer  products,  including
handheld  GPS  receivers,  our  StreetPilot(R)  portable  automotive  navigation
devices and  fixed-mount  GPS/Sounder  products,  targeted toward the marine and
recreational  market  segments.  Garmin believes that its consumer  products are
known for their value leadership, high performance, innovation and ergonomics.

     Garmin  also  offers  a broad  set of  accessories  for its  products.  For
instance,  Garmin's  MapSource(TM)  CDs,  which can be loaded into  selected GPS
products through a personal computer,  provide detailed mapping  information for
the  United  States and Canada  and a number of  European  countries.  With this
information,  Garmin's StreetPilot, eTrex(R) Venture, eTrex Legend, eTrex Vista,
and  eMap(TM)  products  can  provide the  customer  with  detailed  information
concerning  business  listings  and  points  of  interest.  A user can  choose a
business  listing  (e.g.,  restaurants,  hotels,  and  shops)  and the unit will
display the location of the  destination on a map along with the user's location
and the distance from the user's location.

     The table below includes a sampling of the innovative  products that Garmin
currently offers to consumers.



HANDHELD AND PORTABLE CONSUMER PRODUCTS:

eMap                       Pocket-size  GPS  with  built-in  basic  map  showing
                           highways  and  major  streets  for  personal  use and
                           business  travel.   MapSource   compatibility  allows
                           street level mapping,  points of interest and address
                           location  functionality.  eMap introduces benefits of
                           GPS to a new class of consumers.

eTrex
(6 models)                 Ultra compact full feature handheld GPS design for
                           outdoor enthusiasts. All models are waterproof and
                           have rugged designs. The eTrex Summit and eTrex Vista
                           have electronic compass and barometric altimeter
                           functions. eTrex Venture has a worldwide database of
                           cities.  eTrex Legend and eTrex Vista have internal
                           basemaps of either North and South America or Europe.
                           eTrex Camo features a camouflaged design and a
                           hunting and fishing almanac.

StreetPilot GPS
(3 models)                 Portable automotive navigation systems with basemap
                           and MapSource compatibility allowing street level
                           mapping, points of interest and address location
                           functionality. The ColorMap model features a color
                           display.  StreetPilot III features "turn by turn"
                           automatic route guidance and voice prompting and a
                           high resolution color display.

GPS 12
(4 models)                 Rugged handhelds for serious outdoor enthusiasts.
                           Capabilities and features available in different GPS
                           12 models include basic navigation, color graphics,
                           built-in database of cities, basemaps and MapSource
                           compatibility.

GPS 48                     Handheld GPS with a built-in database of marine
                           navigation aids.

GPS                        III+ Portable GPS, with unique selectable vertical or
                           horizontal   displays.   Capabilities   and  features
                           include built-in basemap and MapSource compatibility.

GPSMAP 175                 Portable GPS/Plotter suitable for avid boaters,
                           providing fuel and planning functions, distance and
                           bearing calculations and inland and offshore digital
                           marine charts. The unit offers a large display and
                           the capability to access detailed marine charts from
                           G-Chart(R)cartridges.

MARINE FIXED-MOUNT UNITS:

GPS126 & 128               Low cost fixed-mount GPS's for boating with either a
                           built-in antenna or an external antenna for exposed
                           installations.

GPSMAP(R)
(5 models)                 Marine GPS/plotter combinations for boating and
                           fishing enthusiasts of different levels. Features
                           available on different models include a variety of
                           display sizes (ranging in size from 4.2" to 7.1"),
                           high-contrast LCD graphics, monochrome or 16-color
                           active matrix displays and the capability of
                           uploading current mapping data from a personal
                           computer with MapSource CD-ROM's.

GBR 21 & 23                These differential beacon receivers complement all
                           of Garmin's GPS receivers by providing boaters and
                           fisherman additional positioning accuracy to within
                           approximately 5 meters.

SOUNDER PRODUCTS:

FishFinders
(3 models)                 Fishfinders feature exclusive DCG(R)and See-Thru(R)
                           technology, which aid fishermen in defining the
                           ocean/lake bottom and spotting fish in hidden or
                           obscured areas.

GPSMAP/Sounder
(3 models)                 The  "all-in-one"  product lines with GPS, chart-
                           plotter and sonar functionality. These units come
                           with different display sizes (ranging in size from
                           4.2" to 7.1") and the capability of uploading current
                           mapping data.

CONSUMER COMMUNICATIONS PRODUCTS:

NavTalk                     A waterproof handheld unit that combines an analogue
                            cellular  telephone and a full-featured GPS receiver
                            with  mapping  display.   Features  the  ability  to
                            transmit  location from one unit to another unit and
                            to location-based service companies.

VHF 720 & 725              Waterproof, portable handheld marine radios with
                           either 3-watt or 5-watt power output provide clear
                           VHF communication capabilities for all types of
                           boaters.

AVIATION

     Garmin's panel mounted product line includes  GPS-enabled  navigation,  VHF
communications  transmitters/receivers,  traditional  VHF navigation  receivers,
instrument landing  receivers,  digital  transponders  (which transmit either an
aircraft's altitude or its flight  identification number in response to requests
transmitted  by  ground-based  air traffic  control radar systems or air traffic
avoidance devices on other aircraft), marker beacon receivers and audio panels.

     Garmin's  aviation  products have won  prestigious  awards  throughout  the
industry for their  innovative  features  and ease of use.  Garmin was the first
company to offer a GPS receiver, the GPS 155/165, which met the Federal Aviation
Administration's requirements for certain kinds of instrument approaches and did
so a full year ahead of its  competitors.  The GPS 155/165  with its  instrument
approach  capability won FLYING  Magazine's  outstanding  achievement  award for
1994. The GNS 430/530 offers an  unprecedented  set of features and capabilities
integrated  into  a  single   product.   This  high  level  of  integration  has
revolutionized  the  aviation  electronics  industry  by  minimizing  the use of
precious  space in the  cockpit,  enhancing  the  quality  and  safety of flight
through  the use of modern  designs  and  components  and  reducing  the cost of
equipping an aircraft with modern  electronics.  The GNS 430 was also recognized
by FLYING  Magazine as the Editor's Choice Product of the Year for 1998. In 1994
and again in 2000,  Garmin  earned  recognition  from the  Aircraft  Electronics
Association for outstanding  contribution  to the general  aviation  electronics
industry.

     Large  portions of Garmin's sales of panel mounted  aviation  products come
from the  retrofit  market  where  older  aircraft  are  fitted  with the latest
electronics  from  Garmin's  broad  product  line.  Garmin  believes this market
continues  to have good growth  potential  as aircraft  owners  elect to upgrade
their existing aircraft at a cost that is lower than purchasing a new aircraft.

     Garmin has also gained market share as an original  equipment  manufacturer
supplier  to  leading  airframe  manufacturers  such as the New  Piper  Aircraft
Company,  Raytheon  Aircraft  Company,  Mooney  Aircraft  Corporation and Cirrus
Design  Corporation.  Garmin  anticipates  further  growth  in its  sales to the
original  equipment  manufacturers  market as its  product  offerings  expand to
include weather  information and primary flight  instruments that use the latest
display technologies.

     The table below  includes a sampling of the  innovative  aviation  products
currently offered by Garmin:


HANDHELD AND PORTABLE AVIATION PRODUCTS:

GPS                       92  Value-priced  unit for  recreational  pilots with
                          built-in Jeppesen(R) database.  The Jeppesen database
                          includes  airports,  navigation  beacons,  controlled
                          airspace, runway data and final approach waypoints.

GPS III Pilot             Aviation style GPS III, with built-in maps and
                          Jeppesen database.

GPSMAP 195                Portable GPS receiver with 4.1" moving map display
                          and built-in aviation database.

GPSMAP 295                A high-end portable GPS receiver designed specifically
                          for the serious aviator. Features include a 16-color
                          display and built-in aviation database; it can down-
                          load MapSource CD-ROM information through a personal
                          computer for street level map details.

PANEL-MOUNT AVIATION PRODUCTS:

GNC 300XL TSO             Instrument Flight Rules ( "IFR ") certified product
                          that combines a GPS receiver with VHF radio and
                          features moving map graphics.

400 Series
(3 models)                The GNS 430 is the world's first  "all-in-one"  IFR
                          certified GPS navigation receiver/traditional VHF
                          navigation receiver/instrument landing systems
                          receiver and VHF communication transmitter/receiver.
                          Features available in different 400 series models
                          include 4 color map graphics, GPS, communication and
                          navigation capabilities.

GNS 530                   This unit combines all of the features of the GNS 430
                          along with a larger 5" color display.

GI-102A & 106A            Course deviation indicators (CDIs). The GI-106A
                          features an instrument landing system receiver to aid
                          in landing.

GMA 340                   A feature-rich audio panel with six-place stereo
                          intercom and independent pilot/co-pilot communications
                          capabilities.

GTX 320 & 327             FAA-certified transponders which transmit altitude or
                          flight information to air traffic control radar
                          systems or other aircraft's air traffic avoidance
                          devices and feature solid-state construction for
                          longer life. The GTX 327 offers a digital display with
                          unique timing functions.


AVIATION COMMUNICATIONS PRODUCTS:

NavTalk                   Pilot GPS-enabled  cellular telephone,  with built-in
                          aviation database, offers AirCell(R) airborne service
                          so  that  pilots  can  make  and   receive   cellular
                          telephone calls while airborne.

GPSCOM 190                A GPS-enabled handheld with a VHF radio. This unit
                          combines a portable GPS receiver with an aviation band
                          communication transmitter/receiver for communication
                          with airports and air traffic controllers.


SALES AND MARKETING

     Garmin's  consumer  products  are  sold  through  a  worldwide  network  of
approximately  2,500  independent  dealers and distributors in approximately 100
countries who meet our sales and customer service qualifications. Garmin intends
to  selectively  grow its dealer  network  geographically  and by product lines.
Marketing  support is provided  geographically  from Garmin's offices in Olathe,
Kansas (North, South and Central America), Romsey, U.K. (Europe, Middle East and
Africa) and Shijr, Taiwan (Asia and Australasia). Garmin's distribution strategy
is  intended  to  increase  Garmin's  global   penetration  and  presence  while
maintaining high quality standards to ensure end-user satisfaction.

     Garmin's U.S. consumer segment marketing is handled through its dealers who
are  serviced  by  a  staff  of  regional  sales  managers  and  in-house  sales
associates. Some of Garmin's largest consumer products dealers include:

     o    BASS PRO SHOPS--a  freshwater  sports  specialist with a sophisticated
          catalog sales effort and "super store" locations;

     o    BOAT  AMERICA/BOAT  U.S.--A major marine dealer featuring  memberships
          for special buying privileges;

     o    BOATERS  WORLD--a  leading  off-shore  marine  retailer  with multiple
          locations;

     o    CABELA'S--a major catalogue retailer for the outdoor marine market;

     o    WAL-MART--one of the world's largest mass retailers;

     o    WEST MARINE--one of the largest U.S. marine retailers  specializing in
          offshore boating equipment; and

     o    BEST BUY--one of the largest U.S. electronics retailers


     Garmin's European consumer segment marketing is handled through  in-country
distributors who resell to dealers. Working closely with Garmin's in-house sales
and marketing  staff in Romsey,  U.K.,  these  distributors  are responsible for
inventory  levels  and staff  training  requirements  at each  retail  location.
Garmin's Taiwan-based marketing team handles its Asia marketing effort.

     Aviation  marketing is handled through  dealers around the world.  Garmin's
largest  aviation  dealers include  Sportsmen's  Market,  Tropic Aero and JA Air
Center.  All have the training,  equipment and certified  staff required for the
at-airport  installation of Garmin's most sophisticated IFR avionics  equipment.
Visual Flight Rules ("VFR") equipment including handheld GPS receivers,  is sold
through dealers, usually at airport locations or through catalogs.

     In addition to the  traditional  distribution  channels  mentioned,  Garmin
enjoys significant market penetration with original equipment manufacturers.  In
the  consumer  market,   Garmin's  products  are  standard  equipment  on  boats
manufactured  by Ranger Boats and Lund Boat  Company.  In the  aviation  market,
Garmin's  avionics  are standard  equipment on airplanes  built by The New Piper
Aircraft Company,  Raytheon Aircraft  Company,  Mooney Aircraft  Corporation and
Cirrus Design Corporation.  Other aircraft and boat manufacturers offer Garmin's
products as optional equipment.


COMPETITION

     The market for  navigation,  communications  and  information  products  is
highly competitive.  Garmin believes the principal competitive factors impacting
the market for its products are features,  quality,  design,  customer  service,
brand, price, time-to-market and availability. Garmin believes that it generally
competes favorably in these areas.

     Garmin  believes that its principal  competitors  for consumer  GPS-enabled
product  lines are Magellan  Corporation  ("Magellan"),  a subsidiary of Orbital
Sciences, Inc., Lowrance Electronics Inc. ("Lowrance"),  Raytheon Marine Company
("Raytheon"),  Furuno Electronic Company, MLR, Simrad AS ("Simrad"),  the Cetrek
division of Teleflex,  Inc., Japan Radio Company and Koden Electronics Co., Ltd.
For Garmin's  fishfinder/depth  sounder product lines,  Garmin believes that its
principal competitors are Lowrance,  Furuno, Raytheon, Simrad and the Humminbird
division of Techsonic Industries, Inc. ("Humminbird").  Garmin believes that its
principal  competitors  for marine VHF  transceiver  product  lines are Standard
Communications,    Shakespeare   Corporation,   Humminbird,   Raytheon,   Uniden
Corporation,  Simrad and Icom, Inc. For Garmin's general aviation product lines,
Garmin  considers its  principal  competitors  to be Lowrance and Magellan,  for
portable GPS units, and UPS Aviation Technologies, a subsidiary of United Parcel
Service,  Inc., Honeywell,  Inc., Northstar Technologies and Avidyne Corporation
for  panel-mount  GPS and display units.  For Garmin's  wireless  product lines,
Garmin  believes  that its  principal  competitors  are Nokia Oy,  Telefon AB LM
Ericsson, Motorola, Inc. ("Motorola"),  Benefon Oy, Siemens AG, Sony Corporation
and Samsung.  For Garmin's GPS sensor board product lines,  Garmin  believes its
principal  competitors are Trimble Navigation,  Ltd., Conexant,  Inc., Magellan,
Motorola,  Phillips N.V.  ("Phillips")  and SiRF  Technology,  Inc. For Garmin's
automotive  product  lines,  Garmin  considers its principal  competitors  to be
Magellan,  Alpine  Electronics,  Inc.,  Denso KK, Visteon,  On-Star  Division of
General Motors Corporation and Phillips.


RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

     Garmin's product  innovations are driven by its strong emphasis on research
and  development  and the close  partnership  between  Garmin's  engineering and
manufacturing teams. Garmin's products are created by its engineering and design
staff of  approximately  200  people  worldwide.  Garmin's  manufacturing  staff
includes  manufacturing  process engineers who work closely with Garmin's design
engineers to ensure  manufacturability  and  manufacturing  cost control for its
products.  Garmin's  design  staff  includes  industrial  designers,  as well as
software  engineers,  electrical  engineers  and  mechanical  engineers.  Garmin
believes the  industrial  design of its products has played an important role in
Garmin's  success.  Once a  development  project is initiated  and  approved,  a
multi-disciplinary  team is created to design the product and transition it into
manufacturing.



     Below is a table of Garmin's  expenditures on research and development over
the last three fiscal years.




MANUFACTURING AND OPERATIONS

     Garmin  believes  that one of its core  competencies  is its  manufacturing
capability at both its Shijr,  Taiwan facility and its Olathe,  Kansas facility.
Garmin's   vertically   integrated   approach  has  provided  it  the  following
competitive advantages:

     REDUCED   TIME-TO-MARKET.   Utilizing  concurrent  engineering  techniques,
Garmin's products are introduced to production at an early development stage and
the feedback  provided by manufacturing  is incorporated  into the design before
mass production begins. In this manner, Garmin can significantly reduce the time
required to move a product from its design phase to mass production  deliveries,
with improved quality and yields.  Reducing time to market has enabled Garmin to
offer several industry firsts,  such as the NavTalk  GPS-enabled  wireless phone
and  the  GNS  430,  which  integrates   traditional   aviation  navigation  and
communications systems with GPS in a single package.

     DESIGN AND PROCESS OPTIMIZATION.  Using its manufacturing resources, Garmin
can rapidly  prototype  design  concepts,  products  and  processes  in order to
achieve higher efficiency,  lower cost and best value for the customer. Garmin's
ability to fully explore product design and  manufacturing  process concepts has
enabled it to optimize  its designs to minimize  size and weight in a GPS device
that is fully functional, waterproof, and rugged.

     LOGISTICAL AGILITY. Operating its own manufacturing facilities helps Garmin
minimize  problems  common  to  the  electronics  industry,  such  as  component
shortages and long component lead times.  Many products can be  re-engineered to
bypass  component  shortages or reduce cost and the new designs can quickly fill
the distribution pipeline.  Garmin can react rapidly to changes in market demand
by  maintaining  a  safety  stock of  long-lead  components  or by  rescheduling
components from one product line to another.

     Garmin's design and manufacturing processes are certified to ISO 9001/2 for
superior  quality.  In  addition  Garmin's  aviation  panel-mount  products  are
designed according to processes which are approved and monitored by the FAA.


INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

     Garmin's  success  and  ability  to  compete  is  dependent  in part on its
proprietary  technology.  Garmin relies on a combination  of patent,  copyright,
trademark  and trade  secret laws,  as well as  confidentiality  agreements,  to
establish and protect our proprietary  rights. As of March 26, 2001, Garmin held
44 U.S.  patents and had 38 U.S.  patent  applications  pending.  Garmin's  U.S.
patents  do not create any patent  rights in  foreign  countries.  In  addition,
Garmin  often  relies  on  licenses  of  intellectual  property  for  use in its
business.   For  example,   Garmin  obtains  licenses  for  digital  cartography
technology  for use in our products from various  sources.  Garmin's  registered
U.S. trademarks  include:  GARMIN; the GARMIN logo; the GARMIN globe design; the
GARMIN "swoosh" design;  STREETPILOT;  ETREX; TRACBACK; DCG; PERSONAL NAVIGATOR;
GPSMAP;  GPS II; GPS III; GUIDANCE BY GARMIN;  GPSCOM;  PHASETRAC 12; TRACPAK; G
CHART; GPS 40; MULTITRAC 8;  AUTOLOCATE;  NAVTALK and SEE-THRU.  Our mark GARMIN
and certain  other  trademarks  have also been  registered  in selected  foreign
countries.  Garmin's  trademarks  include EMAP; ETREX SUMMIT;  ETREX CAMO; ETREX
LEGEND; ETREX VENTURE; ETREX VISTA;  METROGUIDE and MAPSOURCE.  Garmin's patents
and its registered  trademarks and trademarks are owned by Garmin's  subsidiary,
Garmin Corporation.

     Garmin  believes  that its continued  success  depends in large part on the
intellectual  skills of its employees and their ability to continue to innovate.
Garmin will continue to file and prosecute patent  applications when appropriate
to attempt to protect Garmin's rights in its proprietary technologies.

     It is possible that Garmin's current patents, or patents which it may later
acquire,  may be successfully  challenged or invalidated in whole or in part. It
is also  possible that Garmin may not obtain  issued  patents for  inventions it
seeks to protect.  It is also possible  that Garmin may not develop  proprietary
products or technologies  in the future that are patentable,  or that any patent
issued to Garmin may not provide it with any competitive advantages, or that the
patents  of others  will harm or  altogether  preclude  Garmin's  ability  to do
business.   Legal  protections  afford  only  limited  protection  for  Garmin's
technology.   Despite  Garmin's  efforts  to  protect  its  proprietary  rights,
unauthorized  parties  may attempt to copy  aspects of  Garmin's  products or to
obtain and use information that Garmin regards as proprietary. Litigation may be
necessary in the future to enforce Garmin's  intellectual  property  rights,  to
protect  its  trade  secrets,  to  determine  the  validity  and  scope  of  the
proprietary  rights of others or to defend  against  claims of  infringement  or
invalidity.  Any  resulting  litigation  could result in  substantial  costs and
diversion of Garmin's  resources.  Garmin's means of protecting its  proprietary
rights may not be adequate and Garmin's  competitors may  independently  develop
similar technology.


REGULATIONS

     Garmin's  aviation  products  that are  intended for  installation  in type
certificated  aircraft  are  required to be  certified  by the Federal  Aviation
Administration its European  counterpart,  the Joint Aviation  Authorities,  and
other  comparable  organizations  before  they can be used in an  aircraft.  The
telecommunications  industry is highly regulated, and the regulatory environment
in which  Garmin  operates  is subject to change.  In  accordance  with  Federal
Communication Commission ("FCC") rules and regulations, wireless transceiver and
cellular handset products are required to be certified by the FCC and comparable
authorities in foreign countries where they are sold.  Garmin's products sold in
Europe  are  required  to  comply  with  relevant  directives  of  the  European
Commission.  A delay in receiving  required  certifications  for new products or
enhancements to Garmin's products or losing  certification for Garmin's existing
products could adversely affect its business.

     Because Garmin Corporation, one of the Company's principal subsidiaries, is
located in Taiwan,  foreign exchange control laws and regulations of Taiwan with
respect to  remittances  into and out of Taiwan  may have an impact on  Garmin's
operations.  The  Taiwan  Foreign  Exchange  Control  Statute,  and  regulations
thereunder,  provide that all foreign exchange  transactions must be executed by
banks  designated  to handle such  business by the Ministry of Finance of Taiwan
and by the  Central  Bank  of  China,  also  referred  to as  the  CBC.  Current
regulations favor  trade-related  foreign exchange  transactions.  Consequently,
foreign  currency  earned from  exports of  merchandise  and services may now be
retained and used freely by exporters, while all foreign currency needed for the
import of merchandise  and services may be purchased  freely from the designated
foreign exchange banks. Aside from trade-related foreign exchange  transactions,
Taiwan  companies and residents may, without foreign  exchange  approval,  remit
outside and into Taiwan  foreign  currencies of up to $50 million and $5 million
respectively,  or their  equivalent,  each calendar year.  Currency  conversions
within the limits are  processed by the  designated  banks and do not have to be
reviewed  and  approved  by the CBC.  The  above  limits  apply  to  remittances
involving  a  conversion  between NT Dollars and U.S.  Dollars or other  foreign
currencies.  The CBC typically approves foreign exchange in excess of the limits
if a party  applies  with the CBC for review and  presents  legitimate  business
reasons justifying the currency conversion. A requirement is also imposed on all
enterprises to register all medium and long-term foreign debt with the CBC.


EMPLOYEES

     As of December 30, 2000, Garmin had 1,291 full-time employees worldwide, of
whom 572 were in the United  States,  689 were in Taiwan and 30 were in England.
None of  Garmin's  employees  are  represented  by a labor union or covered by a
collective bargaining  agreement.  Garmin considers its employee relations to be
good.


ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

     Garmin's U.S. subsidiary,  Garmin  International,  Inc., occupies a 240,000
square  foot  facility  on 41 acres in Olathe,  Kansas,  where it  produces  all
aviation  panel-mount products and warehouses,  distributes,  sells and supports
Garmin  products  for North and  South  America.  The  expansion  of the  Olathe
facility  from  103,000 to 240,000  square feet was  substantially  completed in
March,  2001.  Garmin's  subsidiary,   Garmin  Realty,  LLC  also  purchased  an
additional  46 acres of land on the  Olathe  site in  February,  2000 for future
expansion. In connection with the bond financings for the facility in Olathe and
the expansion of that facility, the City of Olathe holds the legal title to this
property.  Upon the payment in full of the outstanding bonds, the City of Olathe
is obligated to transfer title to Garmin's subsidiaries for the aggregate sum of
$200.

     Garmin's  subsidiary,  Garmin  Corporation,  owns  a  249,326  square  foot
facility in Shijr,  Taipei County,  Taiwan where it manufactures all of Garmin's
consumer and portable  aviation  products and  warehouses,  markets and supports
products for the Pacific Rim  countries.  Garmin  Corporation  occupies  186,367
square feet at this facility and leases the remainder to third parties.

     Garmin's  subsidiary,  Garmin (Europe) Ltd.,  leases  approximately  28,358
square feet in Romsey, England for warehousing,  marketing and supporting Garmin
products  in Europe,  Africa and the Middle  East.  Garmin  (Europe)  Ltd.  also
repairs  products at this facility.  Garmin  International,  Inc. also leases an
aggregate of 3,233  square feet of office  space in Tempe,  Arizona for software
development,  and  Wichita,  Kansas for support for Garmin's  aviation  original
equipment manufacturer operations.


ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     From time to time, Garmin may be involved in litigation  relating to claims
arising out of our operations.  As of March 26, 2001,  Garmin was not a party to
any material legal proceedings.


ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     Prior to the December 8, 2000 initial public offering of Garmin's shares, a
special meeting of Garmin's shareholders was held on October 24, 2000 to approve
(a) Garmin's 2000 Equity Incentive Plan,  Garmin's Employee Stock Purchase Plan,
Garmin's  Non-Employee  Directors' Option Plan and Garmin's  Shareholder  Rights
Plan,  and (b)  amendments  to  Garmin's  Articles of  Association  (i) to add a
provision   permitting  the  Board  of  Directors  to  set  a  record  date  for
shareholders  entitled  to  notice  of and to vote  at  meetings  or to  receive
dividends,  and (ii) to correct certain typographical and clerical errors in the
Articles of Association.  All of such plans and such amendments were approved at
this meeting with the following votes being cast.


EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND SIGNIFICANT EMPLOYEES OF THE COMPANY

     Pursuant  to General  Instruction  G(3) of Form 10-K and  instruction  3 to
paragraph (b) of Item 401 of Regulation  S-K, the following  list is included as
an unnumbered Item in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K in lieu of being
included in the Company's  Definitive  Proxy  Statement in  connection  with its
annual meeting of shareholders scheduled for June 8, 2001.

     GARY L. BURRELL,  age 63, has served as Co-Chairman and Co-Chief  Executive
Officer of Garmin  Ltd.  since  August  2000.  He has been a director  of Garmin
Corporation  since January  1990.  He served as President of Garmin  Corporation
from January 1990 to December  1998.  Mr.  Burrell has also been President and a
director  of Garmin  International,  Inc.  since  August  1990,  a director  and
Chairman of Garmin  (Europe)  Ltd.  since 1992 and a director of Garmin  Foreign
Sales  Corporation  since May 1998 and President  since July 1998.  Mr.  Burrell
holds a BS degree in Electrical  Engineering from Wichita State University and a
MS degree in Electrical Engineering from Rennsselaer Polytechnic Institute.

     DR. MIN H. KAO, age 52, has served as  Co-Chairman  and Co-Chief  Executive
Officer of Garmin  Ltd.  since  August  2000.  He has been  President  of Garmin
Corporation  since  January  1999. He has been Chairman and a director of Garmin
Corporation  since  January  1990.  Dr. Kao has also been a  director  of Garmin
International,  Inc. since August 1990 and a Vice President  since April 1991, a
director of Garmin  (Europe)  Ltd.  since 1992 and a director of Garmin  Foreign
Sales  Corporation  since May 1998 and Vice  President  since July 1998. Dr. Kao
holds Ph.D.  and MS degrees in  Electrical  Engineering  from the  University of
Tennessee  and a BS  degree  in  Electrical  Engineering  from  National  Taiwan
University.

     KEVIN S.  RAUCKMAN,  age 38,  has  served as Chief  Financial  Officer  and
Treasurer of Garmin Ltd.  since August 2000. He has been Director of Finance and
Treasurer  of  Garmin  International,  Inc.  since  January  1999 and has been a
director and Treasurer of Garmin Foreign Sales  Corporation  since January 1999.
Previously,  Mr.  Rauckman  served as Director  of Finance and in other  finance
capacities  for one of  AlliedSignal's  (now known as  Honeywell  International,
Inc.)  Aerospace  units  from May 1996 to  January  1999 and  served as  Finance
Manager with Unisys  Corporation,  a technology hardware and consulting services
company,  from June 1993 to April 1996. Mr. Rauckman holds BS and MBA degrees in
Business from the University of Kansas.

     ANDREW R. ETKIND,  age 45, has served as General  Counsel and  Secretary of
Garmin  Ltd.  since  August  2000.  He  has  been  General   Counsel  of  Garmin
International,  Inc.  since  February  1998 and  Secretary  since  October 1998.
Previously, Mr. Etkind served as Senior Attorney for Alumax Inc., a manufacturer
of aluminum and aluminum products,  from March 1996 to January 1998 and was Vice
President,  General Counsel and Secretary of Information  Management  Resources,
Inc.  (now known as IMR  Global,  Inc.),  a  software  systems  development  and
consulting company, from July 1993 to February 1996. Mr. Etkind holds BA, MA and
LLM  degrees  from  Cambridge  University,  England  and a JD  degree  from  the
University of Michigan Law School.

     GARY  V.  KELLEY,  age  54,  has  been  Director  of  Marketing  of  Garmin
International,  Inc. since 1992 and has been a director of Garmin  (Europe) Ltd.
since 1993. Mr. Kelley holds a BBA degree from Baker University. He also holds a
commercial pilot license with instrument and flight instructor ratings.

     All  executive  officers are elected by and serve at the  discretion of the
Company's  Board of Directors.  None of the executive  officers have  employment
agreements with the Company. There are no arrangements or understandings between
the executive  officers and any other person  pursuant to which he or she was or
is to be selected as an officer.  None of the executive  officers are related to
one another.  Dr. Kao is the brother of Ruey-Jeng Kao, a Director of Garmin Ltd.
and a supervisor of Garmin  Corporation.  Elected by the  shareholders of Garmin
Corporation,  a  supervisor  serves  as an  ex-officio  member  of its  Board of
Directors to protect the interests of all shareholders.


ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE COMPANY'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     The Company's common shares have traded on the Nasdaq National Market under
the symbol "GRMN" since its initial  public  offering on December 8, 2000. As of
March 26, 2001 there were approximately 146 shareholders of record.

     No cash dividends  have been paid since the initial public  offering of the
Company's  common shares on December 8, 2000. The Company  intends to retain its
earnings for use in its business and therefore  does not  anticipate  paying any
cash dividends in the foreseeable future.

     The high and low closing  sales prices of the  Company's  common  shares as
reported  on the Nasdaq  stock  market from  December  8, 2000,  the date of the
Company's  initial public offering,  through December 31, 2000, were $21.188 and
$18.188 respectively.

     As part of the  corporate  restructuring  of the Company,  on September 22,
2000,  substantially  all of the  shareholders of Garmin  Corporation  exchanged
88,984,394 common shares of stock of Garmin  Corporation for 100,000,000  common
shares  (post  split) of Garmin with a per share par value of $0.01.  The Garmin
shares were not  registered  under the  Securities  Act of 1933, as amended (the
"Securities Act"). Certain of the Garmin shares were issued to U.S. shareholders
pursuant to an exemption from the  registration  requirements  of the Securities
Act  pursuant  to  Section  4(2) of,  and Rule 506 of  Regulation  D under,  the
Securities  Act. The remainder of the shares were offered and issued outside the
United  States to  individuals  who are not  citizens or residents of the United
States pursuant to Regulation S under the Securities Act.

     Garmin's registration statement on Form S-1 (Commission file no. 333-45514)
was  declared  effective on December 8, 2000.  On that date Garmin  completed an
initial  public  offering of its common  shares,  $0.01 par value per share,  in
which  10,500,000  shares were sold at an offering price of $14.00 per share. Of
the total  shares  sold,  7,875,000  common  shares were sold by the Company and
2,625,000 were sold by selling  shareholders.  Of the 10,500,000  shares sold in
the  initial  public  offering,  8,925,000  were sold to the U.S.  underwriters,
represented by Credit Suisse First Boston Corporation and Merrill Lynch, Pierce,
Fenner & Smith Incorporated as joint book-running managers, and 1,575,000 shares
were sold to the  international  managers,  represented  by Credit  Suisse First
Boston (Europe) Limited and Merrill Lynch  International  as joint  book-running
managers. In connection with this offering, the U.S. underwriters had the option
to purchase an additional 312,044 shares from Garmin and an additional 1,026,706
shares from the selling  shareholders  and, the  international  managers had the
option to purchase an  additional  55,067  shares from Garmin and an  additional
181,183 shares from the selling shareholders.  The underwriters  exercised these
options on December 11, 2000.  Net proceeds to Garmin were $104.4  million after
underwriting  discounts  of $0.98 per share and other  costs of issuance of $3.0
million.  Payments of these  expenses were not made to any directors or officers
of Garmin or their  associates,  shareholders  of 10% or more of the outstanding
shares of Garmin or any affiliates of Garmin.

     Garmin plans to use the proceeds from the IPO for working capital and other
general  corporate  purposes,   including  possible  acquisitions  or  strategic
partnerships.  Garmin  currently  has no  specific  plan  for  allocating  those
proceeds  among working  capital and other general  corporate  purposes.  Garmin
currently has no  commitments to make any material  investments or  acquisitions
and will retain broad discretion in the allocation of net proceeds from the IPO.


ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     The following table sets forth selected consolidated  financial data of the
Company.  The selected  consolidated  balance sheet data as of December 30, 2000
and December 25, 1999 and the selected consolidated statement of income data for
the years ended December 30, 2000,  December 25, 1999 and December 26, 1998 were
derived from the Company's  audited  consolidated  financial  statements and the
related notes thereto which are included in Item 8 of this annual report on Form
10-K.  The  selected  consolidated  balance  sheet data as of December 26, 1998,
December 31, 1997 and December 31, 1996 and the selected consolidated  statement
of income data for the years ended  December 31, 1997 and 1996 were derived from
the Company's audited consolidated financial statements, not included herein.

     The  information  set  forth  below is not  necessarily  indicative  of the
results of future  operations  and should be read  together  with  "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial  Condition and Results of  Operations"  and
the consolidated  financial statements and notes to those statements included in
Items 7 and 8 and Part II of this Form 10-K.


(1)  Our fiscal  year-end is the last Saturday of the calendar year and does not
     always  fall on  December  31.  Prior to 1998,  our fiscal  years  ended on
     December 31.
(2)  Other income, net mainly consists of interest income,  interest expense and
     foreign currency gain/(loss).
(3)  Includes a $10 million  foreign  currency gain during 1997 and a $7 million
     foreign currency gain during 2000.
(4)  Represents  cash  dividends  per share based on the actual number of shares
     outstanding at the time of the dividend, as adjusted for the 1.12379256 for
     1 stock split of our common  shares,  effected  through a stock dividend on
     November 6, 2000.
(5)  Total debt consists of notes payable and long-term debt.


ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS

     The following  discussion of the Company's  financial condition and results
of operations should be read together with the Company's  consolidated financial
statements and notes to those  statements  included in Item 8 of Part II of this
Form 10-K.  Prior to 1998,  the  Company's  fiscal  year was based on a calendar
year.  In 1998,  the  Company  elected to change its fiscal year to a 52-53 week
period  ending on the last  Saturday  of the  calendar  year.  Fiscal  year 2000
contained 53 weeks  compared to 52 weeks for fiscal years 1999 and 1998.  Unless
otherwise  stated,  all years and dates refer to the  Company's  fiscal year and
fiscal  periods.  Unless the  context  otherwise  requires,  references  in this
document to "we," "us,"  "our" and  similar  terms refer to Garmin Ltd.  and its
subsidiaries.


OVERVIEW

     We are a leading  worldwide  provider  of  navigation,  communications  and
information devices,  most of which are enabled by Global Positioning System, or
GPS, technology.  We operate in two business segments, the consumer and aviation
markets.  Both of our segments offer products through our network of independent
dealers and distributors. However, the nature of products and types of customers
for the two  segments  vary  significantly.  As such,  the  segments are managed
separately. Our consumer segment includes portable GPS receivers and accessories
for  marine,  recreation,  land and  automotive  use sold  primarily  to  retail
outlets.  Our aviation products are portable and panel-mount avionics for Visual
Flight Rules and  Instrument  Flight Rules  navigation and are sold primarily to
retail outlets and certain aircraft manufacturers.

     Since our first products were delivered in 1991, we have generated positive
income from  operations each year and have funded our growth from these profits.
Our sales have  increased at a compounded  annual  growth rate of 26% since 1996
and our net income has increased at a compounded annual growth rate of 46% since
1996. All of this growth has been organic;  none has occurred as a result of any
acquisition or merger.

     Since our  principal  locations  are in the United  States,  Taiwan and the
U.K., we experience some foreign currency fluctuations in our operating results.
The functional currency of our European operations is the British Pound Sterling
and the  functional  currency of our Asian  operations is the New Taiwan Dollar.
Other than in 1997, when we experienced a $10.0 million  foreign  currency gain,
and 2000, when we experienced a $7.0 million foreign  currency gain, both due to
a strong U.S.  Dollar,  we  generally  have not been  significantly  affected by
foreign  currency  fluctuations.  To date,  we have  not  entered  into  hedging
transactions  with either the British Pound  Sterling or the New Taiwan  Dollar,
although we may utilize hedging transactions in the future.

NET SALES

     Our net  sales  are  generated  through  sales  to our  global  dealer  and
distributor network and to original equipment manufacturers.  We recognize sales
when products are shipped. Our sales are largely of a consumer nature; therefore
backlog levels are not  necessarily  indicative of our future sales results.  We
aim to achieve a quick  turnaround on orders we receive,  and we typically  ship
most orders within 72 hours.

     Net sales are subject to some seasonal fluctuation. Typically, sales of our
consumer  products are highest in the second  quarter,  due to increased  demand
during the spring and summer marine season,  and in the fourth  quarter,  due to
increased demand during the holiday buying season.  Our aviation products do not
experience much seasonal variation, but are more influenced by the timing of the
release of new products when the initial demand is typically the strongest.

GROSS PROFIT

     The most significant components of our cost of goods sold are raw material,
labor and depreciation.  Raw material costs, which are our most significant cost
item,  generally have not  fluctuated  materially as a percentage of sales since
early 1998, when we negotiated  lower raw material costs with our key suppliers.
As a result,  gross profit  increased  substantially as a percentage of sales in
1998 from that realized in prior years.

     In 2000, we  experienced  upward pricing  pressures on our high  technology
components,  but  have  offset  these  with  efficiencies  in our  manufacturing
processes.   Our  existing  practice  of  performing  in-house  the  design  and
manufacture  of our  products has enabled us to utilize  alternative  lower cost
components  from  different  suppliers  and,  where  necessary,  to redesign our
products  to permit us to use these  lower  cost  components.  We  believe  that
because of our  practice of  performing  in-house  the design,  manufacture  and
marketing  of  our  products,   both  the  Taipei,  Taiwan  and  Olathe,  Kansas
manufacturing  plants have  experienced  relatively low costs of  manufacturing,
compared to our competition.  In general,  products  manufactured in Taiwan have
been our highest volume products.  Our  manufacturing  labor costs  historically
have been lower in Taiwan than in Olathe.

     Sales  price  variability  has had and can be expected to have an effect on
our gross profit.  In the past, prices of some of our handheld devices sold into
the consumer  market have declined due to market  pressures and  introduction of
new  products  sold at lower price  points.  The average  selling  prices of our
aviation  products have increased due to the  introduction  of more advanced and
innovative  products.  In  conjunction  with the  effects of lower  labor  costs
experienced  on Taiwan  production,  the effect of the sales  price  variability
inherent  within the mix of  GPS-enabled  products sold could have a significant
impact on our gross profit.

SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

     Our selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of:

     .    salaries for sales and marketing personnel;

     .    salaries  and  related  costs  for   executives   and   administrative
          personnel;

     .    advertising, marketing, and other brand building costs;

     .    accounting and legal costs;

     .    information systems and infrastructure costs;

     .    travel and related costs; and

     .    occupancy and other overhead costs.

     Since we plan to  increase  market  penetration  in the  future,  we expect
selling,  general and  administrative  expenses to continue to increase  for the
foreseeable  future.  However, a majority of these expenses are relatively fixed
and would not be expected to increase as  significantly as sales. We also intend
to increase advertising and marketing expenses in order to build increased brand
awareness in the consumer marketplace. We do not anticipate that these increased
expenses will significantly  impact our financial results in 2001 and subsequent
periods.

 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

     The majority of our research and development  costs represent  salaries for
our  engineers,  costs  for  high  technology  components  used in  product  and
prototype  development,  and  costs  of test  equipment  needed  during  product
development.

     We have continued to grow our research and development  capabilities  since
our inception. Substantially all of the research and development of our products
is performed in the United States.

     We  are  committed  to  increasing  the  level  of  innovative  design  and
development  of new  products  as we strive  for  expanded  ability to serve our
existing  consumer and aviation  markets as well as new markets for  GPS-enabled
devices.  We continue to grow our  research and  development  budget on absolute
terms and are experiencing  accelerating returns on our research and development
investment as net sales increase.

CUSTOMERS

     No customer  accounted  for greater than 10% of our sales in the year ended
December 30, 2000. Our top ten customers  accounted for approximately 29% of net
sales.  We  have  experienced  average  sales  days  in  our  customer  accounts
receivable between 35 and 40 days since 1998.

INCOME TAXES

     We have  experienced  a relatively  low effective tax rate in Taiwan due to
lower marginal tax rates and substantial tax incentives offered by the Taiwanese
government on certain  high-technology capital investments.  Therefore,  profits
earned in Taiwan have been taxed at a lower rate than those in the United States
and Europe. As a result,  our consolidated  effective tax rate was approximately
25% during 2000. We have taken advantage of this tax benefit in Taiwan since our
inception and we expect to continue to benefit from lower effective tax rates at
least through 2004. The current  Taiwan tax incentives  that Garmin has received
approval for will end in 2004.  Additional  incentives  may be applied for under
current tax laws after 2004 under the  current  Taiwan tax  incentive  policies.
However, there can be no assurance that such tax incentives will not be repealed
after 2004.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     The following table sets forth our results of operations as a percentage of
net sales during the periods shown:

                                                   FISCAL YEARS ENDED
                                         --------------------------------------
                                         DEC. 30,     DEC. 25,        DEC. 26,
                                           2000        1999            1998
                                           ----        ----            ----
Net sales .............................   100.0%      100.0%          100.0%
Cost of goods sold.....................    46.9%       45.4%           49.0%
                                           -----       -----           -----
Gross profit ..........................    53.1%       54.6%           51.0%
Operating expenses:
Selling, general and administrative....     9.4%       11.6%           14.6%
Research and development...............     6.3%        7.5%            8.8%
                                           ----        ----            ----
Total operating expenses...............    15.7%       19.1%           23.4%
                                           -----       -----           -----
Operating income.......................    37.4%       35.5%           27.6%
Other income, net......................     3.4%        0.7%            0.5%
                                            ----        ----            ----
Income before income taxes............     40.8%       36.2%           28.1%
Provision for income taxes.............    10.2%        8.6%            7.3%
                                           -----        ----            ----
Net income.............................    30.6%       27.6%           20.8%
                                           =====       =====           =====

     The following  table sets forth our results of  operations  for each of our
two segments  through income before income taxes during the periods  shown.  For
each line item in the table,  the total of the consumer  and aviation  segments'
amounts equals the amount in the  consolidated  statements of income included in
Item 8.



COMPARISON OF FISCAL YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 30, 2000 AND DECEMBER 25, 1999

NET SALES

     Our net sales were $345.7  million in fiscal 2000, a 49% increase  over net
sales of $232.6 million in fiscal 1999. The increase in sales during this period
was driven by increased  demand across  nearly all product lines which  reflects
the overall growth of the GPS market. Sales from our consumer products accounted
for 66.6% of net sales in fiscal  2000  compared to 72.7% of net sales in fiscal
1999.  Sales  from our  aviation  products  accounted  for 33.4% of net sales in
fiscal 2000 compared to 27.3% of net sales in fiscal 1999.  Net sales  increased
$61.0 million, or 36%, in the consumer segment and $52.1 million, or 82%, in the
aviation segment.  In May 2000,  President Clinton withdrew the prior government
degradation placed on GPS accuracy.  Although difficult to quantify,  management
believes that the  withdrawal  of this  degradation  has helped drive  increased
demand for and sales of consumer GPS devices in 2000.  The aviation sales growth
was driven by new products  introduced in early 2000 and continued strong demand
of our panel mount aviation products that were introduced in early 1999.

GROSS PROFIT

     Gross profit was $183.7  million in fiscal 2000, a 45% increase  over gross
profit of $126.9 million in fiscal 1999.  Gross profit as a percent of net sales
decreased  to 53.1% in fiscal  2000 from 54.6% in fiscal 1999 due  primarily  to
inventory  charges that were  recorded  during 2000 to reserve for excess stocks
and  technological  obsolescence  related  to the  transition  to  new  products
expected  during  fiscal 2001,  offset by the effects of increased  efficiencies
from higher sales volume across all products and the 6.1 percentage  point shift
in the mix to  higher  margin  aviation  sales.  Gross  profit  increased  $24.5
million,  or 27%,  in the  consumer  segment and $32.3  million,  or 90%, in the
aviation segment.  The percentage  increase in gross profits for each segment is
generally comparable to the percentage increase in that segment's net sales with
the  consumer  segment  gross  profit  affected  more by the  inventory  charges
mentioned above.

SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

     Despite a 49% increase in net sales,  selling,  general and  administrative
expenses only increased 21%, to $32.7 million (9.4% of net sales) in fiscal 2000
from $27.1  million  (11.6% of net sales) in fiscal 1999.  Selling,  general and
administrative  expenses increased $3.3 million, or 16%, in the consumer segment
and $2.3  million,  or 36%, in the  aviation  segment.  The  increase in expense
reflects  increased  employment  generally  across  the  organization  but  also
specifically in the areas of customer  service and marketing,  in support of our
increased  sales in both  segments.  The  percentage  increase was higher in the
aviation segment than in the consumer segment due to the significant increase in
aviation net sales as compared to consumer sales growth.  We also experienced an
increase in our cooperative  advertising costs, which is an ongoing program with
our key dealers and  distributors  in both  segments.  The selling,  general and
administrative  expenses  are expected to increase at a lower rate than sales in
both segments due to the effects of increased  volume on these  relatively fixed
costs.

 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSE

     Research  and  development  expense  increased  approximately  26% to $21.8
million  (6.3% of net  sales) in fiscal  2000 from  $17.3  million  (7.5% of net
sales) in fiscal 1999.  Research and development expense increased $2.8 million,
or 24%, in the  consumer  segment  and $1.6  million,  or 28%,  in the  aviation
segment.  The  increase  in expense  was due  primarily  to  additional  product
development  costs in both consumer and aviation  segments as well as additional
software  development  in the  consumer  segment.  The  percentage  increase was
slightly higher in the aviation  segment due to the development of Garmin's next
generation aviation products.

OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)

     Other income (expense)  principally  consists of interest income,  interest
expense and foreign currency  exchange gains and losses.  Other income (expense)
for fiscal 2000  amounted to $11.6  million  compared to $1.6  million in fiscal
1999.  Interest  income during fiscal 2000 amounted to $6.9 million  compared to
$4.3 million in fiscal 1999,  the increase being  attributable  to the growth of
Garmin's cash and cash  equivalents  during the year on which interest income is
earned.  Interest  expense  increased  to $2.3  million in fiscal 2000 from $0.6
million in fiscal 1999, due primarily to the additional  long-term debt required
to finance the 1999 purchase of our new Taiwan  facility and further  expand our
Olathe,  Kansas facility in 2000. We recognized a foreign currency exchange gain
of $7.0  million  during  fiscal 2000  compared to a $1.5 million loss in fiscal
1999 due to the significant strengthening of the U.S. Dollar compared to the New
Taiwan Dollar during the fourth  quarter of fiscal 2000,  when the exchange rate
increased  from 31.30  NTD/USD at the  beginning of the fourth  quarter to 33.01
NTD/USD at December 30, 2000.

INCOME TAX PROVISION

     Income tax expense increased by $15.3 million,  to $35.3 million, in fiscal
2000 from $20.0 million in fiscal 1999,  due to our higher taxable  income.  The
effective  tax rate was 25.0% in fiscal 2000 versus  23.7% in fiscal  1999.  The
increase is partly attributable to a surtax on undistributed  earnings in Taiwan
that Garmin will pay in 2002. The tax cost of distributing  earnings from Garmin
Corporation,  Garmin's Taiwan subsidiary,  to the Company  significantly exceeds
the  amount  of the  surtax.  Prior to  Garmin's  reorganization,  completed  in
September  2000 in  contemplation  of its  IPO,  distributions  made  to  Garmin
Corporation shareholders resulted in minimal tax cost to Garmin.

 NET INCOME

     As a result of the  above,  net income in fiscal  2000 was  $105.7  million
compared to $64.2 million in fiscal 1999.

COMPARISON OF FISCAL YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 25, 1999 AND DECEMBER 26, 1998

NET SALES

     Our net sales were $232.6  million in fiscal 1999, a 38% increase  over net
sales of $169.0  million in fiscal 1998.  Net sales from our  consumer  products
accounted  for 72.7% of net sales in fiscal 1999  compared to 80.1% of net sales
in fiscal 1998. Net sales from our aviation products  accounted for 27.3% of net
sales in fiscal 1999  compared to 19.9% of net sales in fiscal  1998.  Net sales
increased $33.7 million,  or 25%, in the consumer segment and $29.8 million,  or
89%, in the aviation segment.  The aviation sales growth was driven by continued
strong demand for new products  introduced in early 1998 and significant  demand
for our panel mount  aviation  products that were  introduced in early 1999. The
consumer products sales growth was driven by new handheld products introduced in
1999.

GROSS PROFIT

     Gross profit was $126.9  million in fiscal 1999, a 47% increase  over gross
profit of $86.2  million in fiscal 1998.  Gross profit as a percent of net sales
increased to 54.6% in fiscal 1999,  from 51.0% in fiscal 1998,  due primarily to
the effects of increased  manufacturing  efficiencies  due to higher  volume and
favorable  product  mix  associated  with  the  incremental  sales  of  aviation
products.  Gross profit increased $24.4 million, or 37%, in the consumer segment
and $16.3 million, or 83%, in the aviation segment. Gross profit as a percentage
of  consumer  net sales  increased  to 53.8% in fiscal 1999 from 49.2% in fiscal
1998 due to increased sales of higher margin recreational products introduced in
1999.  Gross profit as a percentage of aviation net sales  decreased to 56.5% in
fiscal  1999 from  58.3% in fiscal  1998 due to a slight  shift in the  aviation
sales mix in 1999 to panel mount products,  which sell at slightly lower margins
than portable aviation products.

SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

     Despite a 38% increase in net sales,  selling,  general and  administrative
expenses  increased only 10%, to $27.1 million  (11.6% of net sales),  in fiscal
1999, from $24.7 million (14.6% of net sales) in fiscal 1998.  Selling,  general
and  administrative  expenses  increased  $0.4  million,  or 2%, in the consumer
segment and $1.9  million,  or 42%, in the  aviation  segment.  The  increase in
expense was driven  primarily  by  increased  advertising  costs and  additional
marketing and administrative  staff needed to support the increased sales during
1999,  particularly in the aviation  segment.  The percentage  increase was much
higher  in  the  aviation  segment  than  in  the  consumer  segment  due to the
significant  increase in aviation net sales.  Again,  the  selling,  general and
administrative  expenses  increased at a lower rate than sales in both segments,
as expected, due to the effects of increased volume on relatively fixed costs.

 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSE

     Research and  development  expense  increased  approximately  17%, to $17.3
million  (7.5% of net sales),  in fiscal 1999,  from $14.9  million (8.8% of net
sales) in fiscal 1998.  Research and development expense increased $2.3 million,
or 25%,  in the  consumer  segment  and $0.2  million,  or 4%,  in the  aviation
segment.  The  increase  in expense  was due  primarily  to  additional  product
development   costs  in  the  consumer  segment  related  to  increases  in  the
engineering  staff  dedicated  to new product  development  initiatives  in this
segment.  Research and development  expense in the aviation  development segment
experienced  little  change in 1999 as  development  of the new  family of panel
mount aviation  products was completed in late 1998 and required less continuing
development effort in 1999.

 OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)

     Other income  (expense) for fiscal 1999 amounted to $1.6 million,  compared
to $0.8  million  in fiscal  1998.  Interest  income for 1999  amounted  to $4.3
million,  compared to $3.5 million in fiscal 1998. Interest expense increased to
$0.6 million in fiscal 1999 from $0.5 million in fiscal 1998. No additional debt
was undertaken during fiscal 1998 and 1999, with the exception of a new facility
purchased  in Taiwan  late in fiscal  1999.  We  recognized  a foreign  currency
exchange  loss of $1.5 million in fiscal 1999,  compared to $2.2 million loss in
fiscal  1998,  due to  weakness  of the U.S.  Dollar  compared to the New Taiwan
Dollar in both years.

INCOME TAX PROVISION

     Income tax expense increased by $7.6 million,  to $20.0 million,  in fiscal
1999, from $12.4 million in fiscal 1998, due to our higher taxable  income.  The
effective  tax rate was 23.7% in fiscal 1999 versus 26.0% in fiscal  1998.  This
decrease was driven  primarily  by added tax  incentives  made  available by the
Taiwanese government in 1999.

 NET INCOME

     As a result of the  above,  net  income in  fiscal  1999 was $64.2  million
compared to $35.2 million in fiscal 1998.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     Net cash generated by operating activities was $88.3 million, $44.3 million
and $36.5 million in fiscal 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. We operate with a
strong customer driven approach and therefore carry sufficient inventory to meet
customer  demand.  Because we desire to respond  quickly  to our  customers  and
minimize order  fulfillment time, our inventory levels are generally high enough
to meet most demand. We also attempt to carry sufficient inventory levels on key
components so that  potential  supplier  shortages  have as minimal an impact as
possible on our ability to deliver our finished  products.  We do not anticipate
that our  inventory  management  techniques  will have a negative  impact on our
financial results in the future.  However, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2000,
we did provide for anticipated excess inventory and the effects of technological
obsolescence  on older model  inventories  related to new product  introductions
expected in early fiscal 2001.

     During fiscal 2000, our capital expenditures  totaled $24.8 million,  which
was $7.4  million less than during  1999.  In fiscal 1999 and 1998,  our capital
expenditures totaled approximately $32.2 million and $8.3 million, respectively.
The expenditures in fiscal 2000 and 1999 were incurred primarily to increase our
manufacturing  capacity  both in the United  States and in Taiwan.  We  financed
these capital expenditures through net operating cash flow and debt from outside
financial  institutions.  We also made use of capital  leases to finance part of
our capital expenditures programs during 1998.

     The fiscal 2000 capital expenditures were primarily for our Olathe,  Kansas
building and land expansion  project that was  approximately  80% complete as of
December 30, 2000. The 1999 capital expenditures were primarily for the purchase
of building and land for our Taiwan factory.  We expect our needs for capital in
2001 to be less than in 2000 since the current  expansions are nearly  complete.
We expect our future capital  requirements to consist  primarily of purchases of
production  machinery and equipment to expand  capacity.  A portion will also be
used for  conversion  of  available  space in our Olathe,  Kansas  building  for
assembly use and expansion of our testing operations using our recently acquired
facility in Shijr,  Taiwan.  We may use a portion of the net  proceeds  from our
recent IPO to acquire targeted strategic businesses.

     We believe that our existing  cash  balances and cash flow from  operations
will be sufficient to meet our projected capital  expenditures,  working capital
and other cash requirements at least through the end of fiscal 2001.

     Cash dividends paid to  stockholders  were $29.0 million,  $7.5 million and
$6.0  million in fiscal  2000,  1999 and 1998,  respectively.  Included  in cash
dividends for fiscal 2000 was a special one-time  dividend of $17.4 million that
was paid in order to provide funds to shareholders to pay withholding  taxes and
stock transfer taxes related to the reorganization of Garmin Corporation.  We do
not anticipate paying additional dividends in the foreseeable future.

MARKET SENSITIVITY

     We have  market  risk  primarily  in  connection  with the  pricing  of our
products and services and the purchase of raw materials. Product pricing and raw
materials  costs  are both  significantly  influenced  by  semiconductor  market
conditions.  Historically, during cyclical industry downturns, we have been able
to offset  pricing  declines for our products  through a combination of improved
product mix and success in obtaining price reductions in raw material costs.


INFLATION

     We do not believe that inflation has had a material effect on our business,
financial  condition  or  results  of  operations.  If our costs  were to become
subject  to  significant  inflationary  pressures,  we may not be able to  fully
offset such higher costs through price increases. Our inability or failure to do
so could  adversely  affect our  business,  financial  condition  and results of
operations.

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

     In June 1998 and June 1999, the Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board, or
FASB,  issued  Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards,  or SFAS, No. 133,
ACCOUNTING FOR DERIVATIVE  INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING  ACTIVITIES and SFAS No. 137,
ACCOUNTING FOR DERIVATIVE  INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING  ACTIVITIES--DEFERRAL  OF THE
EFFECTIVE DATE OF FASB STATEMENT NO. 133. These statements  require companies to
record  derivatives on the balance sheet as assets or  liabilities,  measured at
fair  value.  Gains or losses  resulting  from  changes  in the  values of those
derivatives  would be accounted for depending on the use of the  derivative  and
whether it qualifies  for hedge  accounting.  SFAS 133 will be effective for our
fiscal year ending December 29, 2001. The adoption of Statement No. 133 will not
have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations.

     In  March  2000,   the   Financial   Accounting   Standards   Board  issued
Interpretation No. 44 ("FIN 44") ACCOUNTING FOR CERTAIN  TRANSACTIONS  INVOLVING
STOCK  COMPENSATION,  AND INTERPRETATION OF APB OPINION NO. 25. FIN 44 clarifies
the  application  of  Opinion  No. 25 for (a) the  definition  of  employee  for
purposes of applying Opinion No. 25, (b) the criteria for determining  whether a
plan qualifies as a  noncompensatory  plan,  (c) the  accounting  consequence of
various  modifications  to the terms of a previously  fixed stock award, and (d)
the  accounting  for an  exchange  of stock  compensation  awards in a  business
combination.  FIN 44 is effective  July 1, 2000, but certain  conclusions  cover
specific  events that occur after either  December 15, 1998 or January 12, 2000.
While we issued certain stock compensation awards in the fourth quarter of 2000,
the  adoption  of  FIN  44 has  not  had a  material  impact  on  our  financial
statements.

     In December  1999,  the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission  issued Staff
Accounting Bulletin No. 101, or "SAB 101", REVENUE  RECOGNITION,  which provides
guidance  on  the  recognition,  presentation,  and  disclosure  of  revenue  in
financial  statements  filed with the SEC. SAB 101  outlines the basic  criteria
that must be met to  recognize  revenue and provides  guidance  for  disclosures
related to revenue recognition policies. Because our current revenue recognition
policies are basically  consistent with SAB 101,  implementation of SAB 101 does
not have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations.


COMPANY-SPECIFIC TRENDS AND RISKS

RISKS RELATED TO THE COMPANY

OUR GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM PRODUCTS DEPEND UPON SATELLITES  MAINTAINED BY THE
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE. IF A SIGNIFICANT NUMBER OF THESE SATELLITES
BECOME  INOPERABLE,  UNAVAILABLE  OR ARE NOT  REPLACED OR IF THE POLICIES OF THE
UNITED STATES  GOVERNMENT FOR THE USE OF THE GLOBAL  POSITIONING  SYSTEM WITHOUT
CHARGE ARE CHANGED, OUR BUSINESS WILL SUFFER.

     The  Global  Positioning   System  is  a  satellite-based   navigation  and
positioning  system  consisting of a constellation of orbiting  satellites.  The
satellites and their ground  control and monitoring  stations are maintained and
operated by the United States  Department of Defense.  The Department of Defense
does not  currently  charge  users for access to the  satellite  signals.  These
satellites  and their  ground  support  systems are complex  electronic  systems
subject to  electronic  and  mechanical  failures  and  possible  sabotage.  The
satellites were  originally  designed to have lives of 7.5 years and are subject
to damage by the hostile space  environment in which they operate.  However,  of
the current  deployment of  satellites in place,  the average age is 6 years and
some have been operating for more than 11 years.

     If  a  significant   number  of  satellites  were  to  become   inoperable,
unavailable  or are not  replaced,  it would  impair the current  utility of our
Global  Positioning  System  products  and the growth of current and  additional
market  opportunities.  In  addition,  there can be no  assurance  that the U.S.
government  will remain  committed to the  operation and  maintenance  of Global
Positioning  System  satellites over a long period,  or that the policies of the
U.S.  government  that  provide  for the use of the  Global  Positioning  System
without charge and without accuracy  degradation will remain unchanged.  Because
of the increasing  commercial  applications  of the Global  Positioning  System,
other U.S.  government agencies may become involved in the administration or the
regulation of the use of Global Positioning System signals. Any of the foregoing
factors could affect the  willingness of buyers of our products to select Global
Positioning  System-based  products  instead  of  products  based  on  competing
technologies.


ANY REALLOCATION OF RADIO FREQUENCY  SPECTRUM COULD CAUSE  INTERFERENCE WITH THE
RECEPTION OF GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM SIGNALS. THIS INTERFERENCE COULD HARM OUR
BUSINESS.

     Our Global  Positioning  System technology is dependent on the use of radio
frequency spectrum. The assignment of spectrum is controlled by an international
organization known as the International  Telecommunications  Union ("ITU").  The
Federal  Communications  Commission ("FCC") is responsible for the assignment of
spectrum for  non-government  use in the United  States in  accordance  with ITU
regulations.  Any ITU or FCC reallocation of radio frequency spectrum, including
frequency band  segmentation  or sharing of spectrum,  could cause  interference
with the reception of Global  Positioning  System signals and may materially and
adversely  affect the utility and  reliability of our products,  which would, in
turn,  cause a material  adverse effect on our operating  results.  In addition,
emissions  from  mobile  satellite  service  and other  equipment  operating  in
adjacent  frequency  bands or inband may  materially  and  adversely  affect the
utility  and  reliability  of our  products,  which  could  result in a material
adverse effect on our operating results.


ULTRA-WIDEBAND  RADIO  DEVICES  COULD CAUSE  INTERFERENCE  WITH THE RECEPTION OF
GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM SIGNALS. THIS INTEREFERENCE COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS.

     On May 11,  2000,  the FCC  issued a Notice  of  Proposed  Rulemaking  that
proposes rules for the operation of  Ultra-Wideband  ("UWB") radio devices on an
unlicensed  basis in the  frequency  bands  allocated to the Global  Positioning
System.  If the FCC issues final rules  authorizing such operation,  UWB devices
might  cause  interference  with the  reception  of  Global  Positioning  System
signals.  Such interference  could reduce demand for Global  Positioning  System
products  in the  future.  Any  resulting  change in market  demand  for  Global
Positioning  System  products  could  have  a  material  adverse  effect  on our
financial results.


IF WE ARE NOT SUCCESSFUL IN THE CONTINUED  DEVELOPMENT,  INTRODUCTION  OR TIMELY
MANUFACTURE OF NEW PRODUCTS, DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS COULD DECREASE.

     We expect that a significant portion of our future revenue will continue to
be derived from sales of newly introduced products.  The market for our products
is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and
changes in  customer  needs.  If we fail to modify or improve  our  products  in
response to changes in technology,  industry  standards or customer  needs,  our
products could rapidly become less competitive or obsolete.  We must continue to
make significant investments in research and development in order to continue to
develop new products,  enhance existing  products and achieve market  acceptance
for such products.  However,  there can be no assurance that  development  stage
products  will  be  successfully  completed  or,  if  developed,   will  achieve
significant customer acceptance.

     If we are unable to  successfully  develop and  introduce  competitive  new
products,  and enhance our existing  products,  our future results of operations
would be adversely  affected.  Our pursuit of necessary  technology  may require
substantial time and expense. We may need to license new technologies to respond
to technological change. These licenses may not be available to us on terms that
we can accept.  We may not succeed in adapting our products to new  technologies
as they emerge.  Development and manufacturing schedules for technology products
are  difficult to predict,  and there can be no  assurance  that we will achieve
timely initial customer  shipments of new products.  The timely  availability of
these products in volume and their  acceptance by customers are important to our
future success. We have previously experienced delays in shipping certain of our
products and any future delays,  whether due to  manufacturing  delays,  lack of
market acceptance,  delays in regulatory  approval,  or otherwise,  could have a
material adverse effect on our results of operations.


IF WE DO NOT CORRECTLY ANTICIPATE DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO
SECURE SUFFICIENT QUANTITIES OR COST-EFFECTIVE  PRODUCTION OF OUR PRODUCTS OR WE
COULD HAVE COSTLY EXCESS PRODUCTION OR INVENTORIES.

     Historically,  we have  experienced  steady  increases  in  demand  for our
products  and have  generally  been  able to  increase  production  to meet that
demand. However, the demand for our products depends on many factors and will be
difficult to forecast.  We expect that it will become more difficult to forecast
demand as we introduce and support  multiple  products and as competition in the
market for our products intensifies.  Significant unanticipated  fluctuations in
demand could cause the following problems in our operations:

          o    If demand  increases  beyond what we  forecast,  we would have to
               rapidly  increase  production.  We would  depend on  suppliers to
               provide  additional  volumes of  components  and those  suppliers
               might not be able to increase  production  rapidly enough to meet
               unexpected demand.

          o    Rapid increases in production levels to meet unanticipated demand
               could  result in higher  costs for  manufacturing  and  supply of
               components and other expenses. These higher costs could lower our
               profit  margins.  Further,  if production  is increased  rapidly,
               manufacturing  quality  could  decline,  which may also lower our
               margins.

          o    If  forecasted  demand  does not  develop,  we could have  excess
               production  resulting in higher  inventories of finished products
               and components, which would use cash and could lead to write-offs
               of some or all of the excess  inventories.  Lower than forecasted
               demand could also result in excess manufacturing  capacity at our
               facilities, which could result in lower margins.


WE MAY BECOME SUBJECT TO SIGNIFICANT PRODUCT LIABILITY COSTS.

     If our aviation products malfunction or contain errors or defects, airplane
collisions or crashes could occur resulting in property damage,  personal injury
or death.  Malfunctions or errors or defects in our marine navigational products
could cause boats to run aground or cause  other  wreckage,  personal  injury or
death.  If any of  these  events  occurs,  we could be  subject  to  significant
liability for personal injury and property damage. We maintain insurance against
accident-related  risks  involving  our  products.  However,  there  can  be  no
assurance that such  insurance  would be sufficient to cover the cost of damages
to others or that such insurance  will continue to be available at  commercially
reasonable  rates.  If we are unable to maintain  sufficient  insurance to cover
product liability costs, our business could be harmed.


WE  DEPEND ON OUR  SUPPLIERS,  SOME OF WHICH ARE THE SOLE  SOURCE  FOR  SPECIFIC
COMPONENTS,  AND OUR PRODUCTION WOULD BE SERIOUSLY HARMED IF THESE SUPPLIERS ARE
NOT ABLE TO MEET OUR DEMAND AND ALTERNATIVE SOURCES ARE NOT AVAILABLE, OR IF THE
COSTS OF COMPONENTS RISE.

     We are dependent on third party  suppliers for various  components  used in
our current  products.  Some of the components  that we procure from third party
suppliers include semiconductors and  electroluminescent  panels, liquid crystal
displays,  memory chips and microprocessors.  The cost, quality and availability
of  components  are  essential  to the  successful  production  and  sale of our
products.  Some  components come from our sole source  suppliers.  International
Business  Machines  Corporation,  NEC  Electronics,  Inc. and Texas  Instruments
Taiwan   Ltd.   are  each   the  sole   source   supplier   to  us  of   certain
application-specific  integrated circuits  incorporating our proprietary designs
which they manufacture for us. Intel  Corporation is the sole source supplier of
certain  microprocessors  used in some of our products.  Alternative sources may
not be currently available for these sole source components.

     In  the  past,  we  have  experienced  shortages,   particularly  involving
components  that are also used in cellular  phones.  In  addition,  if there are
shortages in supply of  components,  the costs of such  components  may rise. If
suppliers are unable to meet our demand for  components on a timely basis and if
we are unable to obtain an alternative source or if the price of the alternative
source is  prohibitive,  or if the costs of  components  rise,  our  ability  to
maintain timely and cost-effective production of our products would be seriously
harmed.  In 2000,  we have  experienced  upward  pricing  pressures  on our high
technology  components.  We continue to search for alternate sources or redesign
components for less expensive parts. However, if we are unable to find alternate
sources  or are not  able to  effectively  redesign  components,  our  business,
financial  condition  and results of operations  could be  materially  adversely
affected.

     We license mapping data for use in our products from various sources. There
are only a limited  number of suppliers  of mapping  data for each  geographical
region. If we are unable to continue  licensing such mapping data and are unable
to obtain an alternative  source,  or if the price of the alternative  source is
prohibitive, our ability to supply mapping data for use in our products would be
seriously harmed.


WE RELY ON  INDEPENDENT  DEALERS  AND  DISTRIBUTORS  TO SELL OUR  PRODUCTS,  AND
DISRUPTION TO THESE CHANNELS WOULD HARM OUR BUSINESS.

     Because we sell a majority  of our  products  to  independent  dealers  and
distributors,  we are subject to many risks,  including  risks  related to their
inventory  levels and support for our products.  In particular,  our dealers and
distributors  maintain  significant levels of our products in their inventories.
If dealers and  distributors  attempt to reduce  their levels of inventory or if
they do not maintain  sufficient levels to meet customer demand, our sales could
be negatively impacted.

     Our dealers and distributors also sell products offered by our competitors.
If our  competitors  offer our dealers and  distributors  more favorable  terms,
those  dealers  and  distributors  may  de-emphasize  or  decline  to carry  our
products.  In the future,  we may not be able to retain or attract a  sufficient
number of  qualified  dealers  and  distributors.  If we are unable to  maintain
successful  relationships  with  dealers  and  distributors  or  to  expand  our
distribution channels, our business will suffer.


IF WE FAIL TO MANAGE OUR GROWTH AND EXPANSION EFFECTIVELY, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO
SUCCESSFULLY MANAGE OUR BUSINESS.

     Our ability to  successfully  offer our products and implement our business
plan in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective  planning and management
process.  We continue to increase the scope of our operations  domestically  and
internationally  and have grown our shipments and  headcount  substantially.  In
addition, we plan to continue to hire a significant number of employees in 2001.
This growth has placed,  and our  anticipated  growth in future  operations will
continue to place, a significant strain on our management systems and resources.


OUR  BUSINESS  MAY  SUFFER  IF WE ARE NOT  ABLE TO HIRE  AND  RETAIN  SUFFICIENT
QUALIFIED PERSONNEL OR IF WE LOSE OUR KEY PERSONNEL.

     Our future success depends partly on the continued  contribution of our key
executive,  engineering,  sales,  marketing,  manufacturing  and  administrative
personnel.  In  particular,  we  rely  on Min  H.  Kao  and  Gary  Burrell,  our
Co-Chairmen,  Co-Chief Executive Officers and founders. We currently do not have
employment agreements with any of our key executive officers. We do not have key
man life  insurance on any of our key  executive  officers and do not  currently
intend to obtain such  insurance.  The loss of the services of any of our senior
level management,  or other key employees,  could harm our business.  Recruiting
and retaining the skilled  personnel we require to maintain our market  position
may be  difficult.  For  example,  there is a  nationwide  shortage of qualified
electrical  engineers and software engineers that are necessary for us to design
and develop new products and  therefore,  it may be  challenging to recruit such
personnel. If we fail to hire and retain qualified employees, we may not be able
to maintain and expand our business.


OUR SALES AND GROSS MARGINS FOR OUR PRODUCTS MAY FLUCTUATE.

     Our sales and gross margins for our products may  fluctuate  from period to
period due to a number of factors,  including product mix,  competition and unit
volumes. In particular, the average selling prices of a specific product tend to
decrease over that product's life. To offset such  decreases,  we intend to rely
primarily on obtaining yield  improvements and corresponding  cost reductions in
the  manufacture  of existing  products and on  introducing  new  products  that
incorporate  advanced  features  and  therefore  can be sold at  higher  average
selling  prices.  However,  there  can be no  assurance  that we will be able to
obtain any such yield  improvements or cost reductions or introduce any such new
products in the future.  To the extent that such cost reductions and new product
introductions do not occur in a timely manner or our customers'  products do not
achieve  market  acceptance,  our business,  financial  condition and results of
operations could be materially adversely affected.


OUR QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS ARE SUBJECT TO FLUCTUATIONS AND SEASONALITY.

     Our  operating  results  are  difficult  to predict.  Our future  quarterly
operating results may fluctuate significantly.  If this occurs, the price of our
stock would likely decline. As we expand our operations, our operating expenses,
particularly  our sales,  marketing  and research  and  development  costs,  may
increase.  If revenues decrease and we are unable to reduce those costs rapidly,
our operating results would be negatively affected.

     Historically,  our revenues have usually been weaker in the first and third
quarters of each fiscal  year and have,  from time to time,  been lower than the
preceding quarter. Our devices are highly consumer-oriented, and consumer buying
is  traditionally  lower in these  quarters.  Sales of certain  of our  consumer
products  tend to be  higher  in our  second  fiscal  quarter  due to  increased
consumer  spending for such products  during the bass fishing  season.  Sales of
certain of our  consumer  products  also tend to be higher in our fourth  fiscal
quarter due to increased consumer spending patterns on electronic devices during
the holiday season. In addition,  we attempt to time our new product releases to
coincide  with  relatively  higher  consumer  spending  in the second and fourth
fiscal quarters, which contributes to these seasonal variations.


BECAUSE OUR REPORTING CURRENCY IS IN U.S. DOLLARS AND THE FUNCTIONAL  CURRENCIES
OF TWO OF OUR OPERATING  SUBSIDIARIES  ARE IN NEW TAIWAN DOLLARS AND THE BRITISH
POUND STERLING,  RESPECTIVELY,  EXCHANGE RATE FLUCTUATIONS  IMPACT THE FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS  OF  OUR  OPERATING   SUBSIDIARIES  AND  OUR  CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS.

     Foreign  exchange  effects  on our  financial  statements  can be  material
because  our  reporting  currency  is  in  U.S.  Dollars  while  the  functional
currencies of Garmin  Corporation and Garmin (Europe) Ltd., two of our operating
subsidiaries,  are in  New  Taiwan  Dollars  and  the  British  Pound  Sterling,
respectively.  We are exposed to foreign  exchange  risks  related to  recurring
foreign  currency   payments,   principally  in  U.S.   Dollars.   In  addition,
fluctuations  in  exchange  rates  between  the U.S.  Dollar  and the New Taiwan
Dollar, and between the U.S. Dollar and the British Pound Sterling,  may have an
adverse  impact on the  financial  statements of Garmin  Corporation  and Garmin
(Europe) Ltd., respectively,  and, as a consequence,  upon consolidation have an
indirect adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements.


IF WE ARE UNABLE TO COMPETE  EFFECTIVELY WITH EXISTING OR NEW  COMPETITORS,  OUR
RESULTING LOSS OF COMPETITIVE  POSITION COULD RESULT IN PRICE REDUCTIONS,  FEWER
CUSTOMER ORDERS, REDUCED MARGINS AND LOSS OF MARKET SHARE.

         The  markets  for our  products  are highly  competitive  and we expect
competition to increase in the future.  We plan to enter the wireless market and
will be competing  against Telefon AB LM Ericsson,  Motorola,  Inc. and Nokia Oy
with  certain  products.  These  competitors,  as well  as some of our  existing
competitors or potential competitors, such as Honeywell International,  Inc. and
UPS Aviation Technologies,  have significantly greater financial,  technical and
marketing  resources than we do. These  competitors  may be able to respond more
rapidly to new or emerging  technologies  or changes in  customer  requirements.
They may also be able to devote greater resources to the development,  promotion
and  sale of  their  products.  Increased  competition  could  result  in  price
reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced margins and loss of market share. Our
failure to compete  successfully  against  current or future  competitors  could
seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.


OUR INTELLECTUAL  PROPERTY RIGHTS ARE IMPORTANT TO OUR OPERATIONS,  AND WE COULD
SUFFER  LOSS IF THEY  INFRINGE  UPON  OTHER'S  RIGHTS OR ARE  INFRINGED  UPON BY
OTHERS.

     We rely on a  combination  of  patents,  copyrights,  trademarks  and trade
secrets,  confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and
protect  our  proprietary  rights.  To this end,  we hold  rights to a number of
patents and registered  trademarks and regularly file applications to attempt to
protect  our  rights in new  technology  and  trademarks.  However,  there is no
guarantee that our patent  applications will become issued patents,  or that our
trademark  applications will become  registered  trademarks.  Moreover,  even if
approved, our patents or trademarks may thereafter be successfully challenged by
others or otherwise  become  invalidated for a variety of reasons.  In addition,
the only  patents  we have  obtained  are U.S.  patents.  Thus,  any  patents or
trademarks  we  currently  have  or may  later  acquire  may  not  provide  us a
significant competitive advantage.

     Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual  property
rights.  Such claims  could have a serious  adverse  effect on our  business and
financial  condition.   Litigation  concerning  patents  or  other  intellectual
property  can be  costly  and time  consuming.  We may seek  licenses  from such
parties,  but they  could  refuse to grant us a license  or demand  commercially
unreasonable  terms.  We might  not  have  sufficient  resources  to pay for the
licenses.  Such  infringement  claims  could also cause us to incur  substantial
liabilities and to suspend or permanently cease the use of critical technologies
or processes or the production or sale of major products.


FAILURE TO OBTAIN  REQUIRED  CERTIFICATIONS  OF OUR  PRODUCTS ON A TIMELY  BASIS
COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS.

     We have certain  products,  especially  in our aviation  segment,  that are
subject to governmental and similar  certifications before they can be sold. For
example,  Federal Aviation  Administration ("FAA") certification is required for
all of our  aviation  products  that  are  intended  for  installation  in  type
certificated  aircraft.  To the extent that it is required,  certification is an
expensive  and time  consuming  process  that  requires  significant  focus  and
resources.  An  inability  to obtain,  or  excessive  delay in  obtaining,  such
certifications  could have an adverse  effect on our  ability to  introduce  new
products and, therefore,  our operating results.  In addition,  we cannot assure
you  that  our   certified   products   will  not  be   decertified.   Any  such
decertification could have an adverse effect on our operating results.


OUR BUSINESS IS SUBJECT TO ECONOMIC,  POLITICAL AND OTHER RISKS  ASSOCIATED WITH
INTERNATIONAL SALES AND OPERATIONS.

     Our  business  is  subject  to  risks   associated   with  doing   business
internationally.  We estimate that  approximately  27.2% of our net sales in the
fiscal  year  ended   December  30,  2000   represented   products   shipped  to
international destinations. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a
variety of international factors, including:

          o    changes in foreign currency exchange rates;

          o    changes in a specific country's or region's political or economic
               conditions, particularly in emerging markets;

          o    trade   protection   measures  and  import  or  export  licensing
               requirements;

          o    potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws;

          o    difficulty  in  managing   widespread  sales  and   manufacturing
               operations; and

          o    less effective protection of intellectual property.


WE MAY EXPERIENCE  UNIQUE ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH COMPANIES
THAT OPERATE IN TAIWAN.

     Relations  between Taiwan and the People's Republic of China, also referred
to as the PRC, and other factors affecting the political or economic  conditions
of Taiwan in the future  could  affect our business and the market price and the
liquidity  of our  shares.  Our  principal  manufacturing  facilities  where  we
manufacture all of our products, except our panel-mounted aviation products, are
located in Taiwan.

     Taiwan  has a  unique  international  political  status.  The  PRC  asserts
sovereignty over all of China,  including Taiwan,  certain other islands and all
of mainland  China.  The PRC government does not recognize the legitimacy of the
Taiwan  government.  Although  significant  economic and cultural relations have
been  established  during  recent  years  between  Taiwan  and the PRC,  the PRC
government  has  indicated  that it may use military  force to gain control over
Taiwan in certain  circumstances,  such as the  declaration of  independence  by
Taiwan. Relations between Taiwan and the PRC have on occasion adversely affected
the  market  value of  Taiwanese  companies  and  could  negatively  affect  our
operations in Taiwan in the future.


THERE IS UNCERTAINTY AS TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS'  ABILITY TO ENFORCE CERTAIN FOREIGN
CIVIL LIABILITIES IN THE CAYMAN ISLANDS AND TAIWAN.

     We are a Cayman Islands company and a substantial portion of our assets are
located outside the United States,  particularly in Taiwan.  As a result, it may
be difficult for you to effect  service of process within the United States upon
us. In  addition,  there is  uncertainty  as to whether the courts of the Cayman
Islands and Taiwan would recognize or enforce  judgments of United States courts
obtained  against  us  predicated  upon the civil  liability  provisions  of the
securities  laws of the United States or any state  thereof,  or be competent to
hear  original  actions  brought  in the  Cayman  Islands  or Taiwan  against us
predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof.


OUR SHAREHOLDERS MAY FACE  DIFFICULTIES IN PROTECTING THEIR INTERESTS BECAUSE WE
ARE INCORPORATED UNDER CAYMAN ISLANDS LAW.

     Our  corporate  affairs are  governed  by our  Memorandum  and  Articles of
Association  and by the Companies Law (2000  Revision) and the common law of the
Cayman   Islands.   The   rights   of  our   shareholders   and  the   fiduciary
responsibilities  of our directors  under Cayman  Islands law are not as clearly
established   as  under   statutes  or  judicial   precedent   in  existence  in
jurisdictions in the United States.  Therefore, our public shareholders may have
more  difficulty  in  protecting  their  interests in the face of actions by the
management, directors or our controlling shareholders than would shareholders of
a corporation  incorporated in a jurisdiction  in the United States,  due to the
comparatively less developed nature of Cayman Islands law in this area.


WE MAY PURSUE STRATEGIC  ACQUISITIONS,  INVESTMENTS,  STRATEGIC  PARTNERSHIPS OR
OTHER  VENTURES,  AND OUR  BUSINESS  COULD BE  MATERIALLY  HARMED  IF WE FAIL TO
SUCCESSFULLY IDENTIFY, COMPLETE AND INTEGRATE SUCH TRANSACTIONS.

     We intend to evaluate  acquisition  opportunities and opportunities to make
investments in complementary businesses,  technologies, services or products, or
to enter into any strategic  partnerships with parties who can provide access to
those assets,  additional product or services  offerings or additional  industry
expertise.  We currently have no commitments to make any material investments or
acquisitions,  or to enter  into  strategic  partnerships.  We may not  identify
suitable acquisition,  investment or strategic partnership candidates,  or if we
do identify  suitable  candidates,  we may not complete  those  transactions  on
commercially favorable terms, or at all.

     Any future acquisition could result in difficulties  assimilating  acquired
operations and products,  diversion of capital and  management's  attention away
from other  business  issues and  opportunities  and  amortization  of  acquired
intangible  assets.  Integration  of acquired  companies  may result in problems
related to integration  of technology and  inexperienced  management  teams.  In
addition,  the key personnel of the acquired  company may decide not to work for
us. Our management has not had experience in assimilating acquired organizations
and  products  into  our  operations.  We may  not  successfully  integrate  any
operations,  personnel or products that we may acquire in the future. If we fail
to successfully  integrate such  transactions,  our business could be materially
harmed.


WE HAVE BENEFITED IN THE PAST FROM TAIWAN  GOVERNMENT TAX INCENTIVES  OFFERED ON
CERTAIN HIGH TECHNOLOGY CAPITAL INVESTMENTS THAT MAY NOT ALWAYS BE AVAILABLE.

     Our  effective  tax rate is lower  than the U.S.  Federal  statutory  rate,
because we have  benefited  from lower tax rates  since our  inception  and from
incentives  offered in Taiwan  related  to our high  technology  investments  in
Taiwan.  The loss of these tax benefits  could have a significant  effect on our
financial results in the future.


CHANGES IN OUR UNITED STATES FEDERAL INCOME TAX  CLASSIFICATION OR IN APPLICABLE
TAX LAW COULD RESULT IN ADVERSE TAX CONSEQUENCES TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS.

     We do not believe that we (or any of our  non-United  States  subsidiaries)
are  currently  a  "foreign   personal  holding  company"  or  "passive  foreign
investment  company" for United States  federal  income tax  purposes.  We would
constitute a foreign personal holding company in any taxable year if (1) 60% (or
50% in any year  following the year in which we first became a foreign  personal
holding  company) or more of our gross  income  were  foreign  personal  holding
company income (which is generally income of a passive nature such as dividends,
interest and royalties)  (the "income test") and (2) more than 50% of the voting
power or value of our equity were  owned,  directly  or  indirectly,  by five or
fewer U.S. holders that are individuals (the "shareholder  test"). If we (or any
of our non-United  States  subsidiaries)  are  classified as a foreign  personal
holding  company in any taxable  year,  then each  shareholder  that is a United
States  person  would  be  required  to pay tax on its  pro  rata  share  of the
undistributed  foreign  personal holding income of such foreign personal holding
company.  We currently  satisfy the shareholder test for qualifying as a foreign
personal  holding  company  but intend to manage our affairs so as to attempt to
avoid  satisfaction  of the income  test for  qualifying  as a foreign  personal
holding  company,  or minimize the impact to our  shareholders if we satisfy the
income test,  to the extent this  management  of our affairs would be consistent
with our business goals, although we cannot assure you in this regard.

     We do not expect to become a passive foreign investment  company.  However,
because the passive foreign investment company determination is made annually on
the basis of facts and circumstances  that may be beyond our control and because
the principles for applying the passive foreign investment company tests are not
entirely  clear,  we cannot assure you that we will not become a passive foreign
investment  company. If we are a passive foreign investment company in any year,
then any of our  shareholders  that is a United States person could be liable to
pay  tax at  ordinary  income  tax  rates  plus an  interest  charge  upon  some
distributions by us or when that shareholder  sells our common shares at a gain.
Further,  if we are classified as a passive  foreign  investment  company in any
year in which a  United  States  person  is a  shareholder,  we  generally  will
continue to be treated as a passive foreign  investment  company with respect to
such shareholder in all succeeding  years,  regardless of whether we continue to
satisfy the income or asset tests described above. Additional tax considerations
would  apply  if we or  any  of  our  subsidiaries  were  a  controlled  foreign
corporation or a personal holding company.


RISKS RELATING TO OUR SHARES

WE DO NOT PLAN TO PAY DIVIDENDS IN THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE.

     We do not currently  anticipate  paying cash dividends for the  foreseeable
future.  In addition,  if in the future we  determined  to pay  dividends on our
shares, as a holding company,  we expect to be principally  dependent on receipt
of funds from our operating subsidiaries.  Our principal operating subsidiary is
a Taiwan company and dividends  payable to us from that company would be subject
to Taiwan withholding tax, which is currently applicable at the rate of 20%.


THE MARKETS FOR HIGH TECHNOLOGY STOCKS HAVE EXPERIENCED  EXTREME  VOLATILITY AND
OUR SHARE PRICE MAY BE SUBJECT TO SIGNIFICANT FLUCTUATIONS AND VOLATILITY

     The markets for high technology stocks have experienced  extreme volatility
that has often been  unrelated to the operating  performance  of the  particular
companies.  These broad market  fluctuations  may  adversely  affect the trading
price of our common shares.


OUR OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS EXERT SUBSTANTIAL INFLUENCE OVER US.

     Members of our Board of Directors and our executive officers, together with
members of their  families  and  entities  that may be deemed  affiliates  of or
related to such persons or entities, beneficially own approximately 56.2% of our
outstanding common shares. Accordingly,  these shareholders may be able to elect
all members of our Board of  Directors  and  determine  the outcome of corporate
actions requiring shareholder approval,  such as mergers and acquisitions.  This
level of  ownership  may have a  significant  effect in  delaying,  deferring or
preventing a change in control of Garmin and may adversely affect the voting and
other rights of other holders of our common shares.


PRIOR  TO  2006,   WITHOUT  THE  APPROVAL  OF  A  MAJORITY  OF  CERTAIN  OF  OUR
SHAREHOLDERS,  WE MAY NOT  DISPOSE  OF OUR SHARES OF GARMIN  CORPORATION  OR ITS
ASSETS, EVEN IF IT WOULD BENEFIT ALL OF OUR SHAREHOLDERS.

     In connection  with the  reorganization  whereby  Garmin became the holding
company for Garmin Corporation,  shareholders of Garmin Corporation entered into
a shareholders' agreement whereby each shareholder party to the agreement agreed
to take all reasonable  actions required to prevent the disposition by Garmin of
any shares of Garmin Corporation or of substantially all of the assets of Garmin
Corporation  until after December 31, 2005 except upon approval of a majority in
interest of such shareholders who are U.S. citizens or residents. Certain of our
officers and directors own a substantial portion of these shares.

PROVISIONS IN OUR CHARTER DOCUMENTS MIGHT DETER,  DELAY OR PREVENT A THIRD PARTY
FROM ACQUIRING US, WHICH COULD DECREASE THE VALUE OF OUR SHARES.

     Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 1,000,000 preferred
shares  and  to  determine  the  price,  rights,  preferences,   privileges  and
restrictions,  including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote
or action by the  shareholders.  This could have an adverse impact on the market
price of our  common  shares.  We have no present  plans to issue any  preferred
shares,  but we may do so.  The rights of the  holders  of common  shares may be
subject  to,  and  adversely  affected  by,  the  rights of the  holders  of any
preferred shares that may be issued in the future. In addition,  we have adopted
a  classified  board of  directors.  Our  shareholders  are unable to remove any
director or the entire  board of directors  without a super  majority  vote.  In
addition,  a super  majority  vote is  required  to  approve  transactions  with
interested  shareholders.   Shareholders  do  not  have  the  right  to  call  a
shareholders meeting. We intend to adopt a shareholders' rights plan which under
certain circumstances would significantly impair the ability of third parties to
acquire  control of us without prior  approval of our Board of  Directors.  This
shareholders' rights plan and the provisions in our charter documents could make
it more  difficult  for a third  party  to  acquire  us,  even if doing so would
benefit our shareholders.

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

     MARKET SENSITIVITY

     We have  market  risk  primarily  in  connection  with the  pricing  of our
products and services and the purchase of raw materials. Product pricing and raw
materials  costs  are both  significantly  influenced  by  semiconductor  market
conditions.  Historically, during cyclical industry downturns, we have been able
to offset  pricing  declines for our products  through a combination of improved
product mix and success in obtaining price reductions in raw material costs.

     FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATE RISK

     The  operation  of the  Company's  subsidiaries  in  international  markets
results in exposure to  movements  in currency  exchange  rates.  The  principal
currencies  involved are the New Taiwan Dollar and the British  Pound  Sterling.
Although some  fluctuations  have occurred,  particularly in 1997 and the fourth
quarter of 2000, we generally  have not been  significantly  affected by foreign
exchange fluctuations because,  until recently, the New Taiwan Dollar has proven
to  be  relatively  stable.   However,   more  volatile  foreign  exchange  rate
fluctuations  in the future  could have a  significant  effect on our results of
operations.  The Company's international  subsidiaries use the local currency as
the functional  currency.  The Company  translates all assets and liabilities at
year-end  exchange rates and income and expense accounts at average rates during
the year.

     The  operation  of the  Company's  subsidiaries  in  international  markets
results in exposure to  movements  in currency  exchange  rates.  The  principal
currencies  involved are the New Taiwan Dollar and the British  Pound  Sterling.
The  Company's  international   subsidiaries  use  the  local  currency  as  the
functional  currency.  The  Company  translates  all assets and  liabilities  at
year-end  exchange rates and income and expense accounts at average rates during
the year. Although some fluctuations have occurred, particularly in 1997 and the
fourth  quarter of 2000, we generally  have not been  significantly  affected by
foreign  exchange  fluctuations  because the New Taiwan  Dollar has proven to be
relatively stable.  All of the Company's sales are in U.S. dollars.  In order to
minimize the effect of the currency exchange fluctuations on our operations,  we
have  elected  to  retain  most of our  cash at our  Taiwan  subsidiary  in U.S.
dollars.  As such,  even when a  significant  gain or loss occurs as a result of
more  volatile  foreign  exchange  rate  fluctuations,  the actual impact on our
operations are of a lesser extent.

     INTEREST RATE RISK

     As of December 30, 2000, we have interest rate risk in connection  with our
industrial  revenue  bonds  that  bear  interest  at  a  floating  rate.  Garmin
International,  Inc.  entered into an interest rate swap agreement to modify the
characteristics of $15 million of its outstanding long-term debt from a floating
rate to a fixed rate basis. This agreement involves the receipt of floating rate
amounts  in  exchange  for fixed  rate  interest  payments  over the life of the
agreement without an exchange of the underlying  principal  amount.  The gain or
loss on interest rate swap agreements is immaterial.



ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

                          GARMIN LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


Report of Independent Auditors...............................................32

   Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 30, 2000 and
       December 25, 1999.....................................................33

   Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended
       December 30, 2000, December 25, 1999 and December 26, 1998............34

   Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the
       years ended December 30, 2000, December 25, 1999 and
       December 26, 1998.....................................................35

   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
       December 30, 2000, December 25, 1999 and December 26, 1998............36

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements...................................38





                         REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Garmin Ltd.

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Garmin Ltd.
and  subsidiaries  (the  Company) as of December 30, 2000 and December 25, 1999,
and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity and cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended  December  30,  2000.  Our
audits also included the financial  statement  schedule listed in Item 14(a)(2).
These financial  statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company's
management.  Our  responsibility  is to express  an  opinion on these  financial
statements and schedule based on our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance  with  auditing  standards  generally
accepted in the United States.  Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable  assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An
audit also includes  assessing the accounting  principles  used and  significant
estimates  made by  management,  as well as  evaluating  the  overall  financial
statement  presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable  basis
for our opinion.

     In our opinion,  the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Garmin Ltd. and
subsidiaries  at December 30, 2000 and December 25, 1999,  and the  consolidated
results of their  operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended  December 30, 2000, in conformity  with  accounting  principles
generally  accepted in the United  States.  Also,  in our  opinion,  the related
financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial
statements taken as a whole,  presents  fairly,  in all material  respects,  the
information set forth therein.

                                             /s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Kansas City, Missouri
February 7, 2001





SEE ACCOMPANYING NOTES.






SEE ACCOMPANYING NOTES.






SEE ACCOMPANYING NOTES.













                          GARMIN LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

NOTE 1. ORGANIZATION

On July 24, 2000, the stockholders of Garmin Corporation  (GARMIN)  incorporated
Garmin Ltd. (the Company)  under the laws of the Cayman  Islands.  Subsequently,
the  stockholders  of GARMIN  executed a  Shareholders  Agreement to transfer to
Garmin Ltd. their  investments  in 88,988,394  common shares of stock of GARMIN.
These shares, which represented approximately 100% of the issued and outstanding
common stock of GARMIN as of July 24, 2000, were used by the stockholders to pay
for their  subscriptions  to  100,000,000  common shares of Garmin Ltd. at a par
value of $0.01 or an aggregate value of $1,000.  As such, the exchange of shares
in this  reorganization  between  GARMIN and the newly formed  holding  company,
Garmin  Ltd.,  completed  on  September  22,  2000,  has been  accounted  for at
historical cost similar to that in pooling-of-interests  accounting. In addition
to the  shares of GARMIN  owned by Garmin  Ltd.,  one share of GARMIN is held by
each of six  shareholders  as nominees to satisfy the  requirement of Taiwan law
that a company  have at least seven  shareholders  and 4,000 shares owned by two
related stockholders who did not convert GARMIN shares to shares of the Company.
These  4,006  shares are not  reported as or  considered  to be held by minority
interests  in  the  accompanying   consolidated   financial  statements  due  to
immateriality.  As a result,  GARMIN is considered  herein to be a  wholly-owned
subsidiary  of Garmin Ltd. As  discussed  in NOTE 12,  Garmin Ltd.  completed an
initial public offering of its common stock in December 2000.

NOTE 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION

The  accompanying  consolidated  financial  statements  have  been  prepared  in
accordance with accounting  principles  generally accepted in the United States.
Accordingly,  the accompanying  consolidated  financial  statements  reflect the
accounts  of  Garmin  Ltd.  and  its   wholly-owned   subsidiaries   as  if  the
reorganization  described in NOTE 1 was effective  prior to January 1, 1998. All
significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.

NATURE OF BUSINESS

Garmin Ltd. and its subsidiaries (together, the Company) manufacture, market and
distribute  Global  Positioning   System-enabled   products  and  other  related
products.  GARMIN was  incorporated in Taiwan,  Republic of China on January 16,
1990. GARMIN is primarily  responsible for the manufacturing and distribution of
the Company's products to Garmin International, Inc. and Garmin (Europe) Limited
and, to a lesser extent, new product  development and sales and marketing of the
Company's  products  in Asia and the Far  East.  In  April  1990,  a  100%-owned
subsidiary,  Garmin  International,  Inc. (GII) was  incorporated  in the United
States.  GII is primarily  responsible  for sales and marketing of the Company's
products  in many  international  markets  and in the  United  States as well as
research  and new  product  development.  During  June 1992,  GII formed  Garmin
(Europe) Limited (GEL), a wholly-owned subsidiary in the United Kingdom, to sell
its products  principally within the European market.  During 2000, GII sold its
interest in GEL to Garmin Ltd. As a result,  GEL is now a direct  subsidiary  of
Garmin  Ltd.  Also  during  2000,  Garmin  Realty  LLC was formed by GII to hold
certain real estate.



                          GARMIN LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)


NOTE 2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

FISCAL YEAR

Prior to 1998,  GARMIN's fiscal year end was based on a calendar year.  However,
both GII and GEL reported on a 52-53-week  period ending on the last Saturday of
the  calendar  year.  In 1998,  GARMIN  elected to change  its fiscal  year to a
52-53-week period consistent with GII and GEL. As a result, fiscal 1998 includes
the operations of GARMIN from January 1, 1998 through  December 26, 1998 and the
operations of GII and GEL from December 28, 1997 through December 26, 1998.

Also, due to the fact that there are not exactly 52 weeks in a calendar year and
there is  slightly  more than one  additional  day per year (not  including  the
effects of leap year) in each  calendar  year as  compared  to a 52-week  fiscal
year, the Company will have a fiscal year  comprising 53 weeks in certain fiscal
years, as determined by when the last Saturday of the calendar year occurs.

In those resulting  fiscal years that have 53 weeks,  the Company will record an
extra  week of sales,  costs and  related  financial  activity.  Therefore,  the
financial  results of those fiscal years,  and the associated  14-week  quarter,
will not be exactly  comparable to the prior and subsequent 52-week fiscal years
and the associated  quarters having only 13 weeks. Fiscal 2000 includes 53 weeks
while fiscal 1999 and 1998 were comprised of 52 weeks.

FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION

GARMIN utilizes the New Taiwan Dollar as its functional  currency.  GEL utilizes
the British  pound  sterling as its  functional  currency.  In  accordance  with
Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards  (SFAS) No. 52, "Foreign  Currency
Translation,"  the financial  statements of GARMIN and GEL have been  translated
into United States dollars,  the functional currency of Garmin Ltd. and GII, and
the reporting currency herein, for purposes of consolidation at rates prevailing
during the year for sales,  costs and expenses and at end-of-year  rates for all
assets and liabilities. The effect of this translation is recorded in a separate
component of stockholders' equity.

Transactions  in foreign  currencies  are  recorded at the  approximate  rate of
exchange at the transaction  date.  Assets and liabilities  resulting from these
transactions  are  translated  at the rate of  exchange in effect at the balance
sheet date. All  differences  are recorded in results of operations and amounted
to exchange gains (losses) of  approximately  $6,962,  $(1,469) and $(2,171) for
the years ended  December  30,  2000,  December  25, 1999 and December 26, 1998,
respectively. These gains (losses) are included in other income (expense) in the
accompanying  consolidated  statements  of  income.  The gain in fiscal  2000 is
principally  attributable  to the  strengthening  of the  United  States  dollar
compared to the New Taiwan Dollar in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2000.

EARNINGS PER SHARE

Basic  earnings  per share  amounts are computed  based on the  weighted-average
number of common shares outstanding. For purposes of diluted earnings per share,
the number of shares  that would be issued from the  exercise of dilutive  stock
options has been reduced by the number of shares which could have been purchased
from the proceeds of the exercise at the average  market price of the  Company's
stock during the period the options were outstanding. See NOTE 14.


                          GARMIN LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)


NOTE 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

COMMON STOCK

The  amount  of  retained  earnings  capitalized  in  connection  with the stock
dividends  previously  issued by the  Company has been based on the par value of
the  underlying  GARMIN  common  stock,  which  was  the  United  States  dollar
equivalent of 10 New Taiwan Dollars.  In addition,  the common stock issuance in
1998 was made on a pro rata  basis to each  stockholder  of GARMIN  based on the
number of shares held at the time. As such, this issuance of shares,  to qualify
the Company for certain  Taiwan tax  incentives,  was  recorded at the amount of
cash received, which was equal to par value.


CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

For purposes of reporting cash flows, cash and cash equivalents  include cash on
hand,  operating accounts,  money market funds and securities with maturities of
three  months  or less  when  purchased.  The  carrying  amount of cash and cash
equivalents   approximates  fair  value,  given  the  short  maturity  of  those
instruments.


INVENTORIES

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market.  Cost is determined using
the weighted-average  method (which approximates the first-in,  first-out (FIFO)
method) by GARMIN and the FIFO method by GII and GEL.  Inventories  consisted of
the following:

                                          DECEMBER 30,      DECEMBER 25,
                                             2000              1999
                                       ------------------------------------

Raw materials                                $46,418          $30,492
Work-in-process                                8,116            3,710
Finished goods                                41,825           18,773
Inventory reserves                            (6,504)          (1,727)
                                       ------------------------------------
                                             $89,855          $51,248
                                       ====================================


PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

Property  and  equipment  are  recorded  at  cost  and  depreciated   using  the
straight-line method over the following estimated useful lives:

Buildings and improvements                                      8-55 years
Office furniture and equipment                                   3-8 years
Manufacturing and engineering equipment                          3-8 years
Vehicles                                                           3 years




                          GARMIN LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)


NOTE 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

LONG-LIVED ASSETS

In accordance  with SFAS No. 121,  "Accounting  for the Impairment of Long-Lived
Assets and Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed Of," the Company reviews  long-lived
assets for impairment  whenever events or changes in circumstances  indicate the
carrying amount of an asset may not be fully  recoverable.  SFAS No. 121 has not
had an impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.

INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Intangible assets  principally  consist of costs incurred with certain licensing
agreements,  which are being  amortized  over the lives of the  related  license
agreements,  which are generally three years.  Accumulated  amortization is $664
and $199 at December 31, 2000 and December 25, 1999, respectively.

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

GII has  entered  into  interest-rate  swap  agreements  to modify the  interest
characteristics  of portions of its  outstanding  long-term debt from a floating
rate to a fixed rate  basis.  These  agreements  involve the receipt of floating
rate amounts in exchange for fixed rate  interest  payments over the life of the
agreements  without  an  exchange  of  the  underlying   principal  amount.  The
differential  to be paid or  received is accrued as  interest  rates  change and
recognized as an adjustment to interest expense related to the debt. The related
amount  payable to or  receivable  from the  counterparty  is  included in other
liabilities or assets.  The fair value of the swap  agreements is not recognized
in the consolidated financial statements. See NOTE 8.

INCOME TAXES

The Company  accounts for income taxes using the liability  method in accordance
with SFAS No. 109,  "Accounting for Income Taxes." The liability method provides
that deferred tax assets and  liabilities  are recorded  based on the difference
between the tax bases of assets and  liabilities  and their carrying  amount for
financial  reporting purposes as measured by the enacted tax rates and laws that
will be in effect when the  differences  are  expected to reverse.  Income taxes
have not been accrued at the GARMIN level for the unremitted  earnings of GII or
GEL totaling approximately $77,544 and $46,502 at December 30, 2000 and December
25, 1999,  respectively,  because such earnings are intended to be reinvested in
these subsidiaries indefinitely.

USE OF ESTIMATES

The  preparation  of  consolidated   financial  statements  in  conformity  with
accounting   principles   generally  accepted  in  the  United  States  requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in
the consolidated  financial  statements and accompanying  notes.  Actual results
could differ from those estimates.



                          GARMIN LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)


NOTE 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK

The  Company  grants  credit  to  certain   customers  who  meet  the  Company's
preestablished  credit  requirements.  Generally,  the Company  does not require
security when trade credit is granted to  customers.  Credit losses are provided
for in the Company's  consolidated  financial  statements and consistently  have
been within management's expectations.

REVENUE RECOGNITION

The Company recognizes revenue from product sales when the product is shipped to
the  customer  and title has  transferred.  The  Company  assumes  no  remaining
significant obligations associated with the product sale other than that related
to its warranty programs discussed below.

Shipping and handling costs amounted to $4,418,  $4,337 and $3,993 for the years
ended December 30, 2000, December 25, 1999 and December 26, 1998,  respectively.
Shipping  and handling  costs are included in cost of sales in the  accompanying
financial statements.

In December 1999, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting
Bulletin  No. 101 (SAB 101).  SAB 101  summarizes  certain  areas of the staff's
views  in  applying   generally  accepted   accounting   principles  to  revenue
recognition in the consolidated  financial  statements.  The Company adopted SAB
101  during  fiscal  2000.  There was not a  material  impact  on the  Company's
consolidated  financial  position  or results of  operations  as a result of the
adoption.

PRODUCT WARRANTY

The Company  provides  for  estimated  warranty  costs at the time of sale.  The
warranty  period  is  generally  for one year  from  date of  shipment  with the
exception of certain  aviation  products  for which the  warranty  period is two
years from the date of installation.

SALES PROGRAMS

The Company  provides  certain monthly and quarterly  incentives for its dealers
based  on  various  factors  including  dealer  purchasing  volume  and  growth.
Additionally,  the Company  provides  rebates to end users on certain  products.
Estimated rebates and incentives  payable to distributors are regularly reviewed
and  recorded  as  accrued  expenses  on a  monthly  basis.  These  rebates  and
incentives  are  recorded  as  reductions  to  net  sales  in  the  accompanying
consolidated statements of income.

ADVERTISING COSTS

The Company expenses advertising costs as incurred.  Advertising expense charged
to operations amounted to approximately $11,529, $8,574 and $7,245 for the years
ended December 30, 2000, December 25, 1999 and December 26, 1998, respectively.




                          GARMIN LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)


NOTE 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

Substantially  all  research and  development  is performed by GII in the United
States. Research and development costs, which are expensed as incurred, amounted
to approximately  $21,764,  $17,339 and $14,876 for the years ended December 30,
2000, December 25, 1999 and December 26, 1998.

ACCOUNTING FOR STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION

In accordance with Accounting  Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25 and related
interpretations, the Company uses the intrinsic value-based method for measuring
stock-based compensation cost which measures compensation cost as the excess, if
any, of the quoted  market price of Company  common stock at the grant date over
the amount the employee must pay for the stock.  Required pro forma  disclosures
of compensation  expense determined under the fair value method of SFAS No. 123,
"Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," are presented in NOTE 13.

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

In June 1998,  the  Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board issued SFAS No. 133,
"Accounting  for  Derivative  Instruments  and  Hedging  Activities,"  which  is
required  to be adopted in years  beginning  after June 15,  2000.  The  Company
expects to adopt the new statement effective December 31, 2000, the beginning of
fiscal 2001. The statement will require the Company to recognize all derivatives
on the balance sheet at fair value.  Derivatives  not considered  hedges must be
adjusted to fair value through income. If a derivative is a hedge,  depending on
the nature of the hedge, changes in the fair value of the derivative will either
be offset  against the change in fair value of the hedged  asset,  liability  or
firm commitment  through  earnings or recognized in other  comprehensive  income
until the hedged item is recognized in earnings.  The  ineffective  portion of a
derivative's  change in fair value will be  immediately  recognized in earnings.
The adoption of SFAS No. 133 will not have a significant effect on the Company's
results of operations or financial position.


RECLASSIFICATIONS

Certain 1999 and 1998 amounts  have been  reclassified  to conform with the 2000
presentation.


NOTE 3. LINE OF CREDIT

During December 2000, the Company renewed a line of credit agreement with a bank
providing  for maximum  borrowings  of $5,000  less  indirect  borrowings  under
certain standby letters of credit which totaled approximately $4,000 at December
30, 2000. There were no direct or indirect borrowings outstanding under the line
of credit as of December 30, 2000.  The line of credit,  which bears interest at
the bank's  prime rate less 1% or LIBOR plus 1.5%,  expires June 28, 2001 and is
unsecured.



                          GARMIN LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)


NOTE 4. LONG-TERM DEBT

During 1995, GII entered into an agreement  with the City of Olathe,  Kansas for
the  construction  of a new  corporate  headquarters  (the  project)  which  was
financed  through  issuance of Series 1995 Industrial  Revenue Bonds (the Bonds)
totaling  $9,500.  Upon  completion  of the project in 1996,  GII retired  bonds
totaling $155. At December 30, 2000 and December 25, 1999, outstanding principal
under the Bonds totaled  $9,345.  Interest on the Bonds is payable  monthly at a
variable  interest  rate (5.15% and 4.80% at December  30, 2000 and December 25,
1999,  respectively),  which is adjusted  weekly to the  current  market rate as
determined  by the  remarketing  agent for the  Bonds  with  principal  due upon
maturity on January 1, 2025. See NOTE 8.

The Bonds are secured by an irrevocable  letter of credit totaling $9,650,  with
facility fees of 1.05% annually,  through February 2001,  renewable on an annual
basis  thereafter.  The bank has the  option of  requiring  GII to  establish  a
sinking fund related to the principal balance outstanding on the Bonds, which it
had not exercised  through December 30, 2000. The letter of credit is secured by
a  mortgage  on all  assets  financed  with the  proceeds  of the  Bonds  and is
guaranteed by GARMIN.

In connection  with the letter of credit  agreement  entered into with the bank,
GII is required to comply with various covenants, including minimum tangible net
worth  requirements  of both  GARMIN and GII and various  financial  performance
ratios.  In addition,  under the agreement entered into with the City of Olathe,
Kansas, GII was restricted from making capital  expenditures,  as defined by the
agreement, for facilities located in Olathe, Kansas in excess of $10,000 for the
period from February 28, 1992 to February 28, 1998.

During 1999,  GARMIN borrowed  $18,040 to finance the purchase of land and a new
manufacturing  facility in Taiwan. The outstanding  balance ($17,601 at December
30, 2000 and $18,370 at December 25, 1999,  based on period end exchange  rates)
is due in 60 equal payments of principal plus interest  beginning November 2001.
In addition, GARMIN has pledged, as additional security, land and buildings with
book values  totaling  approximately  $21,871 as of December 30, 2000.  Interest
only on the note is payable  monthly  through  November  2001 at a fixed rate of
6.155%.  Subsequent  to  November  2001,  interest  is  adjustable  based on the
Republic of China's government's preferential rate on term deposits plus 0.18%.

During 2000, GII entered into another agreement with the City of Olathe,  Kansas
to finance the Company's  expansion of its manufacturing  facilities through the
issuance  of Series 2000  Industrial  Revenue  Bonds (the 2000  Bonds)  totaling
$20,000.  The  proceeds  from the  issuance  of the 2000 Bonds were placed in an
interest-bearing  restricted cash account  controlled by a trustee  appointed by
the issuer.  Disbursements  from the  account are  restricted  to  purchases  of
equipment and construction related to the project and amounted to $14,152 during
the year.  Unexpended bond proceeds in this restricted cash account  amounted to
$5,848 at December 30, 2000.

At  December  30,  2000,  outstanding  principal  under the 2000  Bonds  totaled
$20,000.  Interest on the 2000 Bonds is payable  monthly at a variable  interest
rate  (6.70% at December  30,  2000),  which is  adjusted  weekly to the current
market  rate as  determined  by the  remarketing  agent of the 2000  Bonds  with
principal due upon maturity at April 15, 2020. See NOTE 8.

The 2000 Bonds are secured by an irrevocable  letter of credit totaling  $20,288
with facility fees of 1.43%.  This renewable letter of credit initially  expires
on September 20, 2004. The bank has required a sinking fund be established  with
semiannual payments of $667 beginning April 2002.



                          GARMIN LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)


NOTE 4. LONG-TERM DEBT (CONTINUED)

The aggregate  amounts of principal to be paid on long-term debt  outstanding at
December  30,  2000  during  each of the next five years and  thereafter  are as
follows:

2001                                                    $     587
2002                                                        4,854
2003                                                        4,854
2004                                                        4,854
2005                                                        4,854
Thereafter                                                 26,943
                                                    -------------------
                                                          $46,946
                                                    ===================

NOTE 5. LEASES AND OTHER COMMITMENTS

In December 1995, GII entered into several  sale-leaseback  transactions  with a
bank pursuant to a master lease agreement. The master lease was accounted for as
a capital  lease and provided GII an option to purchase the leased  property and
equipment at the  expiration  of the lease term,  or earlier upon  remittance of
satisfactory termination payments, for its then fair market value. Additionally,
the bank  agreed  to  purchase  and  concurrently  lease to GII up to  $7,000 of
property and equipment under the master lease agreement  through March 31, 1998.
All leases  under the  master  lease  agreement  were  accounted  for as capital
leases.

In March 1998, GII exercised its option and purchased the property and equipment
by  paying  the  outstanding  balance  of its  capital  lease  obligation  and a
termination  payment of $1,179. In accordance with SFAS No. 13,  "Accounting for
Leases," GII capitalized the termination payment as property and equipment.

Rental expense  related to office and warehouse  space for GEL amounted to $139,
$140 and $94 for the years  ended  December  30,  2000,  December  25,  1999 and
December 26, 1998, respectively.

At December 30, 2000, standby letters of credit amounting to $369 were issued by
banks on behalf of GARMIN.  Additionally,  approximately  $35,000 and $21,000 of
GARMIN's  retained  earnings are  indefinitely  restricted from  distribution to
stockholders pursuant to the law of Taiwan at December 30, 2000 and December 25,
1999, respectively.

Substantially all of the assets of GEL are held as collateral by a bank securing
payment of the United Kingdom value-added tax requirements.


NOTE 6. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

GII has an employee  savings plan under which its employees may contribute up to
15% of their  annual  compensation  subject to  Internal  Revenue  Code  maximum
limitations.  Additionally,  GEL has a defined contribution plan under which its
employees may contribute up to 5% of their annual compensation. Both GII and GEL
contribute an amount  determined  annually at the discretion of the GII Board of
Directors.  During the years ended  December  30,  2000,  December  25, 1999 and
December  26,  1998,  expense  related to these plans of $1,144,  $930 and $762,
respectively, was charged to operations.



                          GARMIN LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)


NOTE 6. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS (CONTINUED)

Additionally,  GII has a defined contribution money purchase plan (the MPP Plan)
which covers substantially all employees. GII contributes a specified percentage
of each participant's annual compensation up to certain limits as defined in the
MPP Plan.  During the years  ended  December  30,  2000,  December  25, 1999 and
December 26, 1998, GII recorded  expense  related to the Plan of $849,  $721 and
$659, respectively.

NOTE 7. INCOME TAXES

The Company's income tax provision consists of the following:

                                              YEAR ENDED
                        ------------------------------------------------------
                           DECEMBER 30,       DECEMBER 25,      DECEMBER 26,
                               2000               1999              1998
                        ------------------------------------------------------
Federal:
     Current                  $14,847          $  8,883         $  2,635
     Deferred                  (2,037)             (710)            (555)
                        ------------------------------------------------------
                               12,810             8,173            2,080
State:
     Current                    3,251             1,332              304
     Deferred                    (445)              (85)             (63)
                        ------------------------------------------------------
                                2,806             1,247              241
Foreign:
     Current                   13,880             8,915           13,669
     Deferred                   5,763             1,630           (3,636)
                        ------------------------------------------------------
                               19,643            10,545           10,033
                        ------------------------------------------------------
Total                         $35,259           $19,965          $12,354
                        ======================================================

The income tax  provision  differs  from the amount  computed  by  applying  the
statutory  federal  income tax rate to income before taxes.  The sources and tax
effects of the differences are as follows:

                                                    YEAR ENDED
                                   ---------------------------------------------
                                    DECEMBER 30,    DECEMBER 25,    DECEMBER 26,
                                        2000            1999            1998
                                   ---------------------------------------------
Federal income tax expense at U.S.
  statutory rate                       $49,323        $29,446        $16,632
State income tax expense, net of
  federal tax effect                     1,824            810            157
Foreign tax rate differential           (9,623)        (5,604)        (3,853)
Taiwan tax incentives and credits       (5,181)        (3,817)        (1,405)
Other, net                              (1,084)          (870)           823
                                   ---------------------------------------------
Income tax expense                     $35,259        $19,965        $12,354
                                   =============================================




                          GARMIN LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)



NOTE 7. INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED)

The Company's income before income taxes  attributable to foreign operations was
$99,171, $58,467 and $39,692 for the years ended December 30, 2000, December 25,
1999 and  December  26,  1998,  respectively.  The tax  incentives  and  credits
received from Taiwan included in the table above reflect $0.05,  $0.04 and $0.01
per  weighted-average  common share outstanding for the years ended December 30,
2000,  December  25,  1999 and  December  26,  1998,  respectively.  The Company
currently  expects to benefit from the  incentives  and credits being offered by
Taiwan through 2004, at which time these tax benefits expire.

Deferred  income  taxes  reflect  the net tax effects of  temporary  differences
between the carrying  amounts of assets and liabilities for financial  reporting
purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components of
the Company's deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:

                                                 DECEMBER 30,     DECEMBER 25,
                                                     2000             1999
                                             ----------------------------------
Deferred tax assets:
     Product warranty accruals                    $  1,808           $1,464
     Allowance for doubtful accounts                   705              411
     Inventory carrying value                        7,678            3,606
     Sales program allowances                        1,668                -
     Vacation accrual                                  324              335
     Depreciation                                        -               75
     Unrealized foreign currency losses                  -               28
     Other                                             452               57
                                             ----------------------------------
                                                    12,635            5,976
Deferred tax liabilities:
     Unrealized foreign currency gains               1,098               18
     Taiwan surtax on undistributed earnings         7,930                -
     Depreciation                                      930                -
                                             ----------------------------------
                                                     9,958               18
                                             ----------------------------------
Net deferred tax assets                           $  2,677           $5,958
                                             ==================================

The Taiwan surtax on undistributed  earnings relates to a tax to be paid in 2002
on 2000 earnings of GARMIN not  distributed to  shareholders in 2001. The surtax
is included as an offset to Taiwan tax  incentives and credits in the above rate
reconciliation.

NOTE 8. INTEREST RATE RISK MANAGEMENT

During  June  1996,  GII  entered  into  an  interest  rate  swap  agreement  to
effectively  convert a portion of its floating  rate  long-term  debt to a fixed
rate basis, thus, reducing the impact of interest rate changes on future income.
Pursuant  to this  "pay-fixed"  swap  agreement,  GII  agreed  to  exchange,  at
specified intervals,  the difference between the fixed and the floating interest
amounts  calculated on the notional amount of the swap agreement totaling $5,000
at December 30, 2000 and December 25, 1999.  GII's fixed interest rate under the
swap  agreement  is  5.1%.  The  counterparty's  floating  rate is  based on the
nontaxable  PSA Municipal Swap Index and amounted to 5.15% and 4.80% at December
30, 2000 and December 25, 1999,  respectively.  Notional amounts do not quantify
risk or represent  assets and  liabilities  of the Company,  but are used in the
determination of cash settlements under the agreement. The Company is exposed to



                          GARMIN LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)


NOTE  8.  INTEREST  RATE  RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)

credit  losses from  counterparty  nonperformance  but does not  anticipate  any
losses from its agreement, which is with a major financial institution.

During  2000,  GII entered into an  additional  swap  agreement  to  effectively
convert a portion of additional floating rate long-term debt associated with the
2000 Bonds to a fixed rate basis. Pursuant to this pay-fixed swap agreement, GII
agreed to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between the fixed and
the floating  interest  amounts  calculated  on the notional  amount of the swap
agreement totaling $10,000 at December 30, 2000. GII's fixed interest rate under
the swap agreement is 7.26% at December 30, 2000 compared to the  counterparty's
floating  rate of 6.7% at the same date.  The  counterparty's  floating  rate is
based on the bank's Taxable Low Floater Rate.

The gain and loss on  interest  rate  swap  agreements  was  immaterial  for all
periods presented.

NOTE 9. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

In  accordance  with SFAS No. 107,  "Disclosures  about Fair Value of  Financial
Instruments," the following summarizes required information about the fair value
of  certain  financial  instruments  for which it is  currently  practicable  to
estimate such value.  None of the financial  instruments  are held or issued for
trading  purposes.  The  carrying  amounts  and  fair  values  of the  Company's
financial instruments are as follows:


The  carrying  value of cash and cash  equivalents,  restricted  cash and  notes
payable  approximates  their  fair  value.  The  fair  values  of the  Company's
long-term debt have been estimated using discounted cash flow analyses, based on
an estimate of the interest  rate the Company  would have to pay on the issuance
of debt with a similar  maturity and terms. The fair values of long-term debt as
reported are not necessarily the amounts the Company would currently have to pay
to extinguish any of this debt.

NOTE 10. SEGMENT INFORMATION

The  Company  operates  within  its  targeted  markets  through  two  reportable
segments,  those being  related to products  sold into the consumer and aviation



                          GARMIN LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)


NOTE 10. SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

markets.  Both of the Company's  reportable  segments offer products through the
Company's network of independent dealers and distributors.  However,  the nature
of products and types of customers for the two segments vary  significantly.  As
such,  the segments  are managed  separately.  The  Company's  consumer  segment
includes portable global  positioning system (GPS) receivers and accessories for
marine,  recreation,  land and automotive use sold primarily to retail  outlets.
The Company's aviation products are portable and panel mount avionics for Visual
Flight Rules and  Instrument  Flight Rules  navigation and are sold primarily to
retail outlets and certain aircraft manufacturers.

The Company's  Co-Chief  Executive  Officers  have been  identified as the Chief
Operating Decision Makers (CODM).  The CODM evaluates  performance and allocates
resources  based on income before  income taxes of each  segment.  Income before
income taxes  represents net sales less  operating  expenses  including  certain
allocated general and administrative costs, interest income and expense, foreign
currency adjustments, and other non-operating corporate expenses. The accounting
policies  of the  reportable  segments  are the same as those  described  in the
summary of significant  accounting policies.  There are no intersegment sales or
transfers.

The identifiable  assets associated with each reportable segment reviewed by the
CODM include accounts  receivable and  inventories.  The Company does not report
property and equipment, depreciation and amortization or capital expenditures by
segment to the CODM.

Revenues,  interest income and interest expense,  income before income taxes and
identifiable assets for each of the Company's  reportable segments are presented
below:
                                      YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 30, 2000
                              --------------------------------------------------
                               CONSUMER         AVIATION           TOTAL
                              --------------------------------------------------
Sales to external customers     $230,183         $115,558          $345,741
Allocated interest income          4,610            2,315             6,925
Allocated interest expense         1,522              765             2,287
Income before income taxes        88,103           52,819           140,922
Assets:
     Accounts receivable          21,791           10,928            32,719
     Inventory                    59,843           30,012            89,855

                                      YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 25, 1999
                              --------------------------------------------------
                               CONSUMER         AVIATION           TOTAL
                              --------------------------------------------------
Sales to external customers     $169,164          $63,422          $232,586
Allocated interest income          3,147            1,180             4,327
Allocated interest expense           420              157               577
Income before income taxes        60,449           23,683            84,132
Assets:
     Accounts receivable          22,804            8,549            31,353
     Inventory                    31,093           20,155            51,248

                                      YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 26, 1998
                              --------------------------------------------------
                               CONSUMER         AVIATION           TOTAL
                              --------------------------------------------------
Sales to external customers     $135,446          $33,584          $169,030
Allocated interest income          2,814              698             3,512
Allocated interest expense           437              108               545
Income before income taxes        37,936            9,584            47,520
Assets:
     Accounts receivable          14,071            3,489            17,560
     Inventory                    25,528           12,446            37,974




                          GARMIN LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)


NOTE 10. SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

Net sales and long-lived  assets  (property and equipment),  by geographic area,
are as follows as of and for the years ended  December  30,  2000,  December 25,
1999 and December 26, 1998:

                                  NORTH
                                 AMERICA       ASIA        EUROPE       TOTAL
                               ------------------------------------------------
DECEMBER 30, 2000
Sales to external customers     $256,782     $16,569      $72,390     $345,741
Long-lived assets                 32,737      31,453          515       64,704


                                  NORTH
                                 AMERICA       ASIA       EUROPE        TOTAL
                               ------------------------------------------------
DECEMBER 25, 1999
Sales to external customers     $172,742     $11,146      $48,698     $232,586
Long-lived assets                 17,433      38,228          190       55,851


                                 NORTH
                                AMERICA       ASIA       EUROPE        TOTAL
                               ------------------------------------------------
DECEMBER 26, 1998
Sales to external customers     $116,629    $  9,609      $42,792     $169,030
Long-lived assets                 15,445      13,138          168       28,751


Sales to one customer in the consumer segment represented  approximately $26,400
of the Company's  consolidated  net sales in 1998. No single customer  accounted
for 10% or more of the Company's consolidated net sales in 2000 or 1999.


NOTE 11. LITIGATION SETTLEMENT

In  May  1998,  a  lawsuit  was  filed  against  the  Company   alleging  patent
infringement  in prior years for  unspecified  damages.  The Company settled the
lawsuit through dispute  resolution in May 1999 for $2,500.  The related expense
was reflected in the December 26, 1998 consolidated statement of income.


NOTE 12. INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING

On December 8, 2000,  the  Company  completed  an  underwritten  initial  public
offering  of  12,075,000   shares   (including   shares  sold  pursuant  to  the
underwriters'  over-allotment  option) of its common stock,  of which  8,242,111
shares  were  offered  by the  Company  and  3,832,889  were  offered by selling
shareholders (the Offering) at an offering price of $14.00 per share.  Prior to,
but in  connection  with  the  Offering,  the  Board  of  Directors  approved  a
1.12379256-for-1 stock split of the Company's common shares,  effected through a
stock dividend on November 6, 2000. All share and per share information included
in the accompanying  consolidated financial statements has been adjusted to give
retroactive effect to the common stock split.


                          GARMIN LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)


NOTE 13. STOCK COMPENSATION PLANS

During 2000, the Company adopted several stock  compensation  plans. The Company
accounts for all of these plans under APB Opinion No. 25,  "Accounting for Stock
Issued to Employees," and related  interpretations.  Accordingly,  as all awards
are  granted  at the fair  market  value on the date of grant,  no  compensation
expense is recognized.

The various plans are summarized below:

2000 EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN

In October 2000, the  stockholders  adopted an equity  incentive plan (the Plan)
providing  for grants of incentive  and  nonqualified  stock options and "other"
stock  compensation  awards to  employees  of the Company  and its  subsidiaries
pursuant  to which up to  3,500,000  shares of common  stock are  available  for
issuance.  The stock  options  generally  vest over a period of five years or as
otherwise determined by the Board of Directors or the Compensation Committee and
generally  expire 10 years  from the date of  grant,  if not  exercised.  Option
activity under the Plan during 2000 is summarized  below.  There were no "other"
stock compensation awards granted during 2000 under the Plan.

2000 NONEMPLOYEE DIRECTORS' OPTION PLAN

Also in  October  2000,  the  stockholders  adopted  a  stock  option  plan  for
nonemployee  directors (the Directors  Plan) providing for grants of options for
up to 50,000 common shares of the Company's  stock. The term of each award is 10
years. All awards vest evenly over a three-year  period.  No options  associated
with the Directors Plan had been granted as of December 30, 2000.

EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN

The  stockholders  also adopted an employee  stock  purchase plan (ESPP).  Up to
1,000,000 shares of common stock have been reserved for the ESPP. Shares will be
offered to  employees  at a price  equal to the lesser of 85% of the fair market
value of the stock on the date of purchase  or 85% of the fair  market  value on
the  enrollment  date.  The ESPP is  intended to qualify as an  "employee  stock
purchase plan" under Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code.

A summary of the Company's stock option activity and related information for the
year ended December 30, 2000 is provided below:

                                          EXERCISE PRICE     NUMBER (000)
                                         ------------------------------------
                                                            (IN THOUSANDS)

Outstanding at beginning of year               $ -                   -
     Granted                                    14.00            1,201
     Exercised                                   -                   -
     Canceled                                    -                   -
                                                          -------------------
Outstanding at end of year                      14.00            1,201
                                                          ===================


The weighted-average remaining contract life for options outstanding at December
30, 2000 is 9.9 years. All options granted during 2000 have an exercise price of
$14.00. None of the options are exercisable as of December 30, 2000.



                          GARMIN LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)


NOTE 13. STOCK COMPENSATION PLANS (CONTINUED)


Pro forma information regarding net income and earnings per share is required by
SFAS No. 123. SFAS No. 123 requires the pro forma  information  be determined as
if the Company has accounted for its employee stock options under the fair value
method of that statement. As described below, the fair value accounting provided
under SFAS No. 123  requires  the use of option  valuation  models that were not
developed for use in valuing  employee stock  options.  The fair value for these
options was estimated at the date of grant using a Black-Scholes  option pricing
model with the following weighted-average  assumptions for 2000 (no options were
granted prior to 2000):  risk-free  interest rate of 5.75%;  no dividend  yield;
volatility  factor of the expected market price of the Company's common stock of
0.530; and a weighted-average expected life of the option of seven years.

The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use in estimating the
fair value of traded  options which have no vesting  restrictions  and are fully
transferable.  In addition,  option valuation models require the input of highly
subjective assumptions,  including the expected stock price volatility.  Because
the  Company's  employee  stock  options  have   characteristics   significantly
different from those of traded  options,  and because  changes in the subjective
input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, in management's
opinion,  the  existing  models do not  necessarily  provide a  reliable  single
measure of the fair value of its employee stock options.

For purposes of pro forma  disclosures,  the estimated fair value of the options
is amortized to expense over the option's  vesting  period.  The  Company's  pro
forma information for the year ended December 30, 2000 is as follows:

Pro forma net income                                           $105,580
Pro forma net income per share:
     Basic                                                      $  1.05
     Diluted                                                    $  1.05
   Weighted-average fair value of options granted
       during the year                                          $  8.53


NOTE 14. EARNINGS PER SHARE

The following  table sets forth the  computation of basic and diluted net income
per share:





                          GARMIN LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)




NOTE 15. SELECTED QUARTERLY INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)


                                      YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 30, 2000
                       -------------------------------------------------------
                                            QUARTER ENDING
                       -------------------------------------------------------
                        MARCH 25,      JUNE 24,       SEPT. 23       DEC. 30(1)
                       -----------   -----------     -----------   -----------

Net sales                 $76,576       $93,964         $89,539      $85,662

Gross profit              $41,913       $50,025         $49,031      $42,757

Net income                $20,599       $29,161         $28,292      $27,611

Net income per share        $0.21         $0.29           $0.28        $0.27

- --------------------
(1)  As a result of the  Company's  52-53 week fiscal year,  the quarter  ending
     December  30, 2000  included  14 weeks of  operations.  All other  quarters
     include 13 weeks of operations.


                                       YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 25, 1999
                       ------------------------------------------------------
                                             QUARTER ENDING
                       ------------------------------------------------------
                         MARCH 27,      JUNE 26,       SEPT. 25      DEC. 25
                       ------------   ------------   ------------  ----------

Net sales                  $50,949       $55,446        $58,141       $68,050

Gross profit               $26,496       $29,456        $32,154       $38,826

Net income                 $15,193       $13,390        $14,992       $20,592

Net income per share         $0.15         $0.13          $0.15         $0.21

The  above  quarterly  financial  data  is  unaudited,  but  in the  opinion  of
management,  all adjustments  necessary for a fair  presentation of the selected
data for these interim periods presented have been included.



ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

         None.

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

The Company has  incorporated  by reference  certain  information in response or
partial  response to the Items under this Part III of this Annual Report on Form
10-K  pursuant  to General  Instruction  G(3) of this Form 10-K and Rule  12b-23
under the Exchange Act. The Company's  definitive  proxy statement in connection
with its annual meeting of  stockholders  scheduled for June 8, 2001 (the "Proxy
Statement"),  will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission no later
than 120 days after December 30, 2000.

(A)      DIRECTORS OF THE COMPANY

The  information  set forth in response to Item 401 of Regulation  S-K under the
headings  "Proposal-Election of Three Directors" and "The Board of Directors" in
the  Company's  Proxy  Statement is hereby  incorporated  herein by reference in
partial response to this Item 10.

(B)      EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

The  information  set forth in response to Item 401 of Regulation  S-K under the
heading "Executive Officers and Significant  Employees of the Company" in Part I
of this Form 10-K is  incorporated  herein by reference  in partial  response to
this Item 10.


(C)      COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION 16(A) OF THE EXCHANGE ACT

The  information  set forth in response to Item 405 of Regulation  S-K under the
heading "Other  Matters-Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance"
in the Company's Proxy Statement is hereby  incorporated  herein by reference in
partial response to this Item 10.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The  information  set forth in response to Item 402 of Regulation S-K under "The
Board  of  Directors  -  Compensation   of  Directors"   and  under   "Executive
Compensation" in the Company's Proxy Statement is hereby  incorporated herein by
reference in response to this Item 11.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The  information  set forth in response to Item 403 of Regulation  S-K under the
heading "Security  Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management" in the
Company's Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated herein by reference in response
to this Item 12.

The Company has no knowledge of any arrangement, the operation of which may at a
subsequent date result in a change in control of the Company.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The  information  set forth in response to Item 404 of Regulation  S-K under the
heading  "Compensation  Committee  Interlocks  and  Insider  Participation"  and
"Certain   Relationships  and  Related  Transactions"  in  the  Company's  Proxy
Statement is incorporated herein by reference in response to this Item 13.


ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)       LIST OF DOCUMENTS FILED AS PART OF THIS REPORT

(1)       Consolidated Financial Statements

          The consolidated financial statements and related notes, together with
          the  report of Ernst & Young LLP,  appear in Part II Item 8  Financial
          Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10-K.

(2)      Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

         All other schedules have been omitted because they are not applicable,
         are  insignificant  or  the  required  information  is  shown  in  the
         consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.

(3)      Exhibits -- The following exhibits are filed as part of, or
         incorporated by reference into, this Report on Form 10-K:

         EXHIBIT           DESCRIPTION
         NUMBER
         -------           -------------

          3.1*             Memorandum of Association

          3.2*             Articles of Association

          4.1*             Specimen share certificate

          4.2*             Form of Shareholder Rights Agreement

         10.1*             Garmin Ltd. 2000 Equity Incentive Plan

         10.2*             Garmin Ltd. 2000 Non-Employee Directors' Option Plan

         10.3*             Garmin Ltd. Employee Stock Purchase Plan

         21.1*             List of subsidiaries

         23.1              Consent of Ernst & Young LLP

         24.1              Power of Attorney (included in signature page)

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* Incorporated by reference from the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form
S-1  filed  December  6,  2000  and  declared  effective  on  December  8,  2000
(Commission File No. 333-45514).

(b)      REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     No reports on Form 8-K were filed by the Company  during the fourth quarter
ended December 30, 2000.




                          GARMIN LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE


Garmin Ltd. Financial  Statement Schedule for the years ended December 30, 2000,
December 25, 1999, and December 26, 1998.

   Schedule II - Valuation and qualifying accounts...........................56







(1)  Uncollectible accounts written off, net of recoveries.
(2)  Obsolete inventory dispositions and shrinkage.




                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the  requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934,  the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                                   GARMIN LTD.

                                   By   /s/ Gary L. Burrell
                                        --------------------------------
                                        Gary L. Burrell
                                        Co-Chief Executive Officer

Dated:  March 29, 2001


                                POWER OF ATTORNEY

     Know all  persons  by these  presents,  that each  person  whose  signature
appears below constitutes and appoints Gary L. Burrell and Min H. Kao and Andrew
R. Etkind, and each of them, as his or her  attorney-in-fact,  with the power of
substitution,  for him or her in any and all capacities,  to sign any amendments
to this Report on Form 10-K,  and to file the same,  with  exhibits  thereto and
other  documents  in  connection  therewith,  with the  Securities  and Exchange
Commission,  hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorney-in-fact,  or
his substitute or substitutes, may do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

     Pursuant to the  requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
Annual  Report on Form 10-K has been signed  below by the  following  persons on
behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities indicated on March 29, 2001:

/s/ Gary L. Burrell                          /s/ Min H. Kao
- --------------------------------             ----------------------------
Gary L. Burrell                              Min H. Kao
CO-CHAIRMAN, CO-CHIEF                        CO-CHAIRMAN, CO-CHIEF
EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND DIRECTOR               EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND DIRECTOR
(CO-PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER)             (CO-PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER)

/s/ Kevin Rauckman                           /s/ Ruey-Jeng Kao
- -------------------------------              ----------------------------
Kevin Rauckman                               Ruey-Jeng Kao
(PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER AND             DIRECTOR
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING OFFICER)
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER AND TREASURER

/s/ Thomas A. McDonnell                      /s/ Donald H. Eller
- -------------------------------              -----------------------------
Thomas A. McDonnell                          Donald H. Eller
DIRECTOR                                     DIRECTOR


/s/ Gene M. Betts
- --------------------------------
Gene M. Betts
DIRECTOR





                                   GARMIN LTD.
                          2000 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT
                                  EXHIBIT INDEX


         The following exhibits are attached hereto.* See Part IV of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K for a complete list of exhibits.

EXHIBIT
NUMBER            DOCUMENT

23.1              Consent of Ernst & Young LLP


* The above  exhibits are not  included in this Form 10-K,  but are on file with
the Securities and Exchange Commission.

