10-K


v303209_10k.htm

10-K

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

x

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011

or

¨

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from

to

Commission file number 0-31983

GARMIN LTD.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)

Switzerland

(State or other jurisdiction

of incorporation or organization)

98-0229227

(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

Mühlentalstrasse

8200 Schaffhausen

Switzerland

(Address of principal executive
        offices)

N/A

(Zip Code)

Registrant’s telephone number, including
area code:

+41 52 630 1600

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b)
of the Act:

Registered Shares, CHF 10.00 Per Share Par Value

NASDAQ Global Select Market

(Title of each class)

(Name of each exchange on which registered)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g)
of the Act:

None

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. YES

þ

NO

¨

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. YES

¨

NO

þ

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such
reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. YES

þ

NO

¨

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate website, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulations S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).

YES

þ

NO

¨

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.405 of this chapter) is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

þ

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller
reporting company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer”, “accelerated filer” and “smaller
reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large Accelerated Filer

þ

Accelerated Filer

¨

Non-accelerated Filer

¨

Smaller reporting company

¨

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).

YES

¨

NO

þ

Aggregate market value
of the common shares held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of June 25, 2011 (based on the closing price of the registrant's
common shares on the Nasdaq Stock Market for that date) was $3,996,788,770.

Number of shares outstanding of the registrant’s
common shares as of February 23, 2012:

Registered Shares, CHF 10.00 par value –
208,077,418 (including treasury shares)

Documents incorporated by reference:

Portions of the following document are incorporated herein by reference
into Part III of the Form 10-K as indicated:

Document

Part of Form 10-K into

which Incorporated

Company's Definitive Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders which will be filed no later than 120 days after December 31, 2011.

Part III

Garmin Ltd.

2011 Form 10-K Annual Report


Cautionary Statement With Respect To Forward-Looking Comments


Part I

Item 1.

Business


Item 1A.

Risk Factors


Item 1B.

Unresolved Staff Comments


Item 2.

Properties


Item 3.

Legal Proceedings


Item 4.

Mine Safety Disclosures


Executive Officers of the Registrant


Part II

Item 5.

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities


Item 6.

Selected Financial Data


Item 7.

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations


Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk


Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data


Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure


Item 9A.

Controls and Procedures


Item 9B.

Other Information


Part III

Item 10.

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance


Item 11.

Executive Compensation


Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters


Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence


Item 14.

Principal Accounting Fees and Services


Part IV

Item 15.

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules


Signatures


CAUTIONARY STATEMENT WITH RESPECT TO FORWARD-LOOKING
COMMENTS

The
discussions set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain statements concerning potential future events. Such forward-looking
statements are based upon assumptions by the Company's management, as of the date of this Annual Report, including assumptions
about risks and uncertainties faced by the Company. In addition, management may make forward-looking statements orally or in other
writings, including, but not limited to, in press releases, in the annual report to shareholders and in the Company’s other
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Readers can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of such
verbs as “expects,” “anticipates,” “believes” or similar verbs or conjugations of such verbs.
Forward-looking statements include any discussion of the trends and other factors that drive our business and future results in
“Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations.” Readers are
cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their date. If any of management's
assumptions prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, the Company's actual results could materially differ from
those anticipated by such forward-looking statements. The differences could be caused by a number of factors or combination of
factors including, but not limited to, those factors identified under Item 1A “Risk Factors.” Readers are strongly
encouraged to consider those factors when evaluating any forward-looking statements concerning the Company. The Company does not
undertake to update any forward-looking statements in this Annual Report to reflect future events or developments.

Part I

Item 1.

Business

This discussion of the
business of Garmin Ltd. ("Garmin" or the "Company") should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified by
reference to, “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under Item 7
herein and the information set forth in response to Item 101 of Regulation S-K in such Item 7 is incorporated herein by reference
in partial response to this Item 1. Beginning in 2011, for external reporting purposes, the Company identified five operating segments
– Auto/Mobile, Aviation, Marine, Outdoor and Fitness. Each operating segment is individually reviewed and evaluated by our
Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM), who allocates resources and assesses performance of each segment individually. Prior to
2011, the Outdoor and Fitness operating segments were combined into a single reportable segment due to the similar nature of those
products, their production processes, the types of customers served, their distribution processes, and similar economic conditions.
Management re-evaluated the combination of these operating segments and determined that based on the growth characteristics of
these segments they should now be reported as two distinct reportable segments. The segment and geographic information included
in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” under Note 8 is incorporated herein by reference in partial
response to this Item 1.

Garmin
was incorporated in Switzerland on February 9, 2010 as successor to Garmin Ltd., a Cayman Islands company (“Garmin Cayman”).
Garmin Cayman was incorporated on July 24, 2000 as a holding company for Garmin Corporation, a Taiwan corporation, in order to
facilitate a public offering of Garmin Cayman shares in the United States. On June 27, 2010, Garmin became the ultimate parent
holding company of the Garmin group of companies pursuant to a share exchange transaction effected for the purpose of changing
the place of incorporation of the ultimate parent holding company of the Garmin group from the Cayman Islands to Switzerland (the
“Redomestication”). Pursuant to the Redomestication, all issued and outstanding Garmin Cayman common shares were transferred
to Garmin and each common share, par value U.S. $0.005 per share, of Garmin Cayman was exchanged for one registered share, par
value 10 Swiss francs (“CHF”) per share, of Garmin. Garmin owns, directly or indirectly, all of the operating companies
in the Garmin group.

Garmin’s
annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statement and Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed
by Garmin’s directors and executive officers and all amendments to those reports will be made available free of charge through
the Investor Relations section of Garmin’s website (http://www.garmin.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such material
is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The SEC maintains
an Internet site (

http://www.sec.gov

) that contains reports, proxy and information statements,
and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.


The
reference to Garmin’s website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on this
website, and such information should not be considered part of this report on Form 10-K.

Company Overview

Garmin is a leading, worldwide
provider of navigation, communication and information devices and applications, most of which are enabled by Global Positioning
System (“GPS”) technology. Garmin designs, develops, manufactures and markets a diverse family of hand-held, portable
and fixed-mount GPS-enabled products and other navigation, communications and information products for the automotive/mobile, outdoor,
fitness, marine, and general aviation markets.

Overview of the Global Positioning System

The Global Positioning System
is a worldwide navigation system which enables the precise determination of geographic location using established satellite technology.
The system consists of a constellation of orbiting satellites. The satellites and their ground control and monitoring stations
are maintained and operated by the United States Department of Defense, which maintains an ongoing satellite replenishment program
to ensure continuous global system coverage. Access to the system is provided free of charge by the U.S. government.

Prior to May 2000, the U.S.
Department of Defense intentionally degraded the accuracy of civilian GPS signals in a process known as Selective Availability
(‘‘SA’’) for national security purposes. SA variably degraded GPS position accuracy to a radius of 100
meters. On May 2, 2000, the U.S. Department of Defense discontinued SA. In a presidential policy statement issued in December 2004,
the Bush administration indicated that the U.S. does not intend to implement SA again and is committed to preventing hostile use
of GPS through regional denial of service, minimizing the impact to peaceful users. With SA removed, a GPS receiver can calculate
its position to an accuracy of approximately 10 meters or less, enhancing the utility of GPS for most applications.

The accuracy and utility
of GPS can be enhanced through augmentation techniques which compute any remaining errors in the signal and broadcast these corrections
to a GPS device. The Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”) has developed a Wide Area Augmentation System (‘‘WAAS’’)
comprising ground reference stations and additional satellites that improve the accuracy of GPS positioning available in the United
States and most of Canada and Mexico to approximately 3 meters. WAAS supports the use of GPS as the primary means of enroute, terminal
and approach navigation for aviation in the United States. The increased accuracy offered by WAAS also enhances the utility of
WAAS-enabled GPS receivers for consumer applications. The FAA announced on July 11, 2003 that the WAAS system had achieved initial
operating capability and that the system was available for instrument flight use with appropriately certified avionics equipment.
Since that time, the FAA has installed additional ground reference stations and has launched additional WAAS satellites.

Japan’s MTSAT-based
Satellite Augmentation System (“MSAS”) achieved initial operating capability for en route, terminal and approach navigation
for aviation on September 27, 2007. The European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS) aviation Safety of Life (“SoL”)
service achieved initial operating capability for en route, terminal, and approach navigation on March 2, 2011.

Recent
Developments in the Company’s Business

Since
the inception of its business, Garmin has delivered over 97 million products, which includes the delivery of almost 16 million
products during 2011.


Acquisitions

In
June 2011, Garmin acquired Tri-Tronics Inc., the leading designer and manufacturer of electronic dog training equipment.

In
July 2011, Garmin acquired NAVIGON AG (now known as Garmin Würzburg GmbH), a leader in the portable navigation device market
in Germany and a worldwide leader in navigation applications for smartphones.

In
September 2011, Garmin acquired Garmin Distribution Africa (Pty.) Ltd. (now known as

Garmin
Southern Africa (Pty) Ltd.

), the distributor of Garmin’s automotive, outdoor recreation,
fitness and marine products in southern Africa, and Garmap (Pty) Ltd., a South African mapping and mobile applications provider.

In December 2011, Garmin acquired Centro GPS
Lda. (now known as Garmin Chile Lda.), the distributor of Garmin’s automotive, outdoor recreation, fitness and marine products
in Chile.

Automotive/Mobile
Product Introductions

In January
2011, Garmin announced the nüvi® 2400 series of portable navigation devices featuring a five-inch display and a range
of optional features including voice-activated navigation, lifetime traffic and map updates, and advanced route planning and calculation
with Garmin’s nüRoute™ technology. Also in January 2011, Garmin announced the dēzl™ series of navigation
devices designed for the trucking industry incorporating truck-specific points of interest (POIs) with The National Truck &
Trailer Services (NTTS) Breakdown Directory, hours, fuel and mileage logging and truck speed limits.

In August 2011, Garmin
announced the

nüvi 30, 40 and 50 series of budget portable navigation devices and the nüvi
3400 series of premium portable navigation devices with features including Garmin’s Guidance 3.0 navigation engine.

Outdoor
Product Introductions

Garmin
entered the personal and property tracking market in 2011 with the introduction of the GTU 10 GPS locator and web-based tracking
service. The GTU 10 won a 2011

Popular Mechanics

Editor’s Choice award and a

National Geographic Adventures

2011 Gear of the Year award.

Garmin expanded its line
of products for golfers in 2011 with the introduction of the Approach® G6 GPS golf handheld device that comes preloaded with
25,000 worldwide golf courses and an internal rechargeable battery.

In June
2011, Garmin announced the Astro® 320 handheld dog tracking GPS device with increased range, enhanced mapping capabilities
and a new user interface.

In May
2011, Garmin announced the Montana

TM

ruggedized GPS handheld device with a color touchscreen, dual display orientation,
a barometric altimeter, a 3-axis electronic compass, a 5 megapixel camera in certain models and support for a wide range of Garmin
mapping products. Garmin also announced a redesigned and upgraded version of its eTrex®series of GPS handheld devices with
enhanced ergonomics an improved user interface and, in certain models, a color screen with expanded mapping capabilities.

Garmin
also introduced a redesigned and upgraded range of Rino® handheld two-way radios with integrated GPS in 2011. Certain models
feature barometric altimeter, 3-axis electronic compass and NOAA weather radio.

Fitness
Product Introductions

Garmin
added to its line of products for fitness enthusiasts in 2011 with the Forerunner® 610, the first touchscreen GPS-enabled watch
in Garmin’s Forerunner series, and the Forerunner 910XT multisport GPS-enabled watch which provides swimming metrics and
tracks distance, speed/pace, elevation and heart rate for running and cycling. Garmin also introduced the FR70 low profile fitness
watch.


Garmin
expanded its line of products for cyclists in 2011 with the introduction of the Edge® entry-level 200 cycling computer.

Garmin
also announced Garmin Fit

TM

, its first fitness app for the iPhone and Android phones that uses the phone’s GPS
to let users track metrics such as speed, pace, distance, time, calories and with the help of Garmin accessories displays heart
rate and cadence.

Marine Product Introductions

Garmin
added to its marine product lineup in 2011 with the introduction of the GDL

TM

cellular marine weather receiver, the GHS

TM

20 and 20i wireless remote handsets
for Garmin’s VHF 200 and 300 series marine radios and an update to the GHP

TM


marine autopilot.

Aviation
Product Introductions

During 2011, Garmin introduced
the GTN

TM

650 and 750 series touchscreen-controlled integrated

VHF navigation receiver/instrument
landing systems receiver and VHF communication transmitter/receiver.

The GTN 650 and GTN 750 features
include graphical flight planning with victor airways and high-altitude jet routes, high-resolution terrain mapping, remote transponder,
remote audio control (750 series only), SafeTaxi® and electronic chart capabilities (750 series only).

In March 2011, Garmin announced
the G1000H

TM

integrated glass flight deck system designed specifically for helicopters,
including an optional Helicopter Terrain and Awareness System (HTAWS).

Also in March 2011 Garmin announced the

G2000

TM

,
a premium touchscreen-controlled integrated flight deck designed for high performance piston aircraft.

In September
2011 Garmin announced the aera® 795 and 796 touchscreen portable aviation navigation devices. The 796 features 3D Vision which
uses GPS position and the terrain-alerting database to recreate a 3D behind-the-aircraft perspective view of the topographic landscape.

Products

Garmin has achieved a leading market position
and a history of growth in revenues and profits by offering ergonomically designed, user-friendly products with innovative features
and designs covering a broad range of applications and price points. Garmin’s target markets are currently broken down into
its five main business segments – automotive/mobile, outdoor, fitness, marine and aviation.

Automotive/Mobile

Garmin offers a broad range of automotive navigation
products, as well as a variety of products and applications designed for the mobile GPS market. Garmin believes that its products
are known for their value, high performance, ease of use, innovation, and ergonomics. The table below includes a sampling of the
primary automotive and mobile products that Garmin currently offers to consumers around the world.


nüvi®

(59 models)

The nüvi is Garmin’s popular personal navigation device (PND). All nüvi models
combine a full-featured GPS navigator (with built-in maps) with Garmin’s uniquely simple user interface. Different nüvi
models and optional add-ons offer a plethora of additional feature sets, including a wide screen display, integrated traffic receiver
for traffic avoidance (including some models with lifetime traffic updates), bundled lifetime map updates, spoken street names,
voice activated navigation, speed limit indication, lane assist with PhotoReal junction views - more than 58 thousand high quality
photos of actual upcoming junctions, 3-D building view, Bluetooth® hands-free capability, built-in maps of Europe, and the
ability to add custom points of interest and a custom GPS voice. Bluetooth enabled models are compatible with Garmin Mechanic and
ecoRoute HD, which provide engine monitoring, sensor and gauge data, fuel efficiency and engine diagnostics. The nüvi 3700
series offers a super-thin design and such other newer features as a multi-touch glass display, nüRoute™ technology,
3-D terrain view, and pedestrian mode. In August 2011 Garmin announced the 2012 line of nüvis, featuring a tiered series of
PNDs – Essential (the nüvi 30/40/50 series), Advanced (the nüvi 2405 and 2505 series) and Prestige (the nüvi
3400 series). New to the 2012 line are, among other features, the advanced Guidance 2.0 and 3.0 navigation engines for a faster,
more intuitive user interface. In January 2012, Garmin

announced the nüvi 3500 series, our newest
flagship PNDs and first GPS navigators that combine the ultra-thin form factor with a large, 5-inch glass display. The 3500 series
is part of the Prestige line of 2012 nüvis and includes the most premium features available on any device such as the Guidance
3.0 navigation engine, Digital 3D Traffic and compatibility with Garmin’s newest Android application, Smartphone Link

.

In fiscal years 2011, 2010, and 2009, the nüvi class of products represented approximately 48%, 54%, and 63%
of Garmin’s total consolidated revenues, respectively.

zūmo®

(4 models)

Motorcycle-specific navigators with features including a glove-friendly touch screen with high
bright sunlight-readable display, motorcycle mount, vibration-tested design, and Bluetooth wireless technology. A microSD (secure
digital) card slot allows riders to share their favorite places and rides with fellow zūmo riders. The zūmo 660 and 665
feature 3-D building view and lane assist with junction view and a digital fuel gauge. The 665 includes an antenna for XM Satellite
Radio®, XM NavWeather® and XM NavTraffic® (subscription is required for XM content).

dēzl™

(2 models)

In January 2011, Garmin announced the dēzl series, a new line of Garmin navigators designed
exclusively for the over-the road trucking industry.

The dēzl  features a large five-inch
display, a built-in loudspeaker, and offers a number of additional user-friendly features including truck-specific points of interest
(POIs) with The National Truck & Trailer Services (NTTS) Breakdown Directory, hours, fuel and mileage logging, truck speed
limits and advanced navigation and route planning and calculation with Garmin’s nüRoute™ technology.

The dēzl series is comprised of two models: the dēzl 560LT, a traffic-enabled model that notifies drivers of traffic
delays and road construction and suggests detours around them; and the dēzl 560LMT that adds map updates, letting users download
the most up-to-date maps and points of interest up to four times a year.

StreetPilot® Application

Launched in January 2011, this smartphone application allows Apple iPhone or GPS-enabled iPad users
to download premium Garmin navigation to their device, allowing for turn-by-turn, voice-prompted directions and other popular Garmin
navigation features.

Streetpilot
Onboard

Application for iPhone

Announced in August 2011, the

StreetPilot Onboard App for iPhone offers
onboard mapping and navigation, giving drivers and travelers an unparalleled range of industry-leading options for efficient
routing, effortless planning and stress-free touring wherever they may go.

Smartphone Link

Launched in January 2012, Smartphone Link is

the first Android application
to provide live services to PNDs. Smartphone Link creates a seamless navigation experience between any Bluetooth enabled 2012 Garmin
nüvi and an Android smartphone allowing them to communicate and share data. Among other functionalities, the application lets
nüvi users add live services, such as traffic information, traffic camera images, weather and fuel prices to their navigation
device, utilizing the smartphone's mobile data plan. Smartphone Link is available at no cost in the Android Market and includes
several free live services as well as premium content available through subscriptions.


NAVIGON

Applications
for

iPhone

In November 2011, NAVIGON (now Garmin Würzburg GmbH) launched the second generation of its
award-winning iPhone navigation app, NAVIGON 2.0 for iPhone. The new version completely redefines core elements of iPhone navigation,
including a new and unique map management function and an in application purchase option for quarterly map updates, both not found
in any other onboard navigation app. Also included is a very simple and intuitive user interface. Existing NAVIGON for iPhone users
receive the update to the new version at no cost.

NAVIGON

Applications
for

Windows

With NAVIGON’s Windows applications, users can turn their Windows mobile phones into a mobile
navigation device with features such as text-to-speech spoken turn-by-turn navigation instructions, Reality View Pro junction information
and depictions, and Lane Assist Pro.

NAVIGON

Applications
for

Android

With NAVIGON’s Android
applications, users can turn their Android mobile phones into a mobile navigation device with features such as text-to-speech
spoken turn-by-turn navigation directions, Reality View Pro junction information and depictions, Lane Assist Pro, and live real-time
weather and traffic information.

Outdoor

The
table below includes a sampling of the outdoor products that Garmin currently offers to consumers around the world

.

Dakota®

(2 models)

The Dakota series is Garmin’s entry level series of handheld GPS navigators with built-in
mapping. The Dakota 10 is a rugged, palm-sized navigator that offers a touchscreen display, high-sensitivity GPS, and a built-in
worldwide basemap. The Dakota 20 adds a barometric altimeter, 3-axis electronic compass, and a microSD™ card slot for optional
customized maps. The 20 model also allows a user to share waypoints, tracks, routes and geocaches wirelessly with other compatible
Dakota, Foretrex®, Oregon® and Colorado® users.


Oregon®

(4 models)

The Oregon series combines a bright 3-inch color touchscreen, rugged design and a variety of hiker-friendly
features. The Oregon 450 and Oregon 450t offer a rugged, sunlight-readable, touchscreen along with a built-in basemap with shaded
relief, a high-sensitivity receiver, barometric altimeter, 3-axis electronic compass, microSD™ card slot, picture viewer
and more.

The high-end Oregon 550 and 550t models each come with a built-in 3.2 megapixel
autofocus digital camera with 4x digital zoom, and each photo taken by these devices is automatically geotagged with the location
of where it was taken, allowing the user to navigate back to that exact spot in the future.

Rino®

(8 models)

Handheld two-way Family Radio Service (FRS) and General Mobile Radio Service (GMRS) radios that
integrate two-way voice communications with GPS navigation. Features include patented “peer-to-peer position reporting”
so you can transmit your location to another Rino radio. The Rino 110 offers an

FRS/GMRS radio plus
basic GPS navigator.

The Rino 120 adds an internal basemap and MapSource compatibility for street-level mapping. The Rino
130 has 24 MB of internal memory, built-in electronic compass, barometric sensor, and National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
(NOAA) weather radio receiver. The Rino 520HCx has a high sensitivity GPS receiver, 5 watts of transmit power, color display, mini-USB
interface, and a turn-by turn automatic route calculation for use in automobiles. The Rino 530HCx has all of the features of the
Rino 520HCx, plus a seven-channel weather receiver, electronic compass, and barometric altimeter. In June 2011 Garmin

announced the redesigned and upgraded Rino

610, 650 and 655t. The Rino 610 is an entry level 1-watt FRS/GMRS radio handheld
GPS radio is powered by four AA batteries and comes pre-loaded with a worldwide basemap. The Rino 650 and 655t 5-watt FRS/GMRS
radios have a communication range of up to 20 miles and have evolved to include a 2.6” glove-friendly touchscreen and include
features such as a barometric altimeter, 3-axis tilt compensated compass and NOAA weather radio.

Montana™

(3 models)

In May 2011, Garmin announced the Montana

handheld GPS device
– the most advanced Garmin handheld featuring a ruggedized design with multiple mounting and battery options, dual-orientation
and screen layout options and support for a wide range of Garmin cartography. It has a barometric altimeter for elevation profiling
and ability to profile the route ahead using an included worldwide elevation model. The included 3-axis compass gives it a heading
while standing still or when not held level.Montana 600 is the base model and

features a 4-inch color touchscreen dual orientation
display and supports multiple mapping options like

BirdsEye Satellite Imagery

,

BlueChart®
g2

and

TOPO U.S. 24K

. Montana has key features for the outdoors such as a 3-axis
tilt-compensated compass and barometric altimeter. Montana 650 adds a 5 megapixel camera, and Montana 650t adds preloaded TOPO
U.S. 100K maps.

eTrex®

(8 models)

In May 2011, Garmin announced the redesigned and upgraded

eTrex

handheld GPS device – evolving from one of the world’s most reliable and popular handhelds, with millions sold. This
entry level option has been given enhanced ergonomics, an improved interface, paperless geocaching and in certain

models, a 65k color screen with expanded mapping capabilities. These new additions, along with up to 25 hours of battery life,
make the new eTrex more versatile and user-friendly, while maintaining its durability.


GPSMAP®62

(5 models)

Rugged outdoor handheld devices for hunters, hikers, geocachers and
outdoors enthusiasts. The basic GPSMAP 62 includes a built-in worldwide basemap with shaded relief. The GPSMAP 62s adds a 3-axis
tilt-compensated electronic compass and wireless connectivity for sharing routes, tracks, waypoints and geocaches between other
compatible Garmin handhelds. The GPSMAP 62s also includes a barometric altimeter that tracks changes in pressure to pinpoint the
precise altitude. In addition to these features, the GPSMAP 62st includes preloaded 100K topographic maps for the entire United
States (or preloaded 50K topographic mapping of Canada for the Canadian version). The GPSMAP 62stc and GPSMAP 62sc were announced
in June 2011.

The GPSMAP 62stc features a 3-axis tilt-compensated compass, a barometric altimeter, 5 megapixel autofocus
camera with photo navigation, preloaded TOPO U.S. 100K maps and supports custom maps and BirdsEye™ Satellite imagery (subscription
required). The GPSMAP 62sc features a 3-axis tilt-compensated compass, a barometric altimeter, a 5 megapixel autofocus camera with
photo navigation, and support for Custom Maps and BirdsEye™ Satellite imagery (subscription required).

Approach®

(4 models)

The Approach G5 is a waterproof, touchscreen, handheld GPS for golfers that features over 17,500
preloaded golf course maps. Approach G5 uses a high-sensitivity GPS receiver to measure individual shot distances and show the
exact yardage to fairways, hazards and greens. A statistic-tracking feature allows users to track and analyze their golf statistics.
The Approach G3 is a smaller, lighter version of the G5, yet still offers over 17,500 preloaded courses.

The
Approach S1 is a wearable golf watch that displays precise yardages to the front, back and middle of greens and comes preloaded
with over 17,500 courses. In September 2011, Garmin introduced the Approach S1W, which is a white version of the Approach S1, so
that customers could choose between the colors black and white for their Approach S1. In January 2012 Garmin announced the newest
Approach model – the Approach G6. The Approach G6 is a sleek, slim glove-friendly device weighing just over three ounces
that comes preloaded with over 25,000 worldwide courses.

Astro®

(2 models)

High sensitivity GPS-enabled dog tracking system. The Astro 220 is designed to pinpoint up to ten
dogs’ positions at one time through all-weather collars and a handheld system. The system also provides a Dog Tracker page
and a Covey Counter

tm

to assist the hunter. It is loaded with many of
the features of our outdoor devices including: barometric altimeter, electronic compass, microSD slot, area calculator and a waterproof
exterior. In June 2011 Garmin announced the Astro 320,

which includes increased range, a simplified
user interface, and enhanced mapping capability. With the included redesigned antenna, the maximum range between the Astro 320
and a Garmin tracking collar was increased by nearly 30 percent.  Like the Astro 220, the Astro 320 can track up

to
ten dogs per receiver at once, and the unit is fully compatible with Garmin’s DC 20, DC 30, and DC 40 dog tracking collars
and accessories. In addition to the pre-installed basemap, the Astro 320 can be loaded with 100k or 24k Topo maps or photorealistic

BirdsEye™ Satellite Imagery

($29.99 annual subscription required).  The Astro
320 has 1.7 gigabytes of on-board memory available for loading maps, and a microSD slot for pre-loaded

cards.

GTU™ 10 GPS Tracker

On January 4, 2011, Garmin announced the

GTU 10, which is a GPS locator
that combines a web-based tracking service with GPS technology so the user can keep track his or her children, pets and property
by monitoring the device’s location through either

Garmin’s secure website using any computer or with the free

Garmin Tracker™

app.


Fitness

The
table below includes a sampling of the fitness products and applications that Garmin currently offers to consumers around the world

.

Forerunner®

(12 models)

Compact, lightweight training assistants for athletes with integrated GPS sensor (except for the
FR60 and FR 70 fitness watches) that provide time, speed, distance, pace and other data. Some models also offer a heart rate monitoring
function. The FR 60 and FR70 are entry-level advanced fitness watches that allow runners and walkers to track their workouts and
automatically upload their data (via a wireless USB ANT™ Stick) to a personal computer. The Forerunner 405 is a compact-sized,
wrist-worn GPS-enabled device that allows runners and joggers to track their speed, distance, heart rate and location, access their
training history or challenge a Virtual Partner™ and automatically upload their data wirelessly to a personal computer. The
Forerunner 405CX adds heart-rate based calorie computation and improved comfort to the numerous features available on the Forerunner
405. The Forerunner 410 offers an enhanced touch bezel designed to allow users to

quickly scroll and
select features on the run. The Forerunner 610 is Garmin’s first ever touch-screen fitness watch and it also adds the new
Virtual Racer™, which allows runners to race against their previous best times, using data stored on the watch.

The
Forerunner 310XT model, which was designed specifically for triathletes,

is water-resistant to 50m
and tracks biking and running data (and optional heart rate data).

In October 2011, Garmin announced the Forerunner 910XT,
which is

the only all-in-one GPS-enabled device that provides detailed swim metrics and tracks distance,
speed/pace, elevation and heart rate for running and cycling. Designed for both open water and pool swimming, Forerunner 910XT
is water resistant to 50 meters and is Garmin’s first multisport watch to offer extensive swim metrics, including swim distance,
stroke identification, stroke count and pool lengths.

Edge®

(3 models)

Integrated personal training systems designed for cyclists. The Edge 200 measures speed, distance,
time, calories burned, climb and descent, altitude and more. The Edge 500 is geared toward performance-driven cyclists and tracks
the cyclist’s distance, speed, location and elevation with high sensitivity GPS, and also tracks the cyclist’s heart
rate with an optional heart rate monitor (sold separately). The newest model, the Edge 800, added a touchscreen interface to the
Edge family of products.

Garmin Fit™ Application

In October 2011, Garmin announced Garmin Fit for iPhone and Android, Garmin’s first fitness
app that lets users track metrics such as speed, pace, distance, time, calories, and with optional Garmin accessories displays
heart rate and cadence. Garmin Fit also maps and automatically uploads workouts to Garmin’s Garmin Connect, which is Garmin’s
website where users can track their workout data.

Vector™

In August 2011, Garmin announced Vector, which is a high-precision pedal based power meter for
cyclists. Vector is a light-weight direct measurement power meter and it is designed for quick installation, portability, and ease-of-use.

Marine

Garmin’s marine products
include handhelds, network products and multifunction displays, fixed-mount GPS/chartplotter products, instruments, fishfinders,
radar, autopilots, VHF radios, marine networking products, and sounder products. The table below includes a sampling of some of
the marine products that Garmin currently offers to consumers.


Marine
Chartplotters and Networking Products

GPSMAP®

7000 series

(4 models)

The GPSMAP 7000 series of large format multi-function displays introduced
Garmin’s G Motion technology, which represents an upgrade in speed, smoothness and clarity over prior plotters. G Motion
technology delivers ultra-smooth map panning and zooming with virtually seamless graphical updating in all dimensions.  The
7000 series chartplotters also feature a low-level backlight display and a backlit keypad for use in

low-light conditions
without compromising vision. The GPSMAP 7x15 series offers a huge 15-inch diagonal XGA (1024 x 768 pixel) sunlight readable touchscreen
display, and is offered in two models – the GPSMAP 7015 with an enhanced worldwide satellite imagery basemap; and the GPSMAP
7215, which comes pre-loaded with highly detailed U.S. coastal charts and Explorer Charts for the Bahamas.   Mariners
can also opt for the same XGA resolution in a 12-inch diagonal screen configuration with the GPSMAP 7012 and GPSMAP 7212 models,
which offer a worldwide basemap and coastal charts respectively.  All models are compatible with an optional wireless remote
and a wireless mouse for additional flexibility and also offer expanded “plug-and-play” access to onboard sensors,
with NMEA 2000 and Garmin Marine Network connectivity (the Garmin Marine Network is a system that combines GPS, radar, XM WX Satellite
Weather, sonar, and other data).

GPSMAP6000
series

(4 models)

Like the 7000 series, the 6000 series models also offer Garmin’s G Motion technology and
the features to improve visibility in low-light conditions.

The GPSMAP 6x12 series features a traditional
soft-key interface with an alphanumeric keypad and a 12-inch diagonal XGA (1024 x 768 pixel) sunlight readable display.  Within
this family, Garmin offers the GPSMAP 6012 with an enhanced worldwide satellite imagery basemap; and the GPSMAP 6212 with highly
detailed U.S. coastal charts and Explorer Charts for the Bahamas preloaded.  For a smaller display, the GPSMAP 6x08 series
offers an 8-inch VGA (640 x 480) sunlight readable display with a soft-key interface. The models in the GPSMAP 6000 series are
all compatible with an optional wireless remote and also offer expanded “plug-and-play” access to onboard sensors,
with NMEA 2000 and Garmin Marine Network connectivity.

GPSMAP
5000 series

(6 models)

These touch-screen multifunction displays for the Garmin Marine Network (a system that combines
GPS, radar, XM WX Satellite Weather, sonar, and other data) offer ease of use and video-quality resolution and color. The 5212
and 5208 come pre-loaded with detailed U.S. coastal charts, including Explorer Charts, and are compatible with Garmin’s BlueChart®
g2 Vision™ charts (sold separately) which offer high-resolution satellite imagery, 3-D map perspective, aerial reference
photos, and auto guidance. The 5215 and 5015 offer 15-inch diagonal sunlight-readable touchscreen displays.

GPSMAP 4000 series/

4200 series (6 models)

These multifunction displays for the Garmin Marine Network offer ease of use and video-quality
resolution and color. The 4212 and 4208 come pre-loaded with detailed U.S. coastal charts, including Explorer Charts, and are compatible
with Garmin’s BlueChart® g2 Vision™ charts (sold separately) which offer high-resolution satellite imagery, 3-D
map perspective, aerial reference photos, and auto guidance. The 4210 and 4010 feature 10.4-inch diagonal sunlight- readable displays
and Garmin’s newer marine user interface.

GPSMAP 6x0and 7x0 series

(6 models)

The 6x0 series chartplotters offer a super-bright WVGA touchscreen display and provide navigational
support for both marine mode and automotive mode (when loaded with optional City Navigator® NT road maps for North America).
The 7x0 models are

touchscreen controlled stand-alone marine chartplotters offering radar capability
and built-in sonar.


GPSMAP 5x6 and 5x1

series (8 models)

Building upon the success of the GPSMAP 400 and 500 series, the new
chartplotters in the GPSMAP 5x6 and 5x1 series come standard with an internal high-sensitivity GPS receiver that allows for faster
acquisition times and better satellite tracking so that boaters are able to acquire and maintain a GPS fix more easily. In addition,
these units boast an improved, high-speed digital design that will increase map drawing and panning speeds. The sounder (“s”)
version of each model comes with a powerful dual-frequency transducer that clearly illustrates depth contours, fish targets and
structures in either fresh or salt water. Many of the new models in this series are also NMEA 2000 certified and can interface
with Garmin’s full lineup of NMEA 2000 marine sensors and autopilots, as well as many other third-party sensors.

GPSMAP

4x1

series (4 models)

With a 4-inch QVGA sunlight-readable display, the GPSMAP 4x1 series
was designed for the boater who wants high performance in a small package. These units feature a high-sensitivity GPS receiver
and faster processors, and are offered with the same cartography configuration as the GPSMAP 5x1 series. Likewise, the GPSMAP 4x1s
series is also available with a built-in sonar with a 500-watt RMS dual-frequency transducer for offshore use and a 400-watt RMS
with a dual beam transducer for inland use. For satellite weather and radio data, the GPSMAP 441 and 421 are also compatible with
the GXM 51 receiver.

GSD 22, 24

and 26

These “black-box” sounders interface with Garmin display units and chartplotters and
enhance their utility by providing the depth sounder and fish finder functions in a remote mounted package.

GMS 10

The GMS 10 Network Port Expander is the "nerve center" of the Garmin Marine Network.
This 100-Mbit switch is designed to support the connection of multiple sensors to the

Garmin Marine
Network

.

Other Marine Products

GMI™ 10

The GMI 10 is a NMEA 2000 and NMEA 0183 compliant instrument that displays data from multiple remote
sensors on one screen. Mariners can use the GMI 10 to display instrument data such as depth, speed through the water, water temperature,
fuel flow rate, engine data, fuel level, wind direction and more, depending upon what sensors are connected.

GPSMAP 78sc

M

arine-friendly GPS handheld featuring a new contemporary industrial
design with rubber side grips. The GPSMAP 78sc includes high-end features such as a 3-axis tilt-compensated electronic compass,
wireless data transfer between compatible units and preloaded cartography for the coastal United States.

VHF
Marine Radios

(4 models)

This series of marine radios offers differing feature sets for the radio
needs of all types of mariners. The VHF 100 is

an

entry-level, NMEA 0183 compatible VHF marine
radio. The VHF 200 is NMEA 2000 compatible. The next step up is the VHF 300, which is designed for 35+ foot boats and is NMEA 2000
and NMEA 0183 compatible and offers multi-station support. Also designed for 35+ foot boats, the VHF 300 AIS is NMEA 2000 and NMEA
0183 compatible, offers multi-station support, and monitors all AIS channels at the same time.


Marine

Autopilot Systems

(5 models)

The newest entry to Garmin’s marine autopilot lineup is the GHP 12, a full-featured marine
autopilot designed initially for sailboats. This second-generation autopilot is designed for 20- to 70-foot sailboats with linear-actuated
steering systems. In June 2011 Garmin announced that the GHP 12 was updated to also support powerboats with both solenoid-driven
and cable-actuated steering systems, as well as those with third party hydraulic pumps. The GHP 10 autopilot is also for powerboats
and comes with Garmin’s patented Shadow Drive™ technology, which automatically disengages the autopilot if the helm
is turned, allowing the helmsman to maneuver the boat. This autopilot automatically re-engages when a steady course is held by
the helmsman. The TR-1 Gold Marine Autopilot offers worry-free remote steering and speed control to operators of small gasoline
outboard motor boats up to 20 horsepower. Finally, the GHP 10V Autopilot System for Volvo Penta IPS and Sterndrive Joystick Systems
is approved for use with boats that have an integrated Volvo Penta IPS steering and propulsion system and features Garmin’s
proven and innovative Shadow Drive™ technology, a patented capability that automatically disengages the autopilot if the
helm is turned, allowing for quick and safe manual maneuvers without manually disengaging the autopilot.

Fishfinders

(11 models)

Garmin offers 11 different fishfinder options spanning various price points. The latest addition
to Garmin’s fishfinder lineup is six different models of Garmin’s new echo™ fishfinder series, a line of standalone
fishfinders that all offer an updated look and new Garmin HD-ID™ target tracking technology. The echo™ line ranges
in price points from models with grayscale displays to the highest-end echo 550C, which features a video-quality 640x480 pixel
5-inch VGA screen, a powerful 500-watt sonar transmitter, and offers fish arch display and bottom tracking as deep as 1,900 feet.
In addition to the echo™ series, Garmin also offers five additional fishfinder options. All of these models feature Garmin’s
Ultrascroll™ technology, which allows boaters to get a faster refresh rate on their sonar display, and dual-beam transducer
operation. Three of these models offer color displays. The Fishfinder 400C comes with dual beam or dual frequency transducers for
easy adaptability to either freshwater or saltwater fishing. It also offers a new, easy-to-use interface and built in CANet connectivity
to enable sonar data to be shared with compatible Garmin chartplotters.

Radar

(9 models)

Garmin offers both radomes and open array radar products with compatibility
to any network-compatible Garmin chartplotter so that the chartplotter can double as the radar screen. The GMR™ 18 is a digital
radome product with a 4 kilowatt radar with 36 nm range that is 0.45 m in diameter and comes with an antenna with 5.0° beamwidth.
The GMR 404 and 406 open array radar scanners provide even greater clarity and a 72 nautical mile range. The GMR 18 HD and GMR
24 HD radomes feature digital signal processing providing sharper radar imagery and improved target separation. The newest

generation
of open-array digital radar scanners are the GMR™ 1204/1206 xHD, the GMR 604/606 xHD and the GMR 404/406 xHD models, which
transmit with 12, 6 and 4 kilowatts of power respectively. All six of these open-array scanners have a maximum effective range
of 72 nautical miles. These new xHD scanners provide up to eight times more sampling data than Garmin’s current open-array
offerings.


Aviation

Garmin’s aviation
product line includes GPS-enabled navigation, VHF communications transmitters/receivers, multi-function displays, electronic flight
instrumentation systems (EFIS), automatic flight control systems, traffic advisory systems and traffic collision avoidance systems,
terrain awareness and warning systems, instrument landing system (ILS) receivers, surveillance products, audio panels, cockpit
datalink systems and more.

Garmin’s aviation
products have won prestigious awards throughout the industry for their innovative features and ease of use. The GNS 430/530W offers
multiple features and capabilities integrated into a single product. This high level of integration minimizes the use of precious
space in the cockpit, enhances the quality and safety of flight through the use of modern designs and components and reduces the
cost of equipping an aircraft with modern electronics. The GNS 430 was recognized by

Flying

Magazine as the Editor’s
Choice Product of the Year for 1998. In 1994, and again in 2000, Garmin earned recognition from the Aircraft Electronics Association
for outstanding contribution to the general aviation electronics industry. The GPSMAP 295 won

Aviation Consumer

Magazine’s
Gear of the Year award for best aviation portable product in 2000 and again in 2001.

Flying

Magazine’s editors awarded
the GPSMAP 396 with a 2005 Editors’ Choice Award for outstanding achievements. The GPSMAP 496, introduced in 2006, won the
“2006 Gear of the Year” award from

Aviation Consumer

magazine.

Flying

Magazine’s editors awarded
Garmin a 2007

Flying

Editors’ Choice Award for making the safety and precision of WAAS (Wide Area Augmentation System)
available in its GPS navigation systems. Garmin was also selected as “Best GPS Ever” by

Aviation Consumer

magazine
for the GPSMAP® 696 in 2009, and in 2010 the Garmin aera™ series aviation GPS was selected as best portable product.
Garmin has been ranked No. 1 among aviation cockpit electronics manufacturers for product support in

Professional Pilot

magazine’s survey of its readers in each of the last eight survey years.

Aviation International News

also ranked Garmin
No. 1 in product support in 2011 and in each of the preceding eight years, as well. Garmin received the Airline Technology Achievement
Award from

Air Transport World Magazine

in January 2005 for championing the development of Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast
(ADS-B) technology, an enabling technology for air traffic management.

Garmin’s aviation
products are sold in both new aircraft/helicopters and the retrofit market where existing aircraft/helicopters are fitted with
the latest electronics from Garmin’s broad product line.

Garmin has also expanded
its range of avionics offerings to leading General Aviation aircraft manufacturers such as the Cessna Aircraft Company, Cirrus
Aircraft, Hawker Beechcraft Corporation, Diamond Aircraft Industries, Embraer, Piper Aircraft, Inc., DAHER- SOCATA and Quest Aircraft
through the installation of the G1000 integrated flight deck as original equipment aboard new aircraft. This system integrates
attitude, heading, air data, navigation, communication, engine monitoring, and other aircraft functions into a single cohesive
system which interfaces with the flight crew using a set of large, bright TFT displays. The G1000 also includes an integrated autopilot,
the GFC700. Garmin has expanded its G1000 certifications to the business jet segment, such as Cessna’s Citation Mustang jet
and Embraer’s Phenom 100 and Phenom 300. Garmin also has expanded the G1000 certifications to the helicopter market with
the G1000H, a version of the G1000 specifically designed for helicopters which has been selected by Bell Helicopter Textron, Inc.
as original equipment for the Bell 407GX. Garmin has also announced its next generation integrated flight deck systems, the G3000
and G5000. Cessna Aircraft Company announced in October 2010 that they have selected Garmin’s G5000 for their flagship business
jet, the Citation Ten. Both Honda Aircraft Corporation and Piper Aircraft simultaneously announced that the G3000 has been selected
for the HondaJet and PiperJet, respectively. In March 2011, Garmin announced the G2000, a premium touchscreen-controlled integrated
flight deck designed for high performance piston aircraft.


The table below includes
a sampling of some of the aviation products currently offered by Garmin:

Handheld and portable aviation
products:

aera®
series

(6 models)

Garmin’s newest aviation handheld series combines the latest aviation portable with a full-featured
automotive GPS, allowing pilots to transition between aviation to automotive mode with one touch.

Featuring
a crisp 4.3-inch QVGA wide-format display with touchscreen interface, all four aera models come with preloaded automotive maps,
a built-in terrain/obstacles aviation database, patented Panel Page instrument display, and other features.

When in aviation
mode, pilots see colorful icons that use intuitive pictures and labels to indicate their function. The exterior of each aera model
(500, 510, 550 and 560) is identical, but the software features of each model are tailored to those seeking an entry, mid or high-level
aviation handheld.

In September 2011, Garmin announced a new series of portable navigation devices,
the aera 796 and aera 795. As Garmin’s new flagship portable aviation product, the aera 796 incorporates the popular features
of the GPSMAP® 696, while also adding new capabilities such as a touchscreen user interface, pilot-selectable screen orientation
and 3D Vision. The aera 796 also takes the pilot one step closer to a paperless cockpit with a digital document viewer, scratch
pad and pre-loaded geo-referenced AeroNav IFR and VFR enroute charts. The aera 795 has the same features as the aera 796 except
does not include XM radio and weather.

GPSMAP 695/696

The GPSMAP 696 offers a bright 7-inch screen, preloaded detailed electronic charts, preloaded airways
and IFR map mode. The GPSMAP 696 has a receiver for XM radio and XM WX Satellite Weather (U.S. customers only) that gives next
generation radar (NEXRAD), aviation routine weather reports (METARs), terminal aerodrome forecasts (TAFs), temporary flight restrictions
(TFRs), lightning, winds aloft, turbulence forecasts, and several other important weather products (XM subscription required).
The GPSMAP 695 has the same features except for XM radio and weather. In July 2010, Garmin announced that the 695/696 would receive
new enhanced chart capabilities.

Pilot My-Cast℠

Pilot My-Cast by Garmin is a premium flight planning, flight plan filing, and pre-flight weather
application for display on compatible mobile phones. Compared to other aviation weather mobile phone applications, Pilot My-Cast
is unique because it receives aviation data directly from the National Weather Service, Environment Canada, and Federal Aviation
Administration. Pilot My-Cast is available for both the iPhone and iPad. In March 2011, Garmin announced a new version of the Garmin
Pilot My-Cast application for Apple iOS-based devices that offers geo-referenced approach charts, secondary navigational capability
and optional integration with XM WX Weather.

SafeNav™
Powered

by Garmin™

In March 2011, Garmin and I.D. Systems, Inc., a leading provider of wireless asset management technology,
announced the availability of SafeNav™ Powered by Garmin™, an on-vehicle, GPS-based navigation and alert system designed
to provide airport vehicle operators with real-time situational awareness, with the goal of avoiding accidental runway incursions.

Integrated avionics systems:

G5000™

Announced in October 2010,

the G5000is the first touchscreen-controlled
integrated glass avionics suite designed for FAR Part 25 business jets. The G5000, which is scalable for use in a wide range of
two-crew aircraft, from light jets to super-midsize and larger models, is designed specifically for crew-flown turbine aircraft
and combines a dual multi-sensor flight management system (FMS), touchscreen vehicle management units, and multi-pane cockpit displays.
These widescreen displays with touchscreen controls give pilots more useful information at their fingertips than ever before, such
as worldwide weather, Garmin’s synthetic vision technology (SVT™), aircraft synoptics, electronic flight charts, and
more.


G3000

™

Announced in October 2009, the G3000, which is designed for use in
FAR Part 23 turbine aircraft, is

the first touchscreen-controlled integrated flightdeck for light
turbine aircraft.  It features extra-wide 14.1-inch displays with split-screen MFD viewing functionality and PFD terrain simulation
in 3-D perspective with SVT™ Synthetic Vision Technology. In July 2010, Garmin announced a new stability augmentation function
for the G3000 (and its predecessor G1000) called Garmin’s Electronic Stability and Protection (Garmin ESP) system. This electronic
monitoring and correction technology for

G3000

and G1000
integrated flight decks works to assist the pilot in maintaining the aircraft in a safe, flight-stable condition, helping in certain
situations to prevent the onset of stalls and spins, steep spirals or other loss-of-control conditions should the pilot become
distracted, disoriented or incapacitated during flight. Garmin ESP will be offered as an option on select G3000 and G1000-equipped
aircraft.

G2000

®

Announced in March 2011,

the G2000 is Garmin’s
premium glass flight deck for piston aircraft, bringing a touchscreen user interface, graphical flight synoptics, enhanced situational
awareness and more to the cockpit.

As with the G3000 and G5000, the G2000 utilizes the GTC™
570 vehicle management system, a 5.7-inch diagonal touchscreen controller that uses a desktop-like menu interface with intuitive
icons. The GTC 570 allows for full control for radio management, audio management, flight management, weather systems management,
synoptics, and other vehicle systems. The touchscreen also enhances ease of use through functions like “back” and “home”
that let pilots quickly retrace their steps or return to the home screen. The GTC 570 vehicle management system uses patent pending,
infrared touchscreen technology, audio and visual feedback, and animation to help pilots know exactly how the system is responding
to their input.

G1000

®

The G1000 integrates navigation, communication, attitude, weather, terrain, traffic, surveillance
and engine information on large high-resolution color displays. The G1000 offers general aviation airplane manufacturers an easy-to-install
solution for flight displays and provides the aircraft owner the benefits of a state-of-the-art avionics system which relies on
modern technologies such as solid state components and bright, sunlight-readable TFT displays.

G1000H

®

In March 2011, Garmin announced the

G1000H, an all-glass avionics
system designed specifically for the VFR Part 27 helicopter market. The G1000H provides important flight data, flight instrumentation,
navigation, communication, weather, terrain, traffic, identification, and diagnostics and maintenance computer, and presents it
digitally to the pilot on large, high-resolution displays.

G600

The G600 brings the style and function of an all-glass integrated avionics suite to the retrofit
market for

FAR Part 23

Class I, II or III aircraft. The G600 incorporates two individual displays,
a PFD and MFD, in a customized package specifically designed for easy retrofit installation. The G600 is designed to communicate
and integrate with Garmin’s WAAS enabled panel mount products, and provides essential information such as attitude, air data,
weather, terrain and traffic. Garmin has received the FAA’s Approved Model List Supplemental Type Certification (AML STC)
for the G600, which will simplify certification for over 600 different aircraft models.   In May 2011 Garmin announced that
the FAA approved a Supplemental Type Certificate (STC)

package for Reduced Vertical Separation Minimum
(RVSM) certification of the G600 installed in select aircraft. The STC package is available for G600 installations on the Cessna
441 Conquest II with an ARC 1000 autopilot, which enables Conquest II operators to fly RVSM flight profiles from Flight Level 290
to the aircraft’s maximum operating altitude. This allows Conquest II pilots to gain fuel savings, lower their carbon footprint,
increase range and give them the flexibility to fly above bad weather.


G500

Designed specifically for FAR Part 23 Class I/Class II aircraft (single
and twin engine aircraft under 6,000 lbs.), the G500 is an affordable, dual-screen electronic flight display that works with a
pilot’s separate Garmin avionics stack to provide a fully TSO’d “glass cockpit” retrofit option. The G500
does not include all of the same standard functionality as the G600 (for example, the G500 does not offer

SVT (Synthetic
Vision Technology) or a standard GAD 43 interface adapter in the standard package, but these features are available options).

G500H

An all-glass avionics system designed specifically for the VFR Part
27 helicopter market.

The G500H contains dual 6.5-inch LCD screens, mounted side-by-side in
a single bezel, which puts Primary Flight Display (PFD) and Multi-Function Display (MFD) capabilities right in front the helicopter
pilot. The G500H has been optimized for rotorcraft and offers features like helicopter synthetic vision technology (HSVT™),
helicopter-specific databases with over 7,000 heliports and nearly 30,000 additional low-altitude obstacles, XM WX Satellite Weather
with NEXRAD, and the ability to display video from a forward looking infrared (FLIR) camera or other video sources.

G900X™

An all-glass integrated avionics system specifically designed for kitplane builders of the Lancair
and Van’s RV-series aircraft.

The G900X is a fully-customizable glass cockpit for installation
in experimental/kitbuilt and light sport aircraft. The G900X offers a customizable PFD/MFD combination that features one, two or
three all-glass displays; magnetometer; ADAHRS (combined air data and AHRS unit) and engine monitoring.

GDU 370/375

Multifunction displays for the light sport retrofit and experimental aircraft markets.

Panel-mount aviation products:

GNS 400W Series

(3 models)

The GNS 430W is the Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS) successor to Garmin’s popular GNS
430, which was the world’s first ‘‘all-in-one’’ IFR certified GPS navigation receiver/traditional
VHF navigation receiver/instrument landing systems receiver and VHF communication transmitter/receiver. Features available in different
400 series models include 4-color map graphics, GPS, communication and navigation capabilities. In 2010, Garmin announced a new

Helicopter Terrain Awareness and Warning System (HTAWS)

as an option for the GNS 4

30W/530W
series navigators. When added to the GNS 430W/530W, helicopter pilots will receive graphical and audible alerts of potential terrain
and obstacle conflicts along the flight path.

GTN 650 and 750

In March 2011 Garmin announced the GTN 650 and 750, which are the successors to the GNS 430W and
530W.

The GTN 650 and GTN 750 feature new capabilities for GPS/NAV/COM systems like touchscreen operation,
graphical flight planning with victor airways and high-altitude jet routes, remote transponder, remote audio control (750 series
only), SafeTaxi® and electronic chart capabilities (750 series only).

GTS™ TAS
and

TCAS I Systems

The GTS 800 series of traffic avoidance products combines active and
passive surveillance data to pinpoint specific

traffic threats. The systems use Garmin’s
patent-pending CLEAR CAS™ technology and correlate automatic dependent surveillance broadcast (ADS-B) with radar targets.

The GTS 800 TAS is a lower-cost system, offering 40 watts of transmit power and a range of up to 12 nautical miles. The
GTS 820 TAS delivers 250 watts of transmit power and up to 40 nautical miles of interrogation range. The GTS 850 TCAS I satisfies
all TCAS I collision avoidance criteria for higher-capability turboprops and jets. It features the same 250 watt performance as
the GTS 820, and also meets the FAA’s TCAS I certification criteria


GI-102A & 106A

Course deviation indicators (CDIs). The GI-106A is a course deviation indicator that displays rectilinear
needle movements indicating where an aircraft is located relative to a VOR radial, GPS course, or instrument landing system signal,
and contains integral GPS, NAV and VLOC mode annunciators.

GMA

(5 models)

The GMA 340 is a feature-rich audio panel with six-place stereo intercom and independent pilot/co-pilot
communications capabilities. The GMA 347 has automatic squelch, digital clearance recorder, and a full-duplex telephone interface.
The GMA 340 and 347 are both TSO’d. The GMA 240 is a versatile, non-TSO’d audio panel designed for experimental and
light sport aircraft.

In March 2011 Garmin announced the GMA 350 and GMA 350H
audio panels. Designed for fixed wing and rotorcraft, respectively, the GMA 350 and 350H have industry-first features like voice
recognition, 3D spatial audio processing, advanced auto squelch, and ambient noise based volume adjustment so that pilots’
workload is decreased while increasing their situational awareness.

GTX™ 330 & 330D

FAA-certified Mode S transponders with data link capability, including local air traffic information
at FAA radar sites equipped with Traffic Information Service (TIS). These transponders may also be optionally upgraded to provide
1090 MHz Extended Squitter (ES) transmission capabilities, which will increase situational awareness once the Automatic Dependent
Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) system is fully implemented.

GTX 327 & 328

FAA-certified transponders which transmit altitude or flight identification to air traffic control
radar systems or other aircraft’s air traffic avoidance devices and feature solid-state construction for longer life. The
GTX 327 offers a digital display with timing functions. The 328 is designed exclusively for Europe and satisfies the European requirement
for a Mode S solution that meets the reduced certification requirements for the VFR Mode S mandate.

GDL 90

The GDL 90 was the first airborne Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) product certified
by the FAA to TSO C145A standards. The GDL 90 allows pilots in the cockpit and air traffic controllers on the ground to “see”
aircraft traffic with much more precision than has ever been possible before without the costly infrastructure of ground based
tracking radar. The GDL 90 relies on the infrastructure that is part of the FAA’s NextGen program. This program is currently
under development with implementation of the ground-based portion of the ADS-B network taking place throughout the U.S.A. Additional
installations of the ADS-B ground stations are planned. The ground stations can track aircraft movement and are also used to broadcast
traffic and weather services direct to the cockpit. Pilots equipped with the GDL 90 and operating within the ground station coverage
area will receive aircraft traffic and real-time weather information free of charge.

GSR 56

The GSR 56 is Garmin’s newest datalink product. It provides
pilots with access to on-demand global weather information, text/voice communications and near real-time position tracking through
the Iridium satellite network (subscription required). In addition to the many on-demand satellite weather features, the GSR 56
offers a worldwide tracking solution that continuously monitors an aircraft’s status enroute. It can automatically provide
GPS-referenced position reports at predetermined intervals so those on the ground can track a plane’s flight status and position.


GDL 69 and 69A

The GDL 69 offers the ability to provide real-time weather information to the aircraft which can
be displayed on one of several panel-mounted devices, such as the GNS 430W, GNS 530W, GTN 650, GTN 750, GMX200, G500, G500H, G600,
as well as fully integrated G1000/G2000/G3000/G5000 systems. The GDL 69 and GDL 69A receive real-time weather information broadcast
by the XM WX Satellite radio system. In addition, the GDL 69A expands the utility of the system by providing CD quality audio provided
by XM Satellite Radio (separate subscriptions for weather data and audio required).

GMX 200™

A large (6.5-inch) sunlight-readable, high-resolution, multi-function display.

SL 30 and SL 40

The SL30 is a compact VHF navigation and communications unit that combines a 760-channel VHF communications
radio with 200-channel glideslope and localizer receivers. The SL40 is a 760-channel VHF communications radio only. Both the SL30
and SL40 feature 10 watt communications transmitters.

GWX™ 68

The GWX 68 is an all-in-one antenna/receiver/transmitter that brings real-time weather to Garmin’s
newest multi-function displays.

Sales and Marketing

Garmin’s non-aviation
products are sold through a worldwide network of approximately 4,000 independent dealers and distributors in approximately 100
countries who meet our sales and customer service qualifications.

No single customer’s purchases
represented 10% or more of Garmin’s consolidated revenues in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011. Marketing support is
provided geographically from Garmin’s offices in Olathe, Kansas (North, South and Central America

),

in the U.K. (Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa), France, Germany, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Austria, Sweden, Denmark,
Finland, Belgium, Norway, Netherlands, Poland, Brazil, Australia (also covering New Zealand), China and in Taiwan (Asia). Garmin’s
distribution strategy is intended to increase Garmin’s global penetration and presence while maintaining high quality standards
to ensure end-user satisfaction.

Garmin’s U.S. consumer
product sales are handled through its network of dealers and distributors who are serviced by a staff of regional sales managers
and in-house sales associates. Some of Garmin’s larger consumer products dealers and distributors include:

·

Best Buy

—one of the largest U.S. and Canadian electronics
retailers;

·

Amazon.com

—internet retailer;

·

Costco

—

an international chain
of membership warehouses that carry quality, brand name merchandise

;

·

Halford’s

—a large European retailer specializing
in car parts and accessories;

·

Petra

—a large distributor who sells to a wide range of
dealers;

·

Target

—one of the nation’s largest general merchandise
retailers;

·

Wal-Mart

—the world’s largest mass retailer; and

·

Wynit

—a large distributor which sells to a wide range
of dealers.

Garmin’s Europe, Middle
East, Australia/New Zealand and Africa consumer product sales are handled through our in-country subsidiaries or local distributors
who resell to dealers. Working closely with Garmin’s in-house sales and marketing staff in the U.K. and U.S., these in-country
subsidiaries or independent distributors are responsible for inventory levels and staff training requirements at each retail location.
Garmin’s Taiwan-based marketing team handles the Company’s Asia sales and marketing effort.


Garmin’s retrofit avionics and aviation
portable products are sold through select aviation distributors around the world and, in the case of aviation portable products,
also through catalogs and pilot shops. Garmin’s largest aviation distributors include Aircraft Spruce & Specialty Co.,
Sportsman’s Market, TGH Aviation, Sarasota Avionics and Elliott Aviation. Avionics distributors have the training, equipment
and certified staff required for at-airport installation of Garmin’s avionics equipment.

In
addition to the traditional distribution channels mentioned, Garmin has many relationships with original equipment manufacturers
(OEMs). In the consumer market, Garmin’s products are sold globally to automotive and motorcycle OEMs, either directly or
through tier 2 sourcing. These OEMs include Chrysler, Toyota, Suzuki, Volkswagen, Harley-Davidson, Ford, BMW and BMW Motorrad,
Honda, Mercedes Benz, Smart Car, Peugeot, Hyundai, Kia, Mazda, Nissan, Volvo, Bombardier, and Polaris. In 2011, Chrysler introduced
Garmin navigation on the 2012 Jeep Grand Cherokee and also announced Garmin navigation on their new uConnect Touch system in partnership
with Panasonic, which will launch on select 2012 models.

In
addition, Garmin continues to sell products and applications to Kenwood for bundling with Kenwood’s OEM products. Garmin
also has relationships with certain rental car companies including Dollar/Thrifty, Enterprise, Avis, Budget, National, Europcar,
Alamo, and Hertz (Europe). Garmin has also developed promotional relationships with certain automotive dealerships in certain countries
including BMW, Southeast Toyota, Penske, Mazda, Saab and Ford. Garmin’s products are also standard equipment on various models
of boats manufactured by Ranger Tugs, Cutwater Boats (a Division of Fluid Motion, LLC), Bayliner Boats (a division of Brunswick
Corporation), Bavaria Yacht, Broom Boats Ltd., Chaparral Boats, Inc., Andros Boats, Inc., Edgewater Boats, LLC, Bennington Marine,
LLC, Cigarette Racing Team, LLC, Cobalt Boats, LLC, G3 Boats (a division of Yamaha Motor Corp.), Gulf Craft, Inc., Fairline Boats,
Ltd. and Regal Marine Industries, Inc. and are optional equipment on boats manufactured by Tiara Yachts, Inc., Grand Banks Yachts,
Ltd., Maritimo Offshore Pty Ltd., Mastercraft/Hydra-Sport Boat Company, LLC, Yellowfin Yachts, LLC, Sea Ray Corporation, Scout
Boats, Inc., The Hinckley Company, Hunt Yachts, Inc., Zodiac Hurricane Technologies, Inc, Sea Hunter, Inc., Contender Boats Inc.,
Nautic Global Group, and Viking Yacht. In the aviation market, Garmin’s avionics are either standard equipment or options
on various models of aircraft built by Bell Helicopter Textron, Inc., Cessna Aircraft Company, Cirrus Aircraft, DAHER-SOCATA, Diamond
Aircraft Industries, Inc., Embraer SA, Eurocopter, an EADS Company, Hawker Beechcraft Aircraft Company, Piper Aircraft, Inc., Quest
Aircraft Company, and Robinson Helicopter Company.

Competition

The market for navigation,
communications and information products is highly competitive. Garmin believes the principal competitive factors impacting the
market for its products are design, functionality, quality and reliability, customer service, brand, price, time-to-market and
availability. Garmin believes that it generally competes favorably in each of these areas.

Garmin believes that its
principal competitors for portable automotive products are TomTom N.V. and MiTAC Digital Corporation (“MiTAC”) (which
distributes products under the brand names of Magellan, Mio, and Navman). Garmin believes that its principal competitors for outdoor
product lines are Magellan, a subsidiary of MiTAC, Lowrance Electronics, Inc., a subsidiary of Navico (“Lowrance”)
and Delorme. Garmin believes that its principal competitors for fitness products are Nike, Inc., Polar Electro Oy, Suunto Oy, Timex
Corp., and Bryton Corp. For marine chartplotter products, Garmin believes that its principal competitors are Raymarine Inc. (“Raymarine”),
Furuno Electronic Company (“Furuno”), and Simrad and Lowrance (subsidiaries of Navico). For Garmin’s fishfinder/depth
sounder product lines, Garmin believes that its principal competitors are Lowrance, Raymarine, the Humminbird division of Johnson
Outdoors, Inc., and Furuno. For Garmin’s general aviation product lines, Garmin considers its principal competitors to be
Honeywell, Inc., Avidyne Corporation, L-3 Avionics Systems, Rockwell Collins, Inc., Sagem Avionics, Inc., Universal Avionics Systems
Corporation, Chelton Flight Systems, Aspen Avionics, and Free Flight Systems. For Garmin’s Family Radio Service and General
Mobile Radio Service product line, Garmin believes that its principal competitors are Motorola Solutions, Inc., Cobra Electronics
Corporation and Midland Radio Corporation.


Research and Development

Garmin’s product innovations
are driven by its strong emphasis on research and development and the close partnership between Garmin’s engineering and
manufacturing teams. Garmin’s products are created by its engineering and development staff, which numbered 2,558 people
worldwide as of December 31, 2011. Garmin’s manufacturing staff includes manufacturing process engineers who work closely
with Garmin’s design engineers to ensure manufacturability and manufacturing cost control for its products. Garmin’s
development staff includes industrial designers, as well as software engineers, electrical engineers, mechanical engineers and
cartographic engineers. Garmin believes the industrial design of its products has played an important role in Garmin’s success.
Once a development project is initiated and approved, a multi-disciplinary team is created to design the product and transition
it into manufacturing.

Below is a table of Garmin’s expenditures
on research and development over the last three fiscal years.

December 31,

December 25,

December 26,

($'s in thousands)




Research and devlopment

$

298,584

$

277,261

$

238,378

Percent of net sales

10.8

%

10.3

%

8.1

%

Manufacturing and Operations

Garmin believes that one
of its core competencies and strengths is its manufacturing capability at its Sijhih, Jhongli and LinKou, Taiwan facilities, its
Olathe, Kansas facility, and its Salem, Oregon facility. Garmin believes that its vertically integrated approach has provided it
the following benefits with respect to all products other than a few select marine products (VHF radios and AIS receivers), and
our accessory products, all of which are also manufactured by one or more third parties.

Reduced time-to-market.

Utilizing concurrent engineering techniques, Garmin’s products are introduced to production at an early development
stage and the feedback provided by manufacturing is incorporated into the design before mass production begins. In this manner,
Garmin attempts to reduce the time required to move a product from its design phase to mass production deliveries.

Design and process
optimization.

Garmin uses its manufacturing resources to rapidly prototype design concepts, products and processes in order
to achieve higher efficiency, improved quality and yields, lower cost and better value for customers. Garmin’s ability to
fully explore product design and manufacturing process concepts has enabled it to optimize its designs to minimize size and weight
in GPS devices that are functional, waterproof, and rugged.

Logistical agility.

Operating our own manufacturing and distribution facilities helps Garmin minimize problems, such as component shortages
and long component lead times which are common in the electronics industry. Many products can be re-engineered to bypass component
shortages or reduce cost and the new designs can be delivered to market quickly. Garmin reacts rapidly to changes in market demand
by striving to maintain a safety stock of long-lead components and by rescheduling components from one product line to another.
Operating our own manufacturing facilities also allows Garmin to quickly adjust the mix of product production, helping to foster
faster delivery response to the customer.

Garmin’s design, manufacturing,
distribution, and servicing processes in our US, Taiwan, and UK facilities are certified to ISO 9001, an international quality
standard developed by the International Organization for Standardization. Garmin’s automotive operations in Taiwan and Olathe
have also achieved TS 16949 certification, a quality standard for automotive suppliers. In addition, Garmin’s aviation operations
have achieved certification to AS9100, the quality standard for the aviation industry.


Garmin International, Inc.,
Garmin (Europe) Ltd and Garmin Corporation have also achieved certification of their environmental management systems to the ISO14001
standard. This certification recognizes that Garmin’s subsidiaries have systems and processes in place to minimize or prevent
harmful effects on the environment and to strive continually to improve its environmental performance.

Materials

Although most components
essential to Garmin’s

business are generally available from multiple sources, certain key components,
including, but not limited to, microprocessors, certain liquid crystal displays (“LCDs”), and certain  application-specific
integrated circuits (“ASICs”) are currently obtained by the Company from single or limited sources, which subjects
Garmin to supply and pricing risks. Many of these and other key components that are available from multiple sources, including,
but not limited to, NAND flash memory, dynamic random access memory (“DRAM”), GPS chipsets and certain LCDs, are subject
at times to industry-wide shortages and commodity pricing fluctuations.

Garmin
and other participants in the personal computer, tablet, mobile communication, aviation electronics and consumer electronics industries
also compete for various components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. In addition,
Garmin uses some custom components that are not common to the rest of the personal computer, tablet, mobile communication and consumer
electronics industries, and new products introduced by the Company often utilize custom components available from only one source
until Garmin has evaluated whether there is a need for, and subsequently qualifies, additional suppliers. When a component or product
uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers’ yields have

matured or manufacturing
capacity has increased. Garmin makes efforts to manage risks in these areas through the use of supply agreements for strategically
important components. Nevertheless, if Garmin’s supply of a key single-sourced component for a new or existing product were
delayed or constrained, if such components were available only at significantly higher prices, or if a key manufacturing vendor
delayed shipments of completed products to Garmin, Garmin’s financial condition and operating results could be materially
adversely affected. Garmin’s business and financial performance could also be adversely affected depending on the time required
to obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, or to identify and obtain sufficient quantities from an alternative source.
Continued availability of these components at acceptable prices, or at all, may be affected if those suppliers decided to concentrate
on the production of common components instead of components customized to meet Garmin’s requirements.

Seasonality

Our sales are subject to
significant seasonal fluctuation. Sales of our consumer products are generally significantly higher in the fourth quarter, due
to increased demand for automotive/mobile products during the holiday buying season, and, to a lesser extent, the second quarter,
due to increased demand during the spring and summer marine season and the Father’s Day/graduation buying season. Sales of
consumer products are also influenced by the timing of the release of new products. Our aviation products do not experience much
seasonal variation, but are more influenced by the timing of the release of new products when the initial demand is typically the
strongest.

Backlog

Our sales are generally
of a consumer nature and there is a relatively short cycle between order and shipment. Therefore, we believe that backlog information
is not material to the understanding of our business. We typically ship most orders within 72 hours of receipt.

Intellectual Property

Our success and ability
to compete is dependent in part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade
secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. In addition, Garmin often
relies on licenses of intellectual property for use in its business.  For example, Garmin obtains licenses for digital cartography
technology for use in our products from various sources.


As of January 23, 2011,
Garmin’s worldwide IP portfolio includes over 600 patents and 400 trademark registrations.  Garmin was selected as a
constituent of the 2011/2012 Ocean Tomo® 300 Patent Index which recognizes companies with high intellectual property value.
We believe that our continued success depends on the intellectual skills of our employees and their ability to continue to innovate. 
Garmin will continue to file and prosecute patent applications when appropriate to attempt to protect Garmin’s rights in
its proprietary technologies.

There is no assurance that
our current patents, or patents which we may later acquire, may successfully withstand any challenge, in whole or in part. It is
also possible that any patent issued to us may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or that the patents of others will
preclude us from manufacturing and marketing certain products. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized
parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Litigation
may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity
and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity.

Regulations

The telecommunications industry
is highly regulated, and the regulatory environment in which Garmin operates is subject to change. In accordance with Federal Communications
Commission (“FCC”) rules and regulations, wireless transceiver products are required to be certified by the FCC and
comparable authorities in foreign countries where they are sold. Garmin’s products sold in Europe are required to comply
with relevant directives of the European Commission. A delay in receiving required certifications for new products, or enhancements
to Garmin’s products, or losing certification for Garmin’s existing products could adversely affect our business. In
addition, aviation products that are intended for installation in “type certificated aircraft” are required to be certified
by the FAA, its European counterpart, the European Aviation Safety Agency, and other comparable organizations before they can be
used in an aircraft.

Because Garmin Corporation,
one of the Company’s principal subsidiaries, is located in Taiwan, foreign exchange control laws and regulations of Taiwan
with respect to remittances into and out of Taiwan may have an impact on Garmin’s operations. The Taiwan Foreign Exchange
Control Statute, and regulations thereunder, provides that all foreign exchange transactions must be executed by banks designated
to handle such business by the Ministry of Finance of Taiwan and by the Central Bank of the Republic of China (Taiwan), also referred
to as the CBC. Current regulations favor trade-related foreign exchange transactions. Consequently, foreign currency earned from
exports of merchandise and services may now be retained and used freely by exporters, while all foreign currency needed for the
import of merchandise and services may be purchased freely from the designated foreign exchange banks. Aside from trade-related
foreign exchange transactions, Taiwan companies and residents may, without foreign exchange approval, remit outside and into Taiwan
foreign currencies of up to $50 million and $5 million respectively, or their equivalent, each calendar year. Currency conversions
within the limits are processed by the designated banks and do not have to be reviewed and approved by the CBC. The above limits
apply to remittances involving a conversion between New Taiwan Dollars and U.S. Dollars or other foreign currencies. The CBC typically
approves foreign exchange in excess of the limits if a party applies with the CBC for review and presents legitimate business reasons
justifying the currency conversion. A requirement is also imposed on all enterprises to register all medium and long-term foreign
debt with the CBC.

Environmental Matters

Garmin’s operations
are subject to various environmental laws, including laws addressing air and water pollution and management of hazardous substances
and wastes.  Substantial noncompliance with applicable environmental laws could have a material adverse effect on our business. 
Currently, we do not anticipate material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities.


Environmental regulation of Garmin’s products
is increasing.  Many of Garmin's products are subject to laws relating to the chemical and material composition of our
products and their energy efficiency.  Garmin is also subject to laws requiring manufacturers to be financially responsible
for collection, recovery and recycling of wastes from certain electronic products. Compliance with current environmental
laws does not have a material impact on our business, but the impact of future enactment of environmental laws cannot yet be fully
determined and could be substantial.

Garmin has implemented
multiple Environmental Management System (“EMS”) policies in accordance with the International Organization for Standardization
(ISO) 14001 standard for Environmental Health and Safety Management.  Garmin’s EMS policies set forth practices, standards,
and procedures to ensure compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations at Garmin’s Kansas headquarters facility,
Garmin’s European headquarters facility, and Garmin’s Taiwan manufacturing facility.

Regulatory and “Green
Procurement” demands from our customers are also increasing, particularly in the areas of restricted substance use and environmentally-friendly
design and manufacture initiatives.  The overall impacts of these customer requirements cannot yet be established.  Garmin
is committed to improving our products and processes to meet our customer needs.

Employees

As of December 31, 2011,
Garmin had 9,229 full and part-time employees worldwide, of whom 3,403 were in the United States, 62 were in Canada, 4,403 were
in Taiwan, 1,023 were in Europe, and 338 were in other global locations. Except for some of Garmin’s employees in Brazil
and Sweden, none of Garmin’s employees are represented by a labor union and none of Garmin's North American or Taiwan
employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Garmin considers its employee relations to be good.

Item 1A. Risk Factors

The risks described below are not the only
ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial
may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or operating results
could be materially adversely affected.

Risks Related to the Company

The demand for personal navigation devices
(PNDs) may be eroded by replacement technologies becoming available on mobile handsets and factory-installed systems in new autos.

We have historically experienced
substantial growth in the automotive/mobile segment which has resulted in GPS/navigation technologies being incorporated into competing
devices such as mobile handsets and new automobiles through factory-installed systems. Mobile handsets are frequently GPS-enabled
and many companies are now offering navigation software for mobile devices. The acceptance of this technology by consumers has
halted our growth and could further reduce margins. Navigation systems are also becoming more prevalent as optional equipment on
new automobiles. Increased navigation penetration on new automobiles could cause further declines in sales of our portable navigation
devices and further reduce margins.

Our financial results are highly dependent
on the automotive/mobile segment, which represents approximately 58% of our revenues and is maturing.

We have historically experienced
substantial growth in the automotive/mobile segment of our business as the products have become mass-market consumer electronics
in both Europe and North America. This market has peaked as penetration rates increase and competing technologies emerge. This
has resulted in lower revenues and lower earnings per share.


Economic conditions and uncertainty could
adversely affect our revenue and margins.

Our revenue and margins
depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for products in the markets in which we compete. The current
economic weakness and constrained consumer and business spending has resulted in decreased revenue and in the future, could result
in decreased revenue and problems with our ability to manage inventory levels and collect customer receivables. In addition, financial
difficulties experienced by our retailer and OEM customers have resulted, and could result in the future, in significant bad debt
write-offs and additions to reserves in our receivables and could have an adverse affect on our results of operations.

Gross margins for our products may fluctuate
or erode.

Gross margins on our automotive/mobile
products have been declining and are expected to decline in 2012 due to price reductions in the increasingly competitive market
for personal navigation devices (PNDs) that are not fully offset by material cost reductions. In addition, our overall gross margin
may fluctuate from period to period due to a number of factors, including product mix, competition and unit volumes. In particular,
the average selling prices of a specific product tend to decrease over that product’s life. To offset such decreases, we
intend to rely primarily on component cost reduction, obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacture
of existing products and on introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and therefore can be sold at higher average
selling prices. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any such yield improvements or cost reductions
or introduce any such new products in the future. To the extent that such cost reductions and new product introductions do not
occur in a timely manner or our products do not achieve market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations
could be materially adversely affected.

Changes in our United States federal income tax classification
or in applicable tax law could result in adverse tax consequences to our shareholders.

We do not believe that
we (or any of our non-United States subsidiaries) are currently a ‘‘passive foreign investment company’’
for United States federal income tax purposes.  We do not expect to become a passive foreign investment company.  However,
because the passive foreign investment company determination is made annually based on whether the company’s income or assets
meet certain thresholds as determined under United States federal tax principles which are based on facts and circumstances that
may be beyond our control, we cannot assure that we will not become a passive foreign investment company in the future.  If
we are a passive foreign investment company in any year, then any of our shareholders that is a United States person could be liable
to pay tax on their pro rata share of our income plus an interest charge upon some distributions by us or when that shareholder
sells our common shares at a gain.  Further, if we are classified as a passive foreign investment company in any year in which
a United States person is a shareholder, we generally will continue to be treated as a passive foreign investment company with
respect to such shareholder in all succeeding years, regardless of whether we continue to satisfy the income or asset tests mentioned
above.

We do not believe that
we (or any of our non-United States subsidiaries) are currently a Controlled Foreign Corporation (CFC) for United States federal
income tax purposes. We do not expect to become a CFC. The CFC determination is made daily based on whether the United States shareholders
own more than fifty percent of the voting power or value of the Company. Only United States persons that own ten percent or more
of the voting power of the Company’s shares qualify as United States shareholders. If the Company were to be classified as
a CFC for an uninterrupted thirty day period in any year, the Company’s shareholders that qualify as United States shareholders
could be liable to pay US income tax at ordinary income tax rates on their pro-rata share of certain categories of the Company’s
income for the period in which the Company is classified as a CFC. As the Company cannot control the ownership of the Company’s
stock nor can the Company control which shareholders participate in the Company’s stock buyback program, ownership changes
could result that create United States shareholders which increase the risk of Garmin being treated as a CFC.


Legislative proposals have
been considered in the United States within the past few years that could increase the United States tax burden of corporations
with international operations and could broaden the circumstances under which foreign corporations could be considered resident
in the United States   Our tax position could be adversely impacted by changes in United States or foreign tax laws,
tax treaties or tax regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof by any tax authority. We cannot predict the outcome
of any specific legislative proposals.

If we are not successful in the continued
development, introduction or timely manufacture of new products, demand for our products could decrease.

We expect that a significant
portion of our future revenue will continue to be derived from sales of newly introduced products. The market for our products
is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and changes in customer needs. If we fail to introduce
new products, or to modify or improve our existing products, in response to changes in technology, industry standards or customer
needs, our products could rapidly become less competitive or obsolete. We must continue to make significant investments in research
and development in order to continue to develop new products, enhance existing products and achieve market acceptance for such
products. However, there can be no assurance that development stage products will be successfully completed or, if developed, will
achieve significant customer acceptance.

If we are unable to successfully
develop and introduce competitive new products, and enhance our existing products, our future results of operations would be adversely
affected. Our pursuit of necessary technology may require substantial time and expense. We may need to license new technologies
to respond to technological change. These licenses may not be available to us on terms that we can accept or may materially change
the gross profits that we are able to obtain on our products. We may not succeed in adapting our products to new technologies as
they emerge. Development and manufacturing schedules for technology products are difficult to predict, and there can be no assurance
that we will achieve timely initial customer shipments of new products. The timely availability of these products in volume and
their acceptance by customers are important to our future success. From time to time we have experienced delays in shipping certain
of our new products and any future delays, whether due to product development delays, manufacturing delays, lack of market acceptance,
delays in regulatory approval, or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.

If we are unable to compete effectively
with existing or new competitors, our resulting loss of competitive position could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders,
reduced margins and loss of market share.

The markets for our products
are highly competitive, and we expect competition to increase in the future. Some of our competitors have significantly greater
financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. These competitors may be able to respond more rapidly to new or emerging
technologies or changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion
and sale of their products. Increased competition could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced margins and
loss of market share. Our failure to compete successfully against current or future competitors could seriously harm our business,
financial condition and results of operations.


We rely on independent dealers and distributors
to sell our products, and disruption to these channels would harm our business.

Because we sell a majority
of our products to independent dealers and distributors, we are subject to many risks, including risks related to their inventory
levels and support for our products. In particular, our dealers and distributors maintain significant levels of our products in
their inventories. If dealers and distributors attempt to reduce their levels of inventory or if they do not maintain sufficient
levels to meet customer demand, our sales could be negatively impacted.

Many of our dealers and
distributors also sell products offered by our competitors. If our competitors offer our dealers and distributors more favorable
terms, those dealers and distributors may de-emphasize or decline to carry our products. In the future, we may not be able to retain
or attract a sufficient number of qualified dealers and distributors. If we are unable to maintain successful relationships with
dealers and distributors or to expand our distribution channels, our business will suffer.

Our quarterly operating results are subject
to fluctuations and seasonality.

Our operating results are
difficult to predict. Our future quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. If such operating results decline, the
price of our stock would likely decline. As we expand our operations, our operating expenses, particularly our advertising and
research and development costs, may increase as a percentage of our sales. If revenues decrease and we are unable to reduce those
costs rapidly, our operating results would be negatively affected.

Historically, our revenues
have been weaker in the first quarter of each fiscal year and have recently been lower than the preceding fourth quarter. Our devices
are highly consumer-oriented, and consumer buying is traditionally lower in these quarters. Sales of certain of our marine and
automotive

products tend to be higher in our second fiscal quarter due to increased consumer spending for such products
during the recreational marine, fishing, and travel season. Sales of our automotive/mobile products also have been higher in our
fourth fiscal quarter due to increased consumer spending patterns on electronic devices during the holiday season.

In addition,
we attempt to time our new product releases to coincide with relatively higher consumer spending in the second and fourth fiscal
quarters, which contributes to these seasonal variations.

Our quarterly financial statements will
reflect fluctuations in foreign currency translation.

The operation of Garmin’s
subsidiaries in international markets results in exposure to movements in currency exchange rates. We have experienced significant
foreign currency gains and losses due to the strengthening and weakening of the U.S. dollar. The potential of volatile foreign
exchange rate fluctuations in the future could have a significant effect on our results of operations.

The currencies that create
a majority of the Company’s exchange rate exposure are the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling. Garmin Corporation,
headquartered in Sijhih, Taiwan, uses the local currency as the functional currency. The Company translates all assets and liabilities
at year-end exchange rates and income and expense accounts at average rates during the year. In order to minimize the effect of
the currency exchange fluctuations on our net assets, we have elected to retain most of our Taiwan subsidiary’s cash and
investments in marketable securities denominated in U.S. dollars.

Nonetheless, U.S. GAAP
requires the Company at the end of each accounting period to translate into Taiwan Dollars all such U.S. Dollar denominated assets
held by our Taiwan subsidiary. This translation is required because the Taiwan Dollar is the functional currency of the subsidiary.
This U.S. GAAP-mandated translation will cause us to recognize gain or loss on our financial statements as the Taiwan Dollar/U.S.
Dollar exchange rate varies. Such gain or loss will create variations in our earnings per share. Because there is minimal cash
impact caused by such exchange rate variations, management will continue to focus on the Company’s operating performance
before the impact of the foreign currency translation.


If we do not correctly anticipate demand
for our products, we may not be able to secure sufficient quantities or cost-effective production of our products or we could have
costly excess production or inventories.

We have generally been able
to increase production to meet this increasing demand. However, the demand for our products depends on many factors and will be
difficult to forecast. We expect that it will become more difficult to forecast demand as we introduce and support multiple products,
as competition in the market for our products intensifies and as the markets for some of our products mature to the mass market
category. Significant unanticipated fluctuations in demand could cause the following problems in our operations:

·

If demand increases beyond what we forecast,
we would have to rapidly increase production. We would depend on suppliers to provide additional volumes of components and those
suppliers might not be able to increase production rapidly enough to meet unexpected demand.

·

Rapid increases in production levels to
meet unanticipated demand could result in higher costs for manufacturing and supply of components and other expenses. These higher
costs could lower our profit margins. Further, if production is increased rapidly, manufacturing quality could decline, which may
also lower our margins and reduce customer satisfaction.

·

If forecasted demand does not develop,
we could have excess production resulting in higher inventories of finished products and components, which would use cash and could
lead to write-offs of some or all of the excess inventories. Lower than forecasted demand could also result in excess manufacturing
capacity or reduced manufacturing efficiencies at our facilities, which could result in lower margins.

We have benefited in the past from Taiwan
government tax incentives offered on certain high technology capital investments that may not always be available.

Our effective tax rate is
lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate, in part because we have benefited from incentives offered in Taiwan related to our
high technology investments in Taiwan. The loss of these tax benefits could have a significant effect on our financial results
in the future.

We may experience unique economic and political risks associated
with companies that operate in Taiwan.

Relations between Taiwan
and the People’s Republic of China, also referred to as the PRC, and other factors affecting the political or economic conditions
of Taiwan in the future could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and the market
price and the liquidity of our shares. Our principal manufacturing facilities where we manufacture all of our products, except
our panel-mounted aviation products, are located in Taiwan.

Taiwan has a unique international
political status. The PRC asserts sovereignty over all of China, including Taiwan, certain other islands and all of mainland China.
The PRC government does not recognize the legitimacy of the Taiwan government. Although significant economic and cultural relations
have been established during recent years between Taiwan and the PRC, the PRC government has indicated that it may use military
force to gain control over Taiwan in certain circumstances, such as the declaration of independence by Taiwan. Relations between
Taiwan and the PRC have on occasion adversely affected the market value of Taiwanese companies and could negatively affect our
operations in Taiwan in the future.

Our intellectual property rights are important
to our operations, and we could suffer loss if they infringe upon other’s rights or are infringed upon by others.

We rely on a combination
of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect
our proprietary rights. To this end, we hold rights to a number of patents and registered trademarks and regularly file applications
to attempt to protect our rights in new technology and trademarks. However, there is no guarantee that our patent applications
will become issued patents, or that our trademark applications will become registered trademarks. Moreover, even if approved, our
patents or trademarks may thereafter be successfully challenged by others or otherwise become invalidated for a variety of reasons.
Thus, any patents or trademarks we currently have or may later acquire may not provide us a significant competitive advantage.


Third parties may claim
that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. Such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business and
financial condition. From time to time we receive letters alleging infringement of patents, trademarks or other intellectual property
rights. Litigation concerning patents or other intellectual property is costly and time consuming. We may seek licenses from such
parties, but they could refuse to grant us a license or demand commercially unreasonable terms. We might not have sufficient resources
to pay for the licenses. Such infringement claims could also cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend or permanently
cease the use of critical technologies or processes or the production or sale of major products.

We may become subject to significant product
liability costs.

If our aviation products
malfunction or contain errors or defects, airplane collisions or crashes could occur resulting in property damage, personal injury
or death. Malfunctions or errors or defects in our marine navigational products could cause boats to run aground or cause other
wreckage, personal injury or death. If our automotive or marine products contain defects or errors in the mapping supplied by third-party
map providers or if our users do not heed our warnings about the proper use of these products, collisions or accidents could occur
resulting in property damage, personal injury or death. If any of these events occurs, we could be subject to significant liability
for personal injury and property damage and, under certain circumstances, could be subject to a judgment for punitive damages.
We maintain insurance against accident-related risks involving our products. However, there can be no assurance that such insurance
would be sufficient to cover the cost of damages to others or that such insurance will continue to be available at commercially
reasonable rates. In addition, insurance coverage generally will not cover awards of punitive damages and may not cover the cost
of associated legal fees and defense costs, which could result in lower margins. If we are unable to maintain sufficient insurance
to cover product liability costs or if our insurance coverage does not cover the award, this could have a materially adverse impact
on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We depend on our suppliers, some of which
are the sole source for specific components, and our production would be seriously harmed if these suppliers are not able to meet
our demand and alternative sources are not available, or if the costs of components rise.

We are dependent on third
party suppliers for various components used in our current products. Some of the components that we procure from third party suppliers
include semiconductors and electroluminescent panels, liquid crystal displays, memory chips, batteries and microprocessors. The
cost, quality and availability of components are essential to the successful production and sale of our products. Some components
we use are from sole source suppliers. Certain application-specific integrated circuits incorporating our proprietary designs are
manufactured for us by sole source suppliers. Alternative sources may not be currently available for these sole source components.

In the past we have experienced
shortages of liquid crystal displays and other components. In addition, if there are shortages in supply of components, the costs
of such components may rise. If suppliers are unable to meet our demand for components on a timely basis and if we are unable to
obtain an alternative source or if the price of the alternative source is prohibitive, or if the costs of components rise, our
ability to maintain timely and cost-effective production of our products would be seriously harmed.

We depend on third party licensors for the
digital map data contained in our automotive/mobile products, and our business and/or gross margins could be harmed if we become
unable to continue licensing such mapping data or if the royalty costs for such data rise.

We license digital mapping
data for use in our products from various sources. There are only a limited number of suppliers of mapping data for each geographical
region. The two largest digital map suppliers are NAVTEQ Corporation and Tele Atlas N.V. NAVTEQ Corporation is owned by Nokia Oyj
and Tele Atlas N.V. is owned by TomTom N.V. Nokia and TomTom are both competitors of Garmin.


Although we do not foresee
difficulty in continuing to license data at favorable pricing due to the long term license extension signed between Garmin and
NAVTEQ in November 2007 (extending our NAVTEQ license agreement through 2017 with an option to extend through 2021), if we are
unable to continue licensing such mapping data and are unable to obtain an alternative source, or if the nature of our relationships
with NAVTEQ changes detrimentally, our ability to supply mapping data for use in our products would be seriously harmed.

We may pursue strategic acquisitions, investments,
strategic partnerships or other ventures, and our business could be materially harmed if we fail to successfully identify, complete
and integrate such transactions.

We intend to evaluate acquisition
opportunities and opportunities to make investments in complementary businesses, technologies, services or products, or to enter
into strategic partnerships with parties who can provide access to those assets, additional product or services offerings, additional
distribution or marketing synergies or additional industry expertise. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition, investment
or strategic partnership candidates, or if we do identify suitable candidates in the future, we may not be able to complete those
transactions on commercially favorable terms, or at all.

Any past or future acquisitions
could also result in difficulties assimilating acquired employees (including cultural differences with foreign acquisitions), operations,
and products and diversion of capital and management’s attention away from other business issues and opportunities. Integration
of acquired companies may result in problems related to integration of technology and inexperienced management teams. In addition,
the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us. We may not successfully integrate internal controls, compliance
under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other corporate governance matters, operations, personnel or products related to acquisitions
we have made in previous years or may make in the future. If we fail to successfully integrate such transactions, our business
could be materially harmed.

We may have additional tax liabilities.

We are subject to income
taxes in Switzerland, the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our
worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where
the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates
are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical
income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our income tax provision,
net income or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made.

Failure to obtain required certifications of our products on
a timely basis could harm our business.

We have certain products,
especially in our aviation segment, that are subject to governmental and similar certifications before they can be sold. For example,
FAA certification is required for all of our aviation products that are intended for installation in type certificated aircraft.
To the extent required, certification is an expensive and time-consuming process that requires significant focus and resources.
An inability to obtain, or excessive delay in obtaining, such certifications could have an adverse effect on our ability to introduce
new products and, for certain aviation OEM products, our customers’ ability to sell airplanes. Therefore, such inabilities
or delays could adversely affect our operating results.

In addition, we cannot assure you that our certified products will
not be decertified. Any such decertification could have an adverse effect on our operating results.

Our business may suffer if we are not able
to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel or if we lose our key personnel.

Our future success depends
partly on the continued contribution of our key executive, engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing and administrative personnel.
We currently do not have employment agreements with any of our key executive officers. We do not have key man life insurance on
any of our key executive officers and do not currently intend to obtain such insurance. The loss of the services of any of our
senior level management, or other key employees, could harm our business. Recruiting and retaining the skilled personnel we require
to maintain and grow our market position may be difficult. For example, in some recent years there has been a nationwide shortage
of qualified electrical engineers and software engineers who are necessary for us to design and develop new products, and therefore,
it has sometimes been challenging to recruit such personnel. If we fail to hire and retain qualified employees, we may not be able
to maintain and expand our business.


There is uncertainty as to our shareholders’ ability to
enforce certain foreign civil liabilities in Switzerland and Taiwan.

We are a Swiss company and
a substantial portion of our assets are located outside the United States, particularly in Taiwan. As a result, it may be difficult
to effect service of process within the United States upon us. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of Switzerland
or Taiwan would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us predicated upon the civil liability
provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof, or be competent to hear original actions brought in
Switzerland or Taiwan against us predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof.

A shut down of U.S. airspace or imposition
of restrictions on general aviation would harm our business.

Following the September
11, 2001 terrorist attacks, the FAA ordered all aircraft operating in the U.S. to be grounded for several days. In addition to
this shut down of U.S. airspace, the general aviation industry was further impacted by the additional restrictions implemented
by the FAA on those flights that fly utilizing Visual Flight Rules (VFR). The FAA restricted VFR flight inside 30 enhanced Class
B (a 20-25 mile radius around the 30 largest metropolitan areas in the USA) airspace areas. The Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association
(AOPA) estimated that these restrictions affected approximately 41,800 general aviation aircraft based at 282 airports inside the
30 enhanced Class B airspace areas. The AOPA estimates that approximately 90% of all general aviation flights are conducted VFR,
and that only 15% of general aviation pilots are current to fly utilizing Instrument Flight Rules (IFR).

The shutdown of U.S. airspace
following September 11, 2001 caused reduced sales of our general aviation products and delays in the shipment of our products manufactured
in our Taiwan manufacturing facility to our distribution facility in Olathe, Kansas, thereby adversely affecting our ability to
supply new and existing products to our dealers and distributors.

Any future shut down of
U.S. airspace or imposition of restrictions on general aviation could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial
results.

Many of our products rely on the Global
Positioning System.

The Global Positioning System
(GPS) is a satellite-based navigation and positioning system consisting of a constellation of orbiting satellites. The satellites
and their ground control and monitoring stations are maintained and operated by the United States Department of Defense. The Department
of Defense does not currently charge users for access to the satellite signals. These satellites and their ground support systems
are complex electronic systems subject to electronic and mechanical failures and possible sabotage. The satellites were originally
designed to have lives of 7.5 years and are subject to damage by the hostile space environment in which they operate. However,
of the current deployment of satellites in place, some have been operating for more than 12 years.

To repair damaged or malfunctioning
satellites is currently not economically feasible. If a significant number of satellites were to become inoperable, there could
be a substantial delay before they are replaced with new satellites. A reduction in the number of operating satellites may impair
the current utility of the GPS system and the growth of current and additional market opportunities. GPS satellites and ground
control segments are being modernized. GPS modernization software updates can cause problems. We depend on public access to open
technical specifications in advance of GPS updates.


GPS is operated by the U.
S. Government, which is committed to maintenance and improvement of GPS; however if the policy were to change, and GPS were no
longer supported by the U. S. Government, or if user fees were imposed, it could have a material adverse effect on our business,
results of operations, and financial condition.

Some of our products also
use signals from Satellite Based Augmentation Systems (SBAS) that augment GPS, such as the U.S. Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS),
Japanese MTSAT-based Satellite Augmentation System (MSAS), European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS). Any curtailment
of SBAS operating capability could result in decreased user capability for many of our aviation products, thereby impacting our
markets.

Any of the foregoing factors
could affect the willingness of buyers of our products to select Global Positioning System-based products instead of products based
on competing technologies.

Any reallocation or repurposing of radio
frequency spectrum could cause harmful interference with the reception of Global Positioning System signals. This interference
could harm our business.

Our Global Positioning System
technology is dependent on the use of the Standard Positioning Service (SPS) provided by the U.S. Government’s Global Positioning
System satellites. The Global Positioning System operates in radio frequency bands that are globally allocated for radio navigation
satellite services. International allocations of radio frequency are made by the International Telecommunications Union (ITU),
a specialized technical agency of the United Nations. These allocations are further governed by radio regulations that have treaty
status and which may be subject to modification every two to three years by the World Radio Communication Conference.  Each
country also has regulatory authority on how each band is used.  In the United States, the Federal Communications Commission
(FCC) and the National Telecommunications and Information Administration share responsibility for radio frequency allocations and
spectrum usage regulations.

Any
ITU or national reallocation of radio frequency spectrum, including frequency band segmentation or sharing of spectrum, or other
modifications of the permitted uses of relevant frequency bands, may materially and adversely affect the utility and reliability
of our products and have significant negative impacts on our business and our customers. For example, the FCC is currently considering
a proposal by a private party, LightSquared, to repurpose spectrum adjacent to the GPS bands for terrestrial broadband wireless
operations in metropolitan areas throughout the United States.  If the FCC were to permit implementation of LightSquared’s
proposal as is, terrestrial broadband wireless operations would create harmful interference to GPS receivers within range of such
operations.

Our business is subject to disruptions and uncertainties caused
by war or terrorism.

Acts of war or acts of terrorism, especially
any directed at the GPS signals, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition.
The threat of terrorism and war and heightened security and military response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism,
may cause a redeployment of the satellites used in GPS or interruptions of the system. To the extent that such interruptions have
an effect on sales of our products, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial
condition.

Privacy concerns relating to our technology could damage our
reputation and deter current and potential users from using our products and applications.

Concerns about our practices
with regard to the collection, use, disclosure, or security of personal information, user location information or other privacy
related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and operating results. While we strive to comply with all applicable
data protection laws and regulations, as well as our own posted privacy policies, any failure or perceived failure to comply may
result in proceedings or actions against us by government entities or others, or could cause us to lose users and customers, which
could potentially have an adverse effect on our business.


Regulatory authorities
around the world are considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection. In addition, the
interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and in
flux. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. If
so, in addition to the possibility of fines, this could result in an order requiring that we change our data practices, which could
have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial
costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business.

Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our
information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.

In the ordinary course
of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and
that of our customers and suppliers, and some personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our facilities
and on our networks. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is important to our operations. Despite
our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to
employee error or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed,
publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings,
disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence, which could adversely affect our business.

We may be exposed to certain regulatory and financial risks related
to climate change.

Climate change is receiving increasing
attention worldwide.  Some scientists, legislators and others attribute global warming to increased levels of greenhouse gases,
including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions.

Various
regulatory and legislative measures to address greenhouse gas emissions are in different phases of implementation or discussion.
In the aftermath of its 2009 “endangerment finding” that greenhouse gas emissions pose a threat to human health and
welfare, the EPA has begun to regulate greenhouse gas emissions under the authority granted to it under the Clean Air Act. At the
federal legislative level, Congressional passage of legislation adopting some form of federal mandatory greenhouse gas emission
reduction, such as a nationwide cap-and-trade program, does not appear likely at this time, although it could be adopted at a future
date. It is also possible that Congress may pass alternative climate change bills that do not mandate a nationwide cap-and-trade
program and instead focus on promoting renewable energy and energy efficiency, which could increase the cost of doing business

.

Because it is uncertain what laws and regulations
will be enacted, we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws and regulations on our future consolidated financial condition,
results of operations or cash flows.

Risks Relating
to Our Shares

The volatility of our stock price could adversely
affect investment in our common shares.

The market price of our
common shares has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. During 2011, the price of our common shares ranged from a low
of $30.14 to a high of $40.39. A variety of factors could cause the price of our common shares to fluctuate, perhaps substantially,
including:

·

announcements and rumors of developments related to our business,
our competitors, our suppliers or the markets in which we compete;

·

quarterly fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results;


·

the availability, pricing and timeliness of delivery of components,
such as flash memory and liquid crystal displays, used in our products;

·

general conditions in the worldwide economy, including fluctuations
in interest rates;

·

announcements of technological innovations;

·

new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors;

·

product obsolescence and our ability to manage product transitions;

·

developments in patents or other intellectual property rights and
litigation;

·

developments in our relationships with our customers and suppliers;

·

research reports or opinions issued by securities analysts or brokerage
houses related to Garmin, our competitors, our suppliers or our customers; and

·

any significant acts of terrorism against the United States, Taiwan
or significant markets where we sell our products.

In addition, in recent
years the stock market in general and the markets for shares of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price
fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. Any such fluctuations in the future
could adversely affect the market price of our common shares.

Our officers and directors exert substantial influence over us.

As of January 10, 2012,
current members and former members of our Board of Directors and our executive officers, together with members of their families
and entities that may be deemed affiliates of or related to such persons or entities, beneficially owned approximately 44.40% of
our outstanding common shares. Accordingly, these shareholders may be able to determine the outcome of corporate actions requiring
shareholder approval, such as mergers and acquisitions. This level of ownership may have a significant effect in delaying, deferring
or preventing a change in control of Garmin and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of other holders of our common
shares.

The rights of our shareholders are governed
by Swiss law.

The rights of our shareholders
are governed by Swiss law and Garmin Ltd.’s articles of association and organizational regulations. The rights of shareholders
under Swiss law differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in other jurisdictions. For example, Swiss law
allows our shareholders acting at a shareholders’ meeting to authorize share capital that can be issued by the board of directors
without approval of a shareholders’ meeting, but this authorization is limited to 50% of the existing registered share capital
and must be renewed at a shareholders’ meeting at least every two years. Additionally, subject to specified exceptions, including
the exceptions described in our articles of association, Swiss law grants preemptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe
for new issuances of shares and other securities. Swiss law also provides that dividends must be approved by shareholders at the
general meeting of our shareholders.

We may not be able to make distributions
or repurchase shares without subjecting you to Swiss withholding tax.

If we are unable to make
distributions, if any, through a reduction of par value or to pay dividends, if any, out of qualifying capital contribution reserves,
then any dividends paid by us will generally be subject to a Swiss federal withholding tax at a rate of 35%. The withholding tax
must be withheld from the gross distribution and paid to the Swiss Federal Tax Administration. A U.S. holder that qualifies for
benefits under the Convention between the United States of America and the Swiss Confederation for the Avoidance of Double Taxation
with Respect to Taxes on Income may apply for a refund of the tax withheld in excess of the 15% treaty rate (or in excess of the
5% reduced treaty rate for qualifying corporate shareholders with at least 10% participation in our voting stock, or for a full
refund in case of qualified pension funds). Payment of a capital distribution in the form of a par value reduction or a dividend
out of qualifying capital contribution reserves is not subject to Swiss withholding tax. However, there can be no assurance that
our shareholders will approve a reduction in par value or a dividend out of qualifying capital contribution reserves, that we will
be able to meet the other legal requirements for a reduction in par value, or that Swiss withholding rules will not be changed
in the future. In addition, over the long term, the amount of par value and qualifying capital contribution reserves available
for us to use for par value reductions or dividends will be limited. If we are unable to make a distribution through a reduction
in par value or to pay a dividend out of qualifying capital contribution reserves, we may not be able to make distributions without
subjecting you to Swiss withholding taxes.


Under
current Swiss tax law, repurchases of shares for the purposes of capital reduction are treated as a partial liquidation subject
to 35% Swiss withholding tax on the difference between the par value and the repurchase price. However, the portion of the repurchase
price that is attributed to the qualifying capital contribution reserves of the shares repurchased will not be subject to the Swiss
withholding tax. We may follow a share repurchase process for future share repurchases, if any, similar to a "second trading
line" on the Swiss Stock Exchange in which Swiss institutional investors buy shares on the open market and sell these shares
to us and are generally able to receive a refund of the Swiss withholding tax. However, if we are unable to use this process successfully,
we may not be able to repurchase shares for the purposes of capital reduction without subjecting you to Swiss withholding taxes.

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments

None.

Item 2. Properties

The following are the principal
properties owned or leased by the Company and its subsidiaries:

Garmin International, Inc.
and Garmin USA, Inc. occupy a facility of approximately 1,120,000 square feet on 42 acres in Olathe, Kansas, where the majority
of product design and development work is conducted, the majority of aviation panel-mount products are manufactured and products
are warehoused, distributed, and supported for North, Central and South America. Garmin’s subsidiary, Garmin Realty, LLC
also owns an additional 46 acres of land on the Olathe site for future expansion. In connection with the bond financings for the
facility in Olathe and the previous expansion of that facility, the City of Olathe holds the legal title to the Olathe facility
which is leased to Garmin’s subsidiaries by the City. Upon the payment in full of the outstanding bonds, the City of Olathe
is obligated to transfer title to Garmin’s subsidiaries for the aggregate sum of $200. Garmin International, Inc. has purchased
all the outstanding bonds and continues to hold the bonds until maturity in order to benefit from property tax abatement.

Garmin Corporation owns
and occupies a 249,326 square foot facility in Sijhih, Taipei County, Taiwan, a 223,469 square foot facility in Jhongli, Tao-Yang
County, Taiwan, and an approximately 580,000 square foot facility in LinKou, Tao-Yang County, Taiwan. In these three facilities,
Garmin Corporation manufactures all of Garmin’s consumer and portable aviation products and warehouses, markets and supports
products for the Pacific Rim countries.

Garmin AT, Inc. leases approximately
15 acres of land in Salem, Oregon under a ground lease. This ground lease expires in 2030, but Garmin AT has the option to extend
the ground lease until 2050. Garmin AT, Inc. owns and occupies a 115,000 square foot facility for office, development and manufacturing
use and a 33,000 square foot aircraft hangar, flight test and certification facility on this land. Garmin AT, Inc. also leases
43,870 square feet of office space in a separate Salem, OR building for Garmin’s newly-opened West Coast customer support
call center.

Garmin International, Inc.
leases 148,320 square feet of land at New Century Airport in Gardner, Kansas under a ground lease which expires in 2026. Garmin
International, Inc. owns and occupies a 47,254 square foot aircraft hangar, flight test and certification facility on this land
which is used in development and certification of aviation products.


Garmin Würzburg GmbH
leases approximately 40,000 square feet in Würzburg, Germany for office and research and development activities. Navigon S.R.L.
leases approximately 11,355 square feet in Cluj, Romania for research and development activities.

Various Garmin subsidiaries
lease an additional: (i) 48,625 square feet of office space in Olathe, Kansas for a call center operation; (ii) 24,748 square feet
of aggregate office space in two buildings in Tempe, Arizona for software development; and (iii) 33,120 square feet of office space
in two buildings in Tucson, Arizona, used as offices and a product production, repair and shipping facility.

Garmin (Europe) Ltd. owns
and occupies a 155,000 square foot building located in Totton, Southampton, England, used as offices and a distribution facility.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

Ambato Media, LLC v. Clarion Co., Ltd.,
Clarion Corporation of America, Delphi Corporation, Fujitsu Limited, Fujitsu Ten Corporation of America, Garmin Ltd., Garmin International,
Inc., Victor Company of Japan Ltd., JVC Americas Corporation, JVC Kenwood Holdings, Inc., J&K Car Electronics Corporation,
LG Electronics, Inc., LG Electronics USA, Inc., MiTAC International Corporation, MiTAC Digital Corporation, Mio Technology USA
Ltd., Navigon, Inc. Nextar Inc.,Panasonic Corporation, Panasonic Corporation of North America, Pioneer Corporation, Pioneer Electronics
(USA) Inc.,Sanyo Electric Co., Ltd., Sanyo North America Corporation, Sanyo Electronic Device (U.S.A.) Corporation,TomTom N.V.,
TomTom International B.V., and TomTom, Inc.

On August 14, 2009, Ambato
Media, LLC filed suit in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas against Garmin Ltd. and Garmin International,
Inc. along with several codefendants alleging infringement of U.S. Patent No. 5,432,542 (“the ’542 patent”).
On September 28, 2009, Garmin filed its answer and counterclaims asserting the ’542 patent is invalid and not infringed.
On July 18, 2011, the court issued an order construing the claims of the ‘542 patent. Although there can be no assurance
that an unfavorable outcome of this litigation would not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity or
financial position, Garmin believes that the claims are without merit and intends to vigorously defend this action.

Avocet Sports Technology, Inc. v. Garmin
International, Inc., Implus Footcare, LLC d/b/a Highgear, Polar Electro, Inc., Brunton d/b/a Brunton Outdoor Group, and Casio America,
Inc.

On August 18, 2011, Avocet
Sports Technology, Inc. filed suit in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California against five companies,
including Garmin International, Inc., alleging infringement of U.S. Patent No. 5,058,427 (“the ‘427 patent”).
On November 16, 2011, Garmin filed its answer asserting that each asserted claim of the ‘427 patent is not infringed and/or
invalid. Garmin believes that the asserted claims of the ‘427 patent are not infringed and/or are invalid. Although there
can be no assurance that an unfavorable outcome of this litigation would not have a material adverse effect on our operating results,
liquidity, or financial position, Garmin believes.

Bandspeed, Inc. v. Acer, Inc., Acer American
Corporation, Belkin International, Inc., Belkin,Inc., Casio Computer Co., Ltd., Xasio Hitachi Mobile CommunicationsCo. Ltd., Xasio
America, Inc., Dell Inc., Garmin International, Inc., Garmin USA, Inc., GN Netcom A/S, GN U.S. Inc. a/k/a GN Netcom Inc., Hewlett-Packard
Company, Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P., HTC Corporation, HTC America, Inc., Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd., Kyocera Corporation,
Kyocera International, Inc., Kyocera Communications, Inc., Kyocera Wireless Corporation, Lenovo (United States), Inc.,LG Electronics,
Inc., LG Electronics U.S.A. Inc., LG Electronics Mobilecomm U.S.A. Inc., Motorola, Inc., Nokia Corporation, Nokia Inc., Pantech
Wireless, Inc. Plantronics, inc., Research in Motion Ltd., Research in Motion Corporation, Samsung Telecommunications America,
LLC, TomTom International B.V., TomTom, Inc., Toshiba Corporation, Toshiba America information Systems, Inc., and Toshiba America,
Inc.


On June 30, 2010, Bandspeed,
Inc. filed suit in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas against 38 companies, including Garmin International,
Inc. and Garmin USA, Inc. alleging infringement of U.S. Patent No 7,027,418 (“the ‘418 patent”) and U.S. Patent
No 7,670,614 (“the ‘614 patent”). On January 21, 2011, Bandspeed, Inc. filed an amended complaint adding additional
claims against several of the codefendants, but not against Garmin. On February 22, 2011, Garmin filed its answer to the amended
complaint with counterclaims asserting that the asserted claims of the ’418 and ’614 patents are invalid and not infringed.
On August 15, 2011, the court granted Garmin’s motion to transfer venue and transferred the case to the Western District
of Texas. On December 23, 2011, Bandspeed, Inc. filed a second amended complaint adding additional claims against Garmin. On January
24, 2012, Garmin filed a motion to dismiss these additional claims. Although there can be no assurance that an unfavorable outcome
of this litigation would not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial position, Garmin believes
the claims in this lawsuit are without merit and intends to vigorously defend this action.

Beacon Wireless Solutions, Inc. et al. v.
Garmin International, Inc., and Garmin USA, Inc.

On March 21, 2011, Beacon
Wireless Solutions, Inc. (“Beacon”) and Beacon Wireless Europe (UK) Limited (“Beacon Europe”) filed suit
in the United States District Court for the District of the Western District of Virginia against Garmin International, Inc. and
Garmin USA, Inc. (collectively “Garmin”), alleging trade secret misappropriation, breach of a non-disclosure agreement,
breach of implied in-fact contract, and unjust enrichment. On October 5, 2011, the District Court dismissed Beacon’s claim
against Garmin for breach of implied in-fact contract, and took Beacon Europe’s breach of implied in-fact contract claim
under advisement. Trial is currently scheduled for May 21, 2012, but the parties are exploring an extension of all existing deadlines.
Although there can be no assurance that an unfavorable outcome of this litigation would not have a material adverse effect on our
operating results, liquidity, or financial position, Garmin believes the claims in this lawsuit are without merit and intends to
vigorously defend this action.

ICON Health & Fitness, Inc. v. Garmin
Ltd., Garmin International, Inc., and Garmin USA, Inc.

On November 18, 2011, ICON
Health & Fitness, Inc. filed suit in the United States District Court for the District of Utah against Garmin Ltd., Garmin
International, Inc., and Garmin USA, Inc. (collectively “Garmin”), alleging infringement of U.S. Patent Nos. 7,789,800
and 6,701,271. Although there can be no assurance that an unfavorable outcome of this litigation would not have a material adverse
effect on our operating results, liquidity, or financial position, Garmin believes the claims in this lawsuit are without merit
and intends to vigorously defend this action.

In the Matter of Certain Semiconductor Chips
and Products Containing Same

On December 1, 2010, Rambus
Inc. filed a complaint with the United States International Trade Commission (the “ITC”) against 33 companies, including
Garmin International, Inc., alleging infringement of U.S. Patent No. 6,470,405 (“the ’405 patent”), U.S. Patent
No. 6,591,353 (“the ’353 patent”), U.S. Patent No. 7,287,109 (“the ’109 patent”), U.S. Patent
No. 7,602,857 (“the ’857 patent”), U.S. Patent No. 7,602,858 (“the ’858 patent”), and U.S.
Patent No. 7,715,494 (“the ’494 patent”). Garmin’s semiconductor chip suppliers are also named in the complaint
and Garmin believes these suppliers have indemnification obligations to defend Garmin in this matter. On February 1, 2011, Garmin
filed its answer asserting that the asserted claims of the ’405, ’353, ’109, ’857, ’858, and the
’494 patents are invalid and/or not infringed. On September 1, 2011, the Board of Patent Appeals and Interferences issued
a decision following reexamination of the ‘109 patent affirming that all claims of the ‘109 patent are invalid. The
ITC’s hearing was held on October 12-20, 2011. The parties filed posthearing briefs on November 4, 2011 and the parties await
the ITC’s initial determination. Although there can be no assurance that an unfavorable outcome of this litigation would
not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial position, Garmin believes these claims are
without merit and intends to vigorously defend this action.

Nazomi Communications, Inc. v. Nokia Corporation,
Nokia Inc., Microsoft Corporation, Amazon.com, Inc., Western Digital Corporation, Western Digital Technologies, Inc., Garmin Ltd.,
Garmin Corporation, Garmin International,Inc., Garmin USA, Inc., Sling Media, Inc., VIZIO, Inc., and Iomega Corporation.

On February 8, 2010, Nazomi
Communications, Inc. filed suit in the United States District Court for the Central District of California against Garmin Ltd.,
Garmin Corporation, Garmin International, Inc., and Garmin USA, Inc. along with several codefendants alleging infringement of
U.S. Patent No. 7,080,362 and U.S. Patent No. 7,225,436. On September 14, 2011, the court dismissed all claims against Garmin
pursuant to a settlement agreement reached between the parties.


Norman IP Holdings, LLC v. Lexmark International,
Inc., Ricoh Americas Corporation, Belkin International, Inc., BMW of North America, LLC, Daimler North America Corporation, Mercedes-Benz
USA, LLC, D-Link Systems, Inc., Dish Network Corporation, Ford Motor Company, Garmin International, Inc., Garmin USA, Inc., General
Electric Company, General Motors Company, JVC Americas Corporation, Novatel Wireless, Inc., Novatel Wireless Solutions, Inc., Novatel
Wireless Technology, Inc., TomTom, Inc., Viewsonic Corporation, Vizio, Inc., Volkswagen Group of America, Inc., Xerox Corporation,
ZTE (USA) Inc., and ZTE Solutions Inc.

On January 27, 2012, Norman
IP Holdings, LLC filed an amended complaint in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas naming 23 companies,
including Garmin International, Inc. and Garmin USA, Inc. (collectively “Garmin”) and alleging infringement of U.S.
Patent Nos. 5,530,597, 5,502,689, 5,592,555, 5,608,873, and 5,771,394.  Although there can be no assurance that an unfavorable
outcome of this litigation would not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity, or financial position,
Garmin believes the claims of this lawsuit are without merit and intends to vigorously defend this action.

Pioneer Corporation v. Garmin Deutschland
GmbH, Garmin Ltd., Garmin International, Inc., Garmin (Europe Ltd. and Garmin Corporation

On October 9, 2009, Pioneer
Corporation filed suit in the District Court in Düsseldorf, Germany against Garmin Deutschland GmbH, Garmin Ltd., Garmin International,
Inc., Garmin Corporation and Garmin (Europe) Ltd. alleging infringement of European Patent No. 775 892 (“the ‘892 Patent”)
and European Patent No. 508 681(“the‘681 Patent”). Garmin filed separate lawsuits in the German Federal Patent
Court in Munich seeking declaratory judgments of invalidity of the ‘892 Patent and the ‘681 Patent. On January 11,
2011, the District Court in Düsseldorf issued decisions finding infringement of the ’892 and ’681 Patents. On
April 11, 2011, Garmin filed briefs with the appellate court appealing these decisions. On January 18, 2012, the court approved
the parties’ withdrawal of these lawsuits pursuant to a settlement agreement reached between the parties.

Taranis IP LLC v. Garmin International,
Inc., Universal Avionics Systems Corporation, Johnson Outdoors Marine Electronics, Inc., Johnson Outdoors Inc., Raymarine Inc.,
Raymarine UK Ltd., Navico, Inc., and Navico Holdings A.S.

On November 22, 2010, Taranis
IP LLC filed suit in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois against eight companies, including
Garmin International, Inc., alleging infringement of U.S. Patent No. 5,995,903 (“the ’903 patent”). On February
1, 2011, Garmin filed its answer and counterclaims asserting that each

claim of the ’903 patent is not infringed
and/or invalid. On August 31, 2011, the court granted Garmin’s motion and stayed this case pending the conclusion of the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office’s reexamination of the ‘903 patent. Although there can be no assurance that an unfavorable
outcome of this litigation would not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity, or financial position,
Garmin believes the claims in this lawsuit are without merit and intends to vigorously defend this action.

Tramontane IP, LLC v. Garmin International,
Inc., Garmin USA, Inc., MiTAC Digital Corporation d/b/a Magellan, Mio Technology USA Ltd., Pioneer Electronics (USA) Inc., and
TomTom, Inc.

On August 30, 2011, Tramontane
IP, LLC filed suit in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia against six companies, including Garmin
International, Inc. and Garmin USA, Inc. (collectively “Garmin”), alleging infringement of U.S. Patent Nos. 6,526,268
(“the ‘268 patent”) and 7,133,775 (“the ‘775 patent”). On September 23, 2011, Garmin filed
its answer asserting that the asserted claims of the ‘268 and ‘775 patents are invalid and/or not infringed. On December
2, 2012, the court dismissed all claims against Garmin pursuant to a settlement agreement reached between the parties.


Triangle Software, LLC v. Garmin International,
Inc., TomTom Inc., Volkswagen Group of America, Inc. and Westwood One, Inc.

On December 28,
2010, Triangle Software, LLC filed suit in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia against four
companies, including Garmin International, Inc., alleging infringement of U.S. Patent No. 7,557,730 (“the ’730
patent”), U.S. Patent No. 7,221,287 (“the ’287 patent”), U.S. Patent No. 7,375,649 (“the
’649 patent”), U.S. Patent No. 7,508,321 (“the ’321 patent”), and U.S. Patent No. 7,702,452
(“the ’452 patent”). On March 16, 2011, Garmin filed its amended answer asserting that the patents-in-suit
are unenforceable because of the inequitable conduct committed by the inventors before the Patent Office and filed
counterclaims asserting that each asserted claim of the ’730, ’287, ’649, ’321, and ’452
patents is not infringed and/or invalid. On July 27, 2011, the court issued its claim construction order. Trial was held
beginning on November 1, 2011. On November 9, 2011, the jury returned a partial verdict finding the patents-in-suit were
valid and finding the ‘730, ‘287, and ‘321 patents were not infringed. The jury did not return a verdict
regarding infringement of the ‘649 and ‘452 patents. On November 23, 2011, the parties filed motions with the
court to resolve the remaining issues left unresolved by the jury’s partial verdict. On February 16, 2012, the court
issued an order entering the jury’s verdict of non-infringement of the ‘730, ‘287, and ‘321 patents,
granting Garmin’s motion for summary judgment of non-infringement of the ‘649 and ‘452 patents, and
dismissing the case.

Silver State Intellectual Technologies,
Inc. v. Garmin International, Inc. and Garmin USA, Inc.

On September 29, 2011,
Silver State Intellectual Technologies, Inc. filed suit in the United States District Court for the District of Nevada against
Garmin International, Inc. and Garmin USA, Inc. (collectively “Garmin”), alleging infringement of U.S. Patent Nos.
6,525,768; 6,529,824; 6,542,812; 7,343,165; 7,522,992; 7,593,812; 7,650,234; 7,702,455 and 7,739,039. On December 8, 2011, Garmin
filed its answer asserting that each asserted claim of the patents-in-suit is not infringed and/or invalid. Although there can
be no assurance that an unfavorable outcome of this litigation would not have a material adverse effect on our operating results,
liquidity, or financial position, Garmin believes the claims in this lawsuit are without merit and intends to vigorously defend
this action.

Vehicle IP, LLC v. AT&T Mobility LLC,
Cellco Partnership, Garmin International, Inc., Garmin USA, Inc., Networks in Motion, Inc., Telecommunication Systems, Inc., Telenav
Inc., United Parcel Service, Inc., and UPS Logistics Technologies, Inc.

On December 31, 2009, Vehicle
IP, LLC filed suit in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against Garmin International, Inc. and Garmin
USA, Inc. along with several codefendants alleging infringement of U.S. Patent No. 5,987,377 (“the ’377 patent”).
On March 11, 2010, Garmin filed its Answer and Counterclaims asserting the ’377 patent is invalid and not infringed. On September
2, 2011, the court dismissed all claims against Garmin pursuant to a settlement agreement reached between the parties.

Visteon Global Technologies, Inc. and Visteon
Technologies LLC v. Garmin International, Inc.

On February 10, 2010, Visteon
Global Technologies, Inc. and Visteon Technologies LLC filed suit in the United States District Court for the Eastern District
of Michigan, Southern Division, against Garmin International, Inc. alleging infringement of U.S. Patent No. 5,544,060 (“the
‘060 patent”), U.S. Patent No. 5,654,892 (“the ‘892 patent”), U.S. Patent No. 5,832, 408 (“the
‘408 patent”), U.S. Patent No 5,987,375 (“the ‘375 patent”) and U.S. Patent No 6,097,316 (“the
‘316 patent”). On May 17, 2010, Garmin filed its Answer asserting that each claim of the ‘060 patent, the ‘892
patent, the ‘408 patent and the ‘375 patent is not infringed and/or invalid. On April 12, 2011, the special master
appointed by the court held a claim construction hearing. On December 12, 2011, the court issued an order adopting the special
master’s report construing the claims of the patents-in-suit. Although there can be no assurance that an unfavorable outcome
of this litigation would not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial position, Garmin believes
that the claims in this lawsuit are without merit and intends to vigorously defend this action.

In the normal course of
business, the Company and its subsidiaries are parties to various legal claims, actions, and complaints, including matters involving
patent infringement and other intellectual property claims and various other risks. It is not possible to predict with certainty
whether or not the Company and its subsidiaries will ultimately be successful in any of these legal matters, or if not, what the
impact might be. However, the Company’s management does not expect that the results in any of these legal proceedings will
have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial position or cash flows.


Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosure

None.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

Pursuant to General Instruction
G(3) of Form 10-K and instruction 3 to paragraph (b) of Item 401 of Regulation S-K, the following list is included as an unnumbered
Item in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K in lieu of being included in the Company’s Definitive Proxy Statement in
connection with its annual meeting of shareholders scheduled for June 1, 2012.

Dr. Min H. Kao

, age
63, has served as Chairman of Garmin Ltd. since August 2004 and was previously Co-Chairman of Garmin Ltd. from August 2000 to August
2004. He has served as Chief Executive Officer of Garmin Ltd. since August 2002 and previously served as Co-Chief Executive Officer
from August 2000 to August 2002. Dr. Kao has served as a director and officer of various subsidiaries of the Company since August
1990. Dr. Kao holds Ph.D. and MS degrees in Electrical Engineering from the University of Tennessee and a BS degree in Electrical
Engineering from National Taiwan University.

Clifton A. Pemble

,
age 46, has served as a director of Garmin Ltd. since August 2004, and as President and Chief Operating Officer of Garmin Ltd.
since October 2007. Mr. Pemble has served as a director and officer of various Garmin subsidiaries since August 2003. Previously,
he was Vice President, Engineering of Garmin International, Inc. from 2005 to October 2007, Director of Engineering of Garmin International,
Inc. from 2003 to 2005, and Software Engineering Manager of Garmin International, Inc. from 1995 to 2002 and a Software Engineer
with Garmin International, Inc. from 1989 to 1995. Mr. Pemble holds BA degrees in Mathematics and Computer Science from MidAmerica
Nazarene University.

Kevin S. Rauckman

,
age 49, has served as Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of Garmin Ltd. since August 2000. He previously served as Director
of Finance and Treasurer of Garmin International, Inc. since January 1999 and has served as a director and officer of various subsidiaries
of the Company since April 2001. Mr. Rauckman holds BS and MBA degrees in Business from the University of Kansas.

Andrew R. Etkind

,
age 56, has served as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Garmin Ltd. since June 2009. He was previously General Counsel
and Secretary of Garmin Ltd. from August 2000 to June 2009. He has been Vice President and General Counsel of Garmin International,
Inc. since July 2007, General Counsel since February 1998, and Secretary since October 1998. Mr. Etkind has served as a director
and officer of various Garmin subsidiaries since December 2001. Mr. Etkind holds BA, MA and LLM degrees from Cambridge University,
England and a JD degree from the University of Michigan Law School.

All executive officers
are elected by and serve at the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors. None of the executive officers have an employment
agreement with the Company. There are no arrangements or understandings between the executive officers and any other person pursuant
to which he or she was or is to be selected as an officer. There is no family relationship among any of the executive officers.
Dr. Min H. Kao is the brother of Ruey-Jeng Kao, who is a supervisor of Garmin Corporation, Garmin’s Taiwan subsidiary, who
serves as an ex-officio member of Garmin Corporation’s Board of Directors.


PART II

Item 5. Market for the Company’s Common Shares, Related
Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

Garmin’s common shares
have traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market LLC under the symbol “GRMN” since its initial public offering on December 8,
2000 (the “IPO”). As of February 17, 2012, there were 258 shareholders of record.

The range of high and low
closing sales prices of Garmin’s common shares as reported on the Nasdaq Stock Market for each fiscal quarter of fiscal years
2011 and 2010 was as follows:

Year Ended

December 31, 2011

December 25, 2010

High

Low

High

Low

First Quarter

$

34.77

$

30.21

$

39.94

$

30.70

Second Quarter

$

35.31

$

32.55

$

39.14

$

31.22

Third Quarter

$

33.74

$

30.14

$

31.60

$

26.55

Fourth Quarter

$

40.39

$

30.60

$

34.00

$

28.52

On June 3, 2011
the shareholders approved a cash dividend in the amount of $2.00 per share out of Garmin’s general reserves from capital
contribution payable in four installments as follows: $0.80 on June 30, 2011 to shareholders of record on June 15, 2011, $0.40
on September 30, 2011 to shareholders of record on September 15, 2011, $0.40 on December 30, 2011 to shareholders of record on
December 15, 2011 and $0.40 on March 30, 2012 to shareholders of record on March 15, 2012. Garmin currently expects to pay a quarterly
cash dividend in the remaining three quarters of 2012. The decision of whether to pay a dividend and the amount of the dividend
will be voted on by the Company’s shareholders as required by Swiss law.

The Board of Directors
approved a share repurchase program on February 12, 2010, authorizing the Company to repurchase up to $300 million of the Company’s
shares as market and business conditions warrant. This share repurchase authorization expired on December 31, 2011. No shares were
repurchased under the plan during the fourth quarter of 2011.

We refer you to
Item 12 of this report under the caption “Equity Compensation Plan Information” for certain equity plan information
required to be disclosed by Item 201(d) of Regulation S-K.

Item 6. Selected Financial Data

The following table sets
forth selected consolidated financial data of the Company. The selected consolidated balance sheet data as of December 31, 2011
and December 25, 2010 and the selected consolidated statement of income data for the years ended December 31, 2011, December 25,
2010, and December 26, 2009 were derived from the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes
thereto which are included in Item 8 of this annual report on Form 10-K. The selected consolidated balance sheet data as of December
26, 2009, December 27, 2008, and December 29, 2007 and the selected consolidated statement of income data for the years ended December
27, 2008 and December 29, 2007 were derived from the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements, not included herein.


The information
set forth below is not necessarily indicative of the results of future operations and should be read together with "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and the consolidated financial statements and notes
to those statements included in Items 7 and 8 in Part II of this Form 10-K.

Years ended (1)

Dec. 31, 2011 (2)

Dec. 25, 2010

Dec. 26, 2009

Dec. 27, 2008

Dec. 29, 2007

(in thousands, except per share data)

Consolidated Statements of

Income Data:

Net sales

$

2,758,569

$

2,689,911

$

2,946,440

$

3,494,077

$

3,180,319

Cost of goods sold

1,419,977

1,343,537

1,502,329

1,940,562

1,717,064

Gross profit

1,338,592

1,346,374

1,444,111

1,553,515

1,463,255

Operating expenses:

Advertising expense

145,024

144,613

155,521

208,177

206,948

Selling, general and

administrative

341,217

287,824

264,202

277,212

189,550

Research and development

298,584

277,261

238,378

206,109

159,406

Total operating expenses

784,825

709,698

658,101

691,498

555,904

Operating income

553,767

636,676

786,010

862,017

907,351

Other income/(expense), net (3), (4), (5)

30,394

(59,404

)

22,641

52,349

70,922

Income before income taxes

584,161

577,272

808,651

914,366

978,273

Income tax provision/(benefit) (6)

63,265

(7,331

)

104,701

181,518

123,262

Net income

$

520,896

$

584,603

$

703,950

$

732,848

$

855,011

Net income per share:

Basic

$

2.68

$

2.97

$

3.51

$

3.51

$

3.95

Diluted

$

2.67

$

2.95

$

3.50

$

3.48

$

3.89

Weighted average common

shares outstanding:

Basic

194,105

196,979

200,395

208,993

216,524

Diluted

194,894

198,009

201,161

210,680

219,875

Cash dividends paid per share

$

1.60

$

1.50

$

0.75

$

0.75

$

0.75

Balance Sheet Data (at end of

Period):

Cash and cash equivalents

$

1,287,160

$

1,260,936

$

1,091,581

$

696,335

$

707,689

Marketable securities

1,208,155

801,819

766,047

274,895

424,505

Total assets

4,471,338

3,988,688

3,828,082

2,934,421

3,291,460

Total debt

-

-

-

-

-

Total stockholders' equity

3,256,581

3,049,562

2,836,447

2,225,854

2,350,614

(1)

Our fiscal year-end is the last Saturday of the calendar year and does not always fall on December 31. All years presented
contain 52 weeks excluding Fiscal 2011 which includes 53 weeks.

(2)

Includes a change in estimate for per unit revenue and cost deferrals. The increase to net sales, gross profit, net income,
basic net income per share and diluted net income per share was $77.8 million, $66.5 million, $59.3 million, $0.31, and $0.30,
respectively.

(3)

Other income/(expense), net mainly consists of gain and/or loss on sale of equity securities, interest income, interest expense,
and foreign currency gain (loss)

(4)

Includes $23.0 million for foreign currency gains in 2007, and $12.1 million, $88.4 million, $6.0 million and $35.3 million
for foreign currency losses in 2011, 2010, 2009 and 2008 respectively.

(5)

Includes a $72.4 million gain on sale of equity securities primarily related to the sale of our equity interest in Tele Atlas
N.V. and related foreign currency exchange effects in 2008.

(6)

Includes a $98.7 million one-time income tax reserve release of uncertain tax position reserves from 2006 to 2008, partially
offset by a settlement for the 2007 tax year in the US and Taiwan surtax expense due to the release of reserves, recorded in 2010.


Item 7. Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion
and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations focuses on and is intended to clarify the results of our operations,
certain changes in our financial position, liquidity, capital structure and business developments for the periods covered by the
consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K. This discussion should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified
by reference to, the other related information including, but not limited to, the audited consolidated financial statements (including
the notes thereto), the description of our business, all as set forth in this Form 10-K, as well as the risk factors discussed
above in Item 1A.

As previously noted, the
discussion set forth below, as well as other portions of this Form 10-K, contain statements concerning potential future events.
Readers can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of such verbs as “expects,” “anticipates,”
“believes” or similar verbs or conjugations of such verbs. If any of our assumptions on which the statements are based
prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, our actual results could materially differ from those anticipated
by such forward-looking statements. The differences could be caused by a number of factors or combination of factors including,
but not limited to, those discussed above in Item 1A. Readers are strongly encouraged to consider those factors when evaluating
any such forward-looking statement. We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K.

Garmin’s fiscal year
is a 52-53 week period ending on the last Saturday of the calendar year. Fiscal year 2011 contained 53 weeks compared to 52 weeks
for 2010 and 2009. Unless otherwise stated, all years and dates refer to the Company’s fiscal year and fiscal periods. Unless
the context otherwise requires, references in this document to "we," "us," "our" and similar terms
refer to Garmin Ltd. and its subsidiaries.

Unless otherwise indicated,
dollar amounts set forth in the tables are in thousands, except per share data.

Overview

We are a leading worldwide
provider of navigation, communications and information devices, most of which are enabled by Global Positioning System, or GPS,
technology. We operate in five business segments, which serve the marine, outdoor, fitness, automotive/mobile, and aviation markets.
Our segments offer products through our network of subsidiary distributors and independent dealers and distributors. However, the
nature of products and types of customers for the five segments can vary significantly. As such, the segments are managed separately.
Our portable GPS receivers and accessories for marine, recreation/fitness and automotive/mobile segments are sold primarily to
retail outlets. Our aviation products are portable and panel-mount avionics for Visual Flight Rules and Instrument Flight Rules
navigation and are sold primarily to retail outlets and certain aircraft manufacturers.

Since our first products
were delivered in 1991, we have generated positive income from operations each year and have funded our growth from these profits.

Since our principal locations
are in the United States, Taiwan and the U.K., we experience some foreign currency fluctuations in our operating results. The table
below provides a listing of our functional currency by subsidiary excluding the European subsidiaries that utilize the Euro.


Garmin (Europe) Ltd

US Dollar

Garmin Corporation

Taiwan Dollar

Garmin International

US Dollar

Garmin Norge

Norwegian Kroner

Dynastream Innovations

Canadian Dollar

Garmin Danmark

Danish Krone

Garmin Sweden

Swedish Brona

Garmin Australasia

Australian Dollar

Garmin Polska

Polish Zloty

Garmin Japan

Japanese Yen

Garmin China

Chinese Renminbi

Tri-Tronics

US Dollar

Garmin Brazil

Brazilian Real

Garmin South Africa

South African Rand

Navigon SRL

Romanian Leu

Navigon Asia

Hong Kong Dollar

Approximately 81% of sales
by our European subsidiaries are now denominated in British Pounds Sterling or the Euro. We experienced ($12.1) million, ($88.4)
million, and ($6.0) million in foreign currency losses during fiscal years 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. The 2009 foreign
currency loss includes a realized gain of $21.5 million due to the strengthening of the Euro between the date we purchased shares
in Tele Atlas N.V. in October 2007 and the tender of shares in February, March, and June 2009. To date, we have not entered into
hedging transactions related to any currency, and we do not currently plan to utilize hedging transactions in the future.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

General

Garmin’s discussion
and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based upon Garmin’s consolidated financial statements,
which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The presentation of
these financial statements requires Garmin to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities,
revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, Garmin evaluates its
estimates, including those related to customer sales programs and incentives, product returns, bad debts, inventories, investments,
intangible assets, income taxes, warranty obligations, and contingencies and litigation. Garmin bases its estimates on historical
experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form
the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.

Revenue Recognition

Garmin recognizes revenue
when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable, and collection
is probable.  For the large majority of Garmin’s sales, these criteria are met once product has shipped and title and
risk of loss have transferred to the customer.  The Company recognizes revenue from the sale of hardware products and software
bundled with hardware that is essential to the functionality of the hardware in accordance with general revenue recognition accounting
guidance. The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with industry specific software accounting guidance for standalone sales
of software products and sales of software bundled with hardware not essential to the functionality of the hardware.  The
Company generally does not offer specified or unspecified upgrade rights to its customers in connection with software sales.


Garmin introduced nüMaps
Lifetime™ in January 2009, which is a single fee program that, subject to the program’s terms and conditions, enables
customers to download the latest map and point of interest information every quarter for the useful life of their PND.  The
revenue and associated cost of royalties for sales of nüMaps Lifetime™ products are deferred at the time of sale and
recognized ratably on a straight-line basis over the estimated 36-month life of the products. With the acquisition of Navigon AG
in 2011, products marketed under the Navigon brand have a FreshMaps program that enables customers to download the latest map and
point of interest information for two years.  The revenue and associated cost of royalties for sales of FreshMaps products
are deferred at the time of sale and recognized ratably on a straight-line basis over the two year period.

For multiple-element arrangements
that include tangible products that contain software essential to the tangible product’s functionality and undelivered software
elements that relate to the tangible product’s essential software, the Company allocates revenue to all deliverables based
on their relative selling prices. In such circumstances, the accounting principles establish a hierarchy to determine the selling
price to be used for allocating revenue to deliverables as follows: (i) vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value (“VSOE”),
(ii) third-party evidence of selling price (“TPE”), and (iii) best estimate of the selling price (“ESP”).
 VSOE generally exists only when the Company sells the deliverable separately, on more than a limited basis, at prices within
a relatively narrow range. In addition to the products listed below, the Company has offered certain other products that involve
multiple-element arrangements that are immaterial.

In 2010, Garmin began offering
PNDs with lifetime map updates (LMUs) bundled in the original purchase price. Similar to nüMaps Lifetime™, LMUs enable
customers to download the latest map and point of interest information every quarter for the useful life of their PND. In addition,
Garmin offers PNDs with premium traffic service bundled in the original purchase price in the European market. The Company has
identified two deliverables contained in arrangements involving the sale of PNDs which include either the LMU or premium traffic
service. The first deliverable is the hardware along with the software essential to the functionality of the hardware device delivered
at the time of sale. The second deliverable is either the LMU or premium traffic service. The Company has allocated revenue between
these two deliverables using the relative selling price method. Amounts allocated to the delivered hardware and the related essential
software are recognized at the time of sale provided the other conditions for revenue recognition have been met.  The revenue
and associated cost of royalties allocated to the LMU or the subscription for premium traffic service are deferred and recognized
on a straight-line basis over the estimated 36-month life of the products.

Prior to the third quarter
of fiscal 2011, the Company determined its estimate of selling price using the dealer/distributor price for nüMaps Lifetime
or premium traffic subscriptions sold separately, and the prices for products bundled with and without the LMU and premium traffic
service when comparable models were available, as inputs to the relative selling price method in a manner similar to VSOE. The
estimated selling price determined in this manner was used to defer revenues for all products bundled with the LMU and premium
traffic service, as the number of bundled units sold as a percentage of total units sold was less significant and other indicators
of selling price were not readily available.

During 2011, sales of products
bundled with LMUs and premium traffic service increased significantly as a percentage of total product sales. Concurrently, market
conditions caused decreases in the ASP and margins of comparable models year over year, new bundled products were introduced at
lower ASPs, and the difference in pricing of bundled units and comparable unbundled models decreased considerably. Due to these
changes, the Company determined it was appropriate to change its estimate of the per unit revenue and cost deferrals during the
third quarter of 2011.


As the sales of nüMaps
Lifetime and premium traffic subscriptions as a percentage of total unit sales or in the aggregate decreased significantly in mid-2011,
the Company determined that the previous estimate of selling price based on more limited stand-alone sales of nüMaps Lifetime
or premium traffic was no longer a sole determinant of its value as determined under VSOE, and that third party evidence of selling
price was not available. Management determined that the price differential between bundled and unbundled products and the royalty
cost of the LMU or premium traffic subscription plus an approximate margin were both additional indicators of estimated selling
price. These estimates are also reflective of how the Company establishes product pricing based in part on customer perception
of value of the added LMU or premium traffic service capability. As such, beginning in the third quarter of 2011, the Company changed
its estimate of selling price of the undelivered element to be based on the relative selling price method using a weighted average
of the stand-alone sales price, the price differential between bundled and unbundled units, and the royalty or subscription cost
plus a normal margin.

The impact of the 2011
change in estimate for lifetime map updates and premium traffic service, as described above, was an increase in revenue, gross
profit, net income, basic net income per share, and diluted net income per share of $77.8 million, $66.5 million, $59.3 million,
$0.31, and $0.30, respectively.

In 2009 and 2010 respectively,
Garmin introduced the nüvi 1690 and 1695, premium PNDs with a built-in wireless module that lets customers access Garmin’s
nüLink!™ service, which provides direct links to certain online information.  Additional models were introduced
in 2011. The Company has identified two deliverables contained in arrangements involving the sale of the nüvi products with
the nüLink feature. The first deliverable is the hardware and software essential to the functionality of the hardware device
delivered at the time of sale, and the second deliverable is the nüLink service. The Company has allocated revenue between
these two deliverables using the relative selling price method determined using VSOE. Amounts allocated to the delivered hardware
and the related essential software are recognized at the time of sale provided the other conditions for revenue recognition have
been met.  The revenue and associated cost allocated to the nüLink services are deferred and recognized on a straight-line
basis over the life of the service, which is either 12 or 24 months.

Garmin records estimated
reductions to revenue for customer sales programs, returns and incentive offerings including rebates, price protection (product
discounts offered to retailers to assist in clearing older products from their inventories in advance of new product releases),
promotions and other volume-based incentives. The reductions to revenue are based on estimates and judgments using historical experience
and expectation of future conditions. Changes in these estimates could negatively affect Garmin’s operating results. These
incentives are reviewed periodically and, with the exceptions of price protection and certain other promotions, are accrued for
on a percentage of sales basis. If market conditions were to decline, Garmin may take actions to increase customer incentive offerings,
possibly resulting in an incremental reduction of revenue at the time the incentive is offered.

The Company
records revenue net of sales tax, trade discounts and customer returns.

The reductions to
revenue for expected future product returns are based on Garmin’s historical experience.

Trade Accounts Receivable

We sell our products to
retailers, wholesalers, and other customers and extend credit based on our evaluation of each customer’s financial condition. 
Potential losses on receivables are dependent on each individual customer’s financial condition. We carry our trade accounts
receivable at net realizable value. Typically, our accounts receivable are collected within 80 days and do not bear interest. We
monitor our exposure to losses on receivables and maintain allowances for potential losses or adjustments. We determine these allowances
by (1) evaluating the aging of our receivables; and (2) reviewing our high-risk customers. Past due receivable balances are written
off when our internal collection efforts have been unsuccessful. In 2011, Garmin purchased credit insurance to provide security
against large losses.

Warranties

Garmin’s products
are generally covered by a warranty for periods ranging from one to three years. Garmin accrues a warranty reserve for estimated
costs to provide warranty services. Garmin’s estimate of costs to service its warranty obligations is based on historical
experience and expectation of future conditions. To the extent Garmin experiences increased warranty claim activity or increased
costs associated with servicing those claims, its warranty accrual will increase, resulting in decreased gross profit.


Inventory

Garmin writes down its
inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated
market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than
those projected by management, additional inventory write-downs may be required.

Investments

Investments are classified
as available for sale and recorded at fair value, and unrealized investment gains and losses are reflected in stockholders’
equity. Investment income is recorded when earned, and gains and losses are recognized when investments are sold. Fair value of
investments in auction rate securities, if any, are determined using third party estimates which follow an income approach valuation
methodology. Investments are reviewed periodically to determine if they have suffered an impairment of value that is considered
other than temporary. If investments are determined to be impaired, a loss is recognized at the date of determination.

Testing for impairment
of investments requires significant management judgment. The identification of potentially impaired investments, the determination
of their fair value and the assessment of whether any decline in value is other than temporary are the key judgment elements. The
discovery of new information and the passage of time can significantly change these judgments. Revisions of impairment judgments
are made when new information becomes known, and any resulting impairment adjustments are made at that time. The economic environment
and volatility of securities markets increase the difficulty of determining fair value and assessing investment impairment.

Income Taxes

Garmin provides deferred
tax assets and liabilities based on the difference between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their carrying amount for
financial reporting purposes as measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences are expected
to reverse. It is Garmin’s policy to record a valuation allowance to reduce its deferred tax assets to an amount that it
believes is more likely than not to be realized. While Garmin has considered future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible
tax planning strategies in assessing the need for the valuation allowance, in the event Garmin were to determine that it would
not be able to realize all or part of its net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would
be charged to income in the period such determination is made. Likewise, should Garmin determine that it would be able to realize
its deferred tax assets in the future in excess of its net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would increase
income in the period such determination is made.

In addition, the calculation
of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations. We recognize liabilities
for tax audit issues in the U.S. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional
taxes will be due. If payment of these amounts ultimately proves not to be required, the reversal of the liabilities would result
in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. If our estimate of tax
liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would result.

Stock Based Compensation

Garmin awards stock options,
stock appreciation rights (“SARs”), restricted stock units (“RSUs”) and/or performance shares each year
as part of Garmin’s compensation package for employees. Certain employees within Garmin are eligible for stock options, SAR
grants, RSU grants and/or performance shares but the granting of options, SARs, RSUs and/or performance shares is at the discretion
of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors and is not a contractual obligation.


Stock-based compensation
cost is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over
the requisite service period. Determining the fair value of stock-based awards at the grant date requires judgment, including estimating
expected dividends. In addition, judgment is also required in estimating the number of stock-based awards that are expected to
vest. If actual results differ significantly from these estimates, stock-based compensation expense could be impacted. Stock compensation
plans are discussed in detail in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Accounting Terms and Characteristics

Net Sales

Our net sales are
primarily generated through sales to our global dealer and distributor network and to original equipment manufacturers. Refer to
the Revenue Recognition discussion above. Our sales are largely of a consumer nature; therefore, backlog levels are not necessarily
indicative of our future sales results. We aim to achieve a quick turnaround on orders we receive, and we typically ship most orders
within 72 hours.

Net sales are subject to
seasonal fluctuation. Typically, sales of our consumer products are highest in the second quarter, due to increased demand during
the spring and summer season, and in the fourth quarter, due to increased demand during the holiday buying season. Our aviation
products do not experience much seasonal variation, but are more influenced by the timing of the release of new products when the
initial demand is typically the strongest.

Cost
of Sales/Gross Profit

Raw material costs are
our most significant component of cost of goods sold. In 2011, gross margin for our automotive/mobile segment declined 280 basis
points driven primarily by the deferral of high margin revenue associated with bundled products and decreased selling prices on
comparable units, as well as positive impact to 2010 gross margin from a refinement in the estimated warranty reserve. The substantial
increase in product mix toward products bundled with lifetime maps required us to defer greater amounts of revenue and related
costs than in the prior year, thereby lowering gross profit by $143 million in the current year compared to $100 million for the
prior year. See Note 2 for further information on gross profit deferrals. In 2010, gross margin for our automotive/mobile segment
declined 160 basis points as the average selling price declines outpaced raw material price declines. In addition, the deferral
of high margin revenue and the related costs increased significantly as the product mix began to be impacted by a shift toward
products bundled with lifetime maps. This was partially offset by a positive refinement in the estimated warranty reserve. In 2009,
gross margin for our automotive/mobile segment increased 350 basis points as benefits from raw material price declines and operating
efficiencies exceeded the average selling price decline. In 2011, we also experienced a 420 basis point decline in marine gross
margin due to a shift in product mix. Gross margins for the aviation, marine, outdoor, and fitness segments are typically more
stable. Our long-term gross margin targets are 65%, 55%, 65%, and 55%, respectively, for these segments.

Our existing practice of
performing the design and manufacture of our products in-house has enabled us to source components from different suppliers and,
where possible, to redesign our products to leverage lower cost components. We believe that our flexible production model allows
our Sijhih, Jhongli, and LinKou manufacturing plants in Taiwan, our Olathe, Kansas, and Salem, Oregon manufacturing plants to experience
relatively low costs of manufacturing. In general, products manufactured in Taiwan have been our highest volume products. Our manufacturing
labor costs historically have been lower in Taiwan than in Olathe and Salem.

Sales price variability
has had and can be expected to have an effect on our gross profit. In the past, prices of our devices sold into the automotive/mobile
market have declined due to market pressures and introduction of new products sold at lower price points. The average selling prices
of our aviation, outdoor, fitness, and marine products have been stable due to product mix and the introduction of more advanced
products sold at higher prices. The effect of the sales price differences inherent within the mix of GPS-enabled products sold
could have a significant impact on our gross profit.


Advertising Expense

Our advertising expenses
consist of costs for both media advertising and cooperative advertising with our retail partners. As revenues grew in 2009, advertising
expense also increased. In 2010, we reduced our advertising expense as revenues declined and the public became more aware of GPS
technology. In 2011, our advertising costs increased slightly as we again experienced revenue growth. We expect advertising costs
to increase slightly in 2012 but remain consistent as a percentage of net sales.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

Our selling, general and administrative expenses
consist primarily of:

·

salaries for sales and marketing personnel;

·

salaries and related costs for executives and administrative personnel;

·

marketing, and other brand building costs;

·

accounting and legal costs;

·

information systems and infrastructure costs;

·

travel and related costs; and

·

occupancy and other overhead costs.

Selling, general and administrative
expenses increased in both 2011 and 2010. The 2011 increase was primarily driven by acquisitions, commissions associated with a
new web-based sales program, bad debt expense, legal costs and product support costs. The 2010 increase was primarily due to legal
costs, fees associated with the Swiss redomestication, and growth in product support and information technology to support our
growing installed base of users. Due to the economic pressure on our consumer-oriented business, we decreased selling, general
and administrative expenses in 2009. We expect selling, general and administrative costs, excluding advertising, to increase slightly
in 2012 due to the acquisitions made in 2011.

Research and Development

The majority of our research
and development costs represent salaries for our engineers, costs for high technology components and costs of test equipment used
in product and prototype development. Approximately 82% of the research and development of our products is performed in North America.
The remainder of our research and development activities is performed primarily by our Taiwan engineering group.

We are committed to increasing
the level of innovative design and development of new products as we strive for expanded ability to serve our existing consumer
and aviation markets as well as new markets for GPS-enabled devices. We expect our research and development budget to increase
in 2012 due to recent acquisitions and our ongoing commitment to innovation and growth.

Customers

Our top ten customers have
contributed between 29% and 36% of net sales since 2009. We have experienced average sales days in our customer accounts receivable
of between 71 and 78 days since 2009. We experienced an increase in the level of customer accounts receivable days in 2010 due
to changes in product mix, longer payment terms, and macroeconomic conditions but this was reduced in 2011. We expect the level
of customer accounts receivable days to be relatively stable in 2012.


Income Taxes

We have experienced a
relatively low effective corporate tax rate due to the proportion of our revenue generated by entities in tax jurisdictions with
low statutory rates. In particular, the profit entitlement afforded our Swiss-based companies based on their intellectual property
rights ownership of our consumer products along with substantial tax incentives offered by the Taiwanese government on certain
high-technology capital investments have continued to reduce our tax rate. As a result, our consolidated effective tax rate was
approximately 10.8% during 2011. This is a decrease from an effective rate of 15.8%, excluding certain one-time tax benefits, in
2010. The decrease in 2011 resulted primarily from the release of reserves related to the expiration of certain statutes for the
Company’s United Kingdom subsidiary, Garmin (Europe) Ltd., a reduction in the statutory tax rate in Taiwan from 25% to 17%,
and improved operating profitability in lower tax jurisdictions. We have taken advantage of the tax benefit in Taiwan since our
inception and we expect to continue to benefit from lower effective tax rates at least through 2015. Management believes that due
to slightly lower operating margins predicted for fiscal 2012, there may be less revenue recognized by entities in lower tax rate
jurisdictions.  Therefore, the effective tax rate for fiscal 2012 is expected to be higher than fiscal 2011.  The actual
effective tax rate will be dependent upon the operating margins, production volume, additional capital investments made during
fiscal 2012, the resolution of uncertain tax positions and the composition of our earnings.

Results of Operations

The following table
sets forth our results of operations as a percentage of net sales during the periods shown (the table may not foot due to rounding):

Fiscal Years Ended

Dec. 31,

Dec. 25,

Dec. 26,




Net sales


%


%


%

Cost of goods sold


%


%


%

Gross profit


%


%


%

Operating expenses:

Advertising


%


%


%

Selling, general and administrative


%


%


%

Research and development


%


%


%

Total operating expenses


%


%


%

Operating income


%


%


%

Other income / (expense) , net


%

-2

%


%

Income before income taxes


%


%


%

Provision for income taxes


%


%


%

Net income


%


%


%

The following table
sets forth our results of operations through income before income taxes for each of our five segments during the period shown.
For each line item in the table the total of the segments’ amounts equals the amount in the consolidated statements of income
data included in Item 6.


Automotive/

Fiscal year ended December 31, 2011

Outdoor

Fitness

Marine

Mobile

Aviation

Net sales

$

363,223

$

298,163

$

221,730

$

1,590,598

$

284,855

Cost of goods sold

124,373

116,404

92,077

993,581

93,542

Gross profit

238,850

181,759

129,653

597,017

191,313

Advertising

16,739

18,831

11,310

93,456

4,688

Selling, general and administrative expenses

43,181

38,495

30,990

212,545

16,006

Research and development

17,419

22,332

29,708

130,179

98,946

Total expenses

77,339

79,658

72,008

436,180

119,640

Operating income

161,511

102,101

57,645

160,837

71,673

Other income / (expense), net

9,734

5,780

2,447

10,880

1,553

Income before income taxes

$

171,245

$

107,881

$

60,092

$

171,717

$

73,226

Automotive/

Fiscal year ended December 25, 2010

Outdoor

Fitness

Marine

Mobile

Aviation

Net sales

$

319,119

$

240,473

$

198,860

$

1,668,939

$

262,520

Cost of goods sold

104,396

90,740

74,212

995,986

78,203

Gross profit

214,723

149,733

124,648

672,953

184,317

Advertising

11,731

12,754

9,834

106,950

3,344

Selling, general and administrative expenses

31,987

26,326

23,497

188,799

17,215

Research and development

13,328

17,305

23,854

131,290

91,484

Total expenses

57,046

56,385

57,185

427,039

112,043

Operating income

157,677

93,348

67,463

245,914

72,274

Other income / (expense), net

(6,704

)

(6,849

)

(5,032

)

(40,027

)

(792

)

Income before income taxes

$

150,973

$

86,499

$

62,431

$

205,887

$

71,482

Automotive/

Fiscal year ended December 26, 2009

Outdoor

Fitness

Marine

Mobile

Aviation

Net sales

$

299,300

$

169,624

$

177,644

$

2,054,127

$

245,745

Cost of goods sold

97,361

64,721

72,429

1,192,227

75,591

Gross profit

201,939

104,903

105,215

861,900

170,154

Advertising

12,642

10,620

9,682

118,713

3,864

Selling, general and administrative expenses

30,319

17,480

18,177

172,473

25,753

Research and development

7,384

16,392

21,448

110,907

82,247

Total expenses

50,345

44,492

49,307

402,093

111,864

Operating income

151,594

60,411

55,908

459,807

58,290

Other income / (expense), net

(3,598

)

(2,365

)

1,522

28,777

(1,695

)

Income before income taxes

$

147,996

$

58,046

$

57,430

$

488,584

$

56,595


Comparison of 53-Weeks Ended December 31, 2011 and 52-Weeks Ended
December 25, 2010

Net Sales

53-weeks ended December 31, 2011

52-weeks ended December 25, 2010

Year over Year

Net Sales

% of Revenues

Net Sales

% of Revenues

$ Change

% Change

Outdoor

$

363,223


%

$

319,119


%

$

44,104


%

Fitness

298,163


%

240,473


%

57,690


%

Marine

221,730


%

198,860


%

22,870


%

Automotive/Mobile

1,590,598


%

1,668,939


%

(78,341

)

-5

%

Aviation

284,855


%

262,520


%

22,335


%

Total

$

2,758,569


%

$

2,689,911


%

$

68,658


%

Net sales increased 3%
in 2011 when compared to the year-ago period.  The increase occurred in all segments excluding automotive/mobile.  The
fitness segment experienced the greatest increase at 24% with outdoor contributing 14% growth.  Automotive/mobile revenue
remains the largest portion of our revenue mix, but declined from 62% in 2010 to 58% in 2011.

Total unit sales decreased
1% to 15.8 million units in 2011 from 16.0 million units in 2010.   The declining unit sales volume in 2011 was attributable
to a decline in automotive/mobile units as the North American PND market slowed due to penetration rates and competing technologies
partially offset by increasing volumes in the outdoor, fitness, and marine segments.

Automotive/mobile segment
revenue declined 5% in 2011, as the average selling price (ASP) was flat and volumes declined 5%.   ASP was stable due
to the substantial increase in our bundled product offerings, which include lifetime map updates and premium traffic services,
as a percentage of total units sold, offset by a decrease in the ASP of comparable models from the previous year. The increase
in product mix toward bundled offerings required us to defer $179.3 million of net sales in 2011 compared to $131.3 million of
net sales in 2010.  This year-over-year impact did lessen in the back half of 2011 due to a change in accounting estimate.
 As bundled products increased significantly as a percentage of total product sales in 2011, including the impact of new product
introductions, market conditions also caused decreases in the ASP and margins of comparable models year over year.  In addition,
the difference in pricing of such bundled units and comparable unbundled models decreased considerably since 2010.  Due to
the impact of these and other factors, the Company changed its estimate of the per unit revenue and cost deferrals during the third
quarter of 2011. The impact of the change in estimate was an increase in net sales of $77.8 million in 2011.

Fitness segment revenue
increased 24% on the strength of recent product introductions and ongoing global penetration.  Outdoor revenue increased 14%
driven by new product introductions and market share gains in the GPS-enabled golf category. Marine revenues increased 12% due
to shipments to new OEM partners and market share gains.  Aviation revenues increased 9% as the Company’s retrofit business
began to recover on the strength of new panel mount avionics products.

The Company anticipates
revenue of $2.7 - $2.8 billion in 2012 driven by growth in the outdoor, fitness, aviation and marine segments offset by ongoing
declines in the automotive/mobile segment. In general, management believes that continuous innovation and the introduction of new
products are essential for future revenue growth.


Cost of Goods
Sold

53-weeks ended December 31, 2011

52-weeks ended December 25, 2010

Year over Year

Cost of Goods

% of Revenues

Cost of Goods

% of Revenues

$ Change

% Change

Outdoor

$

124,373


%

$

104,396


%

$

19,977


%

Fitness

116,404


%

90,740


%

25,664


%

Marine

92,077


%

74,212


%

17,865


%

Automotive/Mobile

993,581


%

995,986


%

(2,405

)


%

Aviation

93,542


%

78,203


%

15,339


%

Total

$

1,419,977


%

$

1,343,537


%

$

76,440


%

Cost of goods sold increased
6% in 2011 when compared to the year-ago period. Cost of goods sold in 2010 was positively impacted by 160 basis points due to
a $42.8 million warranty adjustment related to refinement in the estimated warranty reserve.  This adjustment impacted all
segments with automotive/mobile, outdoor, fitness and marine having the largest benefits.   Excluding this 2010 adjustment,
cost of goods sold increased 3% which is consistent with the change in revenue.

Cost per unit increased
in all segments with increases in outdoor and fitness generally consistent with ASP increases. Automotive/mobile increased due
to product mix shifting toward bundled PNDs. Marine and aviation cost per unit increases exceeded ASP growth which negatively impacted
gross margins for these respective segments due to product mix shift toward fishfinders in marine and retrofit panel mount products
in aviation.

Management believes that
cost of goods sold as a percentage of sales will be stable in 2012 given current component pricing.

Gross Profit

53-weeks ended December 31, 2011

52-Weeks ended December 25, 2010

Year over Year

Gross Profit

% of Revenues

Gross Profit

% of Revenues

$ Change

% Change

Outdoor

$

238,850


%

$

214,723


%

$

24,127


%

Fitness

181,759


%

149,733


%

32,026


%

Marine

129,653


%

124,648


%

5,005


%

Automotive/Mobile

597,017


%

672,953


%

(75,936

)

-11

%

Aviation

191,313


%

184,317


%

6,996


%

Total

$

1,338,592


%

$

1,346,374


%

$

(7,782

)

-1

%

Gross profit dollars in
2011 decreased 1% while gross profit margin percentage decreased 150 basis points compared to 2010.  Gross profit margins
declined in all segments when compared to 2010.  Gross margins in 2010 were positively impacted due to the $42.8 million warranty
adjustment related to the refinement in the estimated warranty reserve.

The automotive/mobile segment
gross profit margin percentage decreased 280 basis points driven primarily by the 2010 warranty benefit and the deferral of high
margin revenue associated with bundled products. The substantial increase in product mix toward products bundled with lifetime
maps required us to defer greater amounts of revenue and related costs, thereby lowering gross profit by $143.2 million in the
current year compared to $99.9 million for the prior year. This year-over-year impact did lessen in the back half of 2011 due to
the previously discussed change in accounting estimate. The impact of the change in estimate was an increase in gross profit of
$66.5 million in 2011.

Outdoor and fitness gross
profit margin percentage decreased 150 basis points and 130 basis points, respectively, from the prior year driven primarily by
the 2010 warranty benefit. Marine gross profit margin percentage decreased 420 basis points driven by the 2010 warranty benefit,
a 2011 increase in warranty reserves to account for geographic mix and a product mix shift toward lower margin products including
fishfinders. Aviation gross profit margin percentage decreased 300 basis points driven primarily by a lower margin profile for
our retrofit panel mount products.

Management believes that
total company gross margins will be stable in 2012 as growth occurs in segments with higher margin profiles than corporate average.


Advertising
Expenses

53-weeks ended December 31, 2011

52-Weeks ended December 25, 2010

Advertising

Advertising

Year over Year

Expense

% of Revenues

Expense

% of Revenues

$ Change

% Change

Outdoor

$

16,739


%

$

11,731


%

$

5,008


%

Fitness

18,831


%

12,754


%

6,077


%

Marine

11,310


%

9,834


%

1,476


%

Automotive/Mobile

93,456


%

106,950


%

(13,494

)

-13

%

Aviation

4,688


%

3,344


%

1,344


%

Total

$

145,024


%

$

144,613


%

$



%

Advertising expense increased
slightly in absolute dollars and was flat as a percentage of revenues when compared to 2010.  As a percent of revenues, advertising
expenses were 5% in both 2011 and 2010.  The slight increase in absolute dollars resulted from increased investment for outdoor
and fitness advertising, which are the segments experiencing the most growth, offset by reduced cooperative advertising paid to
our retail partners as PND units declined and the elimination of mobile handset specific advertising.

Management expects to maintain
advertising as a percentage of sales constant in 2012.

Selling, General
and Administrative Expenses

53-weeks ended December 31, 2011

52-weeks ended December 25, 2010

Selling, General &

Selling, General &

Year over Year

Admin. Expenses

% of Revenues

Admin. Expenses

% of Revenues

$ Change

% Change

Outdoor

$

43,181


%

$

31,987


%

$

11,194


%

Fitness

38,495


%

26,326


%

12,169


%

Marine

30,990


%

23,497


%

7,493


%

Automotive/Mobile

212,545


%

188,799


%

23,746


%

Aviation

16,006


%

17,215


%

(1,209

)

-7

%

Total

$

341,217


%

$

287,824


%

$

53,393


%

Selling, general and administrative
expense increased in both absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenues compared to 2010.  As a percent of revenues, selling,
general and administrative expenses increased from 11% of revenues in 2010 to 12% of revenues in 2011. The expense increase was
primarily driven by acquisitions ($21.3 million), commissions associated with a new web-based sales program ($4.3 million), bad
debt expense ($3.5 million), legal costs ($9.3 million), and product support costs ($6.1 million). Aviation costs declined year-over-year
due to a reduction in bad debt expense driven by improved cash collections.

Management expects selling,
general and administrative expenses to increase slightly in absolute dollars in 2012 due to the acquisitions made in 2011.

Research and Development Expense

53-weeks ended December 31, 2011

52-weeks ended December 25, 2010

Research &

Research &

Year over Year

Development

% of Revenues

Development

% of Revenues

$ Change

% Change

Outdoor

$

17,419


%

$

13,328


%

$

4,091


%

Fitness

22,332


%

17,305


%

5,027


%

Marine

29,708


%

23,854


%

5,854


%

Automotive/Mobile

130,179


%

131,290


%

(1,111

)

-1

%

Aviation

98,946


%

91,484


%

7,462


%

Total

$

298,584


%

$

277,261


%

$

21,323


%

Research and development
expense increased 8% due to ongoing development activities for new products and the addition of approximately 225 new engineering
personnel due primarily to acquisitions offset by the discontinuation of costs associated with the mobile handset initiative.  
In absolute dollars, research and development costs increased $21.3 million when compared with the year-ago period and increased
50 basis points as a percent of revenue.


Management believes that
one of the key strategic initiatives for future growth and success of Garmin is continuous innovation, development, and introduction
of new products. Management expects that its research and development expenses will increase during fiscal 2012 on an absolute
dollar basis in order to deliver innovative new products and technologies.

Operating Income

53-weeks ended December 31, 2011

52-weeks ended December 25, 2010

Year over Year

Operating Income

% of Revenues

Operating Income

% of Revenues

$ Change

% Change

Outdoor

$

161,511


%

$

157,677


%

$

3,834


%

Fitness

102,101


%

93,348


%

8,753


%

Marine

57,645


%

67,463


%

(9,818

)

-15

%

Automotive/Mobile

160,837


%

245,914


%

(85,077

)

-35

%

Aviation

71,673


%

72,274


%

(601

)

-1

%

Total

$

553,767


%

$

636,676


%

($

82,909

)

-13

%

Operating income decreased
360 basis points as a percent of revenue and 13% in absolute dollars when compared to the year-ago period as gross margin declined
and operating expenses increased.

Other Income (Expense)

53-weeks ended

52-weeks ended

December 31, 2011

December 25, 2010

Interest Income

$

32,812

$

24,979

Interest Expense

-

(1,246

)

Foreign Currency Exchange

(12,100

)

(88,377

)

Other

9,682

5,240

Total

$

30,394

($

59,404

)

Other income (expense)
principally consists of interest income and foreign currency exchange gains and losses. Interest income for fiscal 2011 increased
due to increasing cash and marketable securities balances during the year and a slight increase in interest rates.

Foreign currency gains
and losses for the Company are primarily tied to movements by the Taiwan Dollar, the Euro, and the British Pound Sterling. The
Taiwan Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin Corporation. The U.S. Dollar remains the functional currency of Garmin Europe.
The Euro is the functional currency of most European subsidiaries. As these entities have grown, currency moves can generate material
gains and losses. Additionally, Euro-based inter-company transactions in Garmin Ltd. can also generate currency gains and losses.
Due to the relative size of entities using a functional currency other than the Taiwan Dollar, the Euro and the British Pound
Sterling, currency fluctuations within these entities are not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial
statements.

The $12.1 million currency
loss in 2011 was due primarily to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar compared to the Euro. The movements of the Taiwan Dollar
and Euro/British Pound Sterling have offsetting impacts due to the use of the Taiwan Dollar for manufacturing costs and cash held
in non-functional currency while the Euro and British Pound Sterling transactions relate to revenue. During 2011, the U.S. Dollar
strengthened 1.3% compared to the Euro resulting in a loss of $4.8 million. A loss of $4.1 million resulted due to the U.S. Dollar
weakening 1.2% against the Taiwan Dollar as the asset balances fluctuated throughout the year. The remaining net currency loss
of $3.2 million is related to other currencies and timing of transactions.


The $88.4 million currency
loss in 2010 was due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar compared to the Euro and the British Pound Sterling, as well as the
weakening of the U.S. Dollar compared to the Taiwan Dollar. During 2011, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 8.8% and 3.3% compared to
the Euro and the British Pound Sterling, respectively, resulting in a loss of $51.0 million. A loss of $38.7 million resulted
due to the U.S. Dollar weakening 5.9% against the Taiwan Dollar. The remaining net currency gain of $1.3 million is related to
other currencies and timing of transactions.

Income Tax Provision

Our earnings before taxes
increased 1% when compared to 2010 and our income tax expense increased by $70.6 million, to $63.3 million for fiscal year 2011
from ($7.3) million for fiscal year 2010. The significant increase in income tax expense was due to the impact of one-time items
booked in 2010.  The one-time items of ($98.7) million include release of uncertain tax position reserves from 2006 to 2009
related to our settlement with the IRS in the US, partially offset by the amount of the settlement for the 2007 tax year in the
US and Taiwan surtax expense due to the release of reserves.  Without one-time items, we would have reported an effective
tax rate of 15.8% for 2010 compared to 10.8% for 2011.  The decrease is primarily due to the 2011 release of reserves related
to the expiration of certain statutes for Garmin Europe, a reduction in the statutory tax rate in Taiwan from 25% to 17%, and
improved operating profitability in lower tax jurisdictions.

Net Income

As a result of the various
factors noted above, net income decreased 11% to $520.9 million for fiscal year 2011 compared to $584.6 million for fiscal year
2010.

Comparison of 52-Weeks Ended December 25, 2010 and December
26, 2009

Net Sales

52-weeks ended December 25, 2010

52-weeks ended December 26, 2009

Year over Year

Net Sales

% of Revenues

Net Sales

% of Revenues

$ Change

% Change

Outdoor

$

319,119


%

$

299,300


%

$

19,819


%

Fitness

240,473


%

169,624


%

70,849


%

Marine

198,860


%

177,644


%

21,216


%

Automotive/Mobile

1,668,939


%

2,054,127


%

(385,188

)

-19

%

Aviation

262,520


%

245,745


%

16,775


%

Total

$

2,689,911


%

$

2,946,440


%

($

256,529

)

-9

%

Net sales decreased 9%
in 2010 when compared to the year-ago period.  The decrease occurred in automotive/mobile and was partially offset by revenue
growth in outdoor, fitness, marine and aviation.  The fitness segment experienced the greatest increase at 42%.  Automotive/mobile
revenue remains the largest portion of our revenue mix, but declined from 70% in 2009 to 62% in 2010.

Total unit sales decreased
4% to 16.0 million units in 2010 from 16.6 million units in 2009.   The declining unit sales volume in 2010 was attributable
to a decline in automotive/mobile units due to increased saturation in the segment and competing technologies partially offset
by increasing volumes in the outdoor, fitness, marine and aviation segments.

Automotive/mobile segment
revenue declined 19% in 2010, as the average selling price and volumes declined 11% and 9%, respectively.   Outdoor
segment revenue increased 7% due to new product introductions that both refreshed existing products and expanded the addressable
market. Fitness segment revenue increased 42% on the strength of recent product introductions that expand the addressable market
and ongoing global penetration.  Marine revenues increased 12% due to product introductions, slight industry recovery and
market share gains.  Aviation revenues increased 7% as the Company delivered into additional cockpits and the retrofit business
began to recover.


Cost of Goods
Sold

52-weeks ended December 25, 2010

52-Weeks ended December 26, 2009

Year over Year

Gross Profit

% of Revenues

Gross Profit

% of Revenues

$ Change

% Change

Outdoor

$

104,396


%

$

97,361


%

$

7,035


%

Fitness

90,740


%

64,721


%

26,019


%

Marine

74,212


%

72,429


%

1,783


%

Automotive/Mobile

995,986


%

1,192,227


%

(196,241

)

-16

%

Aviation

78,203


%

75,591


%

2,612


%

Total

$

1,343,537


%

$

1,502,329


%

$

(158,792

)

-11

%

Cost of goods sold decreased
11% in 2010 when compared to 2009 which was generally consistent with the change in revenue. The absolute dollar
decrease occurred in automotive/mobile and was partially offset by cost of goods increases in outdoor, fitness, marine and aviation. Cost
of goods sold in 2010 was positively impacted by 160 basis points due to a $42.8 million warranty adjustment related to refinement
in the estimated warranty reserve.  This adjustment impacted all segments with automotive/mobile, outdoor, fitness and marine
having the largest benefits.   Cost per unit declined in all segments driving stable to improving margins in outdoor,
fitness, marine and aviation.

Gross Profit

52-weeks ended December 25, 2010

52-weeks ended December 26, 2009

Year over Year

Cost of Goods

% of Revenues

Cost of Goods

% of Revenues

$ Change

% Change

Outdoor

$

214,723


%

$

201,939


%

$

12,784


%

Fitness

149,733


%

104,903


%

44,830


%

Marine

124,648


%

105,215


%

19,433


%

Automotive/Mobile

672,953


%

861,900


%

(188,947

)

-22

%

Aviation

184,317


%

170,154


%

14,163


%

Total

$

1,346,374


%

$

1,444,111


%

($

97,737

)

-7

%

Gross profit dollars in
2010 decreased 7% while gross profit margin percentage increased 110 basis points compared to 2009.  Gross profit margins
were stable to increasing in all segments excluding the automotive/mobile segment when compared to 2009.

The automotive/mobile
segment gross profit margin percentage decrease of 160 basis points was driven by an 11% decrease in average selling price which
was only partially offset by a decline in per unit costs including the warranty benefit.   Gross profit dollars of the
automotive/mobile segment declined to 50% of total gross profit dollars from 60% in 2010.  Gross profit dollars for marine
increased 18% compared to 2009 due to product mix shifting toward higher margin units.  Gross profit dollars for fitness
increased by 43% to $149.7 million due to strong revenue growth in the segment.

Advertising
Expenses

52-weeks ended December 25, 2010

52-Weeks ended December 26, 2009

Advertising

Advertising

Year over Year

Expense

% of Revenues

Expense

% of Revenues

$ Change

% Change

Outdoor

$

11,731


%

$

12,642


%

($


)

-7

%

Fitness

12,754


%

10,620


%

2,134


%

Marine

9,834


%

9,682


%



%

Automotive/Mobile

106,950


%

118,713


%

(11,763

)

-10

%

Aviation

3,344


%

3,864


%

(520

)

-13

%

Total

$

144,613


%

$

155,521


%

($

10,908

)

-7

%


Advertising expense decreased
7% in absolute dollars and was flat as a percentage of revenues when compared to 2009.  As a percent of revenues, advertising
expenses were 5% in both 2010 and 2009.  The absolute dollar decrease occurred primarily in the automotive/mobile segment
due to reduced cooperative advertising paid to our retail partners partially offset by mobile handset specific advertising. 
Further offsetting the decline was increased advertising for fitness where we continue to invest for growth.

Selling, General
and Administrative Expenses

52-weeks ended December 25, 2010

52-weeks ended December 26, 2009

Selling, General &

Selling, General &

Year over Year

Admin. Expenses

% of Revenues

Admin. Expenses

% of Revenues

$ Change

% Change

Outdoor

$

31,987


%

$

30,319


%

$

1,668


%

Fitness

26,326


%

17,480


%

8,846


%

Marine

23,497


%

18,177


%

5,320


%

Automotive/Mobile

188,799


%

172,473


%

16,326


%

Aviation

17,215


%

25,753


%

(8,538

)

-33

%

Total

$

287,824


%

$

264,202


%

$

23,622


%

Selling, general and administrative
expense increased in both absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenues compared to 2009.  As a percent of revenues, selling,
general and administrative expenses increased from 9% of revenues in 2009 to 11% of revenues in 2010. The expense increase was
primarily driven by legal costs, fees associated with the Swiss redomestication, and growth in product support and information
technology to support our growing installed base of users. Aviation costs declined year-over-year due to a 2009 bad debt accrual
driven by cash collection risks associated with several of our customers that did not reoccur in 2010.

Research and Development Expense

52-weeks ended December 25, 2010

52-weeks ended December 26, 2009

Research &

Research &

Year over Year

Development

% of Revenues

Development

% of Revenues

$ Change

% Change

Outdoor

$

13,328


%

$

7,384


%

$

5,944


%

Fitness

17,305


%

16,392


%



%

Marine

23,854


%

21,448


%

2,406


%

Automotive/Mobile

131,290


%

110,907


%

20,383


%

Aviation

91,484


%

82,247


%

9,237


%

Total

$

277,261


%

$

238,378


%

$

38,883


%

Research and development
expense increased 16% due to ongoing development activities for new products including the mobile handset initiative which has
now been cancelled, and the addition of over 350 new engineering personnel to our staff during the period.   In absolute
dollars, research and development costs increased $38.9 million primarily in the auto/mobile segment, when compared with the year-ago
period and increased 220 basis points as a percent of revenue. Outdoor research and development expense increased 80% due to new
initiatives including golf and tracking products.

Operating Income

52-weeks ended December 25, 2010

52-weeks ended December 26, 2009

Year over Year

Operating Income

% of Revenues

Operating Income

% of Revenues

$ Change

% Change

Outdoor

$

157,677


%

$

151,594


%

$

6,083


%

Fitness

93,348


%

60,411


%

32,937


%

Marine

67,463


%

55,908


%

11,555


%

Automotive/Mobile

245,914


%

459,807


%

(213,893

)

-47

%

Aviation

72,274


%

58,290


%

13,984


%

Total

$

636,676


%

$

786,010


%

($

149,334

)

-19

%

Operating income decreased
300 basis points as a percent of revenue and 19% in absolute dollars when compared to 2009 as gross margin percentage
improvements and reduced advertising expense were more than offset by declining revenues and increased selling, general and administrative
and research and development expenses.


The automotive/mobile operating
margin declined from 22% in 2009 to 15% in 2010 due to a 160 basis point decline in gross margins and selling, general and administrative
and research and development expense increases during a period of declining revenues. The fitness operating margin dollars increased
55% driven by gross margin dollars and increased leverage on research and development expenses. The aviation operating margin increased
from 24% in 2009 to 28% in 2010 as gross margins improved 100 basis points.

Other Income (Expense)

52-weeks ended

52-weeks ended

December 25, 2010

December 26, 2009

Interest Income

$

24,979

$

23,519

Interest Expense

(1,246

)

-

Foreign Currency Exchange

(88,377

)

(6,040

)

Gain/(Loss) on sale of marketable securities

(2,382

)

2,741

Other

7,622

2,421

Total

$

(59,404

)

$

22,641

Other income (expense)
principally consists of interest income and foreign currency exchange gains and losses. Other income (expense) was lower in fiscal
2010 relative to fiscal 2009, with the majority of this difference caused by a large foreign currency loss in 2010. Interest income
for fiscal 2010 increased due to increasing cash and marketable securities balances during the year partially offset by decreasing
interest rates.

The $88.4 million currency
loss in 2010 was due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar compared to the Euro and the British Pound Sterling, as well as the
weakening of the U.S. Dollar compared to the Taiwan Dollar. During 2010, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 8.8% and 3.3% compared to
the Euro and the British Pound Sterling, respectively, resulting in a loss of $51.0 million. A loss of $38.7 million resulted
due to the U.S. Dollar weakening 5.9% against the Taiwan Dollar. The movements of the Taiwan Dollar and Euro/British Pound Sterling
have offsetting impacts due to the use of the Taiwan Dollar for manufacturing costs and cash held in non-functional currency while
the Euro and British Pound Sterling transactions relate to revenue. The remaining net currency gain of $1.3 million is related
to other currencies and timing of transactions.

The $6.0 million currency
loss in 2009 was due to the weakening of the U.S. Dollar compared to the Euro, the British Pound Sterling and the Taiwan Dollar.
During 2009, the U.S. Dollar weakened 2.4% and 8.3% compared to the Euro and the British Pound Sterling, respectively, resulting
in a gain of $5.8 million. A loss of $16.1 million resulted due to the U.S. Dollar weakening 2.3% against the Taiwan Dollar. The
remaining net currency gain of $4.3 million is related to other currencies and timing of transactions.

Income Tax Provision

Our earnings before taxes
fell 29% when compared to 2009 and our income tax expense decreased by $112.0 million, to ($7.3) million, for fiscal year 2010
from $104.7 million for fiscal year 2009. The significant decline in income tax expense was due to the impact of one-time items
booked in 2010.  The one-time items of ($98.7) million include release of uncertain tax position reserves from 2006 to 2009
related to our settlement with the IRS in the US, partially offset by the amount of the settlement for the 2007 tax year in the
US and Taiwan surtax expense due to the release of reserves.  Without one-time items, we would have reported an effective
tax rate of 15.8% for 2010 compared to 12.9% for 2009.  The increase in the adjusted effective tax rate as compared to 2009
is largely due to an unfavorable mix of income among taxing jurisdictions.


Net Income

As a result of the various
factors noted above, net income decreased 17% to $584.6 million for fiscal year 2010 compared to $704.0 million for fiscal year
2009.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Net cash generated by
operations was $822.3 million, $770.6 million, and $1,094.5 million for fiscal years 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. Primary
drivers of the cash generation in 2011 included: $520.9 million of net income with non-cash adjustments for depreciation/amortization
of $94.5 million and stock compensation expense of $40.2 million; $169.5 million related to decreased accounts receivable due
to increased cash collections resulting from the 53-week year in 2011 and improved payment terms with customers; and $179.4 million
of deferred revenue as required by our revenue recognition policies. This cash generation was partially offset by uses of cash
including a $61.1 million reduction in other current and noncurrent liabilities related primarily to a decrease in accrued sales
program costs due to the impact of reduced channel inventory, $51.4 million increase in other current assets related primarily
to a receivable due from the Swiss Federal Tax Authority that has subsequently been received, and $36.1 million of net deferred
costs associated with bundled products. The increase in cash flow from operations over 2010 levels was due to improved working
capital gains in accounts payable, inventories and accounts receivable offset by reduced working capital from other current assets
and reduced net income. We expect to generate cash flow from operations in 2012 with ongoing net income, as well as working capital.

Cash flow used in investing
activities was $ 488.2 million, $72.9 million, and $547.9 million for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Cash flow used
in investing activities principally relates to the net redemption of or investment in fixed income securities, capital expenditures
and acquisitions. Capital expenditures in 2011 totaled $38.4 million and related to business operations and maintenance activities.
We have budgeted approximately $50 million of capital expenditures during fiscal 2012 to include normal ongoing capital expenditures
and maintenance activities. In 2011, 2010 and 2009, net investment in fixed income securities of our on-hand cash was $393.3 million,
$25.5 million and $491.0 million, respectively, as we invested excess cash. It is management’s goal to invest the on-hand
cash consistent with Garmin’s investment policy, which has been approved by the Board of Directors. The investment policy’s
primary purpose is to preserve capital, maintain an acceptable degree of liquidity, and maximize yield within the constraint of
low credit risk. Garmin’s average interest rate returns on cash and investments during fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 were approximately
1.4%, 1.3%, and 1.7%, respectively. In 2011, cash flow used in investing activities included $54.2 million for the acquisitions
of NAVIGON AG, Tri-Tronics Inc., and two global distributors. In 2010, cash flow used in investing activities included $12.1 million
for the acquisition of MetriGear, Inc.

Net cash used by financing
activities in fiscal 2011 was $307.4 million resulting from the use of $310.8 million for payment of our declared dividend offset
by the net impact of transactions related to our Company stock option plans and stock based compensation tax benefits. Our dividend
has progressively increased from $0.75 per share in 2009 to $1.50 per share in 2010 and $1.60 per share in 2011.

We currently use cash flow
from operations to fund our capital expenditures, to support our working capital requirements, and to pay dividends. We expect
that future cash requirements will principally be for capital expenditures, working capital, payment of dividends declared, and
the funding of strategic acquisitions.

We believe that our existing
cash balances and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our projected capital expenditures, working capital and
other cash requirements at least through the end of fiscal 2012.

Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments

Future commitments of Garmin,
as of December 31, 2011, aggregated by type of contractual obligation, are:


Payments due by period

Less than

More than

Contractual Obligations

Total

1 year

1-3 years

3-5 years

5 years

Operating Leases

$

57,169

$

13,549

$

23,153

$

14,044

$

6,423

Operating leases describes
lease obligations associated with Garmin facilities located in the U.S., Taiwan, Europe, and Canada.

We may be required to make
significant cash outlays related to unrecognized tax benefits. However, due to the uncertainty of the timing of future cash flows
associated with our unrecognized tax benefits, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement,
if any, with the respective taxing authorities. Accordingly, unrecognized tax benefits of $161.9 million as of December 31, 2011,
have been excluded from the contractual obligations table above. For further information related to unrecognized tax benefits,
see Note 2, “Income Taxes,” to the consolidated financial statements included in this Report.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We do not have any off-balance
sheet arrangements.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
Risk

Market Sensitivity

We have market risk primarily
in connection with the pricing of our products and services and the purchase of raw materials. Product pricing and raw materials
costs are both significantly influenced by semiconductor market conditions. Historically, during cyclical industry downturns, we
have been able to offset pricing declines for our products through a combination of improved product mix and success in obtaining
price reductions in raw materials costs.

Inflation

We do not believe
that inflation has had a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If our costs were to become
subject to significant inflationary pressures, we may not be able to fully offset such higher costs through price increases. Our
inability or failure to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk

The operation of Garmin’s
subsidiaries in international markets results in exposure to movements in currency exchange rates. We have experienced significant
foreign currency gains and losses due to the strengthening and weakening of the U.S. dollar. The potential of volatile foreign
exchange rate fluctuations in the future could have a significant effect on our results of operations.

The currencies that create
a majority of the Company’s exchange rate exposure are the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling. Garmin Corporation,
headquartered in Sijhih, Taiwan, uses the local currency as the functional currency. The Company translates all assets and liabilities
at year-end exchange rates and income and expense accounts at average rates during the year. In order to minimize the effect of
the currency exchange fluctuations on our net assets, we have elected to retain most of our Taiwan subsidiary’s cash and
investments in marketable securities denominated in U.S. dollars.


All
European subsidiaries excluding Garmin (Europe) Ltd., Garmin Danmark, Garmin Sweden, Garmin Polska and Garmin Norge use the Euro
as the functional currency

.

The functional currency of our largest European subsidiary, Garmin (Europe) Ltd. remains the
U.S. dollar, and as some transactions occurred in British Pounds Sterling or Euros, foreign currency gains or losses have been
realized historically related to the movements of those currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. The Company believes that gains
and losses will become more material in the future as our European presence grows. In 2011, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 1.3% relative
to the Euro resulting in a foreign currency loss of $4.8 million in Garmin Ltd. and our European subsidiaries.

The U.S.
Dollar weakened 1.2% against the Taiwan Dollar resulting in a $4.1 million foreign currency loss due to the fluctuation of asset
balances throughout the year.

The net result of these currency moves combined with other losses of $3.2
million, and the timing of transactions during the year was a net loss of $12.1 million for the Company and a cumulative translation
adjustment of $76.0 million at the end of fiscal 2011.

Interest Rate Risk

We have no outstanding
long-term debt as of December 31, 2011. We, therefore, have no meaningful debt-related interest rate risk.

We are exposed to interest
rate risk in connection with our investments in marketable securities. As interest rates change, the unrealized gains and losses
associated with those securities will fluctuate accordingly. A hypothetical change of 10% in interest rates would not have a material
effect on such unrealized gains or losses. At December 31, 2011, cumulative net unrealized gains on those securities were $11.5
million.


Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Garmin Ltd. and Subsidiaries

Years Ended December 31, 2011, December 25,
2010, and December 26, 2009

Contents

Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm


Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2011 and December 25, 2010


Consolidated Statements of Income for the Years Ended December 31, 2011, December 25, 2010 and December 26, 2009


Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity for the Years Ended December 31, 2011, December 25, 2010 and December 26, 2009


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years December 31, 2011, December 25, 2010 and December 26, 2009


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



Report of
Ernst & Young LLP

Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm

The Board of Directors and Shareholders

Garmin Ltd.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets of Garmin Ltd. and Subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2011 and December 25, 2010 and the related consolidated
statements of income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011. Our
audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the index at Item 15(a)(2). These financial statements and schedule
are the responsibility of the Company's Board of Directors and management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements and schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with
the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred
to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Garmin Ltd. and Subsidiaries at December
31, 2011 and December 25, 2010 and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years
in the period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion,
the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents
fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.

We also have audited, in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Garmin Ltd.’s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in the Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee
of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 29, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion
thereon.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Kansas City, Missouri

February 29, 2012


Garmin Ltd. And Subsidiaries

Consolidated Balance Sheets

(In thousands, except share information)

December 31,

December 25,



Assets

Current assets:

Cash and cash equivalents

$

1,287,160

$

1,260,936

Marketable securities

(Note 3)

111,153

24,418

Accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts of $30,224 in 2011 and $31,822 in 2010

607,450

747,249

Inventories, net

397,741

387,577

Deferred income taxes

(Note 6)

42,957

33,628

Deferred costs

40,033

20,053

Prepaid expenses and other current assets

69,790

24,894

Total current assets

2,556,284

2,498,755

Property and equipment, net

Land and improvements

95,570

94,792

Building and improvements

277,624

274,163

Office furniture and equipment

112,345

98,779

Manufacturing equipment

125,820

119,829

Engineering equipment

81,008

71,709

Vehicles

19,001

18,437

711,368

677,709

Accumulated depreciation

(294,263

)

(249,904

)

417,105

427,805

Restricted cash

(Note 4)


1,277

Marketable securities

(Note 3)

1,097,002

777,401

License agreements, net

5,517

1,800

Noncurrent deferred income tax

(Note 6)

107,190

73,613

Noncurrent deferred costs

40,823

24,685

Other intangible assets

246,646

183,352

Total assets

$

4,471,338

$

3,988,688

Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity

Current liabilities:

Accounts payable

$

164,010

$

132,348

Salaries and benefits payable

45,964

49,288

Accrued warranty costs

46,773

49,885

Accrued sales program costs

52,262

107,261

Deferred revenue

188,987

89,711

Accrued royalty costs

99,025

95,086

Accrued advertising expense

31,915

21,587

Other accrued expenses

67,912

63,043

Deferred income taxes

(Note 6)

5,782

4,800

Income taxes payable

77,784

56,028

Dividend payable

77,865

-

Total current liabilities

858,279

669,037

Deferred income taxes

(Note 6)

4,951

6,986

Non-current income taxes

161,904

153,621

Non-current deferred revenue

188,132

108,076

Other liabilities

1,491

1,406

Stockholders' equity:

Shares, CHF 10 par value, 208,077,418 shares authorized and issued;

194,662,617 shares outstanding at December 31, 2011;

and 194,358,038 shares outstanding at December 25, 2010;

(Notes 9, 10, 11, and 12):

1,797,435

1,797,435

Additional paid-in capital

61,869

38,268

Treasury stock

(103,498

)

(106,758

)

Retained earnings

1,413,582

1,264,613

Accumulated other comprehensive gain/(loss)

87,193

56,004

Total stockholders' equity

3,256,581

3,049,562

Total liabilities and stockholders' equity

$

4,471,338

$

3,988,688

See accompanying notes.


Garmin Ltd. And Subsidiaries

Consolidated Statements of Income

(In Thousands, Except Per Share
Information)

Fiscal Year Ended

December 31,

December 25,

December 26,




Net sales

$

2,758,569

$

2,689,911

$

2,946,440

Cost of goods sold

1,419,977

1,343,537

1,502,329

Gross profit

1,338,592

1,346,374

1,444,111

Advertising expense

145,024

144,613

155,521

Selling, general and administrative expenses

341,217

287,824

264,202

Research and development expense

298,584

277,261

238,378

784,825

709,698

658,101

Operating income

553,767

636,676

786,010

Other income (expense):

Interest income

32,812

24,979

23,519

Interest expense

-

(1,246

)

-

Foreign currency

(12,100

)

(88,377

)

(6,040

)

Other

9,682

5,240

5,162

30,394

(59,404

)

22,641

Income before income taxes

584,161

577,272

808,651

Income tax provision (benefit):

(Note 6)

Current

110,755

(11,636

)

128,036

Deferred

(47,490

)

4,305

(23,335

)

63,265

(7,331

)

104,701

Net income

$

520,896

$

584,603

$

703,950

Basic net income per share

(Note 10)

$

2.68

$

2.97

$

3.51

Diluted net income per share

(Note 10)

$

2.67

$

2.95

$

3.50

See accompanying notes.


Garmin Ltd. And Subsidiaries

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders'
Equity

(In Thousands, Except Share and
Per Share Information)

Accumulated

Additional

Other

Common

Paid-In

Treasury

Retained

Comprehensive

Stock

Capital

Stock

Earnings

Gain/(Loss)

Total

Balance at December 27, 2008

$

1,002

$


$


$

2,262,503

($

37,651

)

$

2,225,854

Net income

–

–

–

703,950

–

703,950

Translation adjustment

–

–

–

–

24,537

24,537

Adjustment related to unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities, net of income tax effects of $676

–

–

–

–

(268

)

(268

)

Comprehensive income

728,219

Dividends paid

–

–

–

(149,846

)

–

(149,846

)

Tax benefit from exercise of employee stock options

–

1,366

–

–

–

1,366

Issuance of common stock from exercise of stock options


3,781

–

–

–

3,784

Stock compensation

–

43,616

–

–

–

43,616

Purchase and retirement of common stock

(4

)

(20,254

)

–

–

–

(20,258

)

Issuance of common stock through stock purchase plan

–

3,712

–

–

–

3,712

Balance at December 26, 2009

$

1,001

$

32,221

$


$

2,816,607

($

13,382

)

$

2,836,447

Net income

–

–

–

584,603

–

584,603

Translation adjustment

–

–

–

–

52,509

52,509

Adjustment related to unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities net of income tax effects of $348

–

–

–

–

16,877

16,877

Comprehensive income

653,989

Dividends paid

–

–

–

(298,853

)

–

(298,853

)

Tax benefit from exercise of employee stock options

–

4,495

–

–

–

4,495

Issuance of common/treasury stock from exercise of stock options


(867

)

10,330

–

–

9,465

Stock compensation

–

40,332

–

–

–

40,332

Purchase and retirement of common stock (prior to June 27, 2010)

(16

)

(67,528

)

–

(41,296

)

–

(108,840

)

Purchase and retirement of treasury stock

–

–

(117,088

)

–

–

(117,088

)

Impact of redomestication on par value of common shares

1,796,448

–

–

(1,796,448

)

–

–

Deferred tax impact of redomestication

–

29,615

–

–

–

29,615

Balance at December 25, 2010

$

1,797,435

$

38,268

($

106,758

)

$

1,264,613

$

56,004

$

3,049,562

Net income

–

–

–

520,896

–

520,896

Translation adjustment

–

–

–

–

14,716

14,716

Adjustment related to unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities net of income tax effects of ($369)

–

–

–

–

16,473

16,473

Comprehensive income

552,085

Dividends declared

–

–

–

(388,628

)

–

(388,628

)

Tax benefit from issuance of equity awards

–

3,313

–

–

–

3,313

Issuance of treasury stock related to equity awards

–

(19,924

)

42,261

–

–

22,337

Stock compensation

–

40,212

–

–

–

40,212

Purchase of treasury stock

–

–

(22,300

)

–

–

(22,300

)

Reclassification of retired shares to treasury shares

–

–

(16,701

)

16,701

–

–

Balance at December 31, 2011

$

1,797,435

$

61,869

($

103,498

)

$

1,413,582

$

87,193

$

3,256,581

See accompanying notes.


Garmin Ltd. And Subsidiaries

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

(In Thousands)

Fiscal Year Ended

December 31,

December 25,

December 26,




Operating Activities:

Net income

$

520,896

$

584,603

$

703,950

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:

Depreciation

54,610

53,487

56,695

Amortization

39,925

41,164

39,791

Gain on sale of property and equipment

(2,192

)

(306

)

(14

)

Provision for doubtful accounts

2,317

(4,476

)

(1,332

)

Provision for obsolete and slow-moving inventories

16,047

5,753

61,323

Unrealized foreign currency losses

18,583

62,770

7,480

Deferred income taxes

(42,475

)

(471

)

(25,096

)

Stock compensation

40,212

40,332

43,616

Realized loss/(gains) on marketable securities

(4,322

)

2,382

(2,741

)

Changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions:

Accounts receivable

169,543

129,698

(131,978

)

Inventories

(6,385

)

(77,122

)

61,189

Prepaid expenses and other current assets

(51,423

)

9,886

8,054

License fees

(9,573

)

(3,329

)

(13,735

)

Accounts payable

(26,329

)

(81,354

)

38,875

Other current and non-current liabilities

(61,103

)

(144,476

)

172,215

Deferred revenue

179,439

131,303

65,706

Deferred costs

(36,120

)

(31,445

)

(5,314

)

Income taxes payable

20,684

52,238

15,772

Net cash provided by operating activities

822,334

770,637

1,094,456

Investing activities:

Purchases of property and equipment

(38,366

)

(32,232

)

(49,199

)

Proceeds from sale of property and equipment

4,127



Purchase of intangible assets

(6,933

)

(3,883

)

(7,573

)

Purchase of marketable securities

(1,172,555

)

(694,038

)

(776,966

)

Redemption of marketable securities

779,213

668,495

285,970

Acquisitions, net of cash acquired

(54,190

)

(12,120

)

-

Change in restricted cash



(106

)

Net cash used in investing activities

(488,198

)

(72,869

)

(547,869

)

Financing activities:

Dividends

(310,763

)

(298,853

)

(149,846

)

Proceeds from issuance of common stock through stock purchase plan

-

-

3,712

Issuance of treasury/common stock related to equity awards

22,337

9,465

3,783

Tax benefit from issuance of equity awards

3,313

4,495

1,366

Purchase of treasury/common stock

(22,300

)

(225,928

)

(20,258

)

Net cash used in financing activities

(307,413

)

(510,821

)

(161,243

)

Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents

(499

)

(17,592

)

9,902

Net increase in cash and cash equivalents

26,224

169,355

395,246

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

1,260,936

1,091,581

696,335

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

$

1,287,160

$

1,260,936

$

1,091,581

See accompanying notes.


Garmin Ltd. And Subsidiaries

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (continued)

(In Thousands)

Fiscal Year Ended

December 31,

December 25,

December 26,




Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information

Cash paid during the year for income taxes

$

85,231

$

43,940

$

69,186

Cash received during the year from income tax refunds

$


$

4,526

$

2,934

Cash paid during the year for interest

-

$

1,246

-

Supplemental disclosure of non-cash investing and financing activities

Change in marketable securities related to unrealized appreciation (depreciation)

$

16,104

$

17,225

$


Fair value of assets acquired

$

162,572

$

21,918

-

Liabilities assumed

(93,014

)

(5,547

)

-

Less:  cash acquired

(15,368

)

(4,251

)

-

Net cash paid

$

54,190

$

12,120

-

See accompanying notes.


GARMIN LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(In Thousands, Except Share and Per Share
Information)

December 31, 2011 and December 25, 2010

1. Description of the Business

Garmin Ltd. and subsidiaries
(together, the “Company”) manufacture, market, and distribute Global Positioning System-enabled products and other
related products. Garmin Corporation (GC), wholly-owned by Garmin Ltd., is primarily responsible for the manufacturing and distribution
of the Company’s products to Garmin International, Inc. (GII), a wholly-owned subsidiary of GC, and Garmin (Europe) Limited
(GEL), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Garmin Ltd., and, to a lesser extent, new product development and sales and marketing of the
Company’s products in Asia and the Far East. GII is primarily responsible for sales and marketing of the Company’s
products in many international markets and in the United States as well as research and new product development. GII also manufactures
certain products for the Company’s aviation segment. GEL is responsible for sales and marketing of the Company’s products,
principally within the European market.

2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Basis of Presentation and Principles of Consolidation

The accompanying consolidated
financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The accompanying
consolidated financial statements reflect the accounts of Garmin Ltd. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All significant inter-company
balances and transactions have been eliminated.

Fiscal Year

The Company has adopted
a 52–53-week period ending on the last Saturday of the calendar year. Due to the fact that there are not exactly 52 weeks
in a calendar year and there is slightly more than one additional day per year (not including the effects of leap year) in each
calendar year as compared to a 52-week fiscal year, the Company will have a fiscal year comprising 53 weeks in certain fiscal years,
as determined by when the last Saturday of the calendar year occurs.

In those resulting fiscal
years that have 53 weeks, the Company will record an extra week of sales, costs, and related financial activity. Therefore, the
financial results of those fiscal years, and the associated 14-week fourth quarter, will not be entirely comparable to the prior
and subsequent 52-week fiscal years and the associated quarters having only 13 weeks. Fiscal 2010 and 2009 included 52 weeks while
fiscal 2011 included 53 weeks.

Foreign Currency

Many Garmin Ltd. subsidiaries
utilize currencies other than the United States Dollar (USD) as their functional currency. As required by the

Foreign Currency
Matters

topic of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC), the financial statements
of these subsidiaries for all periods presented have been translated into USD, the functional currency of Garmin Ltd., and the
reporting currency herein, for purposes of consolidation at rates prevailing during the year for sales, costs, and expenses and
at end-of-year rates for all assets and liabilities. The effect of this translation is recorded in a separate component of stockholders’
equity. Cumulative translation adjustments of $76,456 and $61,740 as of December 31, 2011 and December 25, 2010, respectively,
have been included in accumulated other comprehensive gain/(loss) in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.


Transactions in foreign
currencies are recorded at the approximate rate of exchange at the transaction date. Assets and liabilities resulting from these
transactions are translated at the rate of exchange in effect at the balance sheet date. All differences are recorded in results
of operations and amounted to exchange losses of $12,100, $88,377, and $6,040 for the years ended December 31, 2011, December 25,
2010, and December 26, 2009, respectively. The loss in fiscal 2011 was primarily the result of the slight strengthening of the
USD against the Euro and the slight weakening of the USD against the Taiwan Dollar. The loss in fiscal 2010 was primarily the result
of the strengthening of the USD against the Euro and the British Pound Sterling and the weakening of the USD against the Taiwan
Dollar. The loss in fiscal 2009 was primarily the result of the weakening of the USD against the Taiwan Dollar offset by the weakening
of the USD against the Euro and the British Pound Sterling.

Earnings Per Share

Basic earnings per
share amounts are computed based on the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding. For purposes of diluted earnings
per share, the number of shares that would be issued from the exercise of dilutive stock options has been reduced by the number
of shares which could have been purchased from the proceeds of the exercise at the average market price of the Company’s
stock during the period the options were outstanding. See Note 10.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

For purposes of reporting
cash flows, cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, operating accounts, money market funds, and securities with maturities
of three months or less when purchased. The carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents approximates fair value, given the short
maturity of those instruments.

Trade Accounts Receivable

The Company sells its products
to retailers, wholesalers, and other customers and extends credit based on its evaluation of the customer’s financial condition. 
Potential losses on receivables are dependent on each individual customer’s financial condition. The Company carries its
trade accounts receivable at net realizable value. Typically, its accounts receivable are collected within 80 days and do not bear
interest. The Company monitors its exposure to losses on receivables and maintains allowances for potential losses or adjustments.
The Company determines these allowances by (1) evaluating the aging of its receivables and (2) reviewing its high-risk customers.
Past due receivable balances are written off when its internal collection efforts have been unsuccessful in collecting the amount
due. In 2011, Garmin purchased credit insurance to provide security against large losses.

Inventories

Inventories are stated
at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined using the weighted-average method (which approximates the first-in, first-out
(FIFO) method) by GC and the FIFO method by GII and GEL. Inventories consisted of the following:

December 31, 2011

December 25, 2010

Raw Materials

$

129,211

$

103,277

Work-in-process

52,176

43,507

Finished goods

245,724

278,513

Inventory Reserves

(29,370

)

(37,720

)

Inventory, net of reserves

$

397,741

$

387,577


Property and Equipment

Property and equipment
are recorded at cost and depreciated using the straight-line method over the following estimated useful lives:

Buildings and improvements


Office furniture and equipment

3-5

Manufacturing and engineering equipment


Vehicles


Long-Lived Assets

As required by the

Property,
Plant and Equipment

topic of the FASB ASC, the Company reviews long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes
in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be fully recoverable. The carrying amount of a long-lived asset
is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition
of the asset. That assessment is based on the carrying amount of the asset at the date it is tested for recoverability. An impairment
loss is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of a long-lived asset exceeds its fair value.

The

Intangibles –
Goodwill and Other

topic of the FASB ASC requires that goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives should
not be amortized but rather be tested for impairment at least annually or sooner whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
that they may be impaired. The Company did not recognize any goodwill or intangible asset impairment charges in 2011, 2010, or
2009. The Company established reporting units based on its current reporting structure. For purposes of testing goodwill for impairment,
goodwill has been allocated to these reporting units to the extent it relates to each reporting unit.  The accounting guidance
also requires that intangible assets with finite lives be amortized over their estimated useful lives and reviewed for impairment.
The Company is currently amortizing its acquired intangible assets with finite lives over periods ranging from 3 to 10 years.

Dividends

On June 27, 2010, the Company
completed the redomestication of the place of our incorporation from the Cayman Islands to Switzerland. Under Swiss corporate law,
dividends must be approved by shareholders at the general meeting of our shareholders.

On June 3, 2011,
the shareholders approved a dividend of $2.00 per share (of which, $1.60 was paid in the Company's 2011 fiscal year) payable in
four installments as follows: $0.80 on June 30, 2011 to shareholders of record on June 15, 2011, $0.40 on September 30, 2011 to
shareholders of record on September 15, 2011, $0.40 on December 30, 2011 to shareholders of record on December 15, 2011 and $0.40
on March 30, 2012 to shareholders of record on March 15, 2012. The Company paid dividends in 2011 in the amount of $310,763. Both
the dividend paid and the remaining dividend payable have been reported as a reduction of retained earnings.

On March 16, 2010
the Board of Directors declared a dividend of $1.50 per share to be paid on April 30, 2010 to shareholders of record on April 15,
2010. The Company paid out a dividend in the amount of $298,853. The dividend was reported as a reduction of retained earnings.

On July 30, 2009
the Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.75 per share to be paid on December 15, 2009 to shareholders of record on December
1, 2009. The Company paid out a dividend in the amount of $149,846. The dividend was reported as a reduction of retained earnings.

Approximately $239,470
and $213,486 of retained earnings are indefinitely restricted from distribution to stockholders pursuant to the laws of Taiwan
at December 31, 2011 and December 25, 2010, respectively.


Intangible Assets

At December 31, 2011 and
December 25, 2010, the Company had patents, license agreements, customer related intangibles and other identifiable finite-lived
intangible assets recorded at a cost of $206,872 and $152,138, respectively. The Company’s excess purchase cost over fair
value of net assets acquired (goodwill) was $179,475 at December 31, 2011 and $136,548 at December 25, 2010. The increase in identifiable
intangible assets and goodwill in 2011 is principally related to the acquisitions completed by the Company, as further described
in Note 15.

December 31,


December 25,


Goodwill balance at beginning of year

$

136,548

$

129,066

Acquisitions

46,481

11,649

Finalization of purchase price allocations and effect of foreign currency translation

(3,554

)

(4,167

)

Goodwill balance at end of year

$

179,475

$

136,548

Identifiable, finite-lived
intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives on a straight-line basis over three to ten years. Accumulated
amortization was $134,184 and $103,534 at December 31, 2011 and December 25, 2010 respectively. Amortization expense was $33,225,
$36,675, and $37,444 for the years ended December 31, 2011, December 25, 2010, and December 26, 2009, respectively. In the next
five years, the amortization expense is estimated to be $28,464, $14,413, $9,518, $6,978, and $5,301, respectively.

Marketable Securities

Management determines the
appropriate classification of marketable securities at the time of purchase and reevaluates such designation as of each balance
sheet date.

All of the Company’s
marketable securities were considered available-for-sale at December 31, 2011. See Note 3. Available-for-sale securities are stated
at fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, reported in other comprehensive gain/(loss). At December 31, 2011
and December 25, 2010, cumulative unrealized gains/(losses) of $10,737 and ($5,736), respectively, were reported in accumulated
other comprehensive gain/(loss), net of related taxes.

The amortized cost of debt
securities classified as available-for-sale is adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity, or
in the case of mortgage-backed securities, over the estimated life of the security. Such amortization is included in interest income
from investments. Realized gains and losses, and declines in value judged to be other-than-temporary are included in other income.
The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification method.

Income Taxes

The Company accounts for
income taxes using the liability method in accordance with the FASB ASC topic

Income Taxes

. The liability method provides
that deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded based on the difference between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and
their carrying amount for financial reporting purposes as measured based on the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect
when the differences are expected to reverse. Income taxes of $252,793, $233,028, and $171,097 at December 31, 2011, December 25,
2010, and December 26, 2009, respectively, have not been accrued by the Company for the unremitted earnings of several of its foreign
subsidiaries because such earnings are intended to be reinvested in the subsidiaries indefinitely.

The Company adopted the
applicable guidance included in the FASB ASC topic

Income Taxes

related to accounting for uncertainty in income taxes on
December 31, 2006, the beginning of fiscal year 2007.   The total amount of unrecognized tax benefits as of December
31, 2011 was $161,904 including interest of $10,850.  A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized
tax benefits for years ending December 31, 2011, December 25, 2010, and December 26, 2009 is as follows:


December 31,

December 25,

December 26,




Balance at beginning of year

$

153,621

$

255,748

$

214,366

Additions based on tax positions related to prior years

5,568

11,443

14,241

Reductions based on tax positions related to prior years

(6,885

)

(10,392

)

(16,141

)

Additions based on tax positions related to current period

29,210

43,202

63,053

Reductions based on tax positions related to current period

-

-

-

Reductions related to settlements with tax authorities

-

(122,314

)

-

Expiration of statute of limitations

(19,610

)

(24,066

)

(19,771

)

Balance at end of year

$

161,904

$

153,621

$

255,748

The
December 31, 2011 balance of $161,904 of unrecognized tax benefits, if recognized, would reduce the effective tax rate. 
None of the unrecognized tax benefits are due to uncertainty in the timing of deductibility.

Accounting guidance requires
unrecognized tax benefits to be classified as non-current liabilities, except for the portion that is expected to be paid within
one year of the balance sheet date.  The entire $161,904, $153,621, and $255,748 are required to be classified as non-current
at December 31, 2011, December 25, 2010, and December 26, 2009, respectively.

Interest expense and penalties,
if any, accrued on the unrecognized tax benefits are reflected in income tax expense.  At December 31, 2011, December 25,
2010, and December 26, 2009, the Company had accrued approximately $10,850, $9,580, and $20,160, respectively, for interest. 
Interest expense (income) included in income tax expense for the years ending December 31, 2011, December 25, 2010, and December
26, 2009 is $5,568, ($10,580), and $9,000, respectively. The Company had no amounts accrued for penalties as the nature of the
unrecognized tax benefits, if recognized, would not warrant the imposition of penalties.

The Company files income
tax returns in Switzerland and U.S. federal jurisdictions, as well as various state, local and foreign jurisdictions.  The
Company is no longer subject to U.S. federal, state, or local tax examinations by tax authorities for years prior to 2008. 
The Company is no longer subject to Taiwan income tax examinations by tax authorities for years prior to 2006.  The Company
is no longer subject to United Kingdom tax examinations by tax authorities for years prior to 2009.

The Company also considers
2008 U.S. federal returns to have been effectively settled due to completion of an audit examination by the Internal Revenue Service. 
A reduction of income tax expense was recognized to reflect this settlement. In addition, the Company recognized a reduction of
income tax expense of $19,610, $24,066, and $19,771 in fiscal years ended December 31, 2011, December 25, 2010, and December 26,
2009, respectively, to reflect the expiration of statutes of limitations in various jurisdictions.

The Company believes that
it is reasonably possible that approximately $20,482 of its reserves for certain unrecognized tax benefits will decrease within
the next 12 months as the result of the expiration of statutes of limitations. This potential decrease in unrecognized tax benefits
would impact the Company’s effective tax rate within the next 12 months.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of consolidated
financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual
results could differ from those estimates.

Concentration of Credit Risk

The Company grants credit
to certain customers who meet the Company’s pre-established credit requirements. Generally, the Company does not require
security when trade credit is granted to customers. Credit losses are provided for in the Company’s consolidated financial
statements and typically have been within management’s expectations. Certain customers are allowed extended terms consistent
with normal industry practice. Most of these extended terms can be classified as either relating to seasonal sales variations or
to the timing of new product releases by the Company.


The Company’s top
ten customers have contributed between 29% and 36% of net sales since 2009. In 2011, the Company purchased trade credit insurance
to provide security against large losses. Best Buy, a customer in the outdoor, fitness, marine and auto/mobile segments accounted
for less than 10% of the Company’s consolidated net sales in the years ended December 31, 2011, and December 25, 2010, respectively,
while accounting for 13.4% of the Company’s consolidated net sales in the year ended December 26, 2009.

Revenue Recognition

Garmin recognizes revenue
when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable, and collection
is probable.  For the large majority of Garmin’s sales, these criteria are met once product has shipped and title and
risk of loss have transferred to the customer.  The Company recognizes revenue from the sale of hardware products and software
bundled with hardware that is essential to the functionality of the hardware in accordance with general revenue recognition accounting
guidance. The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with industry specific software accounting guidance for standalone sales
of software products and sales of software bundled with hardware not essential to the functionality of the hardware.  The
Company generally does not offer specified or unspecified upgrade rights to its customers in connection with software sales.

Garmin introduced nüMaps
Lifetime™ in January 2009, which is a single fee program that, subject to the program’s terms and conditions, enables
customers to download the latest map and point of interest information every quarter for the useful life of their PND.  The
revenue and associated cost of royalties for sales of nüMaps Lifetime™ products are deferred at the time of sale and
recognized ratably on a straight-line basis over the estimated 36-month life of the products. With the acquisition of Navigon AG
in 2011, products marketed under the Navigon brand have a FreshMaps program that enables customers to download the latest map and
point of interest information for two years. The revenue and associated cost of royalties for sales of FreshMaps products are deferred
at the time of sale and recognized ratably on a straight-line basis over the two year period.

For multiple element arrangements
that include tangible products that contain software that is essential to the tangible product’s functionality and undelivered
software elements that relate to the tangible product’s essential software, the Company allocates revenue to all deliverables
based on their relative selling prices. In such circumstances, the accounting principles establish a hierarchy to determine the
selling price to be used for allocating revenue to deliverables as follows: (i) vendor-specific objective evidence of fair
value (“VSOE”), (ii) third-party evidence of selling price (“TPE”), and (iii) best estimate of
the selling price (“ESP”).  VSOE generally exists only when the Company sells the deliverable separately, on more
than a limited basis, at prices within a relatively narrow range. In addition to the products listed below, the Company has offered
certain other products that involve multiple-element arrangements that are immaterial.

In 2010, Garmin began offering
PNDs with lifetime map updates (LMUs) bundled in the original purchase price. Similar to nüMaps Lifetime™, LMUs enable
customers to download the latest map and point of interest information every quarter for the useful life of their PND. In addition,
Garmin offers PNDs with premium traffic service bundled in the original purchase price in the European market. The Company has
identified two deliverables contained in arrangements involving the sale of PNDs which include either the LMU or premium traffic
service. The first deliverable is the hardware along with the software essential to the functionality of the hardware device delivered
at the time of sale. The second deliverable is either the LMU or premium traffic service. The Company has allocated revenue between
these two deliverables using the relative selling price method. Amounts allocated to the delivered hardware and the related essential
software are recognized at the time of sale provided the other conditions for revenue recognition have been met.  The revenue
and associated cost of royalties allocated to the LMU or the subscription for premium traffic service are deferred and recognized
on a straight-line basis over the estimated 36-month life of the products.


Prior to the third quarter
of fiscal 2011, the Company determined its estimate of selling price using the dealer/distributor price for nüMaps Lifetime
or premium traffic subscriptions sold separately, and the prices for products bundled with and without the LMU and premium traffic
service when comparable models were available, as inputs to the relative selling price method in a manner similar to VSOE. The
estimated selling price determined in this manner was used to defer revenues for all products bundled with the LMU and premium
traffic service, as the number of bundled units sold as a percentage of total units sold was less significant and other indicators
of selling price were not readily available.

During 2011, sales of products
bundled with LMUs and premium traffic service increased significantly as a percentage of total product sales. Concurrently, market
conditions have caused decreases in the ASP and margins of comparable models year over year, new bundled products were introduced
at lower ASPs, and the difference in pricing of bundled units and comparable unbundled models has decreased considerably. Due to
these changes, the Company determined it was appropriate to change its estimate of the per unit revenue and cost deferrals during
the third quarter of 2011.

As the sales of nüMaps
Lifetime and premium traffic subscriptions as a percentage of total unit sales or in the aggregate decreased significantly in mid-2011,
the Company determined that the previous estimate of selling price based on more limited stand-alone sales of nüMaps Lifetime
or premium traffic was no longer a sole determinant of its value as determined under VSOE, and that third party evidence of selling
price was not available. Management determined that the price differential between bundled and unbundled products and the royalty
cost of the LMU or premium traffic subscription plus an approximate margin were both additional indicators of estimated selling
price. These estimates are also reflective of how the Company establishes product pricing based in part on customer perception
of value of the added LMU or premium traffic service capability. As such, beginning in the third quarter of 2011, the Company changed
its estimate of selling price of the undelivered element to be based on the relative selling price method using a weighted average
of the stand-alone sales price, the price differential between bundled and unbundled units, and the royalty or subscription cost
plus a normal margin.

The impact of the 2011
change in estimate for lifetime map updates and premium traffic service, as described above, was an increase in revenue, gross
profit, net income, basic net income per share, and diluted net income per share of $77.8 million, $66.5 million, $59.3 million,
$0.31, and $0.30, respectively.

In 2009 and 2010 respectively,
Garmin introduced the nüvi 1690 and 1695, premium PNDs with a built-in wireless module that lets customers access Garmin’s
nüLink!™ service, which provides direct links to certain online information.  Additional models were introduced
in 2011. The Company has identified two deliverables contained in arrangements involving the sale of the nüvi products with
the nüLink feature. The first deliverable is the hardware and software essential to the functionality of the hardware device
delivered at the time of sale, and the second deliverable is the nüLink service. The Company has allocated revenue between
these two deliverables using the relative selling price method determined using VSOE. Amounts allocated to the delivered hardware
and the related essential software are recognized at the time of sale provided the other conditions for revenue recognition have
been met.  The revenue and associated cost allocated to the nüLink services are deferred and recognized on a straight-line
basis over the life of the service, which is either 12 or 24 months.

Garmin records estimated
reductions to revenue for customer sales programs, returns and incentive offerings including rebates, price protection (product
discounts offered to retailers to assist in clearing older products from their inventories in advance of new product releases),
promotions and other volume-based incentives. The reductions to revenue are based on estimates and judgments using historical experience
and expectation of future conditions. Changes in these estimates could negatively affect Garmin’s operating results. These
incentives are reviewed periodically and, with the exceptions of price protection and certain other promotions, are accrued for
on a percentage of sales basis. If market conditions were to decline, Garmin may take actions to increase customer incentive offerings
possibly resulting in an incremental reduction of revenue at the time the incentive is offered.


The Company records revenue net of sales tax,
trade discounts and customer returns. The reductions to revenue for expected future product returns are based on the Company’s
historical experience.

Deferred Revenues
and Costs

At December 31, 2011 and
December 25, 2010, the Company had deferred revenues totaling $377,119 and $197,787, respectively, and related deferred costs totaling
$80,856 and $44,738, respectively.

The deferred revenues and
costs are recognized over their estimated economic lives of two to three years on a straight-line basis. In the next three years,
the gross margin recognition of deferred revenue and cost for the currently deferred amounts is estimated to be $148,954, $108,156,
and $39,153, respectively.

Shipping and Handling Costs

Shipping and handling costs
are included in cost of goods sold in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.

Product Warranty

The Company provides for
estimated warranty costs at the time of sale. The warranty period for most products is one year to two years from date of shipment
while certain aviation products have a warranty period of two years from the date of installation and certain marine products have
a warranty period of three years from the date of shipment

.

Sales Programs

The Company provides certain
monthly and quarterly incentives for its dealers and distributors based on various factors including dealer purchasing volume and
growth. Additionally, from time to time, the Company provides rebates to end users on certain products. Estimated rebates and incentives
payable to dealers and distributors are regularly reviewed and recorded as accrued expenses on a monthly basis. In addition, the
Company provides dealers and distributors with product discounts to assist these customers in clearing older products from their
inventories in advance of new product releases. Each discount is tied to a specific product and can be applied to all customers
who have purchased the product or a special discount may be agreed to on an individual customer basis. These rebates, incentives,
and discounts are recorded as reductions to net sales in the accompanying consolidated statements of income in the period the Company
has sold the product.

Advertising Costs

The Company expenses advertising
costs as incurred. Advertising expense amounted to approximately $145,024, $144,613, and $155,521 for the years ended December
31, 2011, December 25, 2010, and December 26, 2009, respectively.

Research and Development

A majority of the Company’s
research and development is performed in the United States. Research and development costs, which are expensed as incurred, amounted
to approximately $298,584, $277,261, and $238,378 for the years ended December 31, 2011, December 25, 2010, and December 26, 2009,
respectively.


Customer Service
and Technical Support

Customer
service and technical support costs are included as selling, general and administrative expenses in the accompanying consolidated
statements of income. Customer service and technical support costs include costs associated with performing order processing, answering
customer inquiries by telephone and through Web sites, e-mail and other electronic means, and providing free technical support
assistance to customers. The technical support is provided within one year after the associated revenue is recognized. The related
cost of providing this free support is not material.

Software Development Costs

The FASB ASC topic entitled

Software

requires companies to expense software development costs as they incur them until technological feasibility has
been established, at which time those costs are capitalized until the product is available for general release to customers. Capitalized
software development costs are not significant as the time elapsed from working model to release is typically short. As required
by the

Research and Development

topic of the FASB ASC, costs incurred to enhance our existing products or after the general
release of the service using the product are expensed in the period they are incurred and included in research and development
costs in the accompanying consolidated statements of income.

Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation

The Company currently sponsors
four stock based employee compensation plans. The FASB ASC topic entitled

Compensation – Stock Compensation

requires
the measurement and recognition of compensation expenses for all share-based payment awards made to employees and directors including
employee stock options and restricted stock based on estimated fair values. See Note 9.

Accounting guidance requires
companies to estimate the fair value of share-based payment awards on the date of grant using an option-pricing model. The value
of the portion of the award that is ultimately expected to vest is recognized as stock-based compensation expense on a straight-line
basis over the requisite service period in the Company’s consolidated financial statements.

As stock-based compensation
expenses recognized in the accompanying consolidated statements of income are based on awards ultimately expected to vest, they
have been reduced for estimated forfeitures. Accounting guidance requires forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant and
revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. Forfeitures were estimated based
on historical experience and management’s estimates.

Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements

In May 2011, the FASB issued
an amendment to the accounting standards related to fair value measurements and disclosure requirements that result in a consistent
definition of fair value and common requirements for the measurement and disclosure of fair value between U.S. GAAP and International
Financial Reporting Standards. This standard provides certain amendments to the existing guidance on the use and application of
fair value measurements and maintains a definition of fair value that is based on the notion of exit price. This guidance is effective
as of the beginning of a fiscal year that begins after December 15, 2011. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting
this amendment, but it is not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements.

In June 2011, the FASB
issued guidance on the presentation of comprehensive income. This guidance eliminates the current option to report other comprehensive
income and its components in the statement of stockholders’ equity. The guidance allows two presentation alternatives; present
items in net income and other comprehensive income in one continuous statement, referred to as the statement of comprehensive income,
or in two separate, but consecutive, statements of net income and other comprehensive income. This guidance is effective as of
the beginning of a fiscal year that begins after December 15, 2011. Early adoption is permitted, but full retrospective application
is required under both sets of accounting standards. The Company is currently evaluating which presentation alternative it will
utilize.


In September 2011, the
FASB issued an amendment to ASC 350, Intangibles—Goodwill and Other, which simplifies how entities test goodwill for impairment.
Under the amendment, an entity has the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events
or circumstances leads the entity to determine that it is more likely than not that its fair value is less than its carrying amount.
If after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, an entity determines that it is not more likely than not that the fair
value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then the two-step impairment test for goodwill is unnecessary. If
the entity concludes otherwise, then it is required to test goodwill for impairment under the two-step process as described under
paragraphs 350-20-35-4 of the ASC. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, then the entity is required
to perform the second step of the goodwill impairment test to measure the amount of the impairment loss, if any, as described in
paragraph 350-20-35-9 of the ASC. The amendments are effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal
years beginning after December 15, 2011 and early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting
this amendment, but it is not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements.

3. Marketable Securities

The FASB ASC topic entitled

Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures

defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid
to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date (exit price). The accounting
guidance classifies the inputs used to measure fair value into the following hierarchy:

Level 1

Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liability

Level 2

Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for similar assets or liabilities, or

unadjusted quoted prices for identical or similar assets

Level 3

Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability

The Company endeavors to
utilize the best available information in measuring fair value. Financial assets and liabilities are classified in their entirety
based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement.

For fair value measurements
using significant unobservable inputs, an independent third party provided the valuation. The inputs used in the valuations were
completed using the following methodology. The collateral composition was used to estimate Weighted Average Life based on historical
and projected payment information. Cash flows were projected for the issuing trusts, taking into account underlying loan principal,
bonds outstanding, and payout formulas. Taking this information into account, assumptions were made as to the yields likely to
be required, based upon then current market conditions for comparable or similar term Asset Based Securities as well as other fixed
income securities.


Assets and liabilities measured at estimated
fair value on a recurring basis are summarized below:

Fair Value Measurements as

of December 31, 2011

Description

Total

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Available for-sale securities

$

1,208,155

$

1,208,155

$

-

$

-

Total

$

1,208,155

$

1,208,155

$

-

$

-

Fair Value Measurements as

of December 25, 2010

Description

Total

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Available for-sale securities

$

781,257

$

781,257

$

-

$

-

Failed auction rate securities

20,562

-

-

20,562

Total

$

801,819

$

781,257

$

-

$

20,562

All Level 3 investments
at December 25, 2010 had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for 12 months or longer. However, it was the Company’s
intent to hold these securities until they recovered their value. The Company sold these securities during 2011 and realized an
immaterial loss. For assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level
3) during the period, the accounting guidance requires a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances, separately for each
major category of assets. The reconciliation is as follows:

Fair Value Measurements Using

Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3)

Year Ended

Year Ended

December 31, 2011

December 25, 2010

Beginning balance of auction rate securities

$

20,562

$

70,252

Total unrealized gains included in other comprehensive income

5,038

16,410

Sales out of Level 3

(25,600

)

(66,100

)

Transfers in and/or out of Level 3

-

-

Ending balance of auction rate securities

$

-

$

20,562

The following is a summary
of the company’s marketable securities classified as available-for-sale securities at December 31, 2011:

Amortized Cost

Gross

Unrealized Gains

Gross

Unrealized

Losses

Other Than

Temporary

Impairment

Estimated Fair

Value (Net Carrying

Amount)

Mortgage-backed securities

$

626,776

$

12,936

$

(1,086

)

$

-

$

638,626

Obligations of states and political subdivisions

358,314

2,339

(1,090

)

-

359,563

U.S. corporate bonds

134,763


(2,260

)

(1,274

)

132,044

Other

78,031


(222

)

-

77,922

Total

$

1,197,884

$

16,203

$

(4,658

)

$

(1,274

)

$

1,208,155


The following is a summary
of the company’s marketable securities classified as available-for-sale securities at December 25, 2010:

Amortized Cost

Gross

Unrealized Gains

Gross

Unrealized

Losses

Other Than

Temporary

Impairment

Estimated Fair

Value (Net Carrying

Amount)

Mortgage-backed securities

$

527,249

$

1,913

$

(1,519

)

$

-

$

527,643

Auction Rate Securities

25,599

-

(5,037

)

-

20,562

Obligations of states and political subdivisions

160,618


(3,341

)

-

157,624

U.S. corporate bonds

54,348


(185

)

(1,274

)

53,526

Other

39,838

2,626

-

-

42,464

Total

$

807,652

$

5,523

$

(10,082

)

$

(1,274

)

$

801,819

The cost of securities
sold is based on the specific identification method.

The unrealized losses and
unrealized gains on the Company’s investments in 2010 and 2011, respectively, were caused primarily by changes in interest
rates and credit spreads. The Company’s investment policy requires investments to be rated A or better with the objective
of minimizing the potential risk of principal loss. The Company does not intend to sell the securities that have an unrealized
loss shown in the table above and it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the investment before
recovery of their amortized costs bases, which may be maturity. Therefore, the Company considers the declines to be temporary in
nature. Fair values were determined for each individual security in the investment portfolio. When evaluating the investments for
other-than-temporary impairment, the Company reviews factors such as the length of time and extent to which fair value has been
below cost basis, the financial condition of the issuer, and the Company’s ability and intent to hold the investment for
a period of time, which may be sufficient for anticipated recovery in market value. During 2010 and 2011, the Company did not record
any material impairment charges on its outstanding securities.

The amortized cost and
estimated fair value of marketable securities at December 31, 2011, by contractual maturity, are shown below. Expected maturities
will differ from contractual maturities because the issuers of the securities may have the right to prepay obligations without
prepayment penalties. Included in the $55,694 amount below is $34,590 that has been classified as current because the underlying
securities were sold subsequent to year-end. The remaining amount of $21,104 has been classified as noncurrent.

Estimated

Cost

Fair Value

Due in one year or less (2012)

$

76,427

$

76,563

Due after one year through five years (2013-2017)

370,827

370,551

Due after five years through ten years (2018-2022)

311,251

313,073

Due after ten years (2023 and thereafter)

385,017

392,274

Other (No contractual maturity dates)

54,362

55,694

$

1,197,884

$

1,208,155

4. Commitments and Contingencies

Rental expense related
to office, equipment, warehouse space and real estate amounted to $14,277, $11,768, and $10,293 for the years ended December 31,
2011, December 25, 2010, and December 26, 2009, respectively. The Company recognizes rental expense on a straight-line basis over
the lease term.


Future minimum lease payments
are as follows:

Year

Amount


$

13,549


12,251


10,902


8,211


5,833

Thereafter

6,423

Total

$

57,169

Certain cash balances of
GEL are held as collateral by a bank, securing payment of the United Kingdom value-added tax requirements. The total amount of
restricted cash balances were $771 and $1,277 at December 31, 2011 and December 25, 2010, respectively.

In the normal course of
business, the Company and its subsidiaries are parties to various legal claims, actions, and complaints, including matters involving
patent infringement and other intellectual property claims and various other risks. It is not possible to predict with certainty
whether or not the Company and its subsidiaries will ultimately be successful in any of these legal matters, or if not, what the
impact might be. However, the Company’s management does not expect that the results in any of these legal proceedings will
have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial position or cash flows.

5. Employee Benefit Plans

GII sponsors a defined
contribution employee retirement plan under which its employees may contribute up to 50% of their annual compensation subject to
Internal Revenue Code maximum limitations and to which GII contributes a specified percentage of each participant’s annual
compensation up to certain limits as defined in the Plan. Additionally, GEL has a defined contribution plan under which its employees
may contribute up to 7.5% of their annual compensation. Both GII and GEL contribute an amount determined annually at the discretion
of the Board of Directors. During the years ended December 31, 2011, December 25, 2010, and December 26, 2009, expense related
to these plans of $20,647, $17,952, and $16,399 was charged to operations.

Certain of the Company’s
foreign subsidiaries participate in local defined benefit pension plans. Contributions are calculated by formulas that consider
final pensionable salaries. Neither obligations nor contributions for the years ended December 31, 2011, December 25, 2010, and
December 26, 2009, were significant.


6. Income Taxes

The Company’s income
tax provision (benefit) consists of the following:

Fiscal Year Ended

December 31,

December 25,

December 26,




Federal:

Current

$

79,305

($

46,674

)

$

104,186

Deferred

(25,763

)


(12,021

)

53,542

(46,390

)

92,165

State:

Current

9,087

3,929

5,381

Deferred

(4,490

)

(257

)

(947

)

4,597

3,672

4,434

Foreign:

Current

22,363

31,109

18,469

Deferred

(17,237

)

4,278

(10,367

)

5,126

35,387

8,102

Total

$

63,265

($

7,331

)

$

104,701

The income tax provision
differs from the amount computed by applying the U.S. statutory federal income tax rate to income before taxes. The sources and
tax effects of the differences, including the impact of establishing tax contingency accruals, are as follows:

December 31,

December 25,

December 26,




Federal income tax expense at U.S. statutory rate

$

204,456

$

202,045

$

287,228

State income tax expense, net of federal tax effect

2,988

2,482

2,604

Foreign tax rate differential

(148,058

)

(115,633

)

(219,482

)

Taiwan tax holiday benefit

(13,127

)

(13,536

)

(18,556

)

Net change in uncertain tax postions

8,283

(102,100

)

41,400

Other foreign taxes less incentives and credits

9,658

26,707

10,379

Other, net

(935

)

(7,296

)

1,128

Income tax expense

$

63,265

($

7,331

)

$

104,701

The holding company statutory
federal income tax rate in Switzerland, the Company's place of incorporation since the redomestication effective June 27, 2010
(see Note 12), is 7.83%.  If the Company reconciled taxes at the Swiss holding company federal statutory tax rate to the reported
income tax for 2011, as presented above, the amounts related to tax at the statutory rate would be approximately $158,716 lower,
or $45,740, and the foreign tax rate differential would be adjusted by a similar amount to $10,658. For 2010, the amounts related
to tax at the U.S. statutory rate of 35% prior to the redomestication and the Swiss statutory rate of 7.83%, subsequent to the
redomestication, would be approximately $95,985 lower, or $106,060, and the foreign tax differential would be reduced by the same
amount to ($19,648). All other amounts would remain substantially unchanged.

The Company’s income
before income taxes attributable to non-U.S. operations was $473,994, $413,550, and $678,868, for the years ended December 31,
2011, December 25, 2010, and December 26, 2009, respectively. The Taiwan tax holiday benefits included in the table above reflect
$0.07, $0.07, and $0.09 per weighted-average common share outstanding for the years ended December 31, 2011, December 25, 2010,
and December 26, 2009, respectively. The Company currently expects to benefit from these Taiwan tax holidays through 2016, at which
time these tax benefits might expire.


Deferred income taxes reflect
the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes
and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components of the Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities
are as follows:

December 31,

December 25,



Deferred tax assets:

Product warranty accruals

$

2,196

$

1,646

Allowance for doubtful accounts

12,282

11,572

Inventory reserves

5,114

5,749

Sales program allowances

5,591

9,080

Reserve for sales returns

2,240

2,715

Other accruals

5,359

5,684

Unrealized intercompany profit in inventory

15,165

2,792

Unrealized foreign currency loss

-


Stock option compensation

47,998

40,785

Tax credit carryforwards, net

33,379

48,784

Amortization

26,913

28,431

Deferred revenue

28,905

10,671

Net operating losses of subsidiaries

17,780

11,583

Other

4,163

3,750

Valuation allowance related to loss carryforward and tax credits

(37,173

)

(51,352

)

169,912

132,156

Deferred tax liabilities:

Depreciation

17,600

16,030

Prepaid expenses

3,328

4,145

Book basis in excess of tax basis for acquired entities

8,191

6,604

Unrealized investment gain


5,951

Marketable securities

-

3,038

Other



30,498

36,701

Net deferred tax assets

$

139,414

$

95,455

The Company recognized a $29,615 deferred
tax asset during 2010 for the future tax benefit of the fair market value step-up in basis of intangible assets related to the
redomestication to Switzerland and local statutory tax reporting requirements. The deferred tax asset was recognized as an increase
to Additional Paid-In Capital in 2010 and will reverse as the intangible assets are amortized for Swiss statutory and tax reporting
purposes.

At December 31, 2011, the
Company had $33,379 of tax credit carryover which includes $31,240 of Taiwan surtax credit with no expiration. There is a full
valuation allowance for the Taiwan surtax credits. The valuation allowance decreased by $14,179 during 2011 including $14,994 related
to Taiwan surtax credits. The decrease in the surtax credit carryforward and valuation allowance in 2011 is principally due to
reducing the amount of such credits to the correct amount available for use in future years, on which a full valuation reserve
is provided.

At December 31, 2011, the
Company had a deferred tax asset of $17,780 related to the future tax benefit on net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards of $72,197.
 Included in the NOL carryforwards is $24,680 that relates to Spain and expires in varying amounts between 2022 and 2025,
$14,718 that relates to Switzerland and expires in 2018, and $32,799 that relates to various other jurisdictions and has no expiration
date. The Company has recorded a valuation allowance for a portion of its deferred tax asset relating to various tax attributes
that it does not believe are more likely than not to be realized. In the future, if the Company determines, based on existence
of sufficient evidence, that it should realize more or less of its deferred tax assets, an adjustment to the valuation allowance
will be made in the period such a determination is made.


7. Fair Value of Financial Instruments

As required by the

Financial Instruments

topic of the FASB ASC, the following summarizes required information about the fair value of certain
financial instruments for which it is currently practicable to estimate such value. None of the financial instruments are held
or issued for trading purposes. The carrying amounts and fair values of the Company’s financial instruments are as follows:

December 31, 2011

December 25, 2010

Carrying

Fair

Carrying

Fair

Amount

Value

Amount

Value

Cash and cash equivalents

$

1,287,160

$

1,287,160

$

1,260,936

$

1,260,936

Restricted cash



1,277

1,277

Marketable securities

1,208,155

1,208,155

801,819

801,819

For certain of the
Company’s financial instruments, including accounts receivable, accounts payable and other accrued liabilities, the carrying
amounts approximate fair value due to their short maturities.

8. Segment Information

Beginning in 2011,
for external reporting purposes, the Company identified five operating segments – auto/mobile, aviation, marine, outdoor
and fitness. Each operating segment is individually reviewed and evaluated by our Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM), who allocates
resources and assesses performance of each segment individually. Prior to 2011, the Outdoor and Fitness operating segments were
combined into a single reportable segment due to the similar nature of those products, their production processes, the types of
customers served, their distribution processes, and similar economic conditions. Management re-evaluated the combination of these
operating segments and determined that based on the growth characteristics of these segments they should now be reported as two
distinct reportable segments.

All of the Company’s
reportable segments offer products through the Company’s network of independent dealers and distributors as well as through
OEM’s. However, the nature of products and types of customers for the five reportable segments vary. The Company’s
marine, auto/mobile, outdoor, and fitness segments include portable global positioning system (GPS) receivers and accessories sold
primarily to retail outlets. These products are produced primarily by the Company’s subsidiary in Taiwan. The Company’s
aviation products are portable and panel mount avionics for Visual Flight Rules and Instrument Flight Rules navigation and are
sold primarily to aviation dealers and certain aircraft manufacturers.

The Company’s Chief
Executive Officer has been identified as the CODM. The CODM evaluates performance and allocates resources based on income before
income taxes of each segment.

Income before income taxes represents net sales less operating expenses including certain
allocated general and administrative costs, interest income and expense, foreign currency adjustments, and other non-operating
corporate expenses. The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant
accounting policies. There are no inter-segment sales or transfers.

The Company’s
reportable segments share many common resources, infrastructures and assets in the normal course of business. Thus, the Company
does not report accounts receivable, inventories, property and equipment, intangible assets, or capital expenditures by segment
to the CODM.

Revenues, interest income
and interest expense, and income before income taxes for each of the Company’s reportable segments are presented below:


Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2011

Auto/

Aviation

Outdoor

Fitness

Marine

Mobile

Total

Net sales to external customers

$

284,855

$

363,223

$

298,163

$

221,730

$

1,590,598

$

2,758,569

Allocated interest income

1,250

4,496

4,342

2,934

19,790

32,812

Allocated interest expense

-

-

-

-

-

-

Income before income taxes

73,226

171,245

107,881

60,092

171,717

584,161

Fiscal Year Ended December 25, 2010

Auto/

Aviation

Outdoor

Fitness

Marine

Mobile

Total

Net sales to external customers

$

262,520

$

319,119

$

240,473

$

198,860

$

1,668,939

$

2,689,911

Allocated interest income

1,251

2,347

1,532

1,624

18,225

24,979

Allocated interest expense

(122

)

(148

)

(111

)

(92

)

(773

)

(1,246

)

Income before income taxes

71,482

150,973

86,499

62,431

205,887

577,272

Fiscal Year Ended December 26, 2009

Auto/

Aviation

Outdoor

Fitness

Marine

Mobile

Total

Net sales to external customers

$

245,745

$

299,300

$

169,624

$

177,644

$

2,054,127

$

2,946,440

Allocated interest income



1,076

1,469

19,477

23,519

Allocated interest expense

-

-

-

-

-

-

Income before income taxes

56,595

147,996

58,046

57,430

488,584

808,651

Net sales, long-lived assets
(property and equipment), and net assets by geographic area are as shown below for the years ended December 31, 2011, December
25, 2010, and December 26, 2009. Note that APAC includes Asia Pacific and EMEA includes Europe, the Middle East and Africa.

Americas

APAC

EMEA

Total

December 31, 2011

Net sales to external customers

$

1,527,508

$

248,057

$

983,004

$

2,758,569

Long lived assets

225,505

143,913

47,687

417,105

Net assets (1)

1,155,653

1,915,284

185,644

3,256,581

December 25, 2010

Net sales to external customers

$

1,646,590

$

220,478

$

822,843

$

2,689,911

Long lived assets

231,569

146,859

49,377

427,805

Net assets (1)

1,149,826

1,719,769

179,967

3,049,562

December 26, 2009

Net sales to external customers

$

1,972,451

$

149,920

$

824,069

$

2,946,440

Long lived assets

233,573

153,878

53,887

441,338

Net assets (1)

1,177,849

1,467,903

190,695

2,836,447

(1) Majority of assets held in the United States and Taiwan.

9. Stock Compensation
Plans

Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation

The various Company stock
compensation plans are summarized below. For all stock compensation plans, the company’s policy is to issue treasury shares
for option/SAR exercises, RSU releases and ESPP purchases.


2011 Non-employee
Directors’ Equity Incentive Plan

In June 2011, the stockholders
adopted an equity incentive plan for non-employee directors (the 2011 Directors Plan) providing for grants of stock options, stock
appreciation rights (“SARs”), restricted stock units (“RSUs”) and/or performance shares, pursuant to which
up to 122,592 shares were available for issuance. The term of each award cannot exceed ten years. Awards may vest over a minimum
two-year period. During 2011, 11,996 restricted stock units were granted under this plan.

2005 Equity Incentive
Plan

In June 2005, the shareholders
adopted an equity incentive plan (the “2005 Plan”) providing for grants of incentive and nonqualified stock options,
stock appreciation rights (“SARs”), restricted stock units (“RSUs”) and/or performance shares to employees
of the Company and its subsidiaries, pursuant to which up to 10,000,000 common shares were available for issuance. The various
grants vest evenly over a period of five years or as otherwise determined by the Board of Directors or the Compensation Committee
and generally expire ten years from the date of grant, if not exercised. During 2011, 2010, and 2009, 410,197, 494,995, and 470,950
restricted stock units were granted under the 2005 Plan. In addition, in 2011, 42,330 stock options were granted under the 2005
Plan. In 2010 and 2009, 20,000 and 30,000 performance shares were granted under the 2005 Plan. No performance shares were granted
under the 2005 Plan in 2011.

2000 Equity Incentive
Plan

In October 2000, the shareholders
adopted an equity incentive plan (the “2000 Plan”) providing for grants of incentive and nonqualified stock options,
stock appreciation rights (“SARs”), restricted stock units (“RSUs”) and/or performance shares to employees
of the Company and its subsidiaries, pursuant to which up to 7,000,000 common shares were available for issuance. The stock options
and stock appreciation rights vest evenly over a period of five years or as otherwise determined by the Board of Directors or the
Compensation Committee and generally expire ten years from the date of grant, if not exercised. The Company did not grant any stock
awards from the 2000 Plan in 2011, 2010 or 2009.

2000 Non-employee
Directors’ Option Plan

Also in October 2000, the
stockholders adopted a stock option plan for non-employee directors (the 2000 Directors Plan) providing for grants of options for
up to 100,000 common shares. The term of each award is ten years. All awards vest evenly over a three-year period. During 2010
and 2009, options to purchase 23,924 and 34,648 shares, respectively, were granted under this plan. In 2009, the stockholders approved
an additional 150,000 shares to the plan, making the total shares authorized under the plan 250,000. Following the June 2011 approval
of the 2011 Directors Plan, the Company will no longer issue options to purchase shares under this plan.

Stock-Based Compensation
Activity

A summary of the Company’s
stock-based compensation activity and related information under the 2011 Directors Plan, the 2005 Plan, the 2000 Plan and the 2000
Directors Plan for the years ended December 31, 2011, December 25, 2010, and December 26, 2009 is provided below:


Stock Options and SARs

Weighted-Average

Exercise Price

Number of Shares

(In Thousands)

Outstanding at December 27, 2008

$

47.76

10,526

Granted

$

23.09


Exercised

$

18.08

(278

)

Forfeited/Expired

$

59.55

(174

)

Outstanding at December 26, 2009

$

48.28

10,109

Granted

$

33.44


Exercised

$

15.52

(826

)

Forfeited/Expired

$

62.57

(221

)

Outstanding at December 25, 2010

$

50.87

9,086

Granted

$

39.71


Exercised

$

21.02

(764

)

Forfeited/Expired

$

64.63

(291

)

Outstanding at December 31, 2011

$

53.14

8,073

Exercisable at December 31, 2011

$

51.24

7,001

Expected to vest after December 31, 2011

$

65.59

1,049

Stock Options and SARs as of December 31, 2011

Exercise

Awards

Remaining

Awards

Price

Outstanding

Life (Years)

Exercisable

(In Thousands)

(In Thousands)

$8.00 -$20.00


2.29


$20.01 - $40.00

1,530

3.48

1,463

$40.01 - $60.00

3,295

5.36

2,782

$60.01 - $80.00

1,198

5.42


$80.01 - $100.00


5.94


$100.01 - $120.00

1,258

5.91

1,007

$120.01 - $140.00


5.74


8,073

4.80

7,001

Restricted Stock Units

Weighted-Average

Grant Date Fair Value

Number of Shares

(In Thousands)

Outstanding at December 27, 2008

$

19.59

1,043

Granted

$

29.79


Released/Vested

$

19.59

(204

)

Cancelled

$

19.63

(24

)

Outstanding at December 26, 2009

$

23.47

1,316

Granted

$

30.29


Released/Vested

$

23.02

(291

)

Cancelled

$

23.32

(37

)

Outstanding at December 25, 2010

$

25.90

1,503

Granted

$

37.28


Released/Vested

$

37.73

(366

)

Cancelled

$

25.89

(81

)

Outstanding at December 31, 2011

$

29.40

1,478


The weighted-average remaining
contract life for stock options and SARs outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2011 is 4.80 and 4.57 years, respectively.
The weighted-average remaining contract life of restricted stock units at December 31, 2011 was 2.21 years.

The fair value for these
options was estimated at the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions
for 2011, 2010, and 2009:




Weighted average grant date fair value of options granted

$

10.53

$

8.99

$

7.32

Expected volatility

0.4078

0.4178

0.4286

Dividend yield

4.02

%

4.94

%

2.42

%

Expected life of options in years

6.5

6.3

6.2

Risk-free interest rate

1.2

%

2.5

%

3.0

%

The Black-Scholes option
valuation model was developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded options and SARs which have no vesting restrictions
and are fully transferable. In addition, option valuation models require the input of highly subjective assumptions, including
the expected stock price volatility.

The total fair value of
awards vested during 2011, 2010, and 2009 was $49,006, $41,249, and $41,527, respectively. The aggregate intrinsic values of options
and SARs outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2011 were $35,683 and $35,410, respectively. The aggregate intrinsic values
of options and SARs exercised during 2011, 2010, and 2009 were $14,367, $12,259, and $3,578, respectively. The aggregate intrinsic
value of RSUs outstanding at December 31, 2011 was $58,856. The aggregate intrinsic values of RSUs released during 2011, 2010,
and 2009 were $14,592, $8,828, and $6,327, respectively. Aggregate intrinsic value represents the positive difference between the
Company’s closing stock price on the last trading day of the fiscal period, which was $39.81 on December 30, 2011, and the
exercise price multiplied by the number of options exercised. As of December 31, 2011, there was $58,554 of total unrecognized
compensation cost related to unvested share-based compensation awards granted to employees under the stock compensation plans.
That cost is expected to be recognized over the weighted average remaining vesting period.

Employee Stock
Purchase Plan

The shareholders also adopted
an employee stock purchase plan (ESPP). Up to 4,000,000 shares of common stock have been reserved for the ESPP with shareholders
approving an additional 2,000,000 shares in May 2010. Shares will be offered to employees at a price equal to the lesser of 85%
of the fair market value of the stock on the date of purchase or 85% of the fair market value on the first day of the ESPP period.
The ESPP is intended to qualify as an “employee stock purchase plan” under Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code.
During 2011, 2010, and 2009, 514,218, 349,173, and 209,416 shares, respectively were purchased under the plan for a total purchase
price of $13,746, $8,134, and $3,874, respectively. During 2011 and 2010, the purchases were issued from treasury shares. At December
31, 2011, approximately 1,561,066 shares were available for future issuance.


10. Earnings Per Share

The following table sets
forth the computation of basic and diluted net income per share:

Fiscal Year Ended

December 31,

December 25,

December 26,




Numerator (in thousands):

Numerator for basic and diluted net income per share - net income

$

520,896

$

584,603

$

703,950

Denominator (in thousands):

Denominator for basic net income per share - weighted-average common shares

194,105

196,979

200,395

Effect of dilutive securities - employee stock-based awards


1,030


Denominator for diluted net income per share - weighted-average common shares

194,894

198,009

201,161

Basic net income per share

$

2.68

$

2.97

$

3.51

Diluted net income per share

$

2.67

$

2.95

$

3.50

Options to purchase 5,920,076, 6,192,043,
and 7,814,095 common shares were outstanding during 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively, but were not included in the computation
of diluted earnings per share because the effect was antidilutive.

11. Share Repurchase Program

The Board of Directors
approved a share repurchase program on February 12, 2010, authorizing the Company to purchase up to $300,000 of its common shares
as market and business conditions warrant on the open market or in negotiated transactions in compliance with the SEC’s Rule
10b-18. The share repurchase authorization expired on December 31, 2011. Under the plan, the Company had repurchased 7,366,646
shares using cash of $223,149 in fiscal 2010.

In addition, 522,856 shares
repurchased for $16,701 prior to the Company’s redomestication to Switzerland on June 27, 2010, but for which transactions
settled after that date, were treated as retired when such shares were still in treasury. These shares were reflected as additional
treasury shares during the 13-weeks ended March 26, 2011 with a corresponding increase to retained earnings.

The Board of Directors
approved a share repurchase program on October 22, 2008, authorizing the Company to purchase up to $300,000 of its common shares
as market and business conditions warrant. The share repurchase authorization expired on December 31, 2009. From inception to expiration,
$60,000 of common shares were repurchased and retired under this plan.

12. Redomestication

The redomestication effectively
changed the place of incorporation of the ultimate parent holding company of Garmin from the Cayman Islands to Switzerland.

The redomestication involved
several steps. On February 9, 2010, Garmin Ltd. (Cayman) formed Garmin Ltd. (Switzerland) as a direct subsidiary. On April 6,
2010, Garmin Ltd. (Cayman) petitioned the Cayman Court to order, among other things, the calling of a meeting of Garmin Ltd. (Cayman)
common shareholders to approve a scheme of arrangement. On April 7, 2010, the Cayman Court ordered us to seek shareholder
approval of the scheme of arrangement. On May 20, 2010 we obtained the necessary shareholder approval.  On June 4, 2010,
a hearing was held by the Cayman Court and at which hearing the Cayman Court was asked to and did approve the scheme of arrangement.
 The scheme of arrangement became effective at 3:00 a.m., Cayman Islands time, on Sunday, June 27, 2010 (the “Transaction
Time”).


At and shortly following
the Transaction Time, the following steps occurred:

1.

all issued and outstanding Garmin Ltd. (Cayman) common shares were transferred to Garmin Ltd. (Switzerland);
and

2.

in consideration, Garmin Ltd. (Switzerland) (a) issued registered shares (on a one-for-one
basis) to the holders of the Garmin Ltd. (Cayman) common shares that were transferred to Garmin Ltd. (Switzerland), and (b) increased
the par value of the 10,000,000 shares of Garmin Ltd. (Switzerland) issued to Garmin Ltd. (Cayman) in connection with the formation
of Garmin Ltd. (Switzerland) (the “Formation Shares”) to the same par value as the shares of Garmin Ltd. (Switzerland)
issued to the Garmin Ltd. (Cayman) shareholders. The Formation Shares were subsequently transferred by Garmin Ltd. (Cayman) to
its subsidiary, Garmin Luxembourg S.à r.l. for future use to satisfy our obligations to deliver shares in connection with
awards granted under our equity incentive plans for employees and other general corporate purposes.

As a result of the redomestication,
the shareholders of Garmin Ltd. (Cayman) became shareholders of Garmin Ltd. (Switzerland), and Garmin Ltd. (Cayman) became a subsidiary
of Garmin Ltd. (Switzerland). In addition, Garmin Ltd. (Switzerland) assumed, on a one-for-one basis, Garmin Ltd. (Cayman)’s
existing obligations in connection with awards granted under Garmin Ltd. (Cayman)’s equity incentive plans and other similar
equity awards. Any stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock units or performance shares issued by Garmin Ltd.
(Cayman) that are convertible, exchangeable or exercisable into common shares of Garmin Ltd. (Cayman) became convertible, exchangeable
or exercisable, as the case may be, into registered shares of Garmin Ltd. (Switzerland).

Subsequently on July 26,
2010, Garmin Ltd. (Cayman) relocated its registered office to Switzerland and changed its name to Garmin Switzerland GmbH.  The
reported capitalization of the Company also changed to that of Garmin Ltd. (Switzerland).  Accordingly, common stock was increased
by $1,796,448 to $1,797,435 (198,077,418 shares * CHF 10/ USD 9.0744), and retained earnings was reduced by the same amount.

The summary of the components of authorized shares at December
31, 2011 and December 25, 2010, and changes during 2011 are as follows:

Outstanding

Treasury

Issued

Conditional

Authorized

Shares

Shares

Shares


Capital

Capital

Changes in components of authorized shares

December 25, 2010

194,358,038

13,719,380


208,077,418

2,3

104,038,709


104,038,709


Treasury shares purchased/reclassified

(1,149,645

)

1,149,645


-

-

-

Treasury shares issued for stock based compensation

1,454,224

(1,454,224

)

-

-

-

December 31, 2011

194,662,617

13,414,801

208,077,418

104,038,709

104,038,709


Shares at CHF 10 par value (USD 9.0744)


Includes 10,000,000 formation shares at USD 0 historical cost


The par value of the share capital presented on the face of the balance sheet and in the consolidated statements of stockholders
equity excludes the par value of the 10,000,000 formation shares.


Up to 104,038,709 conditional shares may be issued through the exercise of option rights which are granted to Garmin employees
and/or members of its Board of Directors. In addition, the Board of Directors is authorized to issue up to 104,038,709 additional
shares no later than June 27, 2012.


The increase in treasury shares in 2011 includes 522,856 shares repurchased in the prior year that were originally treated
as retired when such shares were still in treasury. These shares are reflected as additional treasury shares in 2011 with a corresponding
increase to retained earnings. See Note 11.

The general terms of Garmin
Ltd. (Switzerland)'s capitalization (rights of shareholders, limitations on dividends, etc.) may be found in the proxy statement
and Form 8-A/A registration statement filed with the SEC on April 9, 2010 and June 28, 2010, respectively.


13. Warranty Reserves

The Company’s products
sold are generally covered by a warranty for periods ranging from one to two years. The Company’s estimate of costs to service
its warranty obligations are based on historical experience and expectations of future conditions and are recorded as a liability
on the balance sheet. The following reconciliation provides an illustration of changes in the aggregate warranty reserve:

Fiscal Year Ended

December 31,

December 25,

December 26,




Balance - beginning of period

$

49,885

$

87,424

$

87,408

Change in accrual for products sold in prior periods

-

(42,776

)

-

Accrual for products sold during the period

52,305

93,172

164,909

Expenditures

(55,417

)

(87,935

)

(164,893

)

Balance - end of period

$

46,773

$

49,885

$

87,424

14. Selected Quarterly Information (Unaudited)

Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2011

Quarter Ending

March 26

June 25

September 24

(2)

December 31

(2)

Net sales

$

507,834

$

674,099

$

666,993

$

909,643

Gross profit

238,374

322,100

344,331

433,787

Net income

95,482

109,477

150,381

165,556

Basic net income per share

$

0.49

$

0.56

$

0.77

$

0.86

Fiscal Year Ended December 25, 2010

Quarter Ending

March 27

June 26

September 25

(1)

December 25

Net sales

$

431,067

$

728,765

$

692,364

$

837,715

Gross profit

230,909

391,652

344,020

379,793

Net income

37,329

134,816

279,552

132,906

Basic net income per share

$

0.19

$

0.68

$

1.43

$

0.67

(1)

Net income and Basic net income per share for quarter
ending September 25, 2010 include a one-time tax adjustment of ($98.7) million which includes release of uncertain tax position
reserves from 2006 to 2008 related to our settlement with the IRS in the US, partially offset by the amount of the settlement for
the 2007 tax year in the US and Taiwan surtax expense due to the release of reserves.

(2)

Amounts shown for quarters ending September 24, 2011
and December 31, 2011 include a change in estimate for the Company's per unit revenue and cost deferrals. The impact to net sales,
gross profit, net income, and basic net income per share for the quarter ending September 24, 2011 was $21.4 million, $17.8 million,
$15.3 million and $0.07, respectively. The impact to net sales, gross profit, net income, and basic net income per share for the
quarter ending December 31, 2011 was $56.4 million, $48.7 million, $44.0 million, and $0.24, respectively.

The above quarterly financial
data is unaudited, but in the opinion of management, all adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the selected data for
these interim periods presented have been included. These results are not necessarily indicative of future quarterly results.


15.
Acquisitions

During 2011, subsidiaries of Garmin Ltd. completed
the following acquisitions:

·

Navigon AG (“Navigon”), a privately-held navigation provider based in Germany

·

Tri-Tronics Inc., the leading designer and manufacturer of electronic dog training equipment

·

Garmin Distribution Africa (Pty) Ltd., the distributor of Garmin’s consumer products in Southern
Africa

·

Garmap (Pty) Ltd., a South African mapping and mobile applications provider

·

Centro GPS, the Chilean distributor of Garmin’s consumer products

These companies were acquired for an
aggregate amount of $69,558 in cash less $15,368 cash acquired. The purchase price allocation for these acquisitions included
goodwill and intangible assets of $84,204. Garmin also recognized $3,923 of restructuring costs in the third quarter of 2011 related
specifically to the Navigon acquisition. Individually and in the aggregate, these acquisitions are not considered material; therefore,
supplemental pro forma information is not presented. The allocation of purchase price to assets acquired and liabilities assumed
in these acquisitions is based upon certain valuations and other analyses.

Purchase price allocations for 2010 acquisitions
were finalized with no significant adjustments.

Other
disclosures required by Swiss law:

CHF in Thousands



Personnel expenses

470,212

484,481

The detailed disclosures regarding significant shareholders as well
as the board and executive remuneration and share ownership that are required by Swiss law are included in Notes 6 through 9 to
the Garmin Ltd (Switzerland) statutory financial statements.

The fire insurance value of property, equipment, and leasehold improvements
amounted to CHF 535,997 and CHF 547,263 as of December 31, 2011 and December 25, 2010.

Garmin Ltd’s risk assessment is presented in Note 10 –
Risk Assessment of the Garmin Ltd (Switzerland) statutory financial statements.


Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
and Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures

(a) Conclusion Regarding
the Effectiveness of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Under the supervision and
with the participation of our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we have evaluated
the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(b)
as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on the evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer
have concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures are effective.

(b) Management’s
Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

Management of the Company
is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Company. The Company’s
internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

Because of its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation
of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Management’s assessment
of and conclusion on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting are included as Exhibits 31.1, 31.2, 32.1 and
32.2.

Management of the Company
assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. In making
this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO) in “Internal Control-Integrated Framework”.

Based on such assessment
and those criteria, management believes that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December
31, 2011.

Ernst & Young LLP,
the independent registered public accounting firm that audited the Company’s consolidated financial statements, issued an
attestation report on management’s effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December
31, 2011, as stated in their report which is included herein. That attestation report appears below.

(c)

Attestation Report of the Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm


Report of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm

The
Board of Directors and Shareholders

Garmin
Ltd.

We have audited Garmin Ltd.’s
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated
Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Garmin Ltd.’s
Board of Directors and management are responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for
its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s
Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal
control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance
with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all
material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the
assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit
provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over
financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s
internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records
that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal
control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness
to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, Garmin Ltd. maintained,
in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on the COSO criteria.

We have also audited, in accordance
with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of

Garmin
Ltd. and Subsidiaries

as of December 31, 2011 and December 25, 2010 and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders’
equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011 of Garmin Ltd. and Subsidiaries and our
report dated February 29, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Kansas City, Missouri

February 29, 2012


(d) Changes in Internal
Control over Financial Reporting

There were no changes in our internal control
over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2011 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to
materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting

Item 9B. Other Information

Not applicable.


PART III

Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

Garmin has incorporated
by reference certain information in response or partial response to the Items under this Part III of this Annual Report on Form
10-K pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of this Form 10-K and Rule 12b-23 under the Exchange Act. Garmin’s definitive proxy
statement in connection with its annual meeting of shareholders scheduled for June 1, 2012 (the “Proxy Statement”)
will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission no later than 120 days after December 31, 2011.

(a)

Directors of the Company

The information set forth
in response to Item 401 of Regulation S-K under the headings “Proposal 1 - Election of Two Directors” and “The
Board of Directors” in the Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated herein by reference in partial response to this Item 10.

(b)

Executive Officers of the Company

The information set forth
in response to Item 401 of Regulation S-K under the heading “Executive Officers of the Registrant” in Part I of this
Form 10-K is incorporated herein by reference in partial response to this Item 10.

(c)

Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act

The information set forth
in response to Item 405 of Regulation S-K under the heading “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance”
in the Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated herein by reference in partial response to this Item 10.

(d)

Audit Committee and Audit Committee Financial Expert

The information set forth
in response to Item 402 of Regulation S-K under the heading “The Board of Directors — Audit Committee” in the
Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated herein by reference in partial response to this Item 10.

The Audit Committee consists
of Gene M. Betts, Charles W. Peffer and Thomas P. Poberezny. Mr. Peffer serves as the Chairman of the Audit Committee. All members
of the Audit Committee are “independent” within the meaning of the rules of the SEC and the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules.
Garmin’s Board of Directors has determined that Mr. Betts and Mr. Peffer, are “audit committee financial experts”
as defined by the SEC regulations implementing Section 407 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

(e)

Code of Ethics

Garmin’s Board of Directors has adopted
the Code of Conduct of Garmin Ltd. and Subsidiaries (the “Code”). The Code is applicable to all Garmin employees including
the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the President and Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Controller
and other officers. A copy of the Code is available on Garmin’s website at:

http://www8.garmin.com/aboutGarmin/invRelations/documents/Code_of_Conduct.pdf.
If any amendments to the Code are made, or any waivers with respect to the Code are granted to the Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer, the President and Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Financial Officer or Controller, or any person performing a similar
function, such amendment or waiver will be disclosed on Garmin’s website at: http://www8.garmin.com/aboutGarmin/invRelations/documents/Code_of_Conduct.pdf.


Item 11. Executive Compensation

The information set forth
in response to Item 402 of Regulation S-K under the headings “Executive Compensation Matters” and “The Board
of Directors – Non-Management Director Compensation” in the Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated herein by reference
in partial response to this Item 11.

The information set forth
in response to Item 407(e)(4) of Regulation S-K under the heading “The Board of Directors — Compensation Committee
Interlocks and Insider Participation; Certain Relationships” in the Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated herein by reference
in partial response to this Item 11.

The information set forth
in response to Item 407(e)(5) of Regulation S-K under the heading “Executive Compensation Matters – Report of Compensation
Committee” in the Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated herein by reference in partial response to this Item 11.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

The information set forth
in response to Item 403 of Regulation S-K under the heading “Stock Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management”
in the Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated herein by reference in partial response to this Item 12.

Equity Compensation Plan Information

The following table gives
information as of December 31, 2011 about the Garmin common shares that may be issued under all of the Company’s existing
equity compensation plans, as adjusted for stock splits.

A

B

C

Number of securities

remaining available for

future issuance under

Number of securities to be

Weighted-average

equity compensation

issued upon exercise of

exercise price of

plans (excluding

outstanding options

outstanding options

securities reflected in

Plan Category

and rights

and rights

column A)

Equity compensation plans approved by shareholders

9,551,348

$

53.14

2,676,784

Equity compensation plans not approved by shareholders

—

—

—

Total

9,551,348

$

53.14

2,676,784

Table consists of the Garmin
Ltd. 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (as Amended and Restated Effective June 5, 2010), the Garmin Ltd. 2000 Equity Incentive Plan, the
Garmin Ltd. Amended and Restated 2000 Non-Employee Directors’ Option Plan, effective June 5, 2010, the Garmin Ltd. Amended
and Restated Employee Stock Purchase Plan, effective January 1, 2010 and the Garmin Ltd. 2011 Non-Employee Directors Equity Incentive
Plan, effective June 3, 2011. The weighted-average exercise price does not reflect the shares that will be issued upon the payment
of outstanding awards of RSUs.


The Company has no knowledge
of any arrangement, the operation of which may at a subsequent date result in a change in control of the Company.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions, and Director Independence

The information set forth
in response to Item 404 of Regulation S-K under the heading “Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation;
Certain Relationships” in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference in partial response to this Item 13.

The information set forth
in response to Item 407(a) of Regulation S-K under the headings “Proposal One— Election of Two Directors” and
“The Board of Directors” in the Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated herein by reference in partial response to this
Item 13.

Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services

The information set forth
under the headings “Audit Matters — Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Fees” and “Pre-Approval
of Services Provided by the Independent Auditor” in the Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated by reference in response to
this Item 14.


PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits, and Financial Statement Schedules

(a)

List of Documents filed as part of this Report

(1)

Consolidated Financial Statements

The consolidated financial statements and related notes,
together with the reports of Ernst & Young LLP, appear in Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”
of this Form 10-K.

(2)

Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

All other schedules have been omitted because they are not applicable, are insignificant or the required information is shown
in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.

(3)

Exhibits — The following exhibits are filed as part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form
10-K:

EXHIBIT

NUMBER

DESCRIPTION

3.1

Articles of Association, as amended, of Garmin Ltd. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 28, 2010).

3.2

Organizational Regulations of Garmin Ltd. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of  the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 28, 2010).

10.1

Garmin Ltd. 2000 Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1  of  the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed December 6, 2000 (Commission File No. 333-45514)).

10.2

Form of Stock Option Agreement pursuant to the Garmin Ltd. 2000 Equity Incentive Plan for Employees of Garmin International, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 7, 2004).

10.3

Form of Stock Option Agreement pursuant to the Garmin Ltd. 2000 Equity Incentive Plan for Employees of Garmin Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 7, 2004).

10.4

Form of Stock Option Agreement pursuant to the Garmin Ltd. 2000 Equity Incentive Plan for UK-Approved Stock Options for Employees of Garmin (Europe) Ltd. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 7, 2004).

10.5

Form of Stock Option Agreement pursuant to the Garmin Ltd. 2000 Equity Incentive Plan for Non UK-Approved Stock Options for Employees of Garmin (Europe) Ltd. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 7, 2004).


10.6

Garmin Ltd. 2000 Non-Employee Directors’ Option Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of  the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed December 6, 2000 (Commission File No. 333-45514)).

10.7

Form of Stock Option Agreement pursuant to the Garmin Ltd.  Non-Employee Directors’ Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Garmin Ltd. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 7, 2004).

10.8

Garmin Ltd. Amended and Restated Employee Stock Purchase Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed August 9, 2006).

10.9

First Amendment to Garmin Ltd. Employee Stock Purchase Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on March 27, 2002).

10.10

Second Amendment to Garmin Ltd. Employee Stock Purchase Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 13, 2003).

10.11

Garmin Ltd. 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1  of  the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 7, 2005).

10.12

Form of Stock Option Agreement pursuant to the Garmin Ltd. 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 7, 2005).

10.13

Form of Stock Appreciation Rights Agreement pursuant to the Garmin Ltd. 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 7, 2005).

10.14

Form of Stock Appreciation Rights Agreement pursuant to the Garmin Ltd. 2000 Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on May 8, 2007).

10.15

Amended and Restated Garmin Ltd. Employee Stock Purchase Plan effective January 1, 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15 of the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on February 25, 2010).

10.16

Form of Time Vested Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the Garmin Ltd. 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 17, 2009).

10.17

Form of Performance Shares Award Agreement under the Garmin Ltd. 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 17, 2009).

10.18

Garmin Ltd. 2010 Cash Incentive Bonus Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.18 of the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on February 25, 2010).

10.19

Amended and Restated Garmin Ltd. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, effective January 1, 2010 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.22 of the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on February 24, 2010).


10.20

Form of Time Vested Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the Garmin Ltd. 2006 Equity Incentive Plan, as revised by the Registrant’s Board of Directors on December 11, 2010 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.22 of the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on February 24, 2010).

10.21

Form of Performance Shares Award Agreement under the Garmin Ltd. 2005 Equity Incentive Plan, as revised by the Registrant’s Board of Directors on December 11, 2010 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.22 of the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on February 24, 2010).

10.22

Garmin Ltd. 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (as Amended and Restated Effective June 5, 2010) (incorporated by reference to Schedule 1 of the Registrant’s Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A filed on April 21, 2010).

10.23

Garmin Ltd. Amended and Restated 2000 Non-Employee Directors’ Option Plan, Effective June 5, 2010 (incorporated by reference to Schedule 2 of the Registrant’s Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A filed on April 21, 2010).

10.24

Garmin Ltd. Amended and Restated 2000 Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 28, 2010).

10.25

Garmin Ltd. Amended and Restated 2000 Non-Employee Directors’ Option Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 28, 2010).

10.26

Garmin Ltd. Amended and Restated Employee Stock Purchase Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 28, 2010).

10.27

Garmin Ltd. Amended and Restated 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 28, 2010).

10.28

Form of Stock Option Agreement pursuant to the Garmin Ltd. Amended and Restated 2000 Non-Employee Directors’ Option Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 28, 2010).

10.29

Form of Performance Shares Award Agreement pursuant to the Garmin Ltd. 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 28, 2010).

10.30

Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement pursuant to the Garmin Ltd. 2005 Equity Incentive Plan, for Swiss residents (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 28, 2010).

10.31

Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement pursuant to the Garmin Ltd. 2005 Equity Incentive Plan, for non-Swiss residents (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 28, 2010).


10.32

Transaction Agreement between Garmin Ltd., a Cayman Islands company, and the Registrant, dated as of May 21, 2010 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 28, 2010).

10.33

Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement pursuant to the Garmin Ltd. 2005 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended and restated on June 27, 2010 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 29, 2011).

10.34

Garmin Ltd. 2011 Non-Employee Directors’ Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Schedule 1 of the Registrant’s Definitive Proxy Statement on Form 14A filed on April 21, 2011).

10.35

Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement pursuant to the Garmin Ltd. 2011 Non-Employee Directors’ Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 6, 2011).

21.1

List of subsidiaries

23.1

Consent of Ernst & Young LLP

24.1

Power of Attorney (included in signature page)

31.1

Chief Executive Officer’s Certification pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

31.2

Chief Financial Officer’s Certification pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

32.1

Chief Executive Officer’s Certification pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

32.2

Chief Financial Officer’s Certification pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

Exhibit 101.INS

XBRL Instance Document

Exhibit 101.SCH

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema

Exhibit 101.CAL

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase

Exhibit 101.LAB

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase

Exhibit 101.PRE

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase

Exhibit 101.DEF

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase

(b)

Exhibits

.

The exhibits listed on
the accompanying Exhibit Index in Item 15(a)(3) are filed as part of, or are incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report
on Form 10-K.

(c)

Financial Statement Schedules

.

Reference is made
to Item 15(a)(2) above.


SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

Garmin Ltd. and Subsidiaries

(

In thousands

)

Additions

Balance at

Charged to

Charged to

Balance at

Beginning of

Costs and

Other

End of

Description

Period

Expenses

Accounts

Deductions

Period

Year Ended December 31, 2011:

Deducted from asset accounts

Allowance for doubtful accounts

$

31,822

$

2,317

-

$

(3,915

)

$

30,224

Inventory reserve

37,720

16,047

-

(24,397

)

29,370

Deferred tax asset valuation allowance (1)

51,352

7,902

-

(22,081

)

37,173

Total

$

120,894

$

26,266

-

$

(50,393

)

$

96,767

Year Ended December 25, 2010:

Deducted from asset accounts

Allowance for doubtful accounts

$

36,673

$

(4,476

)

-

$

(375

)

$

31,822

Inventory reserve

38,898

5,753

-

(6,931

)

37,720

Deferred tax asset valuation allowance

35,617

15,735

-

-

51,352

Total

$

111,188

$

17,012

-

$

(7,306

)

$

120,894

Year Ended December 26, 2009:

Deducted from asset accounts

Allowance for doubtful accounts

$

42,409

$

(1,332

)

-

$

(4,404

)

$

36,673

Inventory reserve

23,204

61,323

-

(45,629

)

38,898

Deferred tax asset valuation allowance

34,487

1,468

-

(338

)

35,617

Total

$

100,100

$

61,459

-

$

(50,371

)

$

111,188

(1)

Note that $14,994 of the decrease in the deferred tax
asset valuation is due to reducing the amount of Taiwan surtax credits to the correct amount available for use in future years,
all such credits of which are and have been fully reserved.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

GARMIN LTD.

By

/s/ Min H. Kao

Min H. Kao

Chief Executive Officer

Dated: February 29, 2012

POWER OF ATTORNEY

Know all persons
by these presents, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Min H. Kao and Kevin Rauckman and Andrew
R. Etkind, and each of them, as his attorney-in-fact, with the power of substitution, for him in any and all capacities, to sign
any amendments to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection
therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorney-in-fact, or his
substitute or substitutes, may do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

Pursuant to
the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report on Form 10-K has been signed below by the following persons
on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated on February 29, 2012.

/s/ Min H. Kao

/s/ Gene M. Betts

Min H. Kao

Gene M. Betts

Chairman, Chief

Director

Executive Officer and Director

(Principal Executive Officer)

/s/ Kevin Rauckman

/s/Donald H. Eller

Kevin Rauckman

Donald H. Eller

(Principal Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer)

Director

Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer

/s/ Charles W. Peffer

/s/ Thomas  P. Poberezny

Charles W. Peffer

Thomas P. Poberezny

Director

Director

/s/

Clifton A. Pemble

Clifton A Pemble

Director


Garmin Ltd.

2011 Form 10-K Annual Report

Exhibit Index

The following exhibits are attached hereto.
See Part IV of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a complete list of exhibits.

Exhibit

Number

Document

21.1

List of subsidiaries

23.1

Consent of Ernst & Young LLP

31.1

Chief Executive Officer’s Certification pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

31.2

Chief Financial Officer’s Certification pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

32.1

Chief Executive Officer’s Certification pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

32.2

Chief Financial Officer’s Certification pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

Exhibit 101.INS

XBRL Instance Document

Exhibit 101.SCH

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema

Exhibit 101.CAL

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase

Exhibit 101.LAB

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase

Exhibit 101.PRE

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase

Exhibit 101.DEF

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase

107