
10-K405
FORM 10-K405



 
- - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                               ----------------
                                   FORM 10-K
    [ X ] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                     THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996
                                      OR
    [  ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                     THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
               For the transition period from         to
                         Commission File Number 1-2256

                              EXXON CORPORATION

            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
              NEW JERSEY                             13-5409005
    (State or other jurisdiction of        (I.R.S. Employer Identification
    incorporation or organization)                     Number)
 
             5959 LAS COLINAS BOULEVARD, IRVING, TEXAS 75039-2298
              (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
                                (972) 444-1000
             (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
                               ----------------
          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes  X  No
 
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.  X
 
  The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant on February 28, 1997, based on the closing price on that date of
$100 1/4 on the New York Stock Exchange composite tape, was in excess of $124
billion.
 
  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:
                1996 ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS (PARTS I, II AND IV)
                PROXY STATEMENT DATED MARCH 19, 1997 (PART III)
- - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
                               EXXON CORPORATION
                                   FORM 10-K
                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996
 
                                


 
                                    PART I
ITEM 1. BUSINESS.
 
  Exxon Corporation was incorporated in the State of New Jersey in 1882.
Divisions and affiliated companies of Exxon operate or market products in the
United States and over 100 other countries. Their principal business is
energy, involving exploration for, and production of, crude oil and natural
gas, manufacturing of petroleum products and transportation and sale of crude
oil, natural gas and petroleum products. Exxon Chemical Company, a division of
Exxon, is a major manufacturer and marketer of basic petrochemicals, including
olefins and aromatics, and a leading supplier of specialty rubbers and of
additives for fuels and lubricants. Other products manufactured include
polyethylene and polypropylene plastics, plasticizers, specialty resins,
specialty and commodity solvents and performance chemicals for oil field
operations. Exxon is engaged in exploration for, and mining and sale of, coal
and other minerals. Exxon also has an interest in electric power generation in
Hong Kong. Affiliates of Exxon conduct extensive research programs in support
of these businesses.
 
  Exxon Corporation has five divisions and hundreds of affiliates, many with
names that include Exxon or Esso. For convenience and simplicity, in this
report the terms Exxon and Esso, as well as the terms corporation, company,
our, we and its, are sometimes used as abbreviated references to specific
affiliates or groups of affiliates. The precise meaning depends on the context
in question.
 
  The oil and chemical industries are highly competitive. There is competition
within the industries and also with other industries in supplying the energy,
fuel and chemical needs of commerce, industry and individuals. The corporation
competes with other firms in the sale or purchase of various goods or services
in many national and international markets and employs all methods of
competition which are lawful and appropriate for such purposes.
 
  The operations and earnings of the corporation and its affiliates throughout
the world have been, and may in the future be, affected from time to time in
varying degree by political developments and laws and regulations, such as
forced divestiture of assets; restrictions on production, imports and exports;
price controls; tax increases and retroactive tax claims; expropriations of
property; cancellation of contract rights and environmental regulations. Both
the likelihood of such occurrences and their overall effect upon the
corporation vary greatly from country to country and are not predictable.
 
  The operations and earnings of the corporation and its affiliates throughout
the world are also affected by local, regional and global events or conditions
that affect supply and demand for oil, natural gas and other Exxon products.
These events or conditions are generally not predictable and include, among
other things, the development of new supply sources; supply disruptions;
weather; international political events; technological advances; changes in
demographics and consumer preferences; and the competitiveness of alternative
energy sources or product substitutes. See also Page F5 of the accompanying
financial section of the 1996 Annual Report to shareholders for discussion of
the impact of inflation, changing prices and other uncertainties.
 
  In 1996, the corporation spent $1,561 million (of which $457 million were
capital expenditures) on environmental conservation projects and expenses
worldwide, mostly dealing with air and water conservation. Total expenditures
for such activities are expected to be about $1.6 billion in each year 1997
and 1998 (with capital expenditures representing about 30 percent of the
total).
 
  Operating data and industry segment information for the corporation are
contained on pages F3, F20 and F27, information on oil and gas reserves is
contained on pages F24 and F25 and information on company-sponsored research
and development activities is contained on page F12 of the accompanying
financial section of the 1996 Annual Report to shareholders.*
- - --------
  *Only the data appearing on pages F1 and F3 through F27 of the accompanying
  financial section of the 1996 Annual Report to shareholders, incorporated in
  this report as Exhibit 13, are deemed to be filed as part of this Annual
  Report on Form 10-K as indicated under Items 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7 and 8 and on
  page 13.

 
  Projections, estimates and descriptions of Exxon's plans and objectives
included or incorporated in Items 1, 2 and 7 of this report are forward-
looking statements. Actual future project dates, production rates, capital
expenditures, costs and business plans could differ materially due to, among
other things, the outcome of commercial negotiations; changes in operating
conditions and costs; technical difficulties; and other factors discussed
above and elsewhere in this report.
 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
 
  Part of the information in response to this item and to the Securities
Exchange Act Industry Guide 2 is contained in the accompanying financial
section of the 1996 Annual Report to shareholders in Note 7, which note
appears on page F13, and on pages F3, and F22 through F27.
 
  Information with regard to oil and gas producing activities follows:
 
1. NET RESERVES OF CRUDE OIL AND NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (MILLIONS OF BARRELS) AND
   NATURAL GAS (BILLIONS OF CUBIC FEET) AT YEAR-END 1996
 
  Estimated proved reserves are shown on pages F24 and F25 of the accompanying
financial section of the 1996 Annual Report to shareholders. No major
discovery or other favorable or adverse event has occurred since December 31,
1996 that would cause a significant change in the estimated proved reserves as
of that date. The oil sands reserves shown separately for Canada represent
synthetic crude oil expected to be recovered from Imperial Oil Limited's 25
percent interest in the net reserves set aside for the Syncrude project, as
presently defined by government permit. For information on the standardized
measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to proved oil and gas
reserves, see page F26 of the accompanying financial section of the 1996
Annual Report to shareholders.
 
2. ESTIMATES OF TOTAL NET PROVED OIL AND GAS RESERVES FILED WITH OTHER FEDERAL
AGENCIES
 
  During 1996, the company filed proved reserves estimates with the U.S.
Department of Energy on Forms EIA-23 and EIA-28. The information is consistent
with the 1995 Annual Report to shareholders with the exception of EIA-23 which
covered total oil and gas reserves from Exxon-operated properties in the U.S.
and does not include gas plant liquids.
 
3. AVERAGE SALES PRICES AND PRODUCTION COSTS PER UNIT OF PRODUCTION
 
  Incorporated by reference to page F22 of the accompanying financial section
of the 1996 Annual Report to shareholders. Average sales prices have been
calculated by using sales quantities from our own production as the divisor.
Average production costs have been computed by using net production quantities
for the divisor. The volumes of crude oil and natural gas liquids (NGL)
production used for this computation are shown in the reserves table on page
F24 of the accompanying financial section of the 1996 Annual Report to
shareholders. The net production volumes of natural gas available for sale by
the producing function used in this calculation are shown on page F27 of the
accompanying financial section of the 1996 Annual Report to shareholders. The
volumes of natural gas were converted to oil-equivalent barrels based on a
conversion factor of six thousand cubic feet per barrel.
 
4. GROSS AND NET PRODUCTIVE WELLS

 

 
5. GROSS AND NET DEVELOPED ACREAGE

 
7. SUMMARY OF ACREAGE TERMS IN KEY AREAS
 
  United States
 
  Oil and gas exploration leases are acquired for varying periods of time,
ranging from one to ten years. Production leases normally remain in effect
until production ceases.
 
  Canada
 
  Exploration permits are granted for varying periods of time with renewals
possible. Production leases are held as long as there is production on the
lease.
 
  Cold Lake oil sands leases were taken for an initial 21-year term in 1968-
1969 and renewed for a second 21-year term in 1989-1990. All undeveloped
Athabasca oil sands leases are currently in their second 21-year term after
being renewed between 1980 and 1987. They may be renewed for a third term of
15 years if the leaseholder files a development plan with the Alberta
regulatory authority. The regulatory approval received for Syncrude has set
the expiry date of the current production lease at 2025.
 
  United Kingdom
 
  Licenses issued prior to 1977 were for an initial period of six years with
an option to extend the license for a further 40 years on no more than half of
the license area. Licenses issued between 1977 and 1979 were for an initial
period of four years, after which one-third of the acreage was required to be
relinquished, followed by a second period of three years, after which an
additional one-third of the acreage was required to be relinquished, with an
option to extend for a total license period of 24 to 36 years on no more than
half the license area. Recent licenses are typically for an initial period of
six to nine years, with a second term of 12 to 15 years which may be extended
a further 18 to 24 years.
 

 
  Netherlands
 
  Onshore: Exploration drilling permits are issued for a period of two to five
years. Production concessions are granted after discoveries have been made
under conditions which are negotiated with the government. Normally, they are
field-life concessions covering an area defined by hydrocarbon occurrences.
 
  Offshore: Prospecting licenses issued prior to March 1976 were for a 15-year
period, with relinquishment of about 50 percent of the original area required
at the end of ten years. Subsequent licenses are for ten years with
relinquishment of about 50 percent of the original area required after six
years. For commercial discoveries within a prospecting license, a production
license is issued for a 40-year period.
 
  Norway
 
  Licenses issued prior to 1972 were for a total period of 46 years, with
relinquishment of at least one-fourth of the original area required at the end
of the sixth year and another one-fourth at the end of the ninth year.
Subsequent licenses are for a total period of 36 years, with relinquishment of
at least one-half of the original area required at the end of the sixth year.
 
  France
 
  Exploration permits are granted for periods of three to five years,
renewable up to two times accompanied by substantial acreage relinquishments:
50 percent of the acreage at first renewal; 25 percent of the remaining
acreage at second renewal. A 1994 law requires a bidding process prior to
granting of an exploration permit. Upon discovery of commercial hydrocarbons,
a production concession is granted for up to 50 years, renewable in periods of
25 years each.
 
  Germany
 
  Acreage holdings are generally concessions with indefinite periods subject
to minimum work commitments.
 
  Australia
 
  Onshore: Acreage terms are fixed by the individual state and territory
governments. These terms and conditions vary significantly between the states
and territories. Production licenses are generally granted for an initial term
of 21 years, with subsequent renewals, each for 21 years, for the full area.
 
  Offshore: Acreage terms are fixed by the national government. Exploration
permits are granted for six years with possible renewals of five-year periods
to a total of 26 years. A 50 percent relinquishment of remaining area is
mandatory at the end of each renewal period. Production licenses are for 21
years, with one renewal of 21 years. Subsequent 21-year renewals are subject
to negotiation.
 
  Malaysia
 
  Exploration and production activities are governed by production sharing
contracts negotiated with the national oil company. The more recent contracts
have an overall term of 24 to 28 years with possible extensions to the
exploration or development periods. The exploration period is five to seven
years with the possibility of extensions, after which time areas with no
commercial discoveries must be relinquished. The development period is four to
six years from commercial discovery, with an option to extend the period for
an additional two years and possibly longer under special circumstances. Areas
from which commercial production has not started by the end of the development
period must be relinquished. The total production period is 15 years from
first commercial lifting, not to exceed the overall term of the contract.
 
  Thailand
 
  The Exxon concessions and the Petroleum Act of 1972 allow production for 30
years (through 2021) with a possible ten-year extension at terms generally
prevalent at the time.
 

 
  Azerbaijan
 
  The license is a production sharing contract with an initial period of 30
years from its 1994 execution date.
 
  Republic of Yemen
 
  Production sharing agreements (PSAs) negotiated with the government entitle
Exxon to participate in exploration operations within a designated area during
the exploration period. In the event of a commercial discovery, the company is
entitled to proceed with development and production operations during the
development period. The length of these periods and other specific terms are
negotiated prior to executing the production sharing agreement. Existing
production operations have a development period extending 20 years from first
commercial declaration made in November 1985 for the Marib PSA and June 1995
for the Jannah PSA.
 
8. NUMBER OF NET PRODUCTIVE AND DRY WELLS DRILLED
 

 

 
9. PRESENT ACTIVITIES
 
A. Wells Drilling -- Year-End 1996
 

 
B. Review of Principal Ongoing Activities in Key Areas
 
UNITED STATES
 
  During 1996, exploration activities were conducted by Exxon Exploration
Company and producing activities by Exxon Company, U.S.A., both divisions of
Exxon Corporation. Some of the more significant ongoing activities are:
 
  .  Exploration and delineation of additional hydrocarbon resources
     continued. At year-end 1996, Exxon's inventory of undeveloped acreage
     totaled 3.8 million net acres. Exxon was active in areas onshore and
     offshore in the lower 48 states and in Alaska. A total of 12.0 net
     exploration and delineation wells were completed during 1996.
 
  .  During 1996, 138.4 net development wells were completed within and
     around mature fields in the inland lower 48 states.
 
  .  Exxon's net acreage in the Gulf of Mexico at year-end 1996 was 1.4
     million acres. A total of 39.9 net exploratory and development wells
     were completed during the year.
 
  .  There were no new major projects which started up in 1996. Fabrication
     of facilities for the Ram-Powell project, which will involve setting a
     tension leg platform in approximately 3,200 feet of water, is
     progressing. Pre-drilling of the development wells began in 1996 and
     production start-up is scheduled for 1997.
 
  .  Development began on two new Gulf of Mexico projects in 1996. The
     Genesis project, scheduled for start-up in 1999, will utilize a deep
     draft caisson vessel to develop reserves in 2,600 feet of water. The
     Ursa project, also scheduled for start-up in 1999, will utilize a
     tension leg platform development concept in 3,900 feet of water.
 
  .  Participation in Alaska production and development continued and a total
     of 20.8 net development wells were drilled in 1996.
 
CANADA
 
  During 1996, exploration and production activities in Canada were conducted
by the Resources Division of Imperial Oil Limited, which is 69.6 percent owned
by Exxon Corporation. Some of the more significant ongoing activities are:
 
  .  Gross commercial bitumen production from Cold Lake averaged 85 thousand
     barrels per day during 1996. Expansion activities associated with
     development drilling for the 9th and 10th phases were completed in 1996.
 
  .  The Syncrude plant, 25 percent owned by Imperial and located in northern
     Alberta, completed its 18th year of operations. Gross synthetic crude
     production averaged 200 thousand barrels per day in 1996.
 

 
OUTSIDE NORTH AMERICA
 
  During 1996, exploration activities were conducted by Exxon Exploration
Company and producing activities by Exxon Company, International, both
divisions of Exxon Corporation. Some of the more significant ongoing
activities include:
 
  United Kingdom
 
  At year-end, net acreage remained at 1.7 million acres, all offshore. During
the year, 25.2 net exploration and development wells were completed.
Production started up from the Anasuria, Pelican and Schooner projects. The
Curlew, Mallard, Gannet E/F and Kingfisher projects are under way with start-
ups anticipated in 1997. The Eastern Trough Area Project moved forward and
start-up is expected in 1998.
 
  Netherlands
 
  Exxon's net interest in licenses totaled 1.6 million acres onshore and 1.3
million acres offshore at year-end. During the year, 11.8 net exploration and
development wells were completed. The Grijpskerk underground storage project
was completed and storage operations commenced in December while construction
at Norg continues with start-up anticipated in 1997. Construction is underway
for the onshore Anjum and Boerakker Area gas fields with start-up anticipated
in 1997 and for the offshore gas fields in the L9 and K14 blocks with start-up
anticipated in 1998.
 
  Norway
 
  Exxon acquired an interest in ten new blocks during the year. Total net
acreage at year-end was 0.5 million acres, all offshore. During the year, 6.1
net exploration and development wells were completed and production was
initiated at the Sleipner West field. Projects for development of the Balder
and Vigdis fields are continuing as planned, with first production scheduled
for 1997.
 
  France
 
  Exxon's net acreage totaled 0.8 million net acres at the end of 1996. During
the year, 4.0 net exploration and development wells were drilled and
completed.
 
  Germany
 
  A total of 2.2 million acres were held by Exxon in Germany at year-end, with
6.4 net exploration and development wells drilled and completed during the
year. The Uelsen underground natural gas storage project is under construction
with start-up anticipated in 1997.
 
  Australia
 
  Exxon's 1996 year-end acreage holdings totaled 6.0 million net acres onshore
and 1.0 million net acres offshore, with exploration and production activities
underway in both areas. During the year, 17.5 net exploration and development
wells were completed. Production from Bream B started in late 1996, and West
Tuna started up in early 1997.
 
  Malaysia
 
  Exxon has interests in production sharing contracts covering 4.0 million net
acres offshore Peninsular Malaysia. During 1996, a total of 27.9 net
exploration and development wells were completed. Development drilling was
completed at Tabu B and Tapis D, and continued at the Guntung D platforms. The
Lawit gas platform was installed and start-up is anticipated in 1997.
 

 
  Indonesia
 
  At year-end, Exxon's net acreage in Indonesia totaled 2.2 million acres, all
offshore, including the acquisition of an additional 1.7 million acres in
1996.
 
  Thailand
 
  Exxon's net acreage in the Khorat concession onshore Thailand totaled 15,000
acres at year-end.
 
  Azerbaijan
 
  A total of 8,500 acres were held by Exxon in Azerbaijan at year-end, all
offshore. During the year, Exxon acquired an additional three percent interest
in the megastructure project bringing its total interest to eight percent.
Operations during the year included drilling an appraisal well.
 
  Republic of Yemen
 
  Exxon's net acreage in the Republic of Yemen production sharing agreement
areas totaled 0.9 million acres onshore at year-end. During the year, 14.7 net
exploration and development wells were drilled and completed and production
from the Jannah PSA area commenced.
 
  Egypt
 
  Exxon sold its exploration and production operations in Egypt in 1996.
 
  Colombia
 
  At year-end, Exxon's net acreage in Colombia totaled 0.1 million acres.
 
WORLDWIDE EXPLORATION
 
  Exploration activities were underway in several areas in which Exxon has no
established production operations. Exxon continues to selectively build a
diverse portfolio of acreage, with positions in offshore West Africa, across
the former Soviet Union and onshore China. A total of 39.6 million net acres
were held at year-end, and 3.8 net exploration wells were completed during the
year.
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.
 
  Refer to the relevant portions of Note 13 on page F16 of the accompanying
financial section of the 1996 Annual Report to shareholders for information on
legal proceedings.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.
 
  None.
 
                               ----------------
 

 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT [pursuant to Instruction 3 to Regulation
S-K, Item 401(b)].
 

 
  For at least the past five years, Messrs. Raymond, Hess, Wilhelm, Robinson
and Townsend have been employed as executives of the registrant. Mr. Raymond
also holds the title of president.
 
  The following executive officers of the registrant have also served as
executives of the subsidiaries, affiliates or divisions of the registrant
shown opposite their names during the five years preceding December 31, 1996.
 

 
  Officers are generally elected by the Board of Directors at its meeting on
the day of each annual election of directors, each such officer to serve until
his or her successor has been elected and qualified.
 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS.
 
  Incorporated by reference to the quarterly information which appears on page
F21 of the accompanying financial section of the 1996 Annual Report to
shareholders.
 
  On February 26, 1997, the Board of Directors approved a two-for-one stock
split to shareholders of record on March 14, 1997. The additional shares will
be distributed around April 11, 1997.**
 
- - --------
** All information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for 1996 including, but
   not limited to, information in response to Items 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12 and
   14(a) and the cover is on a pre-split basis.
 

 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.
 
  Incorporated by reference to page F3 of the accompanying financial section
of the 1996 Annual Report to shareholders.
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
       RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.
 
  Incorporated by reference to pages F4 through F7 of the accompanying
financial section of the 1996 Annual Report to shareholders.
 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.
 
  Reference is made to the Index to Financial Statements on page 13 of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
       FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
 
  None.
 
                                   PART III
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.
 
  Incorporated by reference to the relevant portions of pages 4 through 7 of
the registrant's definitive proxy statement dated March 19, 1997.
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.
 
  Incorporated by reference to the fifth through eighth paragraphs under the
heading "Board of Directors" on page 2 and to pages 9 through 12 (excluding
the portion of page 12 entitled "Board Compensation Committee Report on
Executive Compensation") of the registrant's definitive proxy statement dated
March 19, 1997.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.
 
  Incorporated by reference to the relevant portions of pages 4 through 8
(excluding the portion of page 8 entitled "Transactions with Management") of
the registrant's definitive proxy statement dated March 19, 1997.
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
 
  Incorporated by reference to the portion of page 8 entitled "Transactions
with Management" of the registrant's definitive proxy statement dated March
19, 1997.
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.
 
  (a)(1) and (a) (2) Financial Statements:
    See Index to Financial Statements on page 13 of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.
 
  (a)(3) Exhibits:
    See Index to Exhibits on page 14 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
  (b)Reports on Form 8-K.
    The registrant did not file any reports on Form 8-K during the last
    quarter of 1996.
 

 
                                  SIGNATURES
 
  PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON ITS BEHALF BY
THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.
 
                                          EXXON CORPORATION
 
                                                     /s/ LEE R. RAYMOND
                                          By: _________________________________
                                                      (Lee R. Raymond,
                                                   Chairman of the Board)
 
Dated March 13, 1997
 
                               ----------------
 
                               POWER OF ATTORNEY
 
  EACH PERSON WHOSE SIGNATURE APPEARS BELOW CONSTITUTES AND APPOINTS JAMES I.
ALCOCK, RICHARD E. GUTMAN AND FRANK A. RISCH, AND EACH OF THEM, HIS OR HER
TRUE AND LAWFUL ATTORNEYS-IN-FACT AND AGENTS, WITH FULL POWER OF SUBSTITUTION
AND RESUBSTITUTION, FOR HIM OR HER AND IN HIS OR HER NAME, PLACE AND STEAD, IN
ANY AND ALL CAPACITIES, TO SIGN ANY AND ALL AMENDMENTS TO THIS ANNUAL REPORT
ON FORM 10-K, AND TO FILE THE SAME, WITH ALL EXHIBITS THERETO, AND OTHER
DOCUMENTS IN CONNECTION THEREWITH, WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION, GRANTING UNTO SAID ATTORNEYS-IN-FACT AND AGENTS, AND EACH OF THEM,
FULL POWER AND AUTHORITY TO DO AND PERFORM EACH AND EVERY ACT AND THING
REQUISITE AND NECESSARY TO BE DONE, AS FULLY TO ALL INTENTS AND PURPOSES AS HE
OR SHE MIGHT OR COULD DO IN PERSON, HEREBY RATIFYING AND CONFIRMING ALL THAT
SAID ATTORNEYS-IN-FACT AND AGENTS OR ANY OF THEM, OR THEIR OR HIS OR HER
SUBSTITUTE OR SUBSTITUTES, MAY LAWFULLY DO OR CAUSE TO BE DONE BY VIRTUE
HEREOF.
 
                               ----------------
 
  PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS
REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE
REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE DATES INDICATED.
 

 
 

 

 

 
                         INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
  The consolidated financial statements, together with the report thereon of
Price Waterhouse LLP dated February 26, 1997, appearing on pages F8 to F20;
the Quarterly Information appearing on page F21; and the Supplemental
Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities appearing on
pages F22 to F26 of the accompanying financial section of the 1996 Annual
Report to shareholders are incorporated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as
Exhibit 13. With the exception of the aforementioned information, no other
data appearing in the accompanying financial section of the 1996 Annual Report
to shareholders is deemed to be filed as part of this Annual Report on Form
10-K under Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statement Schedules have been
omitted because they are not applicable or the required information is shown
in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.
 
                      CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
 
  We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the following
Prospectuses constituting part of the Registration Statements on:
 

 
and we hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration
Statements on:
 

 
of our report dated February 26, 1997 appearing on page F11 of the
accompanying financial section of the 1996 Annual Report to shareholders of
Exxon Corporation which is incorporated as Exhibit 13 in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.
 
Price Waterhouse LLP
 
Dallas, Texas
March 13 , 1997
 

 
                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 

- - --------
* Compensatory plan or arrangement required to be identified pursuant to Item
  14(a)(3) of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
  The registrant has not filed with this report copies of the instruments
defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of the registrant and its
subsidiaries for which consolidated or unconsolidated financial statements are
required to be filed. The registrant agrees to furnish a copy of any such
instrument to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.
 

