Item 1. Business



Introduction



Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “we,” “our” or “us” refer to PVH Corp. and its subsidiaries.



Our fiscal years are based on the 52-53 week period ending on the Sunday closest to February 1 and are designated by the calendar year in which the fiscal year commences. References to a year are to our fiscal year, unless the context requires otherwise. Our 2012 year commenced on January 30, 2012 and ended on February 3, 2013; 2011 commenced on January 31, 2011 and ended on January 29, 2012; and 2010 commenced on February 1, 2010 and ended on January 30, 2011.



We obtained the market and competitive position data used throughout this report from research, surveys or studies conducted by third parties (including, with respect to the brand rankings for woven sport shirts, the NPD Group/POS Tracking Service), information provided by customers and industry or general publications. The specific United States department and chain store rankings we reference in this report are on a unit basis. Industry publications and surveys generally state that they have obtained information from sources believed to be reliable but do not guarantee the accuracy and completeness of such information. While we believe that each of these studies and publications and all other information is reliable, we have not independently verified such data and we do not make any representation as to the accuracy of such information.



References to the brand namesCalvin Klein Collection, ck Calvin Klein, Calvin Klein, Tommy Hilfiger, Hilfiger Denim, Van Heusen, IZOD, Bass, ARROW, Eagle, Geoffrey Beene, Kenneth Cole New York, Kenneth Cole Reaction, Sean John, JOE Joseph Abboud, MICHAEL Michael Kors, Michael Kors Collection, Chaps, Donald J. Trump Signature Collection, DKNY, Elie Tahari, Nautica, Ted Baker, J. Garcia, Claiborne, Robert Graham, U.S. POLO ASSN., Ike Behar, Axcess, Jones New York, John Varvatos, Warner’s, OlgaandSpeedoand to other brand names in this report are to registered trademarks owned by us or licensed to us by third parties and are identified by italicizing the brand name.



References to the acquisition of Warnaco refer to our February 13, 2013 acquisition of The Warnaco Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries, which companies we refer to collectively as “Warnaco.” The discussion in this report relates to a period prior to our acquisition of Warnaco and, except as otherwise noted, does not give effect to it.



References to the acquisition of Tommy Hilfiger refer to our May 6, 2010 acquisition of Tommy Hilfiger B.V. and certain affiliated companies, which companies we refer to collectively as “Tommy Hilfiger.”



References to our acquisition of Calvin Klein refer to our February 2003 acquisition of Calvin Klein, Inc. and certain affiliated companies, which companies we refer to collectively as “Calvin Klein.”





Company Overview



We are one of the world’s largest apparel companies, with a heritage dating back over 130 years. Our brand portfolio consists of nationally and internationally recognized brand names, including the global designer lifestyle brands

Calvin Klein

and

Tommy Hilfiger

, as well as

Van Heusen

,

IZOD

,

Bass

,

ARROW

and

Eagle,

which are owned brands, and

Geoffrey Beene

,

Kenneth Cole New York

,

Kenneth Cole Reaction

,

Sean John

,

JOE Joseph Abboud

,

MICHAEL Michael Kors

,

Michael Kors Collection

,

Chaps

,

Donald J. Trump Signature Collection

,

DKNY

,

Elie Tahari

,

Nautica

,

Ted Baker

,

J. Garcia

,

Claiborne

,

Robert Graham

,

U.S. POLO ASSN.

,

Ike Behar

,

Axcess,



Jones New York

and

John Varvatos

, which are licensed, as well as various other licensed and private label brands. We design and market branded dress shirts, neckwear, sportswear and, to a lesser extent, footwear and other related products. Additionally, we license our owned brands over a broad range of products. We market our brands globally at multiple price points and across multiple channels of distribution, allowing us to provide products to a broad range of consumers, while minimizing competition among our brands and reducing our reliance on any one demographic group, merchandise preference, distribution channel or geographic region. During 2012, our directly operated businesses in North America (United States and Canada) consisted principally of wholesale dress furnishings sales under our owned and licensed brands; wholesale men’s sportswear sales under our

Calvin Klein, Tommy Hilfiger, Van Heusen, IZOD

and

ARROW

brands; and the operation of retail stores, principally in outlet malls, under our

Calvin Klein, Tommy Hilfiger, Van Heusen, IZOD

and

Bass

brands. During 2012, our directly operated businesses outside of North America consisted principally of our Tommy Hilfiger International wholesale and retail businesses in Europe and Japan and our Calvin Klein dress furnishings and wholesale Calvin Klein Collection businesses in Europe. Our licensing activities principally related to the licensing worldwide of our

Calvin Klein

trademark for a broad range of lifestyle products and for specific geographic regions.












On February 13, 2013, we acquired Warnaco, which follows our transformational acquisitions of Calvin Klein in 2003 and Tommy Hilfiger in 2010, and reinforces our strategy to drive the

Calvin Klein

brand’s reach globally. Prior to the acquisition, Warnaco was our largest licensee for

Calvin Klein

products and paid us an administrative fee on sales of

Calvin Klein

underwear, sleepwear and loungewear, product categories for which it is the beneficial owner of the

Calvin Klein

trademark. Royalty and administrative fee payments to us by Warnaco accounted for approximately 37% of our Calvin Klein royalty, advertising and other revenue in 2012. By reuniting the

Calvin Klein

brand under one owner, we will have complete direct global control of the brand image and commercial decisions for the two largest

Calvin Klein

apparel categories - jeans and underwear. Under a single brand vision, we will be able to better coordinate product design, merchandising, supply chain, retail distribution and marketing, which we believe will strengthen the brand’s image, positioning and execution across all markets. The Warnaco acquisition also takes advantage of our and Warnaco’s complementary geographic operations. Warnaco’s operations in Asia and Latin America will enhance our opportunities in these high-growth regions, and we will have the ability to leverage our expertise and infrastructure in North America and Europe to enhance the growth and profitability of Warnaco’s Calvin Klein jeanswear and underwear businesses in these regions. The acquisition also brings the

Speedo

,

Warner’s

and

Olga

brands into our Heritage Brands portfolio. Warnaco also previously distributed sportswear and swimwear under the

Chaps

brand, but this license was reacquired by Ralph Lauren Corporation effective contemporaneously with the Warnaco acquisition. With a diversified brand portfolio and strong operations in every major consumer market around the world, we believe our business will be better balanced across geographies, channels of distribution, product categories and price points, and we will have the opportunity to realize revenue growth and enhanced profitability.



We completed the Tommy Hilfiger acquisition during the second quarter of 2010.Tommy Hilfigeris a global designer lifestyle brand under which we design, source and market menswear, womenswear, children’s apparel, denim collections and other products worldwide. We also license theTommy Hilfigerbrands worldwide over a broad range of complementary lifestyle products.



During 2012, we aggregated our segments into three main businesses: (i) Tommy Hilfiger, which consists of the Tommy Hilfiger North America and Tommy Hilfiger International segments; (ii) Calvin Klein, which consists of the Calvin Klein Licensing segment (including our Calvin Klein Collection business, which we operate directly in support of the global licensing of theCalvin Kleinbrands) and the Other (Calvin Klein Apparel) segment, which consists of our Calvin Klein dress furnishings, sportswear and outlet retail divisions in North America; and (iii) Heritage Brands, which consists of the Heritage Brand Wholesale Dress Furnishings, Heritage Brand Wholesale Sportswear and Heritage Brand Retail segments. Note 18, “Segment Data,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report contains information with respect to revenue, income before interest and taxes and assets related to each segment, as well as information regarding our revenue generated from foreign and domestic sources, and the geographic locations where our long-lived assets are held.



Our revenue reached a record $6.043 billion in 2012, approximately 39% of which was generated internationally. Our global designer lifestyle brands,Tommy HilfigerandCalvin Klein, together generated approximately 72% of our revenue during 2012.



Our largest customers account for significant portions of our revenue. Sales to our five largest customers were 18.7% of our revenue in 2012, 19.5% of our revenue in 2011 and 22.6% of our revenue in 2010. Macy’s, Inc., our largest customer, accounted for 8.7% of our revenue in 2012, 9.4% of our revenue in 2011 and 10.1% of our revenue in 2010.



Company Information



We were incorporated in the State of Delaware in 1976 as the successor to a business begun in 1881. Our principal executive offices are located at 200 Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10016; our telephone number is (212) 381-3500.



We make available at no cost, on our corporate website, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we have electronically filed such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We also make available at no cost, on our corporate website, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Our corporate website address iswww.pvh.com.












Calvin Klein Business Overview



We believe Calvin Klein is one of the best known designer names in the world and that the

Calvin Klein

brands —

Calvin Klein Collection

,

ck Calvin Klein

and

Calvin Klein

— provide us with the opportunity to market products both domestically and internationally at higher price points, in higher-end distribution channels and to various consumer groups. In order to more efficiently and effectively exploit the development opportunities for each brand, a tiered-brand strategy was established to provide a focused, consistent approach to global brand growth and development. Each of the

Calvin Klein

brands occupies a distinct marketing identity and position that preserves the brand’s prestige and image. Products sold under the

Calvin Klein

brands in 2012 were sold primarily under licenses and other arrangements. As discussed above, Warnaco was our largest licensee and also paid us fees in connection with its sales of underwear, sleepwear and loungewear under the

Calvin Klein

brands, product categories for which it beneficially owns the trademark. As a result of the acquisition, we expect our directly operated businesses to account for a majority of

Calvin Klein

sales in 2013. Calvin Klein designs all products and/or controls all design operations and product development and oversees a worldwide marketing, advertising and promotions program for the

Calvin Klein

brands. We believe that maintaining control over design and advertising through Calvin Klein’s dedicated in-house teams plays a key role in the continued strength of the brands. In 2012, over $300 million was spent globally in connection with the advertising, marketing and promotion of the

Calvin Klein

brands and these expenses were principally funded by Calvin Klein’s licensees and other authorized users of the brands. Worldwide retail sales of products sold under the

Calvin Klein

brands were approximately $7.6 billion in 2012.



During 2012, our Calvin Klein business included (i) licensing and similar arrangements worldwide for use of theCalvin Kleinbrands in connection with a broad array of products, including jeans, underwear, women’s dresses and suits, men’s  tailored clothing, women’s sportswear and performance apparel, men’s and women’s bridge, collection and golf apparel, fragrances, eyewear, hosiery, socks, footwear, swimwear, jewelry, watches, outerwear, handbags, small leather goods and home furnishings (including furniture), as well as to operate retail stores outside North America; (ii) the marketing of theCalvin Klein Collectionbrand high-end men’s and women’s apparel and accessories collections through ourCalvin Klein Collectionflagship store located in New York City and our Calvin Klein Collection wholesale business (the arrangements described in clause (i) and the Calvin Klein Collection business described in this clause (ii) together constituting our Calvin Klein Licensing segment); and (iii) our wholesale Calvin Klein dress furnishings and men’s better sportswear businesses, which operate principally in the United States and Canada, and our Calvin Klein outlet retail business (these businesses collectively constituting our Other (Calvin Klein Apparel) segment).



OurCalvin Kleinmen’s dress shirts, neckwear and sportswear target the modern classical consumer, are marketed at better price points and are distributed principally in better fashion department and specialty stores in North America, including Macy’s and Dillard’s, Inc. We also offer ourCalvin Klein Collectionandck Calvin Kleindress shirts to the more limited channel of luxury department and specialty stores, as well as through freestandingCalvin Klein Collectionandck Calvin Kleinstores operated by Warnaco and others.



OurCalvin Kleinstores are located principally in premium outlet centers in the United States and Canada and offer men’s and women’s apparel and otherCalvin Kleinproducts to communicate theCalvin Kleinlifestyle. We also operate oneCalvin Klein Collectionstore, located on Madison Avenue in New York City, that offers high-end men’s and women’sCalvin Klein Collectionapparel and accessories and other products under theCalvin Kleinbrands.



Warnaco’s Calvin Klein business includes men’s and women’s jeans and related apparel worldwide; jeans accessories in Europe and Asia; men’s and women’s underwear worldwide; and men’s and women’s swimwear in North America and Europe. Warnaco’sCalvin Kleinproducts are distributed through all major channels of distribution. In addition, Warnaco distributes itsCalvin Kleinproducts through dedicated retail stores, including approximately 1,900 company-operatedCalvin Kleinretail stores worldwide, principally in Europe, Asia, Mexico and Brazil.Calvin Kleinproducts are also distributed throughCalvin Kleinretail stores operated by third parties under retail licenses or franchise and distributor agreements.



An important source of our revenue is Calvin Klein’s arrangements with licensees and other third parties worldwide that manufacture and distribute globally a broad array of products under theCalvin Kleinbrands. Calvin Klein combines its design, marketing and imaging skills with the specific manufacturing, distribution and geographic capabilities of its licensing and other partners to develop, market and distribute a variety of goods across a wide range of categories and to expand existing lines of business.












Calvin Klein has approximately 50 licensing and other arrangements (after giving effect to the Warnaco acquisition) across the threeCalvin Kleinbrands. The arrangements are generally exclusive to the applicable territory and/or product category licensed. Calvin Klein’s key licensing partners, and the products and territories licensed, include:







Licensing PartnerProduct Category and Territory



CK Watch and Jewelry Co., Ltd.(Swatch SA)Men’s and women’s watches (worldwide) and women’s jewelry (worldwide, excluding Japan)



CK21 Holdings Pte, Ltd.Men’s and women’s bridge apparel, shoes and accessories (Asia, excluding Japan)



Coty, Inc.Men’s and women’s fragrance and bath products and color cosmetics (worldwide)



DWI Holdings, Inc. / Himatsingka Seide, Ltd.Soft home bed and bath furnishings (United States, Canada, Mexico, Central America, South America and India)



G-III Apparel Group, Ltd.Men’s and women’s coats; women’s better suits, dresses and sportswear; women’s active performance wear; luggage; women’s better handbags (United States, Canada and Mexico with some distribution for certain lines in Europe and elsewhere)



Jimlar CorporationMen’s, women’s and children’s better footwear (United States, Canada and Mexico); men’s, women’s and children’s bridge footwear (North America, Europe, Middle East and India); men’s and women’s collection footwear (worldwide)



Marchon Eyewear, Inc.Men’s and women’s optical frames and sunglasses (worldwide)



McGregor Industries, Inc. / American Essentials, Inc.Men’s and women’s socks and women’s tights (United States, Canada, Mexico, South America, Europe, Middle East and Asia, excluding Japan)



Onward Kashiyama Co. Ltd.Men’s and women’s bridge apparel and women’s bridge handbags (Japan)



Peerless Delaware, Inc.Men’s better and bridge tailored clothing (United States, Canada, Mexico and, on a non-exclusive basis, South America)





Tommy Hilfiger Business Overview



Tommy Hilfigeris one of few globally recognized designer lifestyle brands, with distribution in over 90 countries and more than 1,200Tommy Hilfigerstores worldwide. The “classic American cool” spirit of the brand inspires a wide range of preppy, all-American designs that appeal to a diverse array of global consumers.Tommy Hilfigeroccupies a unique position as a premium brand offering quality apparel, accessories and lifestyle products at accessible prices with a diverse consumer following. We believe the brand’s global awareness has been achieved through consistent implementation of a global marketing and communications strategy, product enhancements, increased marketing and an improved in-store experience. We continue to make significant investments in global advertising and integrated marketing programs, with the popular “The Hilfigers” advertising campaign as the current cornerstone of our marketing strategy, leading a global creative vision for the brand.



Tommy Hilfiger’s brand portfolio includesTommy Hilfiger, Hilfiger DenimandTommy Girl(which we refer to collectively as theTommy Hilfigerbrands).Tommy Hilfiger istargeted at the 25 to 45 year-old consumer,Hilfiger Denimis targeted at the 25 to 30 year-old, denim-oriented consumer andTommy Girlis targeted at girls ages 12 to 18.Tommy Hilfigerproduct offerings by us and our licensees include sportswear for men, women and children; footwear; athletic apparel (golf, swim and sailing); bodywear (underwear, robes and sleepwear); eyewear; sunwear; watches; handbags; men’s tailored clothing; men’s dress furnishings; accessories; socks; small leather goods; fragrances; home and bedding products; bathroom accessories and luggage. TheHilfiger Denimproduct line consists of casual apparel for men and women with a focus on premium denim










separates, footwear, bags, accessories, eyewear and fragrance. Inspired by American denim classics with a modern edge,Hilfiger Denimis more “fashion forward” and casual than theTommy Hilfigerlabel.



We sellTommy Hilfigerproducts at wholesale and retail in North America, Europe and Japan and license theTommy Hilfigerbrands for an assortment of products in various markets.Tommy Hilfigerproducts are also sold through joint ventures in which we are a partner in China, India and, since January 2013, Brazil, and by third party distributors, licensees and franchisees in Europe, Southeast Asia, Australia, Central and South America and the Caribbean. Worldwide retail sales ofTommy Hilfigerproducts were approximately $6.0 billion in 2012.



The Tommy Hilfiger wholesale business consists of the distribution and sale of products under theTommy Hilfigerbrands to distributors and licensees for resale, to stores operated by franchisees, licensees and distributors and to department and specialty stores. The European retail customers range from large department stores to small independent stores. Tommy Hilfiger has, since the Fall of 2008, conducted the majority of its North American wholesale operations through Macy’s, which is currently the exclusive department store retailer forTommy Hilfigermen’s and women’s sportswear in the United States.Tommy Hilfigerre-launched a wholesale business in Canada with The Bay, Canada’s leading department store, in the Fall of 2011, initially offering men’s sportswear and more recently expanding into women’s sportswear.



The Tommy Hilfiger retail business principally consists of the distribution and sale ofTommy Hilfigerproducts in Europe, the United States, Canada and Japan through company-operated specialty stores and outlet stores, as well as through company-operated e-commerce sites.Tommy Hilfigerspecialty stores consist of flagship stores, which are generally larger stores situated in high-profile locations in major cities and are intended to enhance local exposure of the brand, and anchor stores, which are located on high-traffic retail streets and in malls in secondary cities and are intended to provide incremental revenue and profitability. Company (outlet) stores in North America are primarily located in premium outlet centers and carry specially designed merchandise that is sold at a lower price point than merchandise sold in our specialty stores. Company (outlet) stores operated by Tommy Hilfiger in Europe and Japan are used primarily to clear excess inventory from previous seasons at discounted prices and also carry specially designed merchandise.



We license theTommy Hilfigerbrands to third parties both for specific product categories and in certain geographic regions, and generally on an exclusive basis. As of February 3, 2013, Tommy Hilfiger had over 25 license agreements. In 2011, we formed a joint venture in China in which we own a 45% economic interest. The joint venture assumed direct control of the licensed Tommy Hilfiger wholesale and retail distribution business in China from the prior licensee in August 2011. In addition, in September 2011, we acquired the perpetually licensed rights to theTommy Hilfigertrademarks in India from GVM International Limited (“GVM”) and acquired from affiliates of GVM a 50% economic interest in a company that was renamed Tommy Hilfiger Arvind Fashion Private Limited (“TH India”). TH India was GVM’s sublicensee of theTommy Hilfigertrademarks for apparel, footwear and handbags in India. As a result of the transaction, TH India is now the direct licensee of the trademarks for all categories (other than fragrance), operates a wholesale apparel, footwear and handbags business in connection with its license and sublicenses the trademarks for certain other product categories in the region. In November 2012, we formed, with an experienced local partner, a joint venture in Brazil in which we own a 40% economic interest. The joint venture holds an exclusive license for theTommy Hilfigerbrand in Brazil that became effective on January 4, 2013.












Tommy Hilfiger’s key licensing partners, and the products and territories licensed, include:





Licensing PartnerProduct Category and Territory



American Sportswear S.A.Men’s, women’s and children’s sportswear, accessories andHilfiger Denimdistribution (Central America and South America (excluding Brazil))



Aramis, Inc.Fragrance, cosmetics, skincare products and toiletries (worldwide)



BASECO SA DE CVMen’s, women’s and children’s sportswear, accessories (excluding footwear),Hilfiger DenimandTommy Girldistribution (Mexico)

Dobotex International B.V.Men’s, women’s and children’s socks (Europe)

Fishman and Tobin, Inc.Boys’ and girls’ apparel (United States, Canada, Puerto Rico and Guam (Macy’s stores only))



TH India*Men’s, women’s and children’s sportswear, accessories andHilfiger Denimdistribution (India)



Marcraft Clothes, Inc.Men’s tailored clothing (United States and Canada)



MBF Holdings LLCMen’s and women’s footwear (United States and Canada)



Movado Group, Inc. & Swissam Products, Ltd.Men’s and women’s watches and jewelry (worldwide, excluding Japan (except certain customers))



Revman International, Inc.Bed and bedding accessories (United States, Canada and Mexico)



Safilo Group S.P.A.Men’s, women’s and children’s eyeglasses and non-ophthalmic sunglasses (worldwide, excluding India)



SK Networks Co., Ltd.Men’s, women’s and children’s sportswear andHilfiger Denimdistribution (South Korea)



Swank, Inc.Men’s belts and small leather goods (United States, Canada and Mexico)



Tommy Hilfiger Asia-Pacific, Ltd.Men’s, women’s and children’s sportswear andHilfiger Denimdistribution (Hong Kong, Macau, Malaysia, Singapore and Taiwan)



TH Asia Ltd.*Men’s, women’s and children’s sportswear andHilfiger Denimdistribution (China)



Tommy Hilfiger Australia PTY, Ltd.Men’s and women’s sportswear andHilfiger Denimdistribution (Australia)



Tommy Hilfiger do Brasil S.A.*All products, other than fragrances, watches, eyewear, jewelry and home furnishings (Brazil)





*Joint venture in which we own an interest.



The results of our Tommy Hilfiger wholesale, retail and licensing operations in the United States and Canada are reported in our Tommy Hilfiger North America segment, and wholesale, retail and licensing operations outside of North America are reported in our Tommy Hilfiger International segment.












Heritage Brands Business Overview



Our Heritage Brands business encompasses the design, sourcing and marketing of a varied selection of branded dress shirts, neckwear, sportswear, footwear and underwear, as well as the licensing of our heritage brands (Van Heusen, IZOD, ARROWandBass), for an assortment of products. The Heritage Brands business also includes private label dress furnishings programs, particularly neckwear programs. We design, source and market these products to target distinct consumer demographics and lifestyles in an effort to minimize competition among our brands. We distribute our Heritage Brands products at wholesale in national and regional department, mid-tier department, mass market, specialty and independent stores in the United States and Canada. Our men’s wholesale business represents our core business. As a complement to our wholesale business, we also market our Heritage Brands products directly to consumers through ourVan Heusen,IZODandBassretail stores, principally located in outlet centers throughout the United States and Canada.



We intend to integrate Warnaco’s Speedo (swim products) and Warner’s and Olga (women’s intimates) businesses into our Heritage Brands business.





Heritage Brand Wholesale Dress Furnishings.Our Heritage Brand Wholesale Dress Furnishings segment principally consists of the design and marketing of men’s dress shirts and neckwear. We market both dress shirts and neckwear under brands includingVan Heusen,ARROW,IZOD,Eagle,Sean John,Donald J. Trump Signature Collection,Kenneth Cole New York,Kenneth Cole Reaction,JOE Joseph Abboud,DKNY,Elie Tahari,J. Garcia,Ike Behar,MICHAEL Michael Kors,Michael Kors CollectionandJohn Varvatos. We also market dress shirts under theGeoffrey BeeneandChapsbrands and neckwear under theNautica,Jones New York,Ted Baker,Axcess,U.S. POLO ASSN.,Bass,ClaiborneandRobert Grahambrands, among others. Collectively, our product offerings represent a sizeable portion of the domestic dress furnishings market. We market dress shirts and neckwear under our owned and licensed brands, as well as private label brands, primarily to department, mid-tier department and specialty stores, as well as, to a lesser degree, mass market stores.



The following provides additional information for some of the more significant brands, as determined based on 2012 sales volume:

TheVan Heusendress shirt continues to be the best selling national brand dress shirt in United States department and chain stores in 2012.Van Heusendress shirts and neckwear target the updated classical consumer, are marketed at opening to moderate price points and are sold principally in department stores, including Belk, Inc., Stage Stores, Inc., The Bon-Ton Stores, Inc., Macy’s, J.C. Penney Company, Inc., and Kohl’s Corporation.

ARROWwas the second best selling national brand dress shirt in United States department and chain stores in 2012.ARROWdress shirts and neckwear target the updated classical consumer, are marketed at opening to moderate price points and are sold principally in mid-tier department stores, including Kohl’s, Sears, Roebuck and Co. and Stage Stores.

TheGeoffrey Beenedress shirt was the third best selling national brand dress shirt in United States department and chain stores in 2012.Geoffrey Beenedress shirts target the more style-conscious consumer, are marketed at moderate to upper moderate price points and are sold principally in department and specialty stores, including Macy’s, Belk, Bon-Ton and Casual Male Retail Group, Inc. We marketGeoffrey Beenedress shirts under a license agreement with Geoffrey Beene, LLC with a current term that expires on December 31, 2021, and a right of renewal (subject to certain conditions) through December 31, 2028.

Kenneth Cole New YorkandKenneth Cole Reactiondress shirts and neckwear target the modern consumer, are marketed at bridge and better price points, respectively, and are sold principally in department stores. We market both brands ofKenneth Coledress shirts and neckwear under a license agreement with Kenneth Cole Productions (Lic), Inc. that expires on December 31, 2014, which we may extend through December 31, 2019.

TheChapsdress shirt targets the updated traditional consumer, is marketed at moderate price points and is sold principally at Kohl’s and Stage Stores. We marketChapsdress shirts under a license agreement with PRL USA, Inc. and The Polo/Lauren Company, LP that expires on March 31, 2014.

JOE Joseph Abbouddress shirts and neckwear target the more youthful, classical consumer, are marketed at moderate to better price points and are sold principally in department and men’s specialty stores, including J.C. Penney and The Men’s Wearhouse, Inc. We marketJOE Joseph Abbouddress shirts and neckwear under a license agreement with J.A. Apparel Corp. that expires on December 31, 2020.










TheEagledress shirt, a 100% cotton, no-iron shirt, andEagleneckwear target the updated traditional consumer, are marketed at better price points and are sold principally in department stores, including Macy’s and Bon-Ton.

IZODdress shirts and neckwear target the modern traditional consumer, are marketed at moderate price points and are sold principally in department stores, including J.C. Penney and Belk.

MICHAEL Michael Korsdress shirts and neckwear target the modern consumer, are marketed at moderate to better price points and are sold principally in department stores, including Macy’s. We marketMICHAEL Michael Korsdress shirts and neckwear under a license agreement with Michael Kors, LLC that expires on January 31, 2015 and which we may extend, subject to mutual consent, through January 31, 2016.

We also offer private label dress shirt and neckwear programs to retailers. These programs present an opportunity for us to leverage our design, sourcing, manufacturing and logistics expertise. Private label programs offer the consumer quality product and offer the retailer the opportunity to enjoy product exclusivity at generally higher margins. Private label products, however, generally do not have the same level of consumer recognition as branded products and we do not provide retailers with the same breadth of services and in-store sales and promotional support as we do for our branded products. We market private label dress shirts and neckwear to national department and mass market stores.

Heritage Brand Wholesale Sportswear.Our Heritage Brand Wholesale Sportswear segment principally includes the design and marketing of sportswear, including men’s knit and woven sport shirts, sweaters, bottoms, swimwear and outerwear, at wholesale, primarily under theIZOD,Van HeusenandARROWbrands.



IZODwas the third best selling national brand men’s knit shirt (excluding T-shirts and sports jerseys) in United States department and chain stores in 2012.IZODmen’s sportswear includes a broad range of product categories and is marketed in several collections, including the classicIZODblue label (for J.C. Penney and regional department stores),IZOD XFG(performance/technical activewear), andIZOD LX.IZODmen’s sportswear is targeted to the active inspired consumer, is marketed at moderate to upper moderate price points and is sold principally in department stores including Macy’s, Stage Stores, Belk, Bon-Ton and J.C. Penney, where we opened shop-in-shops in approximately 680 stores in September 2012.



Van Heusenwas the best selling national brand men’s woven sport shirt in United States department and chain stores in 2012. TheVan Heusensportswear collection also includes knit sport shirts, chinos and sweaters. LikeVan Heusendress shirts, the sportswear collection is targeted to the updated classical consumer, is marketed at opening to moderate price points and is sold principally to the same department stores.



ARROWwas the third best selling national brand men’s woven sport shirt in United States department and chain stores in 2012.ARROWsportswear consists of men’s knit and woven tops, sweaters and bottoms.ARROWsportswear targets the updated traditional consumer, is marketed at moderate price points and is sold principally in mid-tier department stores, including Kohl’s, Stage Stores and Sears.





Heritage Brand Retail.Our Heritage Brand Retail segment operates stores under theVan Heusen,IZODandBassnames, primarily in outlet centers throughout the United States and Canada. We believe these stores are an important complement to our wholesale operations because we believe that the stores further enhance consumer awareness of our brands by offering products that are not available in our wholesale lines, while also providing a means for managing excess inventory, as well as direct control of the in-store customer experience.



OurVan Heusenstores offer men’s dress shirts, neckwear and underwear, men’s and women’s suit separates, men’s and women’s sportswear, including woven and knit shirts, sweaters, bottoms and outerwear, and men’s and women’s accessories. These stores are targeted to the value-conscious consumer who looks for classically styled, moderately priced apparel.



OurIZODstores offer men’s and women’s active-inspired sportswear, including woven and knit shirts, bottoms and activewear and men’s and women’s accessories. These stores primarily focus on golf, travel and resort clothing.



OurBassstores offer casual and dress shoes for men, women and children. Most of ourBassstores also carry apparel for men and women, including tops, neckwear, bottoms and outerwear, as well as accessories such as handbags, wallets, belts and travel gear.












Licensing.We license our heritage brands globally for a broad range of products through approximately 40 domestic and 40 international license agreements covering approximately 145 territories combined. We believe that licensing provides us with a relatively stable flow of revenues with high margins and extends and strengthens our brands.



We grant licensing partners the right to manufacture and sell at wholesale specified products under one or more of our brands. In addition, certain foreign licensees are granted the right to open retail stores under the licensed brand name. A substantial portion of the sales by our domestic licensing partners is made to our largest wholesale customers. We provide support to our licensing partners and seek to preserve the integrity of our brand names by taking an active role in the design, quality control, advertising, marketing and distribution of each licensed product, most of which are subject to our prior approval and continuing oversight.
























































Our heritage brand licensing partners, and the products and territories licensed by them, include:







Licensing PartnerProduct Category and Territory



Arvind Ltd.ARROWmen’s and women’s dresswear, sportswear and accessories (India, Middle East, Ethiopia, Maldives, Nepal, Sri Lanka and South Africa);IZODmen’s sportswear and accessories (India)



Clearvision Optical Company, Inc.IZODmen’s and children’s optical eyewear and related accessories (United States)



Cutie Pie Baby, Inc.IZODnewborn, infants’ and toddlers’ sportswear and outerwear;IZODchildren’s outerwear (United States, Canada and Mexico)



ECCEARROWmen’s and women’s dresswear, sportswear and accessories (France, Switzerland and Andorra)



F&T Apparel LLCVan HeusenandARROWboys’ dress furnishings and sportswear;IZODboys’ sportswear;IZODandARROWboys’ andgirls’ school uniforms;ARROWmen’s tailored clothing;IZODboys’ tailored clothing (United States and Canada)



Gazal Apparel Pty LimitedVan Heusenmen’s dress furnishings, tailored clothing and accessories (Australia and New Zealand)



Harbor Wholesale, Ltd.BassandG.H. Bass & Co.wholesale footwear (worldwide);IZODfootwear (United States)



Beijing Innovative GarmentsARROWmen’s dress furnishings, tailored clothing and sportswear (China)



Knothe Apparel Group, Inc.IZODmen’s and boys’ sleepwear and loungewear (United States and Canada)



Madura GarmentsVan Heusenmen’s and women’s dresswear, sportswear and accessories (India and Middle East)



Manufacturas Interamericana S.A.ARROWmen’s and women’s dresswear, sportswear and accessories (Chile, Peru, Argentina and Uruguay)



Fashion Company S.A.Van Heusenmen’s dress furnishings, tailored clothing, sportswear and accessories;IZODmen’s and women’s sportswear and accessories (Chile and Peru)



Oracon Com. De Conf. LTDAARROWmen’s dresswear and sportswear (Brazil)



Peerless Delaware, Inc.Van HeusenandIZODmen’s tailored clothing (United States and Mexico)



Seidensticker Private Label GmbHARROWmen’s dress shirts, sport shirts and neckwear (Europe)



Thanulux Public Company, Ltd.ARROWmen’s dress furnishings, tailored clothing, sportswear and accessories;ARROWwomen’s dresswear and sportswear (Thailand and Vietnam)



Van Dale Industries, Inc.IZODwomen’s intimates and sleepwear (United States and Canada);IZODwomen’s accessories (United States)



Weihai Dishang Fashion Brands Co., LtdIZODmen’s and women’s sportswear and accessories (China)












Speedo, Warner’s and Olga.As part of the Warnaco acquisition we acquired theWarner’sandOlgawomen’s intimate apparel brands and a perpetual license with Speedo International Limited, the owner of such brand, that permits us to design, manufacture and market certain men’s, women’s and children’s swimwear, sportswear and related products under theSpeedotrademark exclusively in the United States, Canada, Mexico and the Caribbean.



Speedoswimwear and accessories, including swim goggles, water-based fitness products, electronics and other swim and fitness-related products for adults and children, are distributed through all major distribution channels, sporting goods stores, team dealers, catalog retailers and thewww.SpeedoUSA.comwebsite.



Warner’sandOlgawomen’s intimate apparel is marketed at moderate to better price points and is primarily distributed in the United States, Mexico, Canada and the Caribbean through all major distribution channels.







Our Business Strategy



We intend to grow our existing Calvin Klein and Tommy Hilfiger businesses, with particular emphasis on growth in Asia and Latin America, as well as to increase the revenue and profitability of our Heritage Brands business, through the execution strategies described below. In addition, we intend to capitalize on the significant opportunities presented by the Warnaco acquisition, particularly the opportunities to restore growth and improve profitability in Warnaco’s Calvin Klein jeanswear and underwear businesses.



Calvin Klein Business



The tiered-brand strategy we created for theCalvin Kleinbrands establishes a strategic brand architecture to guide the global brand growth and development of all three brand tiers by differentiating each of theCalvin Kleinbrands with distinct marketing identities, positioning and channels. Additionally, branding product across three tiers allows flexibility from market to market to build businesses that address the differences between markets. After giving effect to the Warnaco acquisition, we have approximately 50 license arrangements with third parties across the threeCalvin Kleinbrands. These arrangements grant rights to market a broad range of products worldwide or in specified countries and/or to open retail stores in countries outside of the United States. TheCalvin Kleinbrands are as follows:

•Calvin Klein Collection—  our “halo” brand under which men’s and women’s high-end collection apparel and accessories are sold both in the United States and overseas.

•ck Calvin Klein—our bridge brand, under which apparel and accessories are sold through specialty and department stores, as well as freestandingck Calvin Kleinstores in Europe and Asia.

•Calvin Klein— our white label “better” brand  under which we sell men’s sportswear and license various other lines (including men’s and women’s footwear, handbags, women’s sportswear, dresses, men’s and women’s outerwear, accessories, and fragrance) and ourck onelifestyle brand.



Warnaco is our largestCalvin Kleinlicensee and also beneficially owns theCalvin Kleintrademark for underwear, sleepwear and loungewear. Acquiring Warnaco presents us with additional opportunities to grow our Calvin Klein business. We believe that additional investments above our initial expectations are required to achieve our goal of rebuilding Warnaco’s global Calvin Klein jeanswear and underwear businesses. Therefore, we see 2013 as a year of investment and transition. These investments include (i) enhancing the existing infrastructure (systems and supply chain), (ii) upgradingCalvin Kleinjeanswear product design and quality with an emphasis on geographic differentiation, (iii) investing in in-store marketing and the in-store customer experience, (iv) adding appropriate talent to fill key design, marketing and merchandising positions, (v) rationalizing global excess inventory levels, and (vi) reducing and restructuring the off-price and club sales distribution in Europe and North America. Our key strategies for the Warnaco Calvin Klein businesses include the following:



Improving execution for jeans and underwear and the“Calvin Klein”brand globally.Since we acquired Calvin Klein in 2003, global retail sales have grown at a compounded annual rate of approximately 12%. Product innovation, category extensions and a targeted global brand marketing message are key drivers for theCalvin Kleinbrands. By acquiring Warnaco, we have gained full control of the brand image and commercial decisions for the two largest apparel categories ofCalvin Klein— jeans and underwear — for the first time. Our strategies to increase demand forCalvin Klein JeansandCalvin Klein Underwear products include:










•Enhancing jeanswear design and improving coordination between design and in-country teams to address local market preferences;

•Aligning merchandise and presentation to be consistent with the global brand positioning ofCalvin Klein;

•Optimizing product assortment across categories, channels and regions;

•Transitioning the Warnaco businesses in North America and Europe to our existing processes, supply chain and systems to enhance fulfillment of wholesale orders; and

•Creating a cohesive and consistent single brand message across categories, including sportswear, jeanswear, underwear and accessories.



Rebalancing distribution and improving profitability in North America.In North America, we intend to leverage our existing infrastructure and expertise to improve profitability of Warnaco’s Calvin Klein jeanswear and underwear businesses by:

•Rebalancing the mix of distribution among the full price, off-price and club channels;

•Leveraging our North American retail stores to better showcase jeans and underwear; and

•Expanding category breadth, where appropriate.



Leveraging our European operating platform and management team.We plan to integrate Warnaco’s European Calvin Klein businesses into our existing Tommy Hilfiger operating platform and leverage our systems and the expertise of our European management team to enhance execution and profitability of the Warnaco businesses, in addition to managing the Calvin Klein “bridge” business in Europe that we were to take over in 2013, by employing the following strategies:

•Streamlining the cost structure within the existing jeanswear and underwear infrastructure in Europe;

•Optimizing distribution mix by reducing distribution in the off-price channel;

•Utilizing the Tommy Hilfiger matrix model to improve product placement and execution at wholesale and retail on a country/regional basis;

•Improving the sales productivity by promoting theCalvin Kleinlifestyle across Europe through more effective merchandising and marketing; and

•Coordinating the European jeanswear and underwear strategy with the re-launch of the bridge wholesale business.



Continuing expansion in emerging markets.The Warnaco acquisition provides us with an established presence and local operations in high-growth emerging markets in Asia and Latin America, where we were less developed. We plan to continue growing in these markets by:

•Continuing to grow retail square footage in China and Brazil;

•Improving operating margins through improved execution and leveraging of expenses; and

•Evaluating opportunities to leverage existing capabilities to introduce and/or accelerate growth of additional categories and brands.



Realizing identified cost synergy opportunities.We believe the Warnaco acquisition will create significant opportunities to reduce overhead and administrative expenses. We currently expect to achieve costs savings through synergies, principally with respect to certain corporate functions and duplicative brand management functions in North America and Europe. We expect to realize approximately $100 million of synergies in full by the end of 2016.



Tommy Hilfiger Business



We have significantly grown the Tommy Hilfiger business since we acquired it in 2010. Our strategies for continuing to grow revenues and improve profitability include the following:





Continue to expand the European business.We believe that there is significant potential for further expansion in Europe. Among other initiatives, our current strategies for the European market include:



•Growing the business in product categories that we believe are currently underdeveloped in Europe, such as pants, outerwear, underwear, accessories and womenswear;










•Expanding the bags and small leather goods business, which we acquired from our former licensee in 2010;

•Developing a Tommy Hilfiger tailored division, a business we acquired from a licensee at the end of 2012;

•Concentrating on the development of the business in underpenetrated markets where we believe there is growth potential, such as  France, the United Kingdom, Scandinavia and Central and Eastern Europe (including Russia), through both our own retail expansion and increased wholesale sales, which we intend to support with increased advertising and marketing activities; and

•IncreasingTommy Hilfiger’s presence in Europe through the opening of additional specialty and outlet retail stores (both by us and retail partners), including brand-promoting locations, such as those opened on Regent Street, London in 2012, Brompton Road, London in 2011, and the Champs-Élysées, Paris in 2010, and anchor stores in key shopping destinations worldwide, such as those opened in Frankfurt, Hamburg and Vienna since our acquisition of Tommy Hilfiger.



Grow and continue to strengthen the North American business.Our overarching goal in North America is to drive brand elevation in every channel and category in which we operate, while maximizing our current store portfolio and pursuing opportunities for growth. We intend to achieve growth in the North American business by:



•Enhancing our strategic alliance with Macy’s by leveraging our logistics capabilities and “preferred vendor” relationship with Macy’s, offering expanded merchandise assortments, adding and enhancing shop-in-shops in high-volume Macy’s stores, featuringTommy Hilfigerproducts in Macy’s marketing campaigns and concentrating on brand enhancement and elevation through strategic marketing and investments in partnership with Macy’s;

•Expanding product offerings by Tommy Hilfiger and its licensees in both the retail and wholesale channels;

•IncreasingTommy Hilfiger’s overall presence and brand positioning through the opening of a limited number of specialty stores, as well as making focused capital improvements in our existing retail stores to improve image, presentation and productivity, and adding square footage in existing locations and opening new outlet stores, where appropriate;

•Elevating the product presentation and improving the visibility and exposure of theTommy Hilfigerbrand at The Bay in Canada;

•Investing in advertising and marketing initiatives, such as our well-received “The Hilfigers” marketing campaign, through TV, print and digital media, with an emphasis on growing our customer database and expanding our Hispanic marketing campaign; and

•Enhancing our merchandising focus by delivering the right product regionally and offering an engaging store experience.



Expansion of opportunities outside of Europe and North America.Our opportunities in the rest of the world can be achieved by:





•Leveraging Warnaco’s operational experience in Asia and Latin America to facilitate the growth of the Tommy Hilfiger business in these regions over time;



•Capitalizing on opportunities to grow the Tommy Hilfiger business by repositioning theTommy Hilfigerbrand image to be more consistent throughout the world, and elevating the brand’s visibility and positioning, such as through the opening of our first Asian flagship store on Omotesando in Tokyo in April 2012, and introducing regional sizing, enhancing product offerings and adopting other initiatives targeted at local market needs;

•Continuing the development of our joint ventures in China (operations started in August 2011), India (acquired interest in September 2011) and Brazil (operations started in January 2013) by expanding the brand’s retail footprint, enhancing product and increasing price points; and

•Continuing a balanced strategy of acquiring licensees, distributors and franchisees where we believe we can achieve greater scale and success compared to our partners, while at the same time licensing businesses for product categories and markets when we believe experienced and/or local partners provide the best opportunity for success.



Further improve the e-commerce channel.We intend to seek to improve the online capabilities and functions of theTommy HilfigerEuropean and North American e-commerce sites to improve the shopping experience and increase sales.












Heritage Brands Business



Our Heritage Brands business remains an important part of our overall business mix. We intend to integrate Warnaco’s Speedo, Warner’s and Olga businesses into our Heritage Brands business. Our key strategies for the Heritage Brands business include the following:

Continue to strengthen the competitive position and image of our brand portfolio.We intend for each of our heritage brands to be a leader in its respective market segment, with strong consumer awareness and loyalty. We believe that our heritage brands are successful because we have positioned each one to target distinct consumer demographics and tastes. We will continue to design and market our branded products to complement each other, satisfy lifestyle needs, emphasize product features important to our target consumers and increase consumer loyalty. We will seek to increase our market share in our businesses by expanding our presence through product extensions and increased floor space. We are also committed to investing in our brands through advertising, sponsorships and other means to maintain strong customer recognition.

Pursue international growth.We intend to expand the international distribution of our heritage brands, including through licensing. We have approximately 40 license agreements, covering approximately 145 territories outside of the United States to use our heritage brands in numerous product categories, including apparel, accessories, footwear, soft home goods and fragrances. We believe that our strong brand portfolio and broad product offerings enable us to seek additional growth opportunities in geographic areas where we are underpenetrated, such as Europe and Asia.

In order to implement the strategies for the Heritage Brands business described above, we have a number of initiatives in place, including the following:

Maintain and protect our top-performing dress furnishings divisions.Our dress furnishings divisions continue to grow through cross-channel expansion and market share gains. We are focused on elevating the in-store experience in top doors and identifying brand and channel opportunities for additional growth.

Exit underperforming businesses.We successfully exited our Timberland and Izod women’s wholesale sportswear businesses in 2012 and continue to evaluate our businesses for productivity and profitability.

Targeting marketing spend.We target our marketing expenditures on initiatives that we believe will reflect each brand’s core image, resonate with the target consumer and enhance the in-store shopping experience or encourage sales.

Focus on turnaround initiatives where appropriate.We are focused on revitalizing the Izod men’s business at wholesale (including at J.C. Penney through the new full lifestyle presentation, upgraded product and complete shop-in-shop experience), as well as right-sizing the Heritage Brand retail divisions’ real estate portfolio, while elevating the in-store experience and making strategic product investments to refocus on the brand’s heritage and value proposition.



Other Strategic Opportunities

We intend to continue to build our brand portfolio through acquisition and licensing opportunities. While we believe we have an attractive and diverse portfolio of brands with growth potential, we will continue to explore acquisitions of companies or trademarks and licensing opportunities that we believe are additive to our overall business. New license opportunities allow us to fill new product and brand portfolio needs. We take a disciplined approach to acquisitions, seeking brands with broad consumer recognition that we can grow profitably and expand by leveraging our infrastructure and core competencies and, where appropriate, by extending the brand through licensing.



Seasonality



Our business generally follows a seasonal pattern. Our wholesale businesses tend to generate higher levels of sales in the first and third quarters, while our retail businesses tend to generate higher levels of sales in the fourth quarter. Royalty, advertising and other revenue tends to be earned somewhat evenly throughout the year, although the third quarter has the highest level of royalty revenue due to higher sales by licensees in advance of the holiday selling season. We expect this seasonal pattern will generally continue.



Design



Our businesses depend on our ability to stimulate and respond to consumer tastes and demands, as well as on our ability to remain competitive in the areas of quality and price.



A significant factor in the continued strength of our brands is our in-house design teams. We form separate teams of designers and merchandisers for each of our brands, creating a structure that focuses on the special qualities and identity of










each brand. These designers and merchandisers consider consumer taste and lifestyle and trends when creating a brand or product plan for a particular season. The process from initial design to finished product varies greatly but generally spans six to ten months prior to each retail selling season. Our product lines are developed primarily for two major selling seasons, Spring and Fall. However, certain of our product lines offer more frequent introductions of new merchandise.



Calvin Klein has a team of senior design directors who share a vision for theCalvin Kleinbrands and who each lead a separate design team. These teams control all design operations and product development for most licensees and other strategic partners.



Tommy Hilfiger seeks to reinforce the premium positioning of theTommy Hilfigerbrands by taking a coordinated and consistent worldwide approach to brand management. Products are then adapted and executed on a regional basis in order to adjust for local or regional sizing, fits, weather, trends and demand. Tommy Hilfiger management believes that regional execution and adaptation helps it anticipate, identify and respond more readily to changing consumer demand, fashion trends and local tastes or preferences. It also reduces the importance of any one collection and enables the brand to appeal to a wider range of customers.



Product Sourcing



In 2012, our products were produced in over 700 factories and over 50 countries worldwide. With the exception of handmade and handfinished neckwear, which is made in our Los Angeles, California facility and accounted for less than 10% of our total quantity of neckwear sourced and produced, all of our products were produced by independent manufacturers located in foreign countries in Europe, the Far East, the Indian subcontinent, the Middle East, South America, the Caribbean and Central America. The manufacturers of our products are required to meet our quality, cost, human rights, safety and environmental requirements. No single supplier is critical to our production needs and we believe that an ample number of alternative suppliers exist should we need to secure additional or replacement production capacity and raw materials. We source finished products and raw materials. Raw materials include fabric, buttons, thread, labels and similar materials. Raw materials and production commitments are generally made two to six months prior to production, and quantities are finalized at that time. We believe we are one of the largest users of shirting fabric in the world. Finished products consist of manufactured and fully assembled products ready for shipment to our customers and our stores.





Our foreign offices and buying agents enable us to monitor the quality of the goods manufactured by, and the delivery performance of, our suppliers, which includes the enforcement of human rights and labor standards through our ongoing approval and monitoring system. Our purchases from our suppliers are effected through individual purchase orders specifying the price, quantity, delivery date and destination of the items to be produced. Sales are monitored regularly at both the retail and wholesale levels and modifications in production can be made either to increase or reduce inventories. We continually seek suppliers throughout the world for our sourcing needs and place our orders in a manner designed to limit the risk that a disruption of production at any one facility could cause a serious inventory problem.



Tommy Hilfiger is a party to a nonexclusive agreement with Li & Fung Trading Limited under which Li & Fung performs most of Tommy Hilfiger’s sourcing work. Under the terms of the agreement, Tommy Hilfiger is required to use Li & Fung for at least 54% of its sourced products. Our Tommy Hilfiger business also uses other third-party buying offices for a portion of its sourced products and has a small in-house sourcing team.

We are continuing to develop strategies and make investments to enhance our ability to provide our customers with timely product availability and delivery. Our investments should allow us to reduce the cycle time between the design of products and the delivery of those products to our customers. We believe the enhancement of our supply chain efficiencies and working capital management through the effective use of our distribution network and overall infrastructure will allow us to better control costs and provide improved service to our customers. The integration of Warnaco’s sourcing network is a key element to our strategy to realize synergies and gain efficiencies.

We are committed to the health, safety and well-being of the workers throughout our supply chain and to the integrity of our products. We actively work to educate our associates and partners and improve factory conditions, as well as continue to invest in the communities where we do business.

Warehousing and Distribution



To facilitate distribution, our products are shipped from manufacturers to our wholesale and retail warehousing and distribution centers for inspection, sorting, packing and shipment. Our centers range in size and are principally located in the United States in Brinkley, Arkansas; Los Angeles, California; McDonough, Georgia; Jonesville, North Carolina; Reading,










Pennsylvania; and Chattanooga, Tennessee; and internationally in Venlo and Tegelen, The Netherlands; Montreal, Canada; and Urayasu-shi, Japan. Our warehousing and distribution centers are designed to provide responsive service to our customers and our retail stores, as the case may be, on a cost-effective basis. This includes the use of various forms of electronic communications to meet customer needs, including advance shipping notices for certain customers.



We believe that our investments in logistics and supply chain management allow us to respond rapidly to changes in sales trends and consumer demands while enhancing inventory management. We believe our customers can better manage their inventories as a result of our continuous analysis of sales trends, broad array of product availability and quick response capabilities. Certain of our products can be ordered at any time through our EDI replenishment systems. For customers who reorder these products, we generally ship these products within one to two days of order receipt. At the end of 2012 and 2011, our backlog of customer orders totaled $930 million and $729 million, respectively.



Advertising and Promotion



We market our brands and products to target distinct consumer demographics and lifestyles. Our marketing programs are an integral feature of our brands and their associated product offerings. Advertisements generally portray a lifestyle rather than a specific item. We intend for each of our brands to be a leader in its respective market segment, with strong consumer awareness and consumer loyalty. We believe that our brands are successful in their respective segments because we have strategically positioned each brand to target a distinct consumer demographic. We will continue to design and market our products to complement each other, satisfy lifestyle needs, emphasize product features important to our target consumers and encourage consumer loyalty.



We advertise our brands through digital media, including our e-commerce platforms and social media outlets, in order to expand our reach to customers and enable us to provide timely information in an entertaining fashion to consumers about our products, special events, promotions and store locations. In addition, we also advertise through print media (including fashion, entertainment/human interest, business, men’s, women’s and sports magazines and newspapers), on television and through outdoor signage.



We also advertise our brands through sport sponsorships and product tie-ins. In 2012, ourVan Heusenbrand continued its professional football marketing and media campaign through individual endorsement agreements with Pro Football Hall of Famers Steve Young and Jerry Rice and NFL quarterback Matthew Stafford. In addition, PGA golfer Webb Simpson was joined by Scott Piercy and Spencer Levin as ambassadors for theIZODbrand, andIZODis the title sponsor of theIZODIndyCar Series.Calvin Kleinhas a sponsorship agreement with the Brooklyn Nets and the Barclays Center and we have an all-brand regional sponsorship agreement with the New York Giants. We are also an official sponsor of the 2014 Super Bowl Host Committee and have the right to use the 2014 Super Bowl Host Committee logo and marks for promotional use with theIZOD,Van Heusen,Calvin KleinandTommy Hilfigerbrands. In addition, we participate in cooperative advertising programs with our retail partners.



With respect to our North America retail operations, we generally rely upon local outlet mall developers to promote traffic for their centers. Outlet center developers employ multiple formats, including signage (highway billboards, off-highway directional signs, on-site signage and on-site information centers), print advertising (brochures, newspapers and travel magazines), direct marketing (to tour bus companies and travel agents), radio and television and special promotions.



We believeCalvin Kleinis one of the most well-known designer names in the world. Its high-profile, often cutting-edge global advertising campaigns have periodically garnered significant publicity, notoriety and debate among customers and consumers, as well as within the fashion industry, and have helped to establish and maintain theCalvin Kleinname and image. Calvin Klein has a dedicated in-house advertising agency, with experienced creative and media teams that develop and execute a substantial portion of the institutional consumer advertising for products under theCalvin Kleinbrands and work closely with other Calvin Klein departments and business partners to deliver a consistent and unified brand message to the consumer.



Calvin Klein oversees a worldwide marketing, advertising and promotions program.Calvin Kleinproducts are advertised primarily in national print media, through digital media and on television, including theCalvin Klein Conceptunderwear commercial that was aired during the Super Bowl broadcast in February 2013. Innovative marketing and advertising campaigns continue to fuel the global growth ofCalvin Klein,highlighted by an expanded use of digital and social media marketing platforms, including the addition of a visually-driven, interactiveTumblrblog, which complements the brand’s editorial and celebrity wardrobing programs, to further consumer awareness and appeal. We believe promotional activities throughout the year further strengthen brand awareness of theCalvin Kleinbrands. In addition to offering a broad array of










Calvin Kleinapparel and licensed products, Calvin Klein’s website,www.calvinklein.com, also serves as a marketing vehicle to complement the ongoing development of theCalvin Kleinbrands.



Calvin Klein also has a dedicated in-house global communications agency, which incorporates corporate communications, public relations, celebrity dressing and special events. This group coordinates many global events including the Spring and FallCalvin Klein Collectionfashion shows in New York City and Milan, and oversees the dressing of celebrities for events, movie award ceremonies and movie premieres.



We believe that

Tommy Hilfiger

is also one of the world’s most well-known designer brands. Tommy Hilfiger employs advertising, marketing and communications staff, including an in-house creative team, as well as outside agencies, to implement its global marketing and communications strategy across all channels of distribution. The Tommy Hilfiger marketing and communications team develops and coordinates Tommy Hilfiger advertising for all regions and product lines, licensees and regional distributors. Advertisements for

Tommy Hilfiger

brand products appear primarily in fashion and lifestyle magazines, newspapers, outdoor media and cinema and on television. We also have increased the digital and online focus of marketing for the

Tommy Hilfiger

brands. The marketing and communications team also coordinates selected personal appearances by Mr. Tommy Hilfiger, including at runway shows, brand events and flagship store openings as part of its efforts. Most of Tommy Hilfiger’s licensees and distributors are required to contribute a percentage of their net sales of

Tommy Hilfiger

products, generally subject to minimum amounts, to the advertising and promotion of the

Tommy Hilfiger

brand and products. We maintain multiple showroom facilities and sales offices in Europe, North America and Asia for

Tommy Hilfiger

. We launch significant brand advertising campaigns two times per year in Spring/Summer and Fall/Winter to provide maximum consumer visibility of the new seasonal collections and to support sell-through. In addition to offering a broad array of

Tommy Hilfiger

apparel and licensed products, Tommy Hilfiger’s website,

www.tommy.com

, also serves as a marketing vehicle to complement the ongoing development of the

Tommy Hilfiger

lifestyle brands.



Trademarks



We own theVan Heusen,Bass, G.H. Bass & Co.,IZOD, ARROW,EagleandTommy Hilfigerbrands, as well as related trademarks (e.g., IZOD XFGand theTommy Hilfigerflag logo and crest design) and lesser-known names. These trademarks are registered for use in each of the primary countries where our products are sold and additional applications for registration of these and other trademarks are made in jurisdictions to accommodate new marks, uses in additional trademark classes or additional categories of goods or expansion into new countries.



Calvin Klein beneficially owns theCalvin Kleinmarks and derivative marks in all trademark classes and for all product categories within each class, other than underwear, sleepwear and loungewear in Class 25, which are beneficially owned by Warnaco. As a result of the Warnaco acquisition, we effectively own 100% of the Calvin Klein Trademark Trust, which is the sole and exclusive title owner of substantially all registrations of theCalvin Kleintrademarks. The sole purpose of the Trust is to hold these marks. Calvin Klein maintains and protects the marks on behalf of the Trust pursuant to a servicing agreement. The Trust licenses to Calvin Klein and Warnaco on an exclusive, irrevocable, perpetual and royalty-free basis the use of the marks on the goods for which each has beneficial ownership.



Mr. Calvin Klein retains the right to use his name, on a non-competitive basis, with respect to his right of publicity, unless those rights are already being used in the Calvin Klein business. Mr. Klein has also been granted a royalty-free worldwide right to use theCalvin Kleinmark with respect to certain personal businesses and activities, such as motion picture, television and video businesses, a book business, writing, speaking and/or teaching engagements, non-commercial photography, charitable activities and architectural and industrial design projects, subject to certain limitations designed to protect the image and prestige of theCalvin Kleinbrands and to avoid competitive conflicts.



Mr. Tommy Hilfiger is prohibited in perpetuity from using, or authorizing others to use, theTommy Hilfigermarks (except for the use by Mr. Hilfiger of his name personally and in connection with certain specified activities). In addition, we are prohibited in perpetuity from selling products not ordinarily sold under the names of prestige designer businesses or prestige global lifestyle brands without Mr. Hilfiger’s consent, from engaging in new lines of business materially different from such types of lines of business without Mr. Hilfiger’s consent, or from disparaging or intentionally tarnishing theTommy Hilfiger-related marks or Mr. Hilfiger’s personal name. The products that we are prohibited from selling include cigarettes, dog food and alcohol. Certain lines of business will not be considered “new lines of business” for purposes of the agreement, including apparel, fashion, eyewear, accessories, housewares, home and bedding products, personal care products, footwear, watches and leather goods.












Our trademarks are the subject of registrations and pending applications throughout the world for use on a variety of apparel, footwear and related products, and we continue to expand our worldwide usage and registration of new and related trademarks. In general, trademarks remain valid and enforceable as long as the marks continue to be used in connection with the products and services with which they are identified and, as to registered tradenames, the required registration renewals are filed. In markets outside of the United States, particularly those where products bearing any of our brands are not sold by us or any of our licensees or other authorized users, our rights to the use of trademarks may not be clearly established.



Our trademarks and other intellectual property rights are valuable assets and we vigorously seek to protect them on a worldwide basis against infringement. We are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing on our intellectual property rights. This is especially the case with respect to theCalvin KleinandTommy Hilfigerbrands, as theCalvin KleinandTommy Hilfigerbrands enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition and their generally higher pricing provides significant opportunity and incentive for counterfeiters and infringers. We have a broad, proactive enforcement program that we believe has been generally effective in controlling the sale of counterfeit products in the United States and in major markets abroad.



Contingent Purchase Price Payments



In connection with our acquisition of Calvin Klein, we are obligated to pay Mr. Calvin Klein contingent purchase price payments based on a percentage of total worldwide net sales of products bearing any of the

Calvin Klein

brands with respect to sales made through February 12, 2018. Our obligation to make contingent purchase price payments to Mr. Klein is guaranteed by our domestic Calvin Klein subsidiaries and is secured by a pledge of all of the equity interests in our Calvin Klein subsidiaries and a first priority lien on substantially all of our domestic Calvin Klein subsidiaries’ assets. Events of default under the agreements governing the collateral for our contingent payment obligations to Mr. Klein include, but are not limited to (1) our failure to make payments to Mr. Klein when due, (2) covenant defaults, (3) cross-defaults to other indebtedness in excess of an agreed amount, (4) events of bankruptcy, (5) monetary judgment defaults and (6) a change of control, including the sale of any portion of the equity interests in our Calvin Klein subsidiaries. An event of default under those agreements would permit Mr. Klein to foreclose on his security interest in the collateral. In addition, if we fail to pay Mr. Klein a contingent purchase price payment when due and such failure to pay continues for 60 days or more after a final judgment by a court is rendered relating to our failure to pay, Mr. Klein will no longer be restricted from competing with us as he otherwise would be under the non-competition provisions contained in the purchase agreement related to our acquisition of Calvin Klein, although he would still not be able to use any of the

Calvin Klein

brands or any similar trademark in any competing business.



During the third quarter of 2011, we reacquired the rights in India to theTommy Hilfigertrademarks that had been subject to a perpetual license previously granted to GVM. The transaction was accounted for as a business combination. We paid $25.0 million during the third quarter of 2011 as consideration for this transaction. In addition, we are required to make annual contingent purchase price payments based on a percentage of annual sales in excess of an agreed upon threshold ofTommy Hilfigerproducts in India for a period of five years (or, under certain circumstances, a period of six years) following the acquisition date. Such payments are subject to a $25.0 million aggregate maximum. During the third quarter of 2012, we made a contingent purchase price payment of $0.2 million for the first one-year period.



Competition



The apparel industry is competitive as a result of its fashion orientation, mix of large and small producers, the flow of domestic and imported merchandise and the wide diversity of retailing methods. We compete with numerous domestic and foreign designers, brands, manufacturers and retailers of apparel, accessories and footwear.



We compete primarily on the basis of style, quality, price and service. Our business depends on our ability to stimulate consumer tastes and demands, as well as on our ability to remain competitive in these areas. We believe we are well-positioned to compete in the apparel industry. Our diversified portfolio of brands and products and our use of multiple channels of distribution have allowed us to develop a business that produces results which are not dependent on any one demographic group, merchandise preference, distribution channel or geographic region. We have developed a portfolio of brands that appeal to a broad spectrum of consumers. Our owned brands have long histories and enjoy high recognition within their respective consumer segments. We develop our owned and licensed brands to complement each other and to generate strong consumer loyalty. TheCalvin KleinandTommy Hilfigerbrands generally provide us with the opportunity to develop businesses that target different consumer groups at higher price points and in higher-end distribution channels than our heritage brands, as well as with significant global opportunities due to the worldwide recognition of the brands.












Imports and Import Restrictions



A substantial portion of our products is imported into the United States, Canada, Europe and Asia. These products are subject to various customs laws, which may impose tariffs, as well as quota restrictions. Under the provisions of the World Trade Organization (“WTO”) agreement governing international trade in textiles, known as the “WTO Agreement on Textiles and Clothing,” the United States and other WTO member countries have eliminated quotas on textiles and apparel-related products from WTO member countries. As a result, quota restrictions generally do not affect our business in most countries. Presently, a portion of our imported products is eligible for certain duty-advantaged programs, including the North American Free Trade Agreement, Africa Growth & Opportunity Act, Central American Free Trade Agreement, Jordan Free Trade Agreement, Israel Free Trade Agreement, Egypt Qualifying Industrial Zones, Colombia Free Trade Agreement and the Peru Free Trade Agreement.



Environmental Matters



Our facilities and operations are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. In addition, we may incur liability under environmental statutes and regulations with respect to the contamination of sites that we own or operate or previously owned or operated (including contamination caused by prior owners and operators of such sites, abutters or other persons) and the off-site disposal of hazardous materials. We believe our operations are in compliance with terms of all applicable laws and regulations.



Employees



As of February 3, 2013, we employed approximately 11,800 persons on a full-time basis and approximately 16,900 persons on a part-time basis. Approximately 2% of our employees were represented for the purpose of collective bargaining by five different unions. Additional persons, some represented by these five unions, are employed from time to time based upon our manufacturing schedules and retailing seasonal needs. Our collective bargaining agreements generally are for three-year terms. We believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory.



Executive Officers of the Registrant



The following table sets forth the name, age and position of each of our executive officers:



NameAgePositionEmanuel Chirico55Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerMichael A. Shaffer50Executive Vice President and Chief Operating & Financial OfficerFrancis K. Duane56Chief Executive Officer, Heritage Brands and North America WholesalePaul Thomas Murry62Chief Executive Officer, Calvin KleinFred Gehring58Chief Executive Officer, Tommy Hilfiger and PVH International Operations



Mr. Emanuel Chirico joined us as Vice President and Controller in 1993. Mr. Chirico was named Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 1999, President and Chief Operating Officer in 2005, Chief Executive Officer in February 2006, and Chairman of the Board in June 2007.



Mr. Michael A. Shaffer has been employed by us since 1990. He served as Senior Vice President, Retail Operations immediately prior to being named Executive Vice President, Finance in 2005, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in March 2006, and Executive Vice President and Chief Operating & Financial Officer in February 2012.



Mr. Francis K. Duane served as President of our Izod division from 1998 until 2001, was named Vice Chairman, Sportswear in 2001,Vice Chairman, Wholesale Apparel in March 2006, Chief Executive Officer, Wholesale Apparel in February 2012, and Chief Executive Officer, Heritage Brands and North America Wholesale in February 2013.



Mr. Paul Thomas Murry has been employed by Calvin Klein since 1996. Mr. Murry retained his position as President and Chief Operating Officer, Calvin Klein upon our acquisition of Calvin Klein in 2003 and was named President and Chief Executive Officer, Calvin Klein in September 2008. Mr. Murry’s title was shortened to Chief Executive Officer, Calvin Klein,










in connection with the reorganization we undertook in connection with the Warnaco acquisition; his responsibilities have not been reduced.



Mr. Fred Gehring has been employed by Tommy Hilfiger since 1996. Mr. Gehring retained his position as Chief Executive Officer, Tommy Hilfiger upon our acquisition of Tommy Hilfiger in 2010 and was also named Chief Executive Officer, PVH International Operations upon such acquisition.







