Item 1. Business



Introduction



Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “we,” “our” or “us” refer to Phillips-Van Heusen Corporation and its subsidiaries.



Our fiscal years are based on the 52-53 week period ending on the Sunday closest to February 1 and are designated by the calendar year in which the fiscal year commences. References to a year are to our fiscal year, unless the context requires otherwise. Our 2010 year commenced on February 1, 2010 and ended on January 30, 2011; 2009 commenced on February 2, 2009 and ended on January 31, 2010; 2008 commenced on February 4, 2008 and ended on February 1, 2009.



We obtained the market and competitive position data used throughout this report from research, surveys or studies conducted by third parties, information provided by customers and industry or general publications. Industry publications and surveys generally state that they have obtained information from sources believed to be reliable but do not guarantee the accuracy and completeness of such information. While we believe that each of these studies and publications and other information is reliable, we have not independently verified such data and we do not make any representation as to the accuracy of such information.








References to the brand namesCalvin Klein Collection, ck Calvin Klein, Calvin Klein, Tommy Hilfiger, Hilfiger Denim, Van Heusen, IZOD, Bass, ARROW, Eagle, Geoffrey Beene, CHAPS, Sean John, Trump, Donald J. Trump Signature Collection, JOE Joseph Abboud, Kenneth Cole New York, Kenneth Cole Reaction, MICHAEL Michael Kors, Michael Kors Collection, DKNY, Elie Tahari, Nautica, Ted Baker, Ike Behar, Jones New York, J. Garcia, Claiborne, Robert Graham, U.S. POLO ASSN., AxcessandTimberlandand to other brand names in this report are to registered trademarks owned by us or licensed to us by third parties and are identified by italicizing the brand name.



References to the acquisition of Tommy Hilfiger refer to our May 6, 2010 acquisition of Tommy Hilfiger B.V. and certain affiliated companies, which companies we refer to collectively as “Tommy Hilfiger.”



References to our acquisition of Calvin Klein refer to our February 2003 acquisition of Calvin Klein, Inc. and certain affiliated companies, which companies we refer to collectively as “Calvin Klein.”



Company Overview





Calvin Klein

Van Heusen

IZOD

Bass

ARROW

Eagle

Tommy Hilfiger

Geoffrey Beene

Kenneth Cole New York

Kenneth Cole Reaction

Sean John

JOE Joseph Abboud

MICHAEL Michael Kors

Michael Kors Collection

CHAPS

Trump

Donald J. Trump Signature Collection

DKNY

Elie Tahari

Nautica

Ike Behar

Ted Baker

J. Garcia

Claiborne

Robert Graham

U.S. POLO ASSN.

Axcess

Jones New York

Timberland



We completed our acquisition of Tommy Hilfiger during the second quarter of 2010. Tommy Hilfiger designs, sources and markets men’s, women’s and children’s sportswear and activewear, jeanswear and other products worldwide and licenses its brands worldwide over a broad range of products. We believe Tommy Hilfiger’s established international platform in Europe and Asia will be a strategic complement to our strong North American presence. We further believe that, although theTommy Hilfigerbrand is well-established globally and enjoys significant worldwide brand awareness, there are opportunities to further expand the business in North America, along with parts of Europe and, to a greater extent, in Asia. These opportunities include (i) development and expansion of product categories for whichTommy Hilfigercurrently has no or only limited distribution; (ii) increased sales in markets where the business is underdeveloped; and (iii) expansion into new markets. We believe our successful experience in growingCalvin Kleinwill assist us in realizing these opportunities forTommy Hilfiger. In addition, we believe that Tommy Hilfiger’s international platform provides us with the resources and expertise needed to grow our heritage brands and businesses internationally. As a result, we believe the acquisition provides us with the opportunity to realize revenue growth and enhanced profitability.



The acquisition of Tommy Hilfiger significantly impacted the way we manage and analyze our operating results. Beginning with the second quarter of 2010, we changed our segment reporting and the way we discuss our business segments to reflect this. Specifically, we aggregate our segments into three main businesses:  (i) Tommy Hilfiger, which consists of the Tommy Hilfiger North America and Tommy Hilfiger International segments; (ii) Calvin Klein, which consists of the Calvin Klein Licensing segment (including our Calvin Klein Collection business, which we operate directly in support of the global licensing of theCalvin Kleinbrands) and the Other (Calvin Klein Apparel) segment, which is comprised of our Calvin Klein dress furnishings, sportswear and outlet retail divisions; and (iii) Heritage Brands, which consists of the Heritage Brand Wholesale Dress Furnishings, Heritage Brand Wholesale Sportswear and Heritage Brand Retail segments. Note 18, “Segment Data,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report contains information with respect to revenue, income before interest and taxes and assets related to each segment, information regarding our revenue generated from foreign and domestic sources, as well as the geographic locations where our long-lived assets are held.



A few of our customers, including Macy’s, Inc., J.C. Penney Company, Inc., Kohl’s Corporation and Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. account for significant portions of our revenue. Sales to our five largest customers were 22.6% of our revenue in 2010,






31.0% of our revenue in 2009 and 31.7% of our revenue in 2008. Macy’s, our largest customer, accounted for 10.1% of our revenue in 2010, 11.9% of our revenue in 2009 and 11.5% of our revenue in 2008.



Company Information



We were incorporated in the State of Delaware in 1976 as the successor to a business begun in 1881. Our principal executive offices are located at 200 Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10016; our telephone number is (212) 381-3500.



We make available at no cost, on our corporate website, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we have electronically filed such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We also make available at no cost, on our corporate website, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Our corporate website address iswww.pvh.com.



Tommy Hilfiger Business Overview





Tommy Hilfiger

Tommy Hilfiger

Tommy Hilfiger

Tommy Hilfiger

Hilfiger Denim

Tommy Hilfiger

Hilfiger Denim

Tommy Hilfiger

Tommy Hilfiger

Tommy Hilfiger

Tommy Hilfiger

Tommy Hilfiger



The Tommy Hilfiger wholesale business consists of the distribution and sale of products under theTommy Hilfigerbrands to stores operated by franchisees and distributors and through retail customers. The European retail customers range from large department stores to small independent stores. Tommy Hilfiger has, since the Fall of 2008, conducted the majority of its North American wholesale operations through Macy’s, which is currently the exclusive department store retailer of mostTommy Hilfigermen’s, women’s and children’s sportswear in the United States.



The Tommy Hilfiger retail business principally consists of the distribution and sale ofTommy Hilfigerproducts through company-operated specialty stores (anchor stores and satellite stores) and outlet stores in Europe, the United States, Canada and Japan, as well as multi-jurisdictional e-commerce sites.Tommy Hilfigeranchor stores are generally larger stores situated in high-profile locations in major cities and are intended to enhance local exposure of the brand. Satellite stores are regular street and mall stores, which are located in secondary cities and are based on a model that provides incremental revenue and profitability. Company stores in North America are primarily located in outlet centers and carry specially designed merchandise that is sold at a lower price point than merchandise sold in our specialty stores. Company stores operated by Tommy Hilfiger in Europe and Japan are used primarily to clear excess inventory from previous seasons at discounted prices.



Tommy Hilfiger licenses theTommy Hilfigerbrands to third parties both for specific product categories (such as fragrances, watches and eyewear) and in certain geographic regions. As of January 30, 2011, Tommy Hilfiger had 25 separate product license agreements. For 2010, approximately 36% of Tommy Hilfiger’s royalty, advertising and other revenue was generated domestically and approximately 64% was generated internationally. Tommy Hilfiger’s largest licensing and other partners in terms of royalty, advertising and other revenue earned by Tommy Hilfiger in 2010 were American Sportswear S.A., which accounted for approximately 17%, Movado Group, Inc., which accounted for approximately 9% and Tommy Hilfiger Asia-Pacific, Ltd., which accounted for approximately 9%. Tommy Hilfiger announced in 2010 (prior to the acquisition) that it had entered into an agreement to assume control in the second half of 2011 over its licensed business in China. We subsequently agreed with Apax Partners, who controlled Tommy Hilfiger when we purchased it, to license the China business to a company 45% owned by each of us and Apax and 10% owned by a third






party and have appointed a country manager for China who will be responsible for developing the wholesale and retail distribution in that country.



The products offered by our Tommy Hilfiger brand licensing partners include:



Licensing PartnerProduct Category



American Sportswear S.A.Sportswear apparel and licensed products distribution (Central America, South America and the Caribbean)



Aramis, Inc.Fragrance, cosmetics, skincare products and toiletries (worldwide)



Baseco S.A. DE C.V.Sportswear apparel and licensed products distribution (excluding footwear) (Mexico)

Dobo Nexth B.V.Men’s, women’s and children’s socks (Europe)

Fishman and Tobin, Inc.Boys’ and girls’ apparel (United States, Canada, Puerto Rico and Guam (Macy’s stores only))



GVM International, Ltd.Sportswear apparel and licensed products distribution (India)



Marcraft Clothes, Inc.Men’s tailored clothing (United States and Canada)



Movado Group, Inc. / Swissam Products, Ltd.Women’s and men’s watches and jewelry (worldwide, excluding Japan (except certain customers))



Revman International, Inc.Bed and bedding accessories (United States, Canada and Mexico)



Safilo Group S.p.A.Men’s, women’s and children’s eyeglasses and non-ophthalmic sunglasses, prescription frames, readers, clip-ons, goggles and ski masks (worldwide, excluding India)



SK Global Co., Ltd.Sportswear apparel and licensed products distribution (South Korea)



Strellson AGMen’s tailored clothing (Europe and Middle East)



Swank, Inc.Men’s belts and small leather goods (United States, Canada and Mexico)



Tommy Hilfiger Asia-Pacific, Ltd.Sportswear apparel and licensed products distribution (China, Hong Kong, Macau, Malaysia, Singapore, Taiwan)



Tommy Hilfiger Australia PTY, Ltd.Men’s, women’s and children’s socks, tights and leggings, excluding pantyhose (Australia and New Zealand)





Our Tommy Hilfiger wholesale, retail and licensing operations in the United States and Canada are reported in our Tommy Hilfiger North America segment and such operations outside of North America are reported in our Tommy Hilfiger International segment.



Calvin Klein Business Overview



We believe Calvin Klein is one of the best known designer names in the world and that theCalvin Kleinbrands —Calvin Klein Collection,ck Calvin KleinandCalvin Klein— provide us with the opportunity to market products both domestically and internationally at higher price points, in higher-end distribution channels and to different consumer groups than most of our heritage business product offerings. Products sold under theCalvin Kleinbrands are sold primarily under licenses and other arrangements. Calvin Klein designs all products and/or controls all design operations and product development and oversees a worldwide marketing, advertising and promotions program for theCalvin Kleinbrands. We believe that maintaining control over design and advertising through Calvin Klein’s dedicated in-house teams plays a key role in the continued strength of the brands. Worldwide retail sales of products sold under theCalvin Kleinbrands were approximately $6.7 billion in 2010.








Our Calvin Klein business primarily consists of (i) licensing and similar arrangements worldwide for use of theCalvin Kleinbrands in connection with a broad array of products, including women’s sportswear, jeanswear, underwear, fragrances, eyewear, men’s tailored clothing, women’s suits and dresses, hosiery, socks, footwear, swimwear, jewelry, watches, outerwear, handbags, leather goods, home furnishings and accessories, as well as to operate retail stores outside North America, and the marketing of theCalvin Klein Collectionbrand high-end men’s and women’s apparel and accessories collections through ourCalvin Klein Collectionflagship store and our Calvin Klein Collection wholesale business (Calvin Klein Licensing Segment); and (ii) ourCalvin Kleindress furnishings and men’s better sportswear businesses and ourCalvin Kleinretail stores located principally in premium outlet malls in the United States (Other (Calvin Klein Apparel) Segment).



Calvin Kleinmen’s dress shirts, neckwear and sportswear target the modern classical consumer, are marketed at better price points and are distributed principally in better fashion department and specialty stores, including Macy’s and Dillard’s, Inc. We also offer ourCalvin Klein Collectionandck Calvin Kleindress shirts to the more limited channel of luxury department and specialty stores and freestandingCalvin Klein Collectionandck Calvin Kleinstores.



OurCalvin Kleinstores are located principally in premium outlet centers and offer men’s and women’s apparel and otherCalvin Kleinproducts to communicate theCalvin Kleinlifestyle. We also operate oneCalvin Klein Collectionstore, located on Madison Avenue in New York City, that offersCalvin Klein Collectionmen’s and women’s high-end collection apparel and accessories and other products under theCalvin Kleinbrands.



An important source of our revenue is Calvin Klein’s arrangements with licensees and other third parties worldwide that manufacture and distribute globally a broad array of products under theCalvin Kleinbrands. For 2010, approximately 42% of Calvin Klein’s royalty, advertising and other revenue was generated domestically and approximately 58% was generated internationally. Calvin Klein combines its design, marketing and imaging skills with the specific manufacturing, distribution and geographic capabilities of its licensing and other partners to develop, market and distribute a variety of goods across a wide range of categories and to expand existing lines of business. Calvin Klein’s largest licensing and other partners in terms of royalty, advertising and other revenue earned by Calvin Klein in 2010 were Warnaco, Inc., which accounted for approximately 42%, G-III Apparel Group Ltd., which accounted for approximately 14%, and Coty, Inc., which accounted for approximately 12%.



Calvin Klein has approximately 47 wholesale product licensing arrangements. The products offered by Calvin Klein’s licensing partners include:



Licensing PartnerProduct Category



CK Watch and Jewelry Co., Ltd.(Swatch SA)Men’s and women’s watches (worldwide) and women’s jewelry (worldwide, excluding Japan)



CK21 Holdings Pte, Ltd.Men’s and women’s bridge apparel, shoes and accessories (Asia, excluding Japan)



Coty, Inc.Men’s and women’s fragrance and bath products (worldwide)



DWI Holdings, Inc. / Himatsingka Seide, Ltd.Soft home bed and bath furnishings (United States, Canada, Mexico, Central America & South America)



G-III Apparel Group, Ltd.Men’s and women’s coats; women’s better suits, dresses and sportswear; women’s active performance wear; luggage; women’s handbags (United States, Canada & Mexico)



Jimlar CorporationMen’s and women’s footwear: better (United States, Canada & Mexico); bridge (North America, Europe & Middle East); collection (worldwide)



Marchon Eyewear, Inc.Men’s and women’s optical frames and sunglasses (worldwide)



McGregor Industries, Inc. / American Essentials, Inc.Men’s and women’s socks and women’s tights (United States, Canada, Mexico, South America, Europe, Middle East and Asia, excluding Japan)



Onward Kashiyama Co. Ltd.Men’s and women’s bridge apparel and women’s accessories (Japan)



Peerless Delaware, Inc.Men’s better and bridge tailored clothing (United States, Canada & Mexico; South America (non-exclusive))



Warnaco, Inc.Men’s, women’s and children’s jeanswear (nearly worldwide); men’s and boy’s underwear and sleepwear (worldwide); women’s and girl’s intimate apparel and sleepwear (worldwide); women’s swimwear (worldwide); men’s better swimwear (worldwide); men’s and women’s bridge apparel and accessories (Europe, Africa & Middle East)




Warnaco is the beneficial owner of theCalvin Kleinmark for men’s and boy’s underwear and sleepwear and women’s and girl’s intimate apparel and sleepwear. However, Warnaco pays Calvin Klein an administration fee based on Warnaco’s worldwide sales of such products under an administration agreement between Calvin Klein and Warnaco. Warnaco, as the beneficial owner of theCalvin Kleinmark for such products, controls the design and advertising related thereto but works closely with Calvin Klein on these matters.





Calvin Klein

Calvin Klein

Calvin Klein

Calvin Klein

Calvin Klein

Calvin Klein



Heritage Brands Business Overview



Our Heritage Brands business encompasses the design, sourcing and marketing of a varied selection of branded label dress shirts, neckwear, sportswear and footwear, as well as the licensing of our owned brands (other than theCalvin KleinandTommy Hilfigerbrands), for an assortment of products. The Heritage Brands business also includes private label dress furnishings programs, particularly neckwear programs. We design, source and market substantially all of these products on a brand-by-brand basis, targeting distinct consumer demographics and lifestyles in an effort to minimize competition among our brands. We distribute our Heritage Brand products at wholesale in national and regional department, mid-tier department, mass market, specialty and independent stores in the United States and Canada. Our wholesale business represents our core business and we believe that it is the basis for our brand equity. As a complement to our wholesale business, we also market our products directly to consumers through ourVan Heusen,IZODandBassretail stores, principally located in outlet malls throughout the United States.





Heritage Brand Dress Furnishings.Our Heritage Brand Dress Furnishings business principally includes the design and marketing of men’s dress shirts and neckwear. We market through our Heritage Brand Dress Furnishings segment both dress shirts and neckwear principally under theARROW,IZOD,Eagle,Sean John,Trump,Kenneth Cole New York,Kenneth Cole Reaction,JOE Joseph Abboud,DKNY,Elie Tahari,J. Garcia, Ike BeharandMICHAEL Michael Korsbrands. We also market dress shirts under theVan Heusen,Geoffrey BeeneandCHAPSbrands and neckwear under theNautica,Michael Kors Collection,Jones New York,Ted Baker,Axcess,U.S. POLO ASSN.,Hart Schaffner Marx,Bass, ClaiborneandRobert Grahambrands. We market our dress shirt and neckwear brands, as well as various private label brands, primarily to department, mid-tier department and specialty stores, as well as, to a lesser degree, mass market stores.



The following provides additional information for some of the more significant brands, as determined based on 2010 sales volume:








TheVan Heusendress shirt has provided a strong foundation for us for most of our history and is the best selling dress shirt brand in the United States. TheVan Heusendress shirt targets the updated classical consumer, is marketed at opening to moderate price points and is distributed principally in department stores, including Belk, Inc., Stage Stores, Inc., The Bon-Ton Stores, Inc., Macy’s and J.C. Penney.



ARROWis the second best selling dress shirt brand in the United States on a unit basis.ARROWdress shirts and neckwear target the updated classical consumer, are marketed at opening to moderate price points and are distributed principally in mid-tier department stores, including Kohl’s and Sears, Roebuck and Co.



TheGeoffrey Beenedress shirt is the third best selling dress shirt in department and chain stores in the United States.Geoffrey Beenedress shirts target the more style-conscious consumer, are marketed at moderate to upper moderate price points and are distributed principally in department and specialty stores, including Macy’s, Stage Stores, Bon-Ton and Casual Male Retail Group, Inc. We marketGeoffrey Beenedress shirts under a license agreement with Geoffrey Beene, Inc. that expires on December 31, 2013.



Kenneth Cole New YorkandKenneth Cole Reactiondress shirts and neckwear target the modern consumer, are marketed at bridge and better price points, respectively, and are distributed principally in department stores, including Macy’s. We market both brands ofKenneth Coledress shirts and neckwear under a license agreement with Kenneth Cole Productions (Lic), Inc. that expires on December 31, 2014, which we may extend through December 31, 2019.



TheCHAPSdress shirt targets the updated traditional consumer and is marketed at moderate price points. TheCHAPSdress shirt is distributed principally at Kohl’s and Stage Stores. We marketCHAPSdress shirts under a license agreement with PRL USA, Inc. and The Polo/Lauren Company, LP that expires on March 31, 2014.



JOE Joseph Abbouddress shirts and neckwear target the more youthful, classical consumer, are marketed at moderate to better price points and are distributed principally in department stores, including J.C. Penney. We marketJOEJoseph Abbouddress shirts and neckwear under a license agreement with J.A. Apparel Corp. that expires on December 31, 2012 and which we may extend, subject to mutual consent, through December 31, 2015.



TheEagledress shirt, a 100% cotton, no-iron shirt, andEagleneckwear target the updated traditional consumer, are marketed at better price points and are distributed principally in department stores, including Macy’s and Bon-Ton.



DKNYdress shirts and neckwear target the modern consumer, are marketed at better price points and are distributed principally in department stores, including Macy’s. We marketDKNYdress shirts and neckwear under license agreements with Donna Karan Studio, LLC each of which expire on December 31, 2012. We may extend our dress shirt license agreement, subject to certain conditions, through December 31, 2017.



IZODdress shirts and neckwear target the modern traditional consumer, are marketed at moderate price points and are distributed principally in department stores, including Belk and J.C. Penney.



Trumpdress shirts and neckwear target the modern classical consumer, are marketed at better price points and are distributed principally at Macy’s. We marketTrumpdress shirts and neckwear under a license agreement with Donald J. Trump that expires on December 31, 2012.



MICHAEL Michael Korsdress shirts and neckwear target the modern consumer, are marketed at moderate to better price points and are distributed principally in department stores, including Macy’s and Bon-Ton. We marketMICHAEL Michael Korsdress shirts and neckwear under a license agreement with Michael Kors, LLC that expires on January 31, 2013 and which we may extend, subject to mutual consent, through January 31, 2016.



We also offer private label dress shirt and neckwear programs to retailers. Private label offerings enable a retailer to sell its own line of exclusive merchandise at generally higher margins. These programs present an opportunity for us to leverage our design, sourcing, manufacturing and logistics expertise. Our private label customers work with our designers to develop the styles, sizes and cuts that the customers desire to sell in their stores under their private labels. Private label programs offer the consumer quality product and offer the retailer the opportunity to enjoy product exclusivity at generally higher margins. Private label products, however, generally do not have the same level of consumer recognition as branded products and we do not provide retailers with the same breadth of services and in-store sales and promotional support as we do for our branded products. We market private label dress shirts and neckwear to national department and mass market stores. Our private label dress shirt program currently consists ofGeorgefor Wal-Mart andApt. 9for Kohl’s. Our private label neckwear programs includeGeorgefor Wal-Mart,Murano, Daniel CremieuxandRoundtree & Yorkefor Dillard’s,Club Roomfor Macy’s,Croft & Barrowand






Apt. 9for Kohl’s,Expressfor Express stores,Meronafor Target Corporation,Nordstrom, John W. Nordstrom, Calibrateand1901for Nordstrom, Inc.,StaffordandJ. Ferrarfor J.C. Penney,StatementsandKenneth Robertsfor Bon-Ton,MadisonandSaddlebredfor Belk,DBG, StaplefordandHawkins McGillfor Urban Outfitters, Incorporated,Saks Men’s Collectionfor Saks, Incorporated’s Saks Fifth Avenue stores,Bloomingdales Men’s Storefor Bloomingdale’s andBlack Brownfor Lord & Taylor.



Heritage Brand Sportswear.Our Heritage Brand Sportswear segment principally includes the design and marketing of sportswear, including men’s knit and woven sport shirts, sweaters, bottoms, swimwear, boxers and outerwear, at wholesale, principally under theIZOD,Van Heusen,ARROW,Geoffrey BeeneandTimberlandbrands. We also market women’s sportswear, including knit and woven sport shirts, sweaters, bottoms and outerwear under theIZODbrand.



IZODis the best selling branded men’s knit sport shirt in the United States on a unit basis.IZODmen’s sportswear includes a broad range of product categories, including:  the classicIZODblue label (updated classic sportswear for J.C. Penney and regional department stores),IZOD XFG(performance/technical activewear),IZOD LX(a line of sportswear exclusive to Macy’s), main floor pants and Big and Tall sub-brands.IZODmen’s sportswear is targeted to the active inspired consumer, is marketed at moderate to upper moderate price points and is distributed principally in department stores, including Macy’s, Stage Stores, Belk, Bon-Ton and J.C. Penney.



IZODwomen’s apparel consists of a range of sportswear targeted to the active consumer. The brand is marketed at upper moderate to opening better price points and is distributed principally in department stores, including Stage Stores, Belk, Bon-Ton and J.C. Penney.



Van Heusenis the best selling branded men’s woven sport shirt in the United States on a unit basis. TheVan Heusensportswear collection also includes knit sport shirts, chinos and sweaters. LikeVan Heusendress shirts,Van Heusensport shirts, chinos and sweaters target the updated classical consumer, are marketed at opening to moderate price points and are distributed principally in department stores, including J.C. Penney, Belk, Macy’s, Stage Stores and Bon-Ton.



ARROWis one of the best selling branded men’s woven sport shirts in the United States.ARROWsportswear consists of men’s knit and woven tops, sweaters and bottoms.ARROWsportswear targets the updated traditional consumer, is marketed at moderate price points and is distributed principally in mid-tier department stores, including Kohl’s, Stage Stores and Sears.



Timberlandmen’s sportswear is targeted to an outdoor inspired lifestyle consumer, is marketed at opening better men’s collection price points and is distributed principally in department stores, including Macy’s and Bon-Ton and through The Timberland Company’s outlet retail stores. We marketTimberlandmen’s sportswear at wholesale under a license agreement with The Timberland Company that expires on December 31, 2012 and which we may extend, subject to certain conditions, through December 31, 2017.



Geoffrey Beenesportswear is distributed on a limited basis and is positioned as an updated classic designer label for men’s woven and knit sport shirts, targeting a style-conscious consumer. We marketGeoffrey Beenemen’s sportswear at wholesale under the same license agreement as we marketGeoffrey Beenedress shirts, which expires on December 31, 2013.





Heritage Brand Retail.We operate retail locations through our Heritage Brand Retail segment under theVan Heusen,IZODandBassnames. We operate these stores primarily in outlet centers throughout the United States. We believe our retail stores are an important complement to our wholesale operations because we believe that the stores further enhance consumer awareness of our brands by offering products that are not available in our wholesale lines, while also providing a means for managing excess inventory. Our heritage brand outlet stores range in size from 1,000 to 12,000 square feet, with an average of approximately 5,000 square feet.



OurVan Heusenstores are located principally in outlet centers and offer men’s dress shirts, neckwear and underwear, men’s and women’s suit separates, men’s and women’s sportswear, including woven and knit shirts, sweaters, bottoms and outerwear, and men’s and women’s accessories. These stores are targeted to the value-conscious consumer who looks for classically styled, moderately priced apparel.



OurIZODstores are located principally in outlet centers and offer men’s and women’s active-inspired sportswear, including woven and knit shirts, sweaters, bottoms and activewear and men’s fragrance. These stores focus on golf, travel and resort clothing.



OurBassstores offer casual and dress shoes for men, women and children. Most of ourBassstores also carry apparel for men and women, including tops, neckwear, bottoms and outerwear, as well as accessories such as handbags, wallets, belts and travel gear.










Licensing.We license our heritage brands globally for a broad range of products through approximately 40 domestic and 40 international license agreements covering approximately 120 territories combined. We look for suitable licensing opportunities because we believe that licensing provides us with a relatively stable flow of revenues with high margins, and extends and strengthens our brands.



We grant licensing partners the right to manufacture and sell at wholesale specified products under one or more of our brands. In addition, certain foreign licensees are granted the right to open retail stores under the licensed brand name. A substantial portion of the sales by our domestic licensing partners is made to our largest wholesale customers. We provide support to our licensing partners and seek to preserve the integrity of our brand names by taking an active role in the design, quality control, advertising, marketing and distribution of each licensed product, most of which are subject to our prior approval and continuing oversight.



The products offered by our heritage brand licensing partners under these brands include:



Licensing PartnerProduct Category



Arvind Mills, Ltd.ARROWmen’s and women’s dresswear, sportswear and accessories (India, Middle East, Ethiopia, Maldives & Nepal);IZODmen’s sportswear and accessories (India)



Clearvision Optical Company, Inc.IZODmen’s and children’s optical eyewear and related accessories (United States)



ECCEARROWmen’s and women’s dresswear, sportswear and accessories (France, Switzerland, Andorra & Morocco)



Fishman & Tobin, Inc.Van HeusenandARROWboys’ dresswear and sportswear;IZODboys’ sportswear;IZODandARROWboys’ andgirls’ school uniforms;ARROWmen’s tailored clothing;IZODboys’ tailored clothing (United States & Canada)



Gazal Apparel Pty LimitedVan Heusenmen’s dresswear and accessories (Australia & New Zealand)



Gemini Cosmetics, Inc.IZODmen’s fragrances (United States)



Harbor Wholesale, Ltd.BassandG.H. Bass & Co.wholesale footwear (worldwide);IZODfootwear (United States)



Beijing Innovative GarmentsARROWmen’s dresswear and sportswear (China)



Knothe Apparel Group, Inc.IZODmen’s and boys’ sleepwear and loungewear, men’s thermal underwear (United States & Canada)



Leighton Daniel Group LLCIZODmen’s and women’s collegiate sportswear (United States)



Manufacturas Interamericana S.A.ARROWmen’s and women’s dresswear, sportswear and accessories (Chile, Peru, Argentina &Uruguay)



Peerless Delaware, Inc.Van HeusenandIZODmen’s tailored clothing (United States & Mexico)



Randa Canada LTD./Randa Corp. d/b/a Randa AccessoriesARROWmen’s and boys’ belts, wallets and suspenders (Canada);Van Heusenmen’s and boys’ neckwear (United States)



Thanulux Public Company, Ltd.ARROWmen’s dresswear, sportswear and accessories;ARROWwomen’s dresswear and sportswear (Thailand &Vietnam)



WestPoint Home, Inc.IZODhome products (United States)








Our Business Strategy



We intend to capitalize on the significant opportunities presented by the acquisition of Tommy Hilfiger, as well as continue to focus on growing Calvin Klein and increasing the revenue and profitability of our heritage business through the execution of the following strategies:





Tommy Hilfiger



Continue to grow the European business.We believe that there is significant potential for further expansion in Europe. Among other initiatives, our current strategies for the European market include:



·Growing the business in product categories that we believe are currently underdeveloped in Europe, such as pants, outerwear, underwear and accessories, as well as the womenswear collection;



·Increasing theTommy Hilfigerbrand’s presence in under-penetrated markets where we believe there is growth potential, such as Italy, France, the United Kingdom, Scandinavia and Central and Eastern Europe, through both our own retail expansion and increased wholesale sales, which we intend to support with increased advertising and marketing activities; and



·Increasing Tommy Hilfiger’s overall presence in Europe through the expansion of specialty and outlet retail stores.





Grow and continue to strengthen the North American business.We intend to achieve growth in the North American business by:



·Expanding our strategic alliance with Macy’s by leveraging our logistics capabilities and “preferred vendor” relationship with Macy’s and adding product categories to the merchandise assortments, increasing and enhancing the locations of “shop-in-shop” stores in high-volume Macy’s stores and featuringTommy Hilfigerproducts in Macy’s marketing campaigns; and



·Expanding product offerings by Tommy Hilfiger and its licensees in both the retail and wholesale channels.





Expansion of Opportunities Outside of Europe and North America.





·We intend to capitalize on opportunities, when the environment in Japan stabilizes, to grow the Tommy Hilfiger business in Japan by continuing to open new stores, introducing regional sizing, enhancing product offerings and other initiatives targeted at local market needs.



·We have entered into an agreement to acquire Tommy Hilfiger’s licensee’s business in China in the second half of 2011 (as part of a joint venture with the former shareholders of Tommy Hilfiger and a third party). This transaction should put us in a better position to support the development and expansion of the business in this important market where we believe there are many opportunities for growth.



·We intend to continue a balanced strategy, acquiring licensees, distributors and franchisees where we believe we can achieve greater scale and success compared to our partners, while at the same time licensing businesses for product categories and markets when we believe experienced and/or local partners provide the best opportunity for success.





Further Penetrate e-Commerce Channel.In September 2009, Tommy Hilfiger re-launched its e-commerce business using a new platform in selected European countries and North America. We intend to seek to improve the online capabilities and functions of the e-commerce sites to improve the shopping experience and attract additional business.





Realize Identified Cost Synergy Opportunities.While we intend to keep much of the European operations, design divisions and marketing and advertising functions intact, we believe the acquisition creates opportunities to reduce overhead and back office expenses in North America, some of which we have already begun to realize.



Calvin Klein



We acquired Calvin Klein because of the significant growth opportunities presented by theCalvin Kleinbrands. The tiered-brand strategy we created for theCalvin Kleinbrands established a strategic brand architecture to guide the global






brand growth and development of all three brand tiers by differentiating each of theCalvin Kleinbrands with distinct marketing identities, positioning and channels. Additionally, branding product across three tiers allows flexibility from market to market to build businesses that address the differences between markets. We have approximately 57 licensing and other arrangements across the threeCalvin Kleinbrands. These arrangements grant rights to produce products over a broad range of categories and, in certain cases, also grant rights to open retail stores in countries outside of the United States.



·Calvin Klein Collection.The principal growth opportunity for our “halo” brand is to broaden the current distribution through the continued opening of freestanding stores operated throughout the world by our experienced retail partners, as well as through expanded distribution by our wholesale men’s and women’s high-end collection apparel and accessories business within premier department stores and specialty stores in both the United States and overseas.



·ck Calvin Klein.Our “bridge” brand,ck Calvin Klein, provides significant growth opportunities, particularly in Europe and Asia, where apparel and accessories are more traditionally sold in the upper-moderate to upper “bridge” price range. Specific growth opportunities include:



·Broadening distribution of apparel and accessories through continued expansion in key markets such as Southeast Asia, China and Japan, as well as Europe and the Middle East.ck Calvin Kleinapparel and accessories were available in Europe, Asia and Japan, as well as in approximately 80 freestandingck Calvin Kleinstores in Asia-Pacific (excluding Japan), Europe and the Middle East at the end of 2010. We currently expect that additional freestandingck Calvin Kleinstores will be opened by licensees by the end of 2011;



·Expansion of the watch and jewelry lines worldwide; and



·Introduction of additionalck Calvin Kleinfragrances, such as the men’s and women’sckIN2U(Spring 2007) andckFree(Fall 2009), which have contributed to the growth of theck Calvin Kleinbrand globally.



·Calvin Klein.We believe that theCalvin Kleinwhite label “better” brand presents the largest growth opportunity, particularly in the United States, Canada and Mexico. Growth opportunities for this brand include:



·Continued expansion of our men’s sportswear business;



·Continued development of the licensed lines of men’s and women’s footwear, handbags, women’s sportswear, women’s suits, dresses, women’s swimwear and men’s outerwear;



·Introduction and growth of new fragrance offerings and brand extensions, such asSecret Obsession(Fall 2008) andCalvin Klein Beauty(Fall 2010) fragrances;



·Introduction and growth of new underwear brand extensions, such as the women’sSeductive Comfort(Fall 2008), men’s and women’sBlack & White(Spring 2009), men’sX(Spring 2010) and women’sEnvy(Fall 2010) lines;



·Introduction and growth of new jeanswear extensions, such as the men’s and women’sBody(Fall 2009) lines; and



·Pursuit of additional licensing opportunities for new product lines, such as the introduction of a women’s performance line (Spring 2008) and two furniture lines,Calvin Klein Home(January 2009) andThe Curator Collection By Calvin Klein Home(Fall 2009).










Heritage Brand Business





·Continue to strengthen the competitive position and image of our current brand portfolio.We intend for each of our brands to be a leader in its respective market segment, with strong consumer awareness and loyalty. We believe that our brands are successful because we have positioned each one to target distinct consumer demographics and tastes. We will continue to design and market our branded products to complement each other, satisfy lifestyle needs, emphasize product features important to our target consumers and increase consumer loyalty. We will seek to increase our market share in our businesses by expanding our presence through product extensions and increased floor space. We are also committed to investing in our brands through advertising and other means to maintain strong customer recognition of our brands.



·Continue to build our brand portfolio through acquisition and licensing opportunities.While we believe we have an attractive and diverse portfolio of brands with growth potential, we will also continue to explore acquisitions of companies or trademarks and licensing opportunities that we believe are additive to our overall business. New license opportunities allow us to fill new product and brand portfolio needs. We take a disciplined approach to acquisitions, seeking brands with broad consumer recognition that we can grow profitably and expand by leveraging our infrastructure and core competencies and, where appropriate, by extending the brand through licensing.



·Pursue international growth.We intend to expand the international distribution of our brands. To date, we have done so principally through licensing. Following the Tommy Hilfiger acquisition, we also intend to do so through exploring opportunities to develop larger European businesses for our heritage brands under the leadership of the Tommy Hilfiger European management team. During the third quarter of 2010 we announced the formation of PVH Europe, a division managed by a team of Tommy Hilfiger executives and dedicated staff based in Amsterdam. The division has been formed to exploit international opportunities for our heritage brands. Its first endeavor will be operating theARROWbusiness in parts of Europe commencing with the Fall 2011 collection. We have approximately 40 license agreements, covering approximately 120 territories outside of the United States to use our heritage brands in numerous product categories, including apparel, accessories, footwear, soft home goods and fragrances. We also conduct international business directly, selling dress furnishings and sportswear products to department and specialty stores throughout Canada. We believe that our strong brand portfolio and broad product offerings enable us to seek additional growth opportunities in geographic areas where we believe we are underpenetrated, such as Europe and Asia.



Seasonality



Our business generally follows a seasonal pattern. Our wholesale businesses tend to generate higher levels of sales and income in the first and third quarters, while our retail businesses tend to generate higher levels of sales and income in the fourth quarter. Royalty, advertising and other revenue tends to be earned somewhat evenly throughout the year, although the third quarter has the highest level of royalty revenue due to higher sales by licensees in advance of the holiday selling season.



Design



Our businesses depend on our ability to stimulate and respond to consumer tastes and demands, as well as on our ability to remain competitive in the areas of quality and price.



A significant factor in the continued strength of our brands is our in-house design teams. We form separate teams of designers and merchandisers for each of our brands, creating a structure that focuses on the special qualities and identity of each brand. These designers and merchandisers consider consumer taste and lifestyle and trends when creating a brand or product plan for a particular season. The process from initial design to finished product varies greatly, but generally spans six to ten months prior to each selling season. Our product lines are developed primarily for two major selling seasons, Spring and Fall. However, certain of our product lines offer more frequent introductions of new merchandise.



Calvin Klein has developed a cohesive team of senior design directors who share a vision for theCalvin Kleinbrands and who each lead a separate design team. These teams control all design operations and product development for most licensees and other strategic alliances.



Tommy Hilfiger seeks to reinforce the premium positioning of theTommy Hilfigerbrands by taking a coordinated and consistent worldwide approach to brand management. Products are then adapted and executed on a regional basis in order to adjust for local or regional sizing, fitting, weather, trends and demand. Tommy Hilfiger believes that regional






execution helps it anticipate, identify and respond more readily to changing consumer demand, fashion trends and local taste. It also reduces the importance of any one collection and enables the brand to appeal to a wider range of customers.



Product Sourcing



To address the needs of our customers, we are continuing to make investments and develop strategies to enhance our ability to provide our customers with timely product availability and delivery. Our investments in sophisticated systems should allow us to reduce the cycle time between the design of products to the delivery of those products to our customers. We believe the enhancement of our supply chain efficiencies and working capital management through the effective use of our distribution network and overall infrastructure will allow us to better control costs and provide improved service to our customers.







Tommy Hilfiger is a party to a nonexclusive agreement with Li & Fung Trading Limited under which Li & Fung performs most of Tommy Hilfiger’s sourcing work. Under the terms of the agreement, Tommy Hilfiger is required to use Li & Fung for at least 54% of its sourced products. Our Tommy Hilfiger business also uses other third-party buying offices for a portion of its sourced products and has a small in-house sourcing team.





Our foreign offices and buying agents enable us to monitor the quality of the goods manufactured by, and the delivery performance of, our suppliers, which includes the enforcement of human rights and labor standards through our ongoing approval and monitoring system. Our purchases from our suppliers are effected through individual purchase orders specifying the price and quantity of the items to be produced. In addition, sales are monitored regularly at both the retail and wholesale levels and modifications in production can be made either to increase or reduce inventories. We continually seek additional suppliers throughout the world for our sourcing needs and place our orders in a manner designed to limit the risk that a disruption of production at any one facility could cause a serious inventory problem.



Warehousing and Distribution



To facilitate distribution, our products are shipped from manufacturers to our wholesale and retail warehousing and distribution centers for inspection, sorting, packing and shipment. Our centers range in size and are located in the United States in Brinkley, Arkansas; Los Angeles, California; Austell, Georgia; Jonesville, North Carolina; Reading, Pennsylvania; and Chattanooga, Tennessee; and internationally in Venlo and Tegelen, The Netherlands; Montreal, Canada; and Urayasu-shi, Japan. Our warehousing and distribution centers are designed to provide responsive service to our customers and our retail stores, as the case may be, on a cost-effective basis. This includes the use of various forms of electronic communications to meet customer needs, including advance shipping notices for certain customers.



We believe that our investments in logistics and supply chain management allow us to respond rapidly to changes in sales trends and consumer demands while enhancing inventory management. We believe our customers can better manage their inventories as a result of our continuous analysis of sales trends, our broad array of product availability and our quick response capabilities. Certain of our products can be ordered at any time through our EDI replenishment systems. For customers who reorder these products, we generally ship these products within one to two days of order receipt. At the end of 2010 and 2009, our backlog of open customer orders totaled $608 million and $114 million, respectively.








Advertising and Promotion



We market substantially all of our products on a brand-by-brand basis targeting distinct consumer demographics and lifestyles. Our marketing programs are an integral feature of our product offerings. Advertisements generally portray a lifestyle rather than a specific item. We intend for each of our brands to be a leader in its respective market segment, with strong consumer awareness and consumer loyalty. We believe that our brands are successful in their respective segments because we have strategically positioned each brand to target a distinct consumer demographic. We will continue to design and market our products to complement each other, satisfy lifestyle needs, emphasize product features important to our target consumers and produce consumer loyalty.





The New York Times

IZOD

Van Heusen

Van Heusen



With respect to our North America retail operations, we generally rely upon local outlet mall developers to promote traffic for their centers. Outlet center developers employ multiple formats, including signage (highway billboards, off-highway directional signs, on-site signage and on-site information centers), print advertising (brochures, newspapers and travel magazines), direct marketing (to tour bus companies and travel agents), radio and television and special promotions.



We believeCalvin Kleinis one of the most well-known designer names in the world. One of the efforts that has helped to establish and maintain theCalvin Kleinname and image is its high-profile, often cutting-edge advertising campaigns that have stimulated publicity, curiosity and debate among customers and consumers, as well as within the fashion industry over the years. Calvin Klein has a dedicated in-house advertising agency, with experienced in-house creative and media teams that develop and execute a substantial portion of the institutional consumer advertising placement for products under theCalvin Kleinbrands. The advertising team works closely with other functional areas within Calvin Klein and its licensing and other partners to deliver a consistent and unified brand message to the consumer.



Calvin Klein oversees a worldwide marketing, advertising and promotions program.Calvin Kleinproducts are advertised primarily in national print media, through outdoor signage and on television. We believe promotional activities throughout the year further strengthen brand awareness of theCalvin Kleinbrands. The Spring and FallCalvin Klein Collectionapparel lines are presented at fashion shows in New York City and Milan, which typically generate extensive media coverage. Other Calvin Klein promotional efforts include in-store events, product launch events, gift-with-purchase programs, participation in charitable and special corporate-sponsored events and providing outfits to celebrities for award ceremonies and premieres.



We believe thatTommy Hilfigeris also one of the world’s most well-known designer brands.  This has been achieved through consistent implementation of a global communications strategy across all channels of distribution.  The Tommy Hilfiger marketing and communications team works closely with all functional areas of the business across all regions to present a cohesive brand message to trade and consumers.  We develop and coordinate Tommy Hilfiger advertising for all regions and product lines, brand licensees and regional distributors.  Advertisements forTommy Hilfigerbrand products appear primarily in fashion and lifestyle magazines, newspapers, outdoor media, in cinema and on television.  Selected personal appearances by Mr. Hilfiger, runway shows, brand events, corporate sponsorships, customer relationship management, anchor stores, trade shows and retail store windows are also used as marketing and public relations media. Tommy Hilfiger employs advertising, marketing and communications staff, including an in-house creative team, as well as outside agencies, to implement these efforts. Most of Tommy Hilfiger’s licensees and distributors are required to contribute a percentage of their net sales ofTommy Hilfigerproducts, generally subject to minimum amounts, to the advertising and promotion of theTommy Hilfigerbrand and products. We maintain multiple showroom facilities and sales offices in Europe,






North America and Japan forTommy Hilfiger. We launch significant brand advertising campaigns two times per year in Spring/Summer and Fall/Winter to provide maximum consumer visibility of the new seasonal collections and to support sell-through. In addition to offering a broad array ofTommy Hilfigerapparel and licensed products, Tommy Hilfiger’s website, www.tommy.com, also serves as a marketing vehicle to complement the ongoing development of theTommy Hilfigerlifestyle brand.



Trademarks



We own theVan Heusen,Bass, G.H. Bass & Co.,IZOD, ARROW,EagleandTommy Hilfigerbrands, as well as related trademarks (e.g.,Van Heusen Studio,IZOD PFXand theTommy Hilfigerflag logo and crest design) and lesser-known names. These trademarks are registered for use in each of the primary countries where our products are sold and additional applications for registration of these and other trademarks are made in jurisdictions to accommodate new marks, uses in additional trademark classes or additional categories of goods or expansion into new countries.



We beneficially own theCalvin Kleinmarks and derivative marks in all trademark classes and for all product categories within each class, other than underwear, sleepwear and loungewear in Class 25 (which are owned by Warnaco). Calvin Klein and Warnaco are each an owner, to the extent described in the preceding sentence, of the Calvin Klein Trademark Trust, which is the sole and exclusive title owner of substantially all registrations of theCalvin Kleintrademarks. The sole purpose of the Trust is to hold these marks. Calvin Klein maintains and protects the marks on behalf of the Trust pursuant to a servicing agreement. The Trust licenses to Warnaco on an exclusive, irrevocable, perpetual and royalty-free basis the use of the marks on men’s and boys’ underwear and sleepwear and women’s and girls’ intimate apparel and sleepwear, and to Calvin Klein on an exclusive, irrevocable, perpetual and royalty-free basis the use of the marks on all other products. Warnaco pays us an administrative fee based on Warnaco’s worldwide sales of underwear, intimate apparel and sleepwear products bearing any of theCalvin Kleinmarks under an administration agreement between Calvin Klein and Warnaco.



We allow Mr. Calvin Klein to retain the right to use his name, on a non-competitive basis, with respect to his right of publicity, unless those rights are already being used in the Calvin Klein business. Mr. Klein has also been granted a royalty-free worldwide right to use theCalvin Kleinmark with respect to certain personal businesses and activities, such as motion picture, television and video businesses, a book business, writing, speaking and/or teaching engagements, non-commercial photography, charitable activities and architectural and industrial design projects, subject to certain limitations designed to protect the image and prestige of theCalvin Kleinbrands and to avoid competitive conflicts.



We are party to an agreement with Mr. Tommy Hilfiger pursuant to which he acknowledges our ownership of theTommy HilfigerandTommy Hilfiger-related trademarks and under which he is prohibited, in perpetuity, from using, or authorizing others to use, these marks (except for the use by Mr. Hilfiger of his name personally and in connection with certain specified activities). In addition, under such agreement we are prohibited, in perpetuity, from selling products not ordinarily sold under the names of prestige designer businesses or prestige global lifestyle brands without Mr. Hilfiger’s consent, from engaging in new lines of business materially different from such types of lines of business, without Mr. Hilfiger’s consent, or from disparaging or intentionally tarnishing theTommy Hilfiger-related marks or Mr. Hilfiger’s personal name. The products that we are prohibited from selling include cigarettes, dog food and alcohol. Certain lines of business will not be considered “new lines of business” for purposes of the agreement, including apparel, fashion, eyewear, accessories, housewares, home and bedding products, personal care products, footwear, watches and leather goods.



Our trademarks are the subject of registrations and pending applications throughout the world for use on a variety of apparel, footwear and related products, and we continue to expand our worldwide usage and registration of new and related trademarks. In general, trademarks remain valid and enforceable as long as the marks continue to be used in connection with the products and services with which they are identified and, as to registered tradenames, the required registration renewals are filed. In markets outside of the United States, particularly those where products bearing any of our brands are not sold by us or any of our licensees or other authorized users, our rights to the use of trademarks may not be clearly established.



We regard the license to use our trademarks and our other intellectual property rights in the trademarks as valuable assets in marketing our products and vigorously seek to protect them, on a worldwide basis, against infringement. We are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing on our intellectual property rights. This is especially the case with respect to theCalvin KleinandTommy Hilfigerbrands, as theCalvin KleinandTommy Hilfigerbrands enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition and their generally higher pricing provides significant opportunity and incentive for counterfeiters and infringers. We have a broad, proactive enforcement program, which we believe has been generally effective in controlling the sale of counterfeitCalvin KleinandTommy Hilfigerproducts in the United States and in major markets abroad. We have taken enforcement action with respect to our other marks on an as-needed basis.








Contingent Purchase Price Payments





Calvin Klein

Calvin Klein

Calvin Klein



Competition



The apparel industry is competitive as a result of its fashion orientation, mix of large and small producers, the flow of domestic and imported merchandise and the wide diversity of retailing methods. Some of our larger branded competitors include Polo Ralph Lauren Corporation, V.F. Corporation, Perry Ellis International, Inc. and The Timberland Company. With respect to Calvin Klein, we believe The Donna Karan Company, LLC, Polo Ralph Lauren’s Purple Label, Giorgio Armani S.p.A., Gucci Group N.V. and Prada S.p.A. Group also are our competitors. Tommy Hilfiger’s competitors vary by geography and product type but principally include Burberry Group PLC, Gant Company AB, Hugo Boss AG, Lacoste S.A., Diesel S.p.A., Pepe Jeans, S.L., V.F. Corporation, Guess?, Inc. and Polo Ralph Lauren Corporation. In addition, we face significant competition from retailers, including our own wholesale customers, through their private label programs.



We compete primarily on the basis of style, quality, price and service. Our business depends on our ability to stimulate consumer tastes and demands, as well as on our ability to remain competitive in these areas. We believe we are well-positioned to compete in the apparel industry. Our diversified portfolio of brands and products and our use of multiple channels of distribution have allowed us to develop a business that produces results which are not dependent on any one demographic group, merchandise preference or distribution channel. We have developed a portfolio of brands that appeal to a broad spectrum of consumers. Our owned brands have long histories and enjoy high recognition within their respective consumer segments. We develop our owned and licensed brands to complement each other and to generate strong consumer loyalty. TheCalvin KleinandTommy Hilfigerbrands generally provide us with the opportunity to develop businesses that target different consumer groups at higher price points and in higher-end distribution channels than our other brands, as well as with significant global opportunities due to the worldwide recognition of the brands.



Imports and Import Restrictions



A substantial portion of our products is manufactured by contractors located outside the United States. These products are imported and are subject to United States customs laws, which impose tariffs, as well as quota restrictions, for non-World Trade Organization (“WTO”) member countries. Under the provisions of the WTO agreement governing international trade in textiles, known as the “WTO Agreement on Textiles and Clothing,” the United States and other WTO member countries have eliminated quotas on textiles and apparel-related products from WTO member countries. As a result, quota restrictions do not affect our business in most countries. Presently, a portion of our imported products is eligible for certain duty-advantaged programs, including CAFTA, Jordan FTA, Egypt QIZ, NAFTA, AGOA and ATPDEA.



Environmental Matters



Our facilities and operations are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including the proper maintenance of asbestos-containing materials. In addition, we may incur liability under environmental statutes and regulations with respect to the contamination of sites that we own or operate or previously owned or operated (including






contamination caused by prior owners and operators of such sites, abutters or other persons) and the off-site disposal of hazardous materials. We believe our operations are in compliance with terms of all applicable laws and regulations.



Employees



As of January 30, 2011, we employed approximately 10,500 persons on a full-time basis and approximately 12,200 persons on a part-time basis. Approximately 2% of our employees were represented for the purpose of collective bargaining by five different unions. Additional persons, some represented by these five unions, are employed from time to time based upon our manufacturing schedules and retailing seasonal needs. Our collective bargaining agreements generally are for three-year terms. We believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory.



Executive Officers of the Registrant



The following table sets forth the name, age and position of each of our executive officers:



NameAgePositionEmanuel Chirico53Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerAllen E. Sirkin68President and Chief Operating OfficerMichael A. Shaffer48Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerFrancis K. Duane54Vice Chairman, Wholesale ApparelPaul Thomas Murry60President and Chief Executive Officer, Calvin KleinFred Gehring56Chief Executive Officer of Tommy Hilfiger and International Operations of the Company



Mr. Emanuel Chirico joined us as Vice President and Controller in 1993. Mr. Chirico was named Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 1999, President and Chief Operating Officer in 2005, Chief Executive Officer in February 2006 and Chairman of the Board in June 2007.



Mr. Allen E. Sirkin has been employed by us since 1985. He served as Chairman of our Apparel Group from 1990 until 1995, was named Vice Chairman, Dress Shirts in 1995 and President and Chief Operating Officer in March 2006.



Mr. Michael A. Shaffer has been employed by us since 1990. He most recently served as Senior Vice President, Retail Operations before being named Executive Vice President, Finance in 2005 and Chief Financial Officer in March 2006.



Mr. Francis K. Duane served as President of our Izod division from 1998 until 2001, was named Vice Chairman, Sportswear in 2001 and Vice Chairman, Wholesale Apparel in March 2006.



Mr. Paul Thomas Murry has been employed by Calvin Klein since 1996. Mr. Murry retained his position as President and Chief Operating Officer, Calvin Klein upon our acquisition of Calvin Klein in 2003 and was named President and Chief Executive Officer, Calvin Klein in September 2008.



Mr. Fred Gehring has been employed by Tommy Hilfiger since 1996. Mr. Gehring retained his position as Chief Executive Officer, Tommy Hilfiger upon our acquisition of Tommy Hilfiger in 2010 and was also named Chief Executive Officer of International Operations of the Company upon such acquisition.


























